TO BE                  - -LiFQORTS Dr'
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
FILE C0EPr"Y
Report No. 126a-ZA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
May 9, 1973
Regional Projects Department
Eastern Africa Regional Office
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be pubushed, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



i
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
U5$l                              0 o.643 Kwacha (K)
Kwacha (K) i                     US$1.56
Ngwee (n) lO                     1 Kwacha
Kwacha 1 million      =           US$1,555,693
GIXSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CCU       -     Correspondence Course Unit
CDC       -     CLrriculum Development Center
CHHTC     -     Chainama Hills Health Training Center
CTEVT     -     Commission for Technical Education and
Vocational Training
FI        -    Farm Institute
FNDP      -    First National Development Plan (1966-O)
FTC       -    Farmers Training Center
IRC       -     Instructional Resources Center, Department
of Technical Education, Ministry of Education
NORAD     -     Norwegian Agency for International Development
OSAS      -     Overseas Service Aid Scheme
SIDA      -     Swedish International Development Authority
SNDP      -     Second National Development Plan (1972-76)
TTC       -     Teacher Training College
ZIT       -     Zamoia Institute of Technology
GOVRNMiNT OF THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



ZAMBIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .......................         i-ii
I. INTRODUCTION...                                            1
II.   SOCIO-ECONOMIC BACKGROUND AND THE
EDUCATION SYSTEM.                                     1
General Characteristics.                            1
The Economy and Development Planning                2
The Education System ..                             2
Cost and Financing of Education                     4
III.  M-ANPOWER AND EDUCATION NEEDS.                            6
General .................................          6
Medical Training Facilities .6.
The Need to Improve Agricultural Staff
and Farmer Training.                            8
Technical Education Requirements                    9
Educational Services.                              9
Secondary and Teacher Education .........         10
IV. THE PROJECT .11
General ......,........................           11
Medical Education .12
Agricultural Education .14
General Education .16
Technical Assistance .17
Cost of the Project .18
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission
in October/November 1972 to the Republic of Zambia composed of
Messrs. D. Brewin (mission leader, agricultural educator),
R. Byron (technical educator), J. Hilmy (economist), C. Hammer-
schmidt (architect), F. Dunnill (advisor), Ms T. Sato (loan
officer) of the Bank, and Dr. D. Carlson, (consultant). Mr. E.
Sawaya (economist) of the Bank and Mr. K. Andersen (architect)
of UNESCO also contributed to its preparation.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
V.   IMPLEMENTATION kND DISBURSEMENT ....     ...........    21
Execution of the Project ....     .............    21
Land   .....................................    22
Procurement   ..............................    22
Disbursement   .............................    22
VI.   RECOMMENDATIONS ...............................    23
ANNEXES
1.  Comparative Education Indicators
2.  The Education System
Tables:   1.  Primary School Enrollment - 1964-1971
2.   Primary and Secondary School Staff (1971)
3.   Secondary School Enrollments (1971)
4.   The University of Zambia - Enrollments (1971)
5.   Ministry of Education Technical and Vocational
Training - Enrollments and Outputs
Attachmen-s:   1.  Location of Schools for Enrolled Nurses
2.   Location of Schools for Enrolled Midwives
3.  Total National Expenditure on Education and Training, 1971
4.   Recurrent Expenditure by the Ministry of Education
5.   Projection of Unit Costs at 1971 Constant Prices for Certain
Categories of Education
6.  Ministry of Rural Development Recurrent and Capital Expenditure
7.   Recurrent and Capital Expenditure on Health
8.   Capital Expenditure by the Ministry of Education
9.   Foreign Aid for Education and Training
10.   Projection of Recurrent Expenditure - 1inistry of Education
11.  Tne Health Situation in Zambia
12.  Medical Services - Staff Employed - July 1971
13.  Medical Personnel - Selected Categories of Priority Need
14.  Ministry of Rural Development - Existing Agriculturally
Trained Staff, 1971
15.   Para-statal Organizations and the Private Sector - Existing
Manpower Stock, 1971



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
16.   Summary of Overall Requirements for Agriculturally Trained
Manpower, 1981
17.   Agricultural Manpower Requirements - Degree Holders, 1971-81
18.   Farm Institutes and Farmers Training Centers - Utilization
Rates 1970
19.   Manpower Requirements by Educational. Level 1970-1976 and
1977-1986
20.   Facilities to be Constructed and/or Extended under the Third
Education Project
21.   Technical Assistance
22.   Government Medical Training Institutions - Forecast of Output
of Trained Staff 1972-1981
23.   University of Zambia School of Agricultural Sciences - Forecast
of Student Numbers to 1981
24.   Location of Farm Institutes, Farmers Training Centers and Mobile
Units included under the Project
25.   Additional Facilities Required for Secondary Schools and Teacher
Training Colleges
26.   Summary of Project Costs in Kwacha, November 1972 Prices
27.   Summary of Contingency Allowances
28.   Composition of Project Units
29.   Project Implementation Schedule
30.   Responsibility for Design and Supervision of Project Institutions
31.   Expenditure Schedule
32.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
CHARTS
1.   Structure of the Education System
2.   Education Pyramid, 1971
MAP






Z A M B I A
BASIC DATA (Est.) - 1971
Population (Est. 1971)                                   4.25 miilion
Population growth rate                                      2.5%
Total labor force                                        1.20 million
Wage and salary employment                               0.h0 million
Education
Government and Aided Schools
Primary education (grades 1-7)
- enrollment                                   730,000
- ratio of enrolled to age group (7-13 yrs)    89%
Secondary education (grades 8-12 yrs)
- enrollment                                    56,00O
- ratio of enrolled to age group (l4-18 yrs)   12%
University of Zambia
- enrollment (full-time degree students)         l,400
- ratio of enrolled to age group (19-22 yrs)    0.4%
Expenditures
Central government recurrent expenditure
on education                                   K 58.0 million
- as a percentage of central government
recurrent expenditure                       l17.4%
National educational expenditure                 K &5.7 million
- as a percentage of total GDP                    5.6%






ZMAIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
SIUIMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a third education project in Zambia for which
a loan of US$33.0 million is proposed. The first education project is help-
ing to expand and improve secondary education, teacher training and the train-
ing of technicians and craftsmen for industry; the second project has extended
the schools of education and engineering of the University of Zambia. After
initial delays due to management problems, the first project was making good
progress when, in 1972, serious financial problems caused a rephasing of the
project and an extension of the closing date by more than two years. The
second project is nearing completion.
ii.       Zambia's economv is dominated by the copper industry which has had
the effect of bringing about great disparities in degree of development be-
tween the industrial and traditional rural sectors, each accommodating about
half the population. Increasing copper prices up to 1970 encouraged the Gov-
ernment to engage in substantial development schemes including projects which
provided for increases in enrollments in all types of education. In 1970
however, a sharp decline in copper prices accompanied by a disaster at one
of the country's major mines transformed the economic situation and created
a need for the Government to scale down its development expenditures.
iii.      The proposed project would eliminate gaps in certain areas of agri-
cultural and medical training, assist in correcting the imbalance between
the modern and traditional sectors by strengthening farmer training programs,
bring about economies and improve efficiency by integrating certain educat-
ional services, and provide additional facilities for a number of secondary
schools and teacher training colleges being financed under the Bank's first
education project.
iv.       Specifically, the project would help finance the construction of
new facilities for, extensions to and/or equipment for the following:
-    twelve medical training institutions;
-    a University School of Agricultural Sciences;
-    seven farmers training centers, three farn institutes
and two mobile training units;
-    an educational services center;
-    sixty one secondary schools and four teacher training colleges.
In addition, the project would provide 115 man-years of technical assistance
specialists for planning, administration and teaching, plus fellowships for
the training of Zambians.



- ii -
v.        The total cost of the project is estimated at US$40.1 million;
the proposed loan would be US$33.0 million or about 82% of the total project
cost. It would finance the foreign exchange component of US$25.3 million and
US$7.7 million of the local costs. The loan would be apportioned as follows:
US$16.0 million for civil works and related professional services, US$4.2
million for furniture and equipment, US$3.3 million for technical assistance
and project implementation and US$9.5 million for contingencies. Contracts
for civil works, furniture and equipment would be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding. It is likely that most civil works contracts
would be won by contractors already established in Eastern Africa. Nearly
all equipment and furniture would be imported. Local manufacturers of furniture
and equipment would be awarded a margin of preference equivalent to the existing
customs duties applicable to competing imports or 15% of the c.i.f. price, which-
ever is the lower.
vi.       The Government would set up a Coordinating Committee to formulate
procedures for carrying out the project and coordinate action between the
various agencies involved. Techni-cal assistance would be provided for a
project unit in the Ministry of Power, Transport and Works, which would
implement the project, except for (a) the Universitv School of Agricultural
Sciences and (b) the additional facilities for secondary and teacher education,
which would be implemented by the existing project units in the University and
the Ministry of Education respectively.
vii.      Implementatior of the project would be completed within about six
years of the effective date of the Loan Agreement.
viii.     Sub_ect to the conditions set down in para. 6.01, the proposed
project is suitab1e as a basis for a Loan of US$33.0 million to the Government
of Zambia.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      A joint FAO/Bank mission visited Zambia in 1971 and identified
education projects for Bank financing primarily in the agricultural field
but including some medical and technical training items. After discussions
between the Government and the Bank, the Government, assisted by FAO, UNESCO,
VMO and PMEA, prepared in 1972 a request for Bank financing.
1.02      In October/Noverber 1972 a mission comprising Messrs. D. Brewin
(mission leader, agricultural educator), R. Byron (technical educator),
D. Carlson (medical educator, consultant), J. Hilmy (economist), C. Hammer-
schmidt (architect) and, for part of the time, F. Dunnill (advisor) and
Ms T. Sato (loan officer), visited Zambia to appraise the project.  It rec-
ommended inclusion, with certain modifications, of the items requested by
the Government, except for, (a) hostel accommodation at the Evelyn Hone College
of Appiied Arts and Commerce which could not be justified and (b) the Zambia
institute of Technology for which future plans had not yet been determined.
1.03      This would be the third education project in Zambia assisted by the
Bank. The first (Loan 592-ZA 1969) was made to help expand and improve
secondary education, teacher training and the training of technicians and
craftsmen in industry. As a result of management problems the project was
slow in starting. When these problems were solved, serious fiscal diffi-
culties made it impossible for the Government to provide its full counterpart
contribution; it has therefore requested additional Bank financing and an ex-
tension of the closing date by some 2-1/2 years. The second project (Loan
645-ZA 1969) has provided assistance for extensions to the University of
Zambia. It was delayed by managerial deficiencies and shortages of building
materials but 4s now almost completed.
IT.  SOCIO-ECONOMIC BACKGROUI,D A&.D THE EDUCATION SYSTEM
General Characteristics
2.01      Zambia is a landlocked countrv in the southern half of Africa on
a highi plateau intersected by valleys of the Zambesi River and its tributaries.
The country is sparsely populated; 4.25 million people in 752,600 km2, or only
6 per km2,  Tt became independent in 1964.  The governina United National
Independence Party, the only political party, follows a program kinown as
"Zambian hunanism" initiated by President Kaunda; it aims at a return to the
values of traditional African society which was "man-centered" rather than
"weaIth" or `i.-eologv-centered"; in education, it stresses "discipline,
judgement and courage."



-2-
The Economy and Development Planning
2.02      The economy of Zambia is dominated by the copper industry which
contributes nearly 40% of GDP, 95% of exports, and, until 1970, 60% of Govern-
ment revenue. GNP per capita is relatively high but there is a distinct dif-
ference, reflected in large income disparities, between the modern and the
traditional rujral sectors.
2.03      The modern sector, which sustains almost half the population, is
concentrated in the Copperbelt Province and along the "line-of-rail" which
runs through the central and southern areas of the country. The remaining
half of the population is dependent on sm.all scale agriculture. Most of the
agricultural development was concentrated, before independence, in the ex-
patriate commercial farming sector along the "line-of-rail" and the tradi-
tional African sector was neglected.
2.04      Because of the dominance of the copper industry, Zambia's economy
is largelv dependent on the world copper price which has varied widely during
recent years. Between 1964 and 1969 national income at constant prices had
grown, on an average, by almost 17% per year. Increasing copper prices pro-
duced growing budget and balance of payments surpluses. In 1970 the sharp
decline in coprer prices and partial flooding of the important Mufulira Mine
caused a serious economic setback. GNP per capita is estimated to have fallen
from. $425 in 1969 to about $355 in 1971. Net foreign reserves declined from
K 432 million in August 1970 to K 85 million in December 1972.
2,05      The Government's first (1966-1970) and second (1972-1976) N'ational
Development Plans (FNDP and SNDP) aimed at spreading the benefits of develop-
ment more evenly by (a) rapidly raising the general level of education and
developing technical, administrative and managerial skills to lessen depend-
ence on expatriates;(b) increasing the productivity of traditional agriculture
in areas with sufficient potential; (c) diversifying the economy to make it
less dependent on copper; and (d) raising the general level of social welfare.
The most effectively implemented parts of the FNTDP were the expansion of edu-
cation and health facilities.
The Education System (A detailed description is given in Annex 2.)
2.06      Primarv Education, which is not compulsory, is provided for some
80%' of the age group and consists of seven years of schooling. A substantial
enrollment increase since independence has been achieved at the expense of a
high pupil:teacher ratio (50:1), increased grade repetition, large numbers
of double, and, in some urban areas, triple session schools, poor school
attendance and the use of unsatisfactory buildings. Migration, mostly from
rural to urban areas, has contributed to mald4stribution of schools. Nine
colleges provide primarv teacher training; the Bank's first education project
iIas contributed to expansion of both in-service and pre-service training
schemes which, when the project is coripleted, will be adequate to meet the
anticipated demand.



- 3 -
2.07      Secondary Education is provided in some 120 schools; it comprises
three years of lower and two years of upper cycle education. Enrollments
reached 56,000 or 12% of the age group in 1971 and are increasing further with
Bank assistance, but again, the rapid increase has seriously affected the
quality of education. 88% of Zambia's secondary teachers are non-Zambian but
expansion of teacher training, partially financed under the Bank's first and
second education projects, is underway and it is anticipated that by 1976
Zambians will occupy about half the teaching posts required.
2.08      Higher Education is provided in the seven "schools" of the Univer-
sity of Zambia which include courses in education, engineering, medicine and
agricultural sciences; the latter uses temporary facilities. In 1971 there
were some 1,400 full-time degree students enrolled; academic standards are
high, but the University experiences many of the problems of young and grow-
ing institutions; the staff is almost entirely expatriate.
2.09      Education Services are provided by the Ministry of Education in
widely scattered institutions and include a Curriculum Development Center,
Correspondence Course Unit, Audio-Visual Services Librarv and Zambia Library
Service; the former Commission for Techlnical Education and Vocational Training
(now part of the Ministrv) also had its own Instructional Resources Center
which provides sim.ilar facilities for technical training institutions.
Details are given in Annex 2.
2.10      The provision of Medical Education is divided between the Govern-
ment, the missions and mines in numerous institutions throughout Zambia.
The missions and mines provide fairly adequately for their needs below the
university level, but provision of training for Government personnel has
fallen behind the demand as a result of a rapid expansion of medical services
during the First National Development Plan.
2.11      Agricultural Edducation at the university level is provided for a
small number of students in inadequate facilities, with limited staff and
without a farm] for practical instruction; at diploma and certificate levels,
larger numDbers are trained and facilities are better.
2.12      Technical Education has grown rapidly since 1969, particularly at
the craftsman leveel, as a result of the setting up by the Government of an
independent and well endowed Commission for Technical Education and Vocational
Training. Recently, however, the Government decided to reincorporate tech-
nical education in the Ministry of Education, primarily for Linancial and
.n,anagemrent reasons and set up a working party to review plans and policies.
The PBank h.as contributed to an expansion of degree level training in engineer-
ing at the IJniversitv, through its second ecducation project.



-4-
Cost and Financing of Education
2.13      Financing of Education.  Total national exnenditure on education
in 1971 amounted to some K 85.7 million or a high 5.6% of GD? (Annex 3).
The central Government finances 92% of this amount since the role of private
education is negligible and public education is provided wtithout char-e to
students. Not only tuition but also board and lodging, text books and ecuip-
ment are free and the Treasury also provides students' bursaries. Education
expenditure by Government agencies other than the Yinistry of Education is
sm.all and const:;tutes only a fraction of their budgets. By far the greater
part, 93% of all public education expenditure, is spent by the Ministry of
Education, whose budget includes that of the University.
2.14      Recurrent Educational Exnenditure,  The Yinistrv of Education recur-
rent buidget nearly quadrupled .oetween 1964 and 1972 and rose from 13% of the
total Government recurrent budget in 1964 to 16%. in 1971 which is still rela-
tively modest. The composition of the education budget changed little over
the last fouir years, except for a very significant increase in the share of
technical and university education and a slight decrease in secondary educa-
tion and teacher training. Primary education maintained its share of nearly
50% of the budget (Annex 4).
2.15      Recurrent costs per student (Annex 5), particularly at secondary
and bigiher levevls (US$350 and ITSS3,300 respectively), are high.  The cost of
boarding raises unit costs by 29% over that of day students; existence of
national senools, drawing students from all parts of the country, leads to a
higher number of' boarders than is strictly necessarv; the absence of student
self-help is ancther element in the high cost level, which limits the growth
potential of a system that enrolls only 12% of the student population in
secondary schools.
2.16      The Ministry of Rural Development finances agricultural education
and training institutions except for the University School of Agriculture.
Expenditure on these institutions constituted 7.5% of its 1972 budget (Annex
6). For the Jinistry of Health this percentage is even smaller (3%) and
covers the financing of all public medical training establishments, except
medical degree courses at the University and medical technician training
which are financed by the Ministry of Education (Annex 7).
2.17      Capital. ex=enditure on education has risen very rapidly (it doubled
between 1970 and 1972) and increased its share in total Government investments
from less than, 7%/ in 1968 to over 18% in 1972 (Annex 8). As usual, the level
and composition fluctuated sharply over the years. Particularly striking is
the extraordinarily rapid increase in capital expenditure on technical
education, which claimed the lion's share of investments between 1968 and
1972 together with secondary education and the University.



-5-
2.1R      Zambia receives a considerable amount of foreign aid for education
(probably totalling some US815 million per year) particularly in the areas of
secondary teacl'er supDlv and technical assistance for technical education.
Details are given in Annex 9.
2.10      Future Expenditure.  According to the SNDP (1972-76), technical and
secondary education will continue to absorb the major part (60%) of the in-
vestments in education during the plan period wqhile capital expenditure on
the University will slow down.  During this period average annual capital ex-
penditure by the  fir4istry of Education would be maintained at the high level
of 1972 (Annex 8) but, as a result of increased investments in other sectors,
its proportion of total Government investrents would be halved.  Investments
in medical and agricultural training by the MIinistries of Health and Rural
Developrent would be greatly increased to nearly three times the 1968-72
le'vel. The proposed third Bank education project would constitute about 20%
of the total amount of Y. 136.5 million to be invested in education during the
SNDP period.
2.20      The high levels of investrment in education during the recent past,
if continued during the SNDP period, would also have significant recurrent
cost implications which have not been fully assessed by the Government but
were estimated by the mission to amount to an annual increase of nearly 12%
in recurrent education expenditure by the Ministry of Education between
1971 and 1976 (Annex 10). For the Ministries of Health and Rural Development
these percentages are much smaller and constitute only a fraction of the
total budget of these ministries.
2.21      The Government now realizes that the SNDP targets are likely to
exceed greatly the available resources and that a downward revision of the
plans is inevitable in view of the present financial difficulties. Although
it has not yet prepared a new plan, it is carrying out a critical evaluation
of priorities and revisions are likely to be made as follows:
(i) in view of the urgency of replacing expatriate manpower
as soon as possible (paras. 3.01 and 3.02), priority will
be given to all forms of technical education and voca-
tional training, including agricultural and medical
training; despite this, the technical education enroll-
ment target of 9,300 will probably not be attained and
6,900-7,500 is a more likely range.
(ii)  The expansion of primary and general secondary education
will be slowed down; ongoing projects will be completed
(including those financed by the Bank) but new school
construction will be deferred.
(iii) Plans have been made to recover part of the boarding
costs from students, to reduce student bursaries and
to increase private industry sponsorship of students.



(iv) Agricultural subsidies might be further reduced and this might
free more resources for agricultural training and extension.
2.22      Together, the above mentioned steps would reduce the growth in re-
current education expenditure to a more manageable annual rate of 8.4% p.a.
and the budget allocation to education would remain below 20% of the total
recurrent budget (Annexes 5 and 10). The Government might encounter problems
in implementing; the above mentioned stens, in which case there would be some
risk that Project implementation might be delaved or the operation of the
institutions might be affected; but, in view of the urgent need to expand train-
ing as outlined in Chapter III below and the high Driority which the Govern-
ment attaches to this Project, this is accentable, particularly because the
Government is now in the process of matching plans and resources.
III.  MAYPOTER ANT EDUCATION NEEDS
General
3.01      Compared with countries at the same per capita income level, the
educational attainment level of the Zambian labor force is among the lowest.
In 1971, a relatively large proportion (54%) of the labor force of 1.2 million
was employed in the modern sector of the economy but most of the high and
middle level positions were held by expatriates.  At independence in 1964,
there were only 104 Zambian university graduates and 1,200 with a secondary
leaving certificate.  C:eat progress has been made in expanding education and
training since then but the persistent preponderance of non-Zambian manpower
in professional, managerial and technical posts can be gauged from the following
percentages of expatriate manpower:
JNedical doctors (1971)  96%   Secondary school teachers (1971)  88%
Architects       (1969)  937   Surveyors                     (1969)  64%
Engineers        (1969)  70%   Production foremen            (1969)  55%
3.02      Government policy is to replace expatriates by Zambians as quickly
as possible, wjhch renuires a considerable effort in education and training
in the immediate future.  Government also intends to raise the educational
attainment of Zambian staff, build up their experience and improve working
conditions, thus raising productivity at managerial and administrative levels.
3.03      l4anI'over deta used in the late 1960's, which envisaged the creation
of about 100,000 jols during the FPDP, are no longer appropriate because of
the changed economic situatlon (para. 2.04).  Wage employment is unlikely to
rise as ranidly as in the past.  A slowing down of the expansion of general
education and a greater emphasis on specific skill training in areas where
tle supply of manpo7ccr is still far below the demand will be necessary.
Mec] ical Tra- n4nè- FacJdi1 ties
3., ,      Thne health situation in Zambia is outlined in Annex 11.  Major
nrIehle,-s i.c i <e the high incidence of preventable diseases, especially
ral^utritor., Inadequate facilities in rural areas, an over emphasis on
curative rather than preventive health care, and lack of integration of the



- 7 --
health services provided by the Government, missions and industry. These
problems can best be solved by provision of larger numbers of better trained
staff. Of the 4,600 medical personnel in Zambia in 1971 (Annex 12), 60% were
employed by the Government.
3.05      During the FNDP the number of hospitals was expanded from 51 to 75
and that of rural health centers and clinics from 343 to 553 but medical train-
ing facilities were not increased correspondingly. As a consequence, serious
staff shortages resulted; they are reflected in (a) an excessive number of vacant
posts (varying from 32% to 80%) for different cadres in the Ministry of Health;
(b) inappropriate utilization of personnel; and (c) heavy dependence on expatri-
ates.
3.06      The Ministry of Health has drawn up, with UNDP and WHO assistance,
a detailed Ten Year Health Plan (1972-81), 'the first part of which is incor-
porated in the SNDP and aims to promote a comprehensive network of health
services, combining preventive, promotional and curative functions and a corres-
ponding expansion of training facilities. The number of health centers, par-
ticularly those serving the rural areas, will be expanded and reorganized but
hospital beds will be only slightly increased in number because of financial
limitations.
3.07      Staff requirements resulting from the plan in selected categories of
priority need are indicated in Annex 13. The Government has not yet fully
evaluated the financial implications of the plan, but it can be estimated that
its implementation, including Government employment of staff in the numbers
indicated, would require a 20% annual increase in the recurrent budget of the
Ministry of Health.  GovernmerIt estimates of available resources indicate how-
ever, that an annual increase in this budget, of only 7.5% is likely to be
achieved; the Ministry has therefore decided to reduce the number of personnel
to be trained in categories of medical and technical staff other than those
listed in Annex 13.  The total staff establishment (1971) is indicated in
Annex 12.
3.08      Particular importance is attached to the need for matrons, nursing
sisters, public health nurses and nurse tutors and the Government has drawn
up plans for their training (Annex 2); only part of these proposals (post-
basic programs for personnel who have already completed pre-service training
and obtained experience), have been found to be feasible at present (Annex
2, para 9.05) and Zambia needs technical assistance to organize and implement
this part.  In order to resolve issues concerning the other part (basic,
pre-service, University degree programs), prepare for an integration of the
different personnel so trained and, draw up a long-term plan for nursing
education, the Government has requested WHO technical assistance.
3.09      Consistent with the Governments' objective of emphasizing preventive
health care, health workers need to be trained and learn to work as teams
and new training facilities should be located together, to allow for integrat-
ed programs, or in provincial centers, to permit close association with local
culture, customs and health problems.



- 8 -
The Need to imrove Agricultural Staff and Farmer Training
3.10      Zambia has considerable resources of under-utilized land but the
majority of the people still endure life at a meagre subsistence level. The
extension of agricultural know-how and services into this sector would reduce
Zambia's dependence on copper and its import of food crops, generate exports
and improve the nutritional status of the population. There is already a well-
structured agricultural extension organization but the quality of field staff
is low owing to inadequate training and poor supervision.
3.11      Pre-Service Staff Training.  Recent manpower estimates by the
Ministry of Rural Development envisage an increase from the 1971 total of
some 2,300 personnel, including 350 expatriates, who are to be replaced
(Annexes 14 and 15), to about 4,500 by 1981 (Annex 16) and provided that the
Ministry's budget rises by a minimum of 7.57 per annum, which is considered
feasible, these targets will be reached.
3.12      Existing facilities at diploma and certificate levels, supplemented
by a new SIDA financed agricultural college at Mpika and proposed expansions
at the Natural Resources Development College and the Zambia College of Agri-
culture, will meet the numerical needs at middle and lower levels. Serious
staff shortages at these institutions, however, require rapid improvement in
the number and quality of the degree level output from the University of
Zambia. Such improvement is also needed to end the dependence on expatriate
staff at supervisory, management and policy-deciding levels. Equally pressing
are the needs for agricultural research, and management of a wide range of
agricultural development schemes. Zambia has therefore given high priority
to the establishment of a new University School of Agricultural Sciences to
provide for the training of some of the 450 professionally trained personnel
estimated to be required by 1981 (Annex 17).
3.13      Although a School was formally established in 1971, it has had to
use unsuitable accommodation borrowed temporarily from the School of Natural
Sciences; its staff remains inadequate; the appointment of well-qualified per-
sonnel is inhibited by the limited facilities; agricultural students have
often preferred to transfer to other courses or complete their studies abroad;
there is no farm for practical instruction.
3.14      In-Service Staff Trainina.  Manv of the 1,500 middle level extension
personnel in the Ministrv of Rural Development's extension service and similar
staff in para-statal and other organizations need further training. The ef-
fectiveness of the instruction at the eight Farm Institutes (FIs), which pro-
vide this training (in addition to the training of farmers, when space is avail-
able), should be increased by provision of better facilities especially in
areas of agricultural potential.
3.15      Farmer Training.  There are 28 Farmers Training Centers (FTCs) serv-
ing the 53 districts of Zambia, which provide short courses for farmers and,
in areas where no FI's exist, occasional staff training courses. Utilization
-s satisfactory in some cases, especially where farming has passed beyond the



-9-
subsistence level, but very low in others (Annex 18) due to limitations of
staff, funds and facilities, frequent lack of coordination between different
agencies and an inadequate recognition of the contribution made by women as
farmers and home malkers. A number of FTCs should be improved by provision
of additional buildings, staff housing and equipment; attendance could be
increased by provision of transport; the centers need facilities for the
training of women and greater emphasis needs to be giv.en to courses on
nutrition.  In the sparselv populated areas of the country, mobile training
teams would prove useful.  In addition, an evaluation should be made of
residential farmer training and its contribution to agricultural development
so as to lay a foundation for future development.
Technical Education Reouirements
3.16      Urgent needs for expansion in technical education caused the
Government to establish a Commission for Technical Education and Vocational
Training in 1969 with authoritv and funds to expsr.d facilities as rapidly
as possible.  nuring its three years of existence it established five new
institutions, and set in motion substantial enrollment increases in vocational
andl technician programs (Annex 2).  The Cormrission's functions were returned
to the  irnistrv of Education at the end of 1972.  Incomplete projects w.hich
the Government is reconsidering in the light of financial constraints and
xwliich are likely to be modified or reduced, are the Zambia Institute of
Technology and additional workshop facilities being provided under th-e Bank's
first education project at the Northern Technical College. A new Technical
Teacher Training College) the need for which has becorme more urgent as other
training programs have developed, was originally scheduled for Bank financing
but subsequently taken over by SIDA.
Educational Services
3.17      Five important services of the 'Iinistrv of Education supporting
the develonment and improvement of the countrv's education system. are now
scattered in and outside Lusaka and housed ir unsuitable or temporary accom-
modation.  Tack of coordination and, in one instance, the remoteness, which
prevents essential professional contacts, limit the effectiveness of these
services.
3.13      The services are described in detail in Ann!x 2.  They comprise:
(a) under tie Mfinistry of Rducation, the Curriculum Development Center which
will play an increasingly important part ir developing school curricula
relevant to Zambia's needs; the Correspondence Course ITnit &hich helps tc
improve the education of adults, especiallv those holding responsible positions
but having received only limited education; the Adio-Visuial Services Library
of the Educatinnal Broadcasting and Television Service, which has been able
to play onlv .; Jimited role in education in the past <because of its poor
facilities; and,  the rapidly expanding Zambia Library Service, and (b) under
the former Commission, a Curriculum Development Division which produces much
needed curriculum material for technical education; an Audio-Visual. Division
including photographic studio, a Librarv; and a Resources Development Division
including a high quality printing unit, all housed in restricted space.



- 10 -
3.19      All the above services are now under the direct control of the
Ministry (Annex 2), and there is a need for an integrated establishment
providing adequate buildings and equipment; such a center would allow for
better utilization of existing facilities, qualitative improvements and
reduced costs through a pooling of physical, staff and other resources.
Secondary and Teacher Education
3.20      Zambia has made impressive strides in localizing lower and middle
level positions and in upgrading its manpower by the provision of substantially
increased education and training at all levels (Annex 2). But key positions
continue to be dominated by expatriate manpower still to be replaced.  Despite
this, the job market for Zambian secondary school leavers is unpredictable
because of the uncertain economic conditions. The Government has already
slowed dowrn the rate of secondary school expansion; enrollments in 1971 were
some 15% below the 1968 appraisal projections. Assuming no further expansion
beyond present plans, the following demand and supply estimates (details are
in Annex 19) indicate that an anticipated surplus of Form V school leavers
during the SNDP is likely to be replaced by a slight deficit in the late 70's
or early 80's when the economic position should have improved.
Average Annual Demand Average   Surplus lb (+)
Annual         or
Years                Minimum        Maximum Supply/a  Shortage (-)
A.   Lower Secondarv Leavers (Form III) /c
1970-76              6,500           8,300  8,200 /d      -    100
1977-86              6,500          13,600  9,900 /e      -  3,700
B.   Upper Secondary Leavers (Form V) /f
1970-76              4,600           5,700  6,800 Id      +  1,100
1977-86              4,600           9,100  8,300 /e      -    800
/a   Including a high percentage of girls whose participation rate
in the labor force is low.
/b   Comparison is made with the maximum average annual demand.
7T   Excluding students entering Form IV.
7J   SNDP estimatese
le   Assumning (I) total secondary enrollments will reach 80,000
by 1980 ana stabilize at that level until 1986 and (ii) 50%
of Fonrm TII leavers will proceed to further education.
If   Tnc1uding students entering higher education.
3.21      Zam,ianization of secondary teaching posts is proceeding slowly;
only 12% of the 3,250 teachers in 1971 were Zambian and output from teacher
training institutions totalled only about 110.



3.22      The Bank's first education Loan of iUSS17.4 million to Zambia (Loan
592-7A) is making a nmajor contribution to secondary and teacher education by
providing for (a) the maior part of a planned increase in secondary school
enrollments from 39,000 in 1968 to 80,000 in 1974, a target which is now
unlikely to be reached before 1980, (b) a rationalization of the secondary
school system through more intensive use of existing facilities, and a three
year junior:two year senior structure, (c) a diversified secondary curriculum
(including agricultural, commercial, home economics, and technical courses)
to prepare students, not only for higher education, but for a variety of
careers, (d) the modernizing of teaching equipment, and (e) a better distribu-
tion of educational opportunities across the country. Half of the total cost
of the project was devoted to academic buildings, furniture and equipment
and only 4% to staff housing. The Government agreed to provide 52% of the
project cost and to meet the additional costs of site-workcs, water supplies9
sewerage and extra staff housing related to, but not included in the Bank
project.
3.23      Forced by severe fiscal constraints arising from unforeseen adverse
economic developments (para. 2.04), the Government requested in 1972 (a) an
extension of the project implementation period by 2-1/2 years so as to spread
its counterpart contribution over a longer period and (b) additional funds
for items which it had originallv intended to finance itself. The Bank has
agreed to the extension of the project period in the light of the anticipated
surplus of secondary school leavers during the SNDP (para. 3,20) and to assist
the Government in spreading out, over a longer period, capital and recurrent
expenditures. As regards additional Bank financing, further support for the
secondary school system is essential, since the supply of well educated
Zambian staff to upgrade existing manpower and replace non-Zambians in high
and middle level positions remains of high economic priority and the improve-
ment and diversification of the secondary school system is more urgently
needed than at the time of appraisal. Without continued Bank support these
objectives will not be achieved in the foreseeable future.
IV. THE PROJECT
General
4.01      The purpose of the proposed project would be to (a) eliminate
gaps, part-icularly in agricultural and medical training, (b) encourage and
assist Government plans for rural development by strengthening farmer train-
ing programs, (c) integrate a number of widely scattered educational services,
(d) provide additional facilities to a number of secondary schools and
teaclher training colleges being constructed under the first project and (e)
provide technical assistance for planning, evaluation and project implemen-
tation.
4.02      The project would help to finance:



- 12 -
(1) the construction of new facilities for, extensions
to, and/or equipment for, the following training
institutions: (details in Annex 20).
Student
Enrollment/    Accommodation
Capacitv          (additional)
No. of         Addi-           Student    Staff
Institutions      tional  Total  Boarding  Housing
Units
Medical Training Institutions   12                953   1,263  1,026         41
University School of Agri-
cultural Sciences                1             170      216    1,        24
Farmers Training Centers           7              140     345    112         36
Farm Institutes                    3               84     276      -         -
Rural Mobile Training Units        2               St      80
Eduicational Services Center        1                       -      -         -
Secondary Schools                 61               -  54,530    520        301
Teacher Training Colleges          4               96   1,575      96        28
(ii)  115 man-years of technical assistance specialists to
provide essential staff for University planning,
agricultural and medical education and project
implementation, plus fellowships for Zambian staff
(Annex 21),
Medical Education
Chainar,a lHills Health Training Center (CHiHTC), Lusaka
4.03      Three existing medical training institutions adjacent to the
Chainama Hills Mental Health Hospital would be integrated and extended, to
double the output of medical and health assistants, and to add an advanced
training program for teachers and supervisors (Annex 22).
4.04      The project would Drovide lecture rooms, demonstration space,
a library and boarding for 230 students, a teaching clinic and transport
facilities.
4.05      The curriculun in the medical and health assistant courses would
emphasize preventive and promotional functions for basic health services
in rural areas. The different programs would be integrated administratively
under a Director, to be provicled under technical assistance, who would establish



- 13 -
joint teaching programs (Annex 21); during negotiations, the Government gave
an assurance that he would be appointed within one year of the signing of the
Loan Agreement.
4.06      Teaching staff for the Center would be obtained initially bv ex-
tending expatriate staff contracts and through new recruitment; the project
would include five man-years of fellowships for the training of Zambian
administrative and teaching staff.
Rural Health Training Centers
4.07      To provide practical training in a rural setting for students at
the CHHTC, teaching space and hostels, each with a capacity of 10, would be
provided adjacent to six rural health centers. Trainees would work there
for part of the final year of their training. Administration of the program,
teaching and coordination with local personnel, would be handled by a Rural
Health Services Training Supervisor provided under project technical assistance
who would act also as Deputy Director of the CHPTC (Annex 21).
Training of Senior Nurses, Nurse-Tutors and Administrators, Lusaka
4e08      To meet the crucial shortage of senior nurses, administrators and
nurse-tutors (para. 3.08), a one-year post-basic training program will be
conducted at the School of Nursing at the University's teaching hospital in
Lusaka. The program will provide training in public health nursing, nurs-
ing administration and nursing education. A core curriculum in clinical
nursing, health sciences, social sciences and management practices will be
provided for all trainees and supplemented by special courses and seminars
for each of the three groups.
4.09      The project would provide funds for a Director wTho would prepare,
organize and implement the program and take part in the teaching (Annex 21),
together with the staff of the Nursing School, and the University's teaching
hospital, augmented by staff to be provided by WHO, SIDA and other donor
agencies.
4.10      To resolve the difficulties attending the introduction of basic
BSc (nursing) degree courses (para. 3.08), and improve existing training
programs, WH-O is providing funds for consultant services to assist the Govern-
ment in drawing up a national scheme of nursing training (Annex 21).
Health Services Training School, Ndola
4.11      A Health Services Training School would be built at Ndola using
the new 650 bed hospital as its nucleus, to train hospital staff in an in-
tegrated program, embracing training of (a) registered (professional) nurses,
(b) registered (professional) midwives, and (c) radiological and laboratory
assistants (Annex 22). The registered nurse and midwife courses would follow
curricula regulated by the Nursing Council; those for radiological and labora-
tory assistants would be directly related to the performance of service
functions under the overall supervision of the Medical Council.



- 14 -
4.12      Teaching, communal and boarding facilities, to be provided under
the project, would be used jointly by all staff and students under the overall
control of the Medical Superintendent in charge of the Ndola hospital. Dining
and kitchen facilities and some lecture rooms are available in the hospital.
4.13      Teaching staff is also available at the hospital and at two small
hospitals in the vicinity.  They would be controlled and guided by a Principal
Tutor for the nursing program and a Chief Midwifery Tutor for the midwives,
to be provided under project technical assistance.
Schools for Enrolled Nurses and Midwives
4.14      To meet the needs for enrolled (assistant) nurses and enrolled
(assistant) midwives (Annex 13), the project would provide training schools
adjacent to recently completed provincial hospitals at Mansa, Kasama and
Chipata, and expand the existing school for enrolled midwives at Kabwe (Annex 22).
4.15      The curriculum at Kabwe includes effective family and community
health studies, as a result of the school's earlier function as a training
center for community health nurses. These community studies would be given
further emphasis at the Kabwe School and introduced into the programs at
the other three schools.
4.16      At each school, new or altered buildings would provide lecture
and demonstration rooms, libraries, student hostels and teachers' flats.
Teaching staff would be obtained initially by overseas recruitment and, at a
later date, through the post-basic nurses training program (para 4.08). To
ensure effective leadership and introduce relevant teaching programs, Tutors
would be provided under technical assistance at three of the schools (Annex
21). During negotiations, the Government gave an assurance that existing
uneconomic nurse/midwife training schools at Chitambo (Central Province)
and Mbereshi (Luapula Province) would be closed when the new schools are in
operation.
Agricultural Education
School of Agricultural Sciences
4.17      To meet the need for high level agricultural manpower (para. 3.12),
the project would provide new facilities for the School of Agricultural
Sciences at the University. In addition to lecture rooms and laboratories,
the project would include buildings, equipment and livestock to establish a
University farm at Liempe, nine miles away, which is at present under the
control of the Ministry of Rural Development. During negotiations, the
Government indicated that the Ministry was prepared to hand over the farm to
the University., Assurances were also given that, within six months of the
signing of the Loan Agreement, the University would be able to use the farm
and, within twelve months of the signing, the transfer of the farm to the
University would be completed.



-- 1 5 -
4.18      Enrollments of undergraduates would increase from 46 in 1972 to
200 in 1981 (Annex 23).  The Universitv offers a uniform, four year curriculum
in agriculture in which the first year is spent in the School of Nattural
Sciences and the other three, in the School of Agricultural Sciences, leading
to the BSc (Agriculture).  At post-graduate level, two year YSc and three
year PhD programs are pl-anned for limited numbers of students who have gained
work experience.  The pro-ect would enable the University to expand and
irnorove its research work, which is coordinlated with other related research
through the National Council for Scientific Research, of which the Dean
of the School i s a member.
4.19      Tc strengthen management, the project would finance (a) an aevisor
to the Vice-Chancellor, who would take the major responsibility for planning
and development of the school; (b) a farm manager; and (c) a space uf..ization
planner to enable the IUniversity to make optimum use of existinT and proiected
accommodation (Annex 21),  Academic staff would increase from 8 at present to
24 on completion of the project; to strengthen this staff and fael-'ita.e the
training of Zambians, the project would provide 17 additional man-years of
technical assistance for specialists or fellowships.
Farm Institutes (Fls) and Farmers Training Centers (FTCs-
4.20      The project would expand or improve t,.e operational efficiency
of three FIs and seven FTCs, and provide two mobile training units. thereby
improving staff and farrmer training programs and increasing the pan:cΩipattor
of women in areas of agricultural potential.  During negotiations,  L' Govern-
ment gave assurances that it would endeavor to achieve a 50% particips.-fon
rate by women in FTC programs by 1975 and conduct a higher proportion of
nutrition oriented courses.  The project would improve water supplies, provide
accommodation (mainly for women), add4tional teaching equipment, and transport
to move partic4pants to and fronm courses,  Eacb. mobile unit wou'd include
vehicles equipped for training and staff acconqrodation. After the expansio
of the seven centers, and with the new space fully utilized, the number of
rarticipants (6,200 in 1971) would increase to 11,000 per annum on completion
of the project; the mobile units should reach about 3,000 women per annum,
4.21      The seven FTCs are located in areas w-ith the best agricultural
potential; the three FIs 2rould cater for staff training needs in the same
areas, includinrF one at the center of the first of the proposed Intensive
Development Z7ones which is likely to attract Eank fiLnance and anotherF which
is the National Trainingr Center for roultry (Annex 24).  The mobile units
w,7ould be located in the 'North Western and Northern provinces wnere the scat-
tered nature of the population and great distances inhibit the use of residen-
tial facilxties.
4e22      Shortage of teacHing staff4 represents a limiting factor in ifarmer
training programs but in the institutions selected for improveam.ent under the
project and for the proposed mobile units, adequate staff is available.



- 16 -
4.23      The project would also include technical assistance for an evalua-
tion study of FTC and existing mobile training programs (Annex 21), to be
carried out join;tly by the Rural Development Studies Bureau of the University
and the Minlstry of Rural Development. The study would commence at the end
of 1973 and be conducted by specialists in agricultural economics and rural
education and sociology. Particular emphasis would be placed on the economic
benefits derived and the nature of the attendance at existing farmer training
prograrms. The final report would make recommendations to the Government on
ways of improving the effectiveness of existing programs, the need for expan-
sion or reduction in the number of centers and possible alternatives to
residential training programs.
General Education
Educational Services Center, Lusaka
4.24      This project item would establish, under the Ministry of Education,
an Educational Setvices Center, combining facilities for the Ministrv's
Correspondence Course Unit (CCU) to be moved from Luanshya and its Curriculum
Development Center (CDC), Audio-Visual Aids Center, the Zambia Library Service,
and the Instructional Resources Center (IRC) of the Ministry's Department of
Technical Education to be transferred from. their present cramped quarters in
Lusaka. The new complex would be built adjacent to the premises to be occupied
by the Ministry's Department of Technical Education, which are close to the
headquarters of the Ministry. it would integrate nine entities (Annex 2) in
one building, thus providing economies in use of space, transport and equipment;
it would allowq of a pooling o& vehicles and administrative service staff thus
restulting in savings in recurrent costs whilst allowing for improved and ex-
panded services, The project would provide the building, furniture, supplemen-
tarY equipment and vehicles.
4.25      The libraries of the existing units would be combined under the
direction of trained librarians; technical training institutions would benefit
from the wider selection of literature available in the combined and enlarged
Zambia Library Service. The CCUI would be able to expand and make more relevant
its various programs through util'zation of the printing facilities of the
IRC and through access to a larger body of professional staff and organiza-
tions; new links would be established between the unit and school radio and
television programs.  The curriculum development programs of the Ministry and
the IRC would ultimately be amalgamated and greater attention would be paid
to the relationship of primary curricula to the rural environmert and the
increasing importance of technical education in secondary schools. Access
by the CCU to the educational technology of the combined Audio-Visual Aids
units would be conducive to better programs at less cost; the editorial staff
of Orbit magazine (Annex 2) would obtain benefits from close association
with the other services included in the Center.
4.26      A Coordinating Committee, under the chairmanship of the Under
Secretary in the Ministry of Education, would ensure maximum use of the
facilities to be provided in the center and promote, to the greatest extent
possible, cooperation between the different educational servi.ces. A Chief



t1ducation Officer, responsible to the Undler Secretary, wotild be appointedti
as head of the common services staff and facilities.
Secondary and Teacher Education
4.27      The project would provide the following additional facilities to
enable secondary schools and teacher training colleges, being assisted under
the first education project, to become fully operative (para. 3.23):
(a) Supplementary water supply and sewage treatment facilities;
(b) Housing for principals and deputy principals at 26 urban day
schools and three teacher training colleges, and additional
housing for teachers and administrative staff at 35 rural
boarding schools, two urban schools and two teacher training
colleges;
(c) Additional workshops and other specialized teaching facilities
at seven secondary schools, where the Government wishes to
expand the vocational element of the instruction, and, at two
teacher training colleges;
(d)  New c'lassrooms and library extensions at five schools;
(e) Improved communal facilities, including remodeling of a
limited number of school kitchens and dining halls; and
(f) A limited number of boarding places at two teacher training
colleges and at six rural schools.
The specific justification for each of these items and the reason why the
need for Bank financing became apparent only after the 1968 appraisal of the
first project, are given in Annex 25.
Technical Assistance
4.28      The project would include about 115 man-years of technical assistance
experts (Annex 21). It would provide 30 man-years ot specialist services for
administration and teaching in medical training institutions, and 27 man-years
for planning and teaching at the University School of Agricultural Sciences.
1.5 man-years of consultant services would be utilized for an evaluation
study of farmer training programs. 56 man-years of specialist services would
be provided for the Ministry of Power, Transport and Works' Buildings Branch
and its project implementation unit (para. 5.01), Fellowships would be
awarded for staff development at the Chainama Hills Health Training Center
and the University School of Agricultural Sciences; the amount of the availa-
ble funds to be devoted to fellowships would be determined during project
implementation. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it
would: (a) within one year of the date of signing of the Loan Agreement,
prepare and present to the Bank a detailed plan for the employment of project
technical assistance personnel; (b) employ qualified and competent staff for
each of the technical assistance posts and fellowships included under the
project; and (c) give the Bank, prior to each appointment, reasonable oppor-
tunity to comment on the suitability of the selected candidate.



- 18b -
Cost of the Project
). 29      The estimated costs and foreign exchange components of the various
parts of the proposed project are given in Annex 26 and summarized below:
Kwacha (Milliors)         US$ (Millions)        % of
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total   Total
1.  Training center for
medical and health
assistants (Lusaka)           0.30)   0.37    0.67   0.47    O.58    1.05   2.6%
2.  School for profession-
al nurses/midwives,
laboratory and radio-
logical assistants
(Ndola)                      D.-44    0.56    1.00   0.69    0.87    1.56   3.9%
3.  Four enrolled nurse/
midwifery schools
(Chipata, Kasama,
Mansa, Kabwe.)               .61    0.76    1.37   0.95    1.18    2.13   5.3%
4. Six rural health
training centers             0.09    0.12    0.21   0.114   0.19    0.33   0.8%
5. A School of Agricul-
tural Sciences, Uni-
versity of Zambia            0.39    0.72    1.11   0.61    1.11    1.72   )4.3%
6.  Seven farmers training
centers, three farm
institutes and two
mobile training units        0,240    0.69    1 9   0.63    1 07    1.70   4.3%
7.  One educational services
center (Lusaka)              0.34    o.46    o.80   0.53    0.71    1.24  3.1%
8.  Sixty one secondary
schools and four teacher
training colleges           )4*o.05    5.58    9.63   6.30    8.68   14.98  37.4%
9.  Technical Assistance         0.L.è    1.80    2.25   0.70    2.80    3.50.)  8.7%
10.  Contingencies                 2.)43    5.2)    7.63   3 75    8.09   11.87  29.6%
11.  Total                        9 50   16.26   25 .76  14.80   2_. 8   /40.08 1oW%



- 19 -
)i., ~    The estimated cost by type of expenditure is as follows:
Kwaoha (Millions)       US$ (Millions)       % of
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Total
1.  Construction
a. Site Development          1.62    1.62    3.24   2.52    2.52    5.04
b. Teaching and Communal    1.12    1.13    2.25   1.75    1.75    3.50
c. Farm Buildings            o.o5    o.o6    0.11   0.08    0.09    0.17
d. Boarding                  0.92    0.92    1.84   1.43    1.43    2.86
e. Staff Housing             1.96    1.96    3.92   3.06    3.05    6.11
f. Professional Services    o.06        8&3    1.39   0.87    1.-9    216       _
Sub-total (a-e)              6.L3    6.59    L.7    9.71   10.13   19.i4        9 15
2.  Furniture                     0.07    0.58    o.65   0.10    0.91    1.01
3.  EquiPment                     0.23    2.12    2.l    0.31    3-29    3.66
Sub-total (2 and 3)          0.30    2.70    3.00   0.47    a 20    4.67    11.7%
4.  Technical Assistance
a. Experts and Fellowships  0.27    1.10    1.37   0.42    1.71    2.13
b. Project Tmplementation   0.18    0.70    0.88   0.28    IJ9    1.37
Sub-total (a and b)           o.L5    1 .80    2.      .70    2.80    3- 0      8.7%
5.  Contingencies
a. Unforeseen factors        0.74    0.89    1 .63 1 1 .5    1i9    2.54i
b. Price increases           1.69    4.31    6.00   2.'3    6.70    9.33
Sub-total (a and b)          2.43    5.2v     7.63   3:78    8.09   11.87    29.6%
6.  Project Unit Expenses         0.09    0.04    0.13   0.14    0.06    0.20    0.5%
7. Total Project Cost
including contingencies      9.50   16.26   25.76  14.80   25.28   40.08   103%



-20-
4.31      Construction cost estimates hare been derived from recent building
costs in Zambia. The average cost per m varies from US$125 for the School
of Agricultural Sciences to US$65 for the University farm buildings. A local
cost adjustment of 5% to 45% has been included for buildings outside Lusaka
and away from thae "line of rail.' Costs of site development average between
10% and 20% of the building costs. The proposed schedules of accommodation
for the physical facilities are functional and economical. Furniture and
equipment cost estimates are reasonable; detailed lists would be prepared
during the design stage and reviewed by the Bank before procurement.
4.32      The estimated capital costs for the project institutions are reason-
able; most project items are extensions to, or constructed in association with,
existing institutions and incorporate the use of shared facilities; it is not
possible therefore to compare costs with those in other projects.
4.33      Contingency allowances are detailed in Annex 27.  They are unusually
high because of the uncertainty of the economic situation in Zambia arising
from the recent closure of the border with Rhodesia and consequent substan-
tial increases in transport costs. It is estimated that there will be a
17% increase in the cost of civil works during 1973 and that costs will
subsequently level off at an annual rate of increase of about 7%. Price
increases are estimated, therefore, for civil works at 32%, furniture and
equipment at 44%, and technical assistance and fellowships at 30% over
the period of Loan implementation.  For unforeseen factors, 12% has been
added to the cost estimates of site development and construction and 6% to
the cost estimates of f-trniture, equipment and professional services.  Gver
the full implementation period, total contingencies are equivalent to 42% of
the basic cost of the project before adding contingencies and 30% where
contingencies are included.
4.34      The foreign exchange component has been calculated as follows:
site development and construction costs, 53%; furniture and equipment 92%;
technical assistance 80%; and professional services and project unit admini-
stration 58%. It would total US$25.3 million (including contingencies) or
63% of the total project cost.
4.35      The loan of US$33.0 million would be apportioned as follows: -
US$16.0 million for civil works and professional services, US$4.2 million for
furniture and equipment, US$3.3 million for technical assistance and project
implementation, and US$9.5 million for contingenci,es.
4.36      Operation of the project institutions and programs would increase
Government recurrent expenditures on education by about US$5.0 million per
year representing about 3% of the estimated 1977-78 total Government recurrent
extuenditures on education.



- 21 -
V.  IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENT
Execution of the Project
5.01      A Project Coordinating Committee would be established bv July 1,
1973, consisting of the Permanent Secretaries (or their representatives) Of
the Ministries responsible for finance (Chairman), worls, education, agricui-
t-ure and health and the Vice-Chancellor (or his representative" of the BUniver-
sity pluts other co-opted members as required.  I.t woudi for fl:a-ae procedures
for the carrying out of the project, provide overall supervision of the project
units (see below) and coordinate action between the various aaencies involved
in project implementation.  A new project unit would be established if the
Buildings Branch of the Ministry of Power, Transport and Works as soor as
possible.  To strengthen project implementation, 56 man-years of technica.al
assistance would be provided for the Buildings Branch and for the project unit,
which would include a Director, Accountant, Architect, Procurement Speciai'st
and building supervisors.  The unit would be respensible for all project items
except (a) the University School of Agricultural Sciences, which would be
implemented by the existing project unit in the University, and (b) additional
items for secondary and teacher education, which would be imnplemented by the
Ministry of Education's project unit assisted by NORAD o0  a contract ending
in December 1976a, by which time this part of the project would be <_npleted,
The Governmert agreed, during negotiations, that it would (a) prov ide a fu-i
cormplement of adequately qualified staff for each project unit withil, six
months of the effective date of the Loan Agreement, (b) appoint the sr.,ect
directors, architects, equipment specialists and accoutitants fcr each project
unit after consultation with the Bank, and (c) provide suitable premises for
their work.
5.,02     Pending establishlment of the Ministry of Power, Transport and Works'
project unit, the 'Ministry of Education's unit would be responsible for the
early stages. of implementation of all project items except the University
School of Agricultural Sciences.  As soon as adequately qualified staft
had been appointed, the Ministry would authorize the new unit to take over
responsibility for appropriate parts of the project. During negotiations,
the Governrent gave an assurance that such authorization would be given within
nine months of the signing of the Agreement.
5.03      The Government intends to seek assistance fro.L otler donor
agencies for staffing of the new project unit; if such assistance is obtained.
the Loan will be reduced accordingly.
9.04      Th.e projact would be completed in a'hout six years; details of the
implementation schedule are given in Annex 29.
5.05      Design and supervision of construction would be carried out partly
by consultant architects and partly by the Building's Branch of the Ministry
of Power, Transport and Works (Annex 30).  The consultant firrms, which would
be appointed after consultation with the Bank, would be employed on terms
and conditions mutually agreed between the Government and the Bank.



- 22-
Land
5.06      Suitable land is available for all project institutions except
the University farm. The Government gave an assurance, during negotiations,
that adequate land for all project institutions would be acquired before
construction begins.
Procurement
5.07      Selection of civil works contractors and procurement of furniture
and equipment would conform to Bank guidelines on international competitive
bidding except in the case of civil works contracts of less than K 100,000
and furniture and equipment contracts of less than K 20,000, where local
competitive bidding would be required.  Procedures for prequalification of
civil works contractors would be acceptable to the Bank.  Detailed furniture
and equipment lists wouAld be prepared during the design stages and would be
reviewed by the. Bank prior to procurement.  Items would be grouped to the
extent practLcable to form sizeable bid packages and to permit bulk procure-
ment.  It is urlikely that construction firms not already operating in
Eastern Africa, would submit bids, due to the scattered location, difficulty
of access, diversity and smrallI size of project institutions.  Since the more
isolated institutions would only attract the interest of small firms in Zambia,
contractors would be allowed to bid for individual items or for a whole group.
5.08      Domestic manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be accorded
preference equal to the existing rate or customs duty applicable to competing
imports or 15% of the c.i.f. price, whichever is lower.
Disbursement
5.09      The proposed Loan would amount to US$33.0 million or 82% of the
total project cost. It would finance the foreign exchange component of
USS25.3 million, in addition to US$7.7 million of local currency financing.
It would be disbursed to meet:
(a)  100% of the foreign cost of imported furniture and equipment
or the ex-factorv cost of locallv produced furniture,
equlpment, books and livestock; and
(b)  80% of the total cost of civil works, professional fees,
techir.cal assistance and project unit expenditures.
Disbursements for local project unit expenses would be
made against a certificate of expenditure, the documen-
tation for which would not be submitted for review, but
would be retained by the Borrower and be available for
inspection by the Bank during the course of project
supervision.
Undisbursed a>mounts vwould be subiect to cancellation. The expenditure schedule
is at Annex 31y a forecast of disbursements is at Annex 32.



- 23 -
5.10      Certain technical assistance personnel (para. 4.28) would probably
be appointed before the date of signing of the Loan, and funds would also be
required for work undertaken prior to signing, in accordance with Bank approved
plans at the Health Services Training School, Ndola, the Schools for Enrolled
Nurses and Midwives, the University School of Agricultural Sciences, Farmers
Training Centers, Farm Institutes, Secondary Schools and Teacher Training
Colleges. A sum not exceeding US$1.5 million of retroactive financing would
be required.
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on:
(a)  the appointment of the Director of the CHHTC (para 4.05);
(b)  the closing of uneconomic enrolled nurse/midwife training
schools (para. 4.16);
(c)  the transfer of Liempe farm to the Utniversity (para 4.17);
(d)  the participation of women and the provision of nutrition
oriented courses in farmer training centers and farm
institutes (para 4.20);
(e)  the evaluation study of farmer training (para. 4.23);
(f)  the administration of the Educational Services Center (para. 4.26);
(g)  selection of, and consultation with the Bank on, technical
assistance personnel and candidates for fellowships (para. 4.28);
(h)  project implementation, the appointment of staff and the provision
of suitable premises for the project units (paras. 5.01-5.03); and
(i)  the provision of adequate land for project institutions (para. 5.06).
6.02      Subject to the conditions in para. 6.01 above, the proposed project
is suitable as a basis for a loan of US$33.0 million to the Government of
Zambia for a term of 25 years including a 10-year grace period.



I



5- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2~~~~1
ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~
. . . . . . . . .~ ~ ~






ANNEX 2
THE EDUCATIOiN SYSTEM
INDEX
Page No.
I.   Organization and Administration ...............                1
II.   Primary Education ........................,                    1
III.   Primary Teacher Training ..... .............                   2
IV.   Post Primary Training ...... ..............                    3
V.   General Secondary Education ..... ............                  3
VI.   Secondary Teacher Training ..... .............                 4
VII.   Higher Education ...... ................                        6
VIII.   Educational Services ...... ...............                     7
IX.   Medical Education .......................,.,                   11
X.   AgrT cultuh al Education ......    l................a...in..  15
XI.   Technical Education and Vocational Training .....              18






ANNEX 2
Page 1
ThE EDUCATION SYSTEM
I.  ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION (see Chart 1)
1.01      Primary and secondary education and teacher training are administer-
ed by the Ministry of Education and Culture.  Primary schools, classified as
Government, aided or unaided, follow the same curriculum and teacher qualifi-
cation standards, and are administered by Regional Education Officers under
the direction of Regional Councils of Education in each of the nine regions.
1.02      The Ministry, which acts with the advice of a representative National
Council of Education, is organized into Administrative, Professional, Planning
and Inspectorate Divisions, and is adequately staffed, although there is a
high proportion of expatriate Dersonnel. Inspectors for each of the special
areas of education, agriculture, industrial arts, home economics and business
education have been appointed to the headquarters staff.
II. PRIMARY EDUCATION
2.01      The basic data for all primary schools in 1971 were as follows:
Percent
Pupil:      % of        of Age
Enroll-   Teachers   Teacher       Staff       Group in      Percent
Grades      ment                  Ratio      Qualified      School     Boys:Girls
1 - 7      729,679    14,768       50:1         86            80         55:45
2.02      Primary education, which is not compulsory, consists of seven years
of schooling divided into a four-year lower cycle and three year upper cycle.
Reliable comparisons between population and enrollment, and therefore accurate
planning are handicapped by delays iri the analysis of recent census data, a
lack of compulsory birth registration and of control on the age of admission
to the first grade. It is estimated that enrollments (Table 1) have almost
doubled since independence in 1964. Although many pupils in primary schools
are overage and enrollment estimates do not indicate the number of repeaters,
it is likely that some 80% of the 7 to 10 year age group (the nominal Grade
1 to 4 age group) is now in school. Approximately three quarters of the
pupils enrolled are in Government schools; almost all the remainder are in
Government aided schools. The recent substantial increase in pupil numbers
has been achieved at the cost of over-crowding of existing facilities, a high
pupil:teacher ratio, increased grade repetition (especially in the upper
grades), larger numbers of double and, in some urban areas, triple session
schools, poor school attendance and the use of temporary, incomplete and



ANNEX 2
Page 2
dilapidated buildings at a time of constraints on capital and recurrent
expenditure.  Migration within rural areas and between rural and urban areas,
alas made for bad distribution of the 1,171 schools and underestimation of
requirements especially in towns.
2.03      Engllsh has now been established as the medium of instruction from
Grade I and new primary curricula designed for Zambian conditions, with a
range of supporting books and materials are being used.
2,L.04    The SNDP states that the goal of universal education is proving
cifficult to achieve.  The plan will aim at eradicating the backlog of school
bui ' ding, replacing dilapidated schools and teachers' houses, eliminating
triple sessions in lower primary schools, reducing double sessions in upper
primary streams and extending facilities for practical subjects in the upper
prim.ary sector. Although the target enrollments for new classes will be
revised i n the light of the recent decline in revenue, the Government intends
to distriLbute new primary streams in relation to regional population growth
rates, and to concentrate on new upper primary growth in the rural areas.
III. PRIMARY TEACHER TRAINING
3.0.      In. 1971 about 159000 primary teachers taught combined enrollments
of somie 730,000 pupils for an average class size of 50. Of the total number
OrL teachers; (Table 2), 85% were qualified, the balance untrained.  The pro-
portio- of non-Zambian primary teachers remains surprisingly high at 860,
or 7% of the qualified teachers.
3.02      Primary teachers are trained in two-year courses at post-Form III
level. Enrollments for 1971 in the nine colleges totalled 2,020; an addi-
tional 219 attended in-service training courses. The colleges are staffed
by 170 teacher trainers of whom 96 (56%) are Zambians and 30 or 17% (all
non-Zambian) are university graduates.
3.03      In order to ensure widespread and effective use of the new Zambian
primary curricula, particular attention is being paid to in-service teacher
training. The Chalimbana Teacher Training College, which is being assisted
under the first Bank education project, has been converted into a National
In-Service College. Thie existing capacity of teacher training colleges,
when augmented by facilities being improved at the Kitwe Teacher
Training College under the Bank's first education project, will be adequate
in terms of numDers for future planned expansion, but the quality of the
teacher training staff needs to be upgraded, and the proportion of Zambian
staff increased. It is hoped that before the end of the plan period, Form V
(Upper Secondary) leavers will volunteer for primary teacher training and a course
will then be designed for them.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
IV. POST PRIMARY TRAINING
4.01      Facilities for post primary, other than secondary education barely
exist. The SNDP includes provision for:
(a)  a pilot project in one region to study how the structure of
the formal primary and secondary school systems should be
made more relevant and the potential for an integrated,
inter-ministerial approach to education for rural develop-
ment; and
(b)  the setting up of vocational centers which would be simple,
flexible, low cost, and community-based ana managed; they
-would be aimed at training youth for sel!-employment and would
provide, if possible, some extension service to trainees on
completion of their courses.
V. GENERAL SECONDARY EDUCATION
5.01      The basic data for secondary schools in 1971 were as follows:
Percent
Enroll-               Pupil:        % of       of Age        Boys:
ment                  Teacher      Staff       Group in      Girls
Forms                Teachers   Ratio      Qualified    School         Ratio
I - V     56,000      3,251       17:1          83          12        67:33
5.02      Some 21% of Grade 7 pupils enter one of the 110 secondary schools
in the country. The preponderance of enrollments in 1971 (Table 3) were
in Government schools which numbered 67, including 73% of total enrollments.
The ratio of boys to girls in secondary schools was 67:33 in 1971, but the
totals for all forms do not reveal the drop in the participation rate of
girls from 37% in Form I to 24% in Form V.  Reflecting the shortage of
secondary school places, only 12% of the age group 14 to 18 (the nominal age
group for secondary schlools) enrolled in secondary schools in 1971 but the
entry included many pupils of older age. The system of selection has been
subject to much discussion and revision; the Government aims at selecting
candidates on merit and blending pupils from different regions of the country
in the same school but defects in the system frequently prevent the achieve-
ment of this aim and the inter-regional enrollment policy involves the Govern-
ment in heavy expense through provision of boarding facilities in schools
where day-pupils living nearby could attend. Secondary school enrollments
have increased from 13,000 in 1964 to 56,000 in 1971, and attrition rates
have decreased; the major attrition is at the end of the lower cycle (Form
TII) when many students leave to enter employment or specialized training
institutions; pregnancies, which result in the expulsion of girls involved,



ANNEX 2
Page 4
have increased substantially. The rapid enrollment expansion has seriously
affected performance in the Cambridge Overseas School Certificate Examinations.
5.03      The Bank's first education loan to Zambia, in 1969, provided for
the major part (36,000 new places) of a planned increase in secondary
enrollments from 39,000 in 1968 to 80,000 in 1974; the Government's revised
projections in the SNDP envisage an enrollment growth by 1976 to 74,500.
5.04      The Bank project also contributed to a rationalization of the
secondary school system; the 2:3 structure was changed to 3:2; new principles
of economical room usage were established, which required a rotational rather
than a classroom based system of school organization; a diversified secondary
curriculum, designed to better prepare school leavers for employment and
higher education and including practically oriented subjects such as agricul-
tural science, industrial arts and home economics was introduced.
5.05      The increased enrollments, the more complex curricula and new
pattern of school organization have created problems for Ministry and school
administrative staff. The Bank project envisaged an expansion cf 18 schools
to an enrollment of 1,120 each but, owing to persistent difficulties with
supplies, services, administration and discipline, the Government wishes to
restrict enrollments in these schools to 930 pupils each and intends to re-
quest Bank approval for the change. It hopes to construct three additional
boarding schools to make up the consequent shortfall in enrollments.
VI. SECONDARY TEACHER TRAINING
6.01      The increase in secondary enrollments has not been matched by the
output of secondary teachers and the system remains heavily dependent upon
expatriates; in 1971, 88% were non-Zambian. The pupil:teacher ratio (17:1)
is very low however, as a result of the over-staffing of a number of urban
schools with largely temporary, married women staff; wives of Government
officers who are trained as teachers, tend to be provided with posts in
secondary schools when their husbands are posted to urban areas. Despite
measures by the Government to increase the supply of local teachers, it is
anticipated that the requirement for expatriate teachers will continue to rise
through 1974 and possibly into 1975, and the demand for teacher trainers will
persist even longer.
6.02      3,250 secondary teachers were serving in schools in 1971 but the
output from teacher training institutions totalled only about 110. Zambia's
secondary teacher requirements are met through training provided at the
following institutions:  (the first three are being assisted under the Bank's
first and second education loans)



ANNEX 2
Page 5
(i) the University of Zambia, which offers four-year BA and BSc
degrees in education; 30% of Govermnent bursaries for university
students are reserved for student teachers who are, on completion
of their courses, bonded to teach for at least two years. The
output in 1971 was 56 and the total enrollment 236;
(ii)  the NKrumah Teachers College at Kabwe, which offers two-year post-
upper secondary courses sponsored by the University, for teachers
of lower secondary classes; the 1971 enrollment included 87
(71 men) in the first year, taking a general education course and
28 (half were men) training as teachers of commercial subjects;
in the second year the enrollment totalled 57 (45 men) in the
general course; the output was 48;
(iii)  the Copperbelt Teachers College at Kitwe, which is
due to open in 1973 with a capacity of 300 students (160 will
enroll in 1973) and which also offers two-year post-upper
secondary courses for teachers of lower secondary classes; it
will specialize in commercial, home economics, science and
mathematics training, the commercial studies to be transferred
from the Kabwe College.
(iv)  the Natural Resources Development College, near Lusaka, which
offers three-year post-upper secondary diploma courses in
agricultural education in cooperation with the University's
Institute of Education; the first eight candidates completed
their training in 1971 when the enrollment totalled 44; the
output is being increased to 25 per annum;
(v) the David Livingstone Primary Teacher Training College, which
is providing temporary facilities for the upgrading of primary
teachers in home economics in one-year courses; 18 trainees
are enrolled at present; and
(vi)  the Evelyn Hone College of Applied Arts and Commerce, which
will train arts and crafts teachers in three-year post-upper
secondary diploma programs when new facilities have been completed
during 1973. Teachers of commercial subjects are also being
tau-ht through two-year programs for students completing other
commercial courses at the College; these programs are intended
to correspond with the Kabwe/Copperbelt courses listed above.
6.03      No facilities exist for training of technical and industrial
arts teachers but SIDA is making arrangements to finance a Technical
Teacher Training College adjacent to the Luanshya Technical Training
Institute; enrollment and annual output targets are 240 and 130 respectively.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
VII. HIGHER EDUCATION
701.      T'he 'University of Zambia was established in 1965 as a development
of t`he Rhodes--ivingstone Institute which then became known as the University's
Institute for Social Research. In 1970 the institute merged with the Center
for African Studies to become the University's Institute for African Studies.
University en.rO'lments rose from 300 in 1966 to 1,400 full-time degree
students hy 1971 , in seven sclhools: Natural Sciences, Agricultural Sciences,
Htmanities and, Social Sciences, Education, Law, Engineering and Medicine.
Future plannIng includes the establishment of a School of Administration,
and a School of Mines, the latter likely to commence in the near future.
7.02      AlL szudents enter one of the two basic schools (see Chart 1); the
School of N atural Sciences for£  edicine, Engineering and Agricultural
Sciences;  the School of HLmanities for other programs.  'lost courses in
Education and Cthe Hutmanities are also available by correspondence.  In ad-
dition to deegree programs, courses leading to the Diploma in. Social Work and
certain ocher qu3ilications in education are offered, as are post-graduate
degree programs leading to MA and MSc degrees.
7&(f3     I.n. iLi.71z -otal enrollments (Table 4) of 2,007 comprised 328 women
and 179 me-.cn; an additional 285 students luere registered in correspondence
cou-rses, and an estimated 4,000 persons annually attend summer, evening or
short rcsidentia't courses, or follow broadcast educational and cultural
prograrns,
704      AcadexAiic standards are high, but the University is experiencing
all of the problemis of young and growing institutions, compounded by the
universal problem.s of higher education, including, in 1971, some student
unrest, The SNDP, calling for 4,000 students by 1975 appears unrealistic,
iQl vieW of tlhe short supply of Form V leavers, and budgetary constraints;
th.e University is therefore planning for 2,500 students by 1973-74, and
3930300-3,500 b1975-76.
7.05      It -s handicapped by a very high turnover of staff, aggravated by
a  wo-vear tax-free salary concession, which encourages external staff to
leave at t he end of two years; this and other salary anomolies may be
allevia ed by --l  implementation of the recommendations of a 1971 University
Salaries Cocmission.  In 1971, only 15 out of a total academic staff of 235
were Zambian..  A staff development program to Zambianize the academic and
non-academic staff of the U-niversity was instituted in 1969. By the end
oE 1972, seven staff members had completed post-graduate degree programs
abroad, and 38 others were in various stages of fellowship programs.  The
number of fe'owship-trained staff is expected to rise, through these
measures, eac'h year from 38 in 1972 to over 45 by 1987. Costs, where not
met from e.xzcrra~ sources, are met from the University's staff development
fu-nd budse0  .v7   is expected to increase from K 166,000 in 1972 to K
85,0 5Qy  a i 7 



ANNEX 2
Page 7
VIII. EDUCATIONAL SERVICES
8.01      The Curriculum Development Center (CDC) was established in 1970
to assume, in the first instance, the functions of an English Medium Center
created in 1964 to meet the urgent post-independence requirement for instruc-
tional materials in English, which had been adopted as the official language.
A Management Committee, representative of the Ministry, educational institu-
tions and the Teachers' Unions, advises the Center on development programs,
The Center has been assisted by Unesco, which evaluated progress of its
project in 1972; its report is now awaited.
8.02      The responsibilities of the Center were greatly expanded in 1971
to include the development of all curricula for primary and secondary schools
and teacher training. During that year the staff complement was increased
from 20 to 40, half of whom were Zambians. The Center has concentrated
attention upon curricula for primary schools, an obvious priority because of
the lack of English language material adapted to Zambian conditions. The
secondary school curriculum remains substantially dictated by the examination
requirements of the Cambridge Overseas School Certificate. Curriculum
revision is a continuing process; the first outputs, directed to Social
Studies, and Mathematics are ready for evaluation anc. review. The Center
also intends to develop environmental science programs for the Drimary school,
materials in Zambian languages, and in H1ome Economics, Arts and Crafts and
Religion.
8.03      The work of the Center has been assisted by the recent deve'lopment
of an agreed staff establishment, the absence of whlich had been a handicap
because of the uncertainty of staff tenure.  The present staff of the CDC
totals 44 (of whom 30% are Zambian and three are part-time) and the approved
establishment is expected to rise to 53 by 1981. The present director
succeeded a Unesco specialist in 1971, after having served as a counterpart
for three years; in-service training is being promoted to complete the
Zambianization program. In addition to counterpart training, one staff
member received training to Master's level abroad and five others followed
programs at the University of London's Institute of Education,  In the
relatively new Zambian language department, 15 positions are filled, provid-
ing specialists in each of the seven major Zambian languages, and a coordina-
tor. Handbooks have been prepared, printed and distributed for Grades I
and II, much of grade III work is at various levels of preparation or review;
Grade IV handbooks are in draft form. Language panels have been established
to review production in their respective languages and to ensure authenticity.
8.04      Future program developments for which the augmented staff will be
required, include accelerated revision of primary, secondary and teacher
education curricula; a growth factor, as the school population increases,
is inevitable.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
8.05      The Correspondence Course Unit (CCU).  In 1966 a Correspondence
Course Unit was established to provide secondary education for adults, and
to help fill the gap left by shortages of secondary school places in the
school system.  In 1967 the courses were made available to adults attending
evening classes - particularly employed persons possessing only part of
primary education and requiring further education in order to meet their
new post-independence job responsibilities. It was also intended that the
service would reach the rural population and endeavor to reduce the inequality
of educational opportunity between rural and urban populations. In this
respect the service has had qualified success. By 1972 it was assisting
2,500 continuing students and 4,100 new students; of these, 22% at the lower
secondary level, and 31% at the higher secondary level were in rural areas.
8.06      A Management Committee with representation from Ministries, educa-
tional institutions and Teachers' Associations maintains a continuing advisory
role in the establishment of objectives and in the evaluation of performance.
Correspondence course offerings include the standard first and second cycle
secondary school subjects but provision of practically oriented courses has
been hindered by lack of suitable facilities. The method of instruction is
distribution of lessons through the mail and return of papers after correct-
ion, supplemented with guidance and model answers provided by full and part-
tirae markers; students follow a reading program assisted by the postal loan
of books; although the radio broadcasts are not keyed to correspondence les-
sons, many students are assisted by school broadcasts.
8.07      Future planned developments include provision of science subjects,
for which laboratory experience is necessary and for applied subjects includ-
ing home conomics, arts and crafts, and, in cooperation with other bodies,
courses in administration, bookkeeping, accounting and office practice, but
these developments await the availability of space and access to professional
personnel. There is scope also for the development of general interest and
vocational courses in col'laboration with the Ministries of Rural Development,
National Guidance and Health, the National Institute of Public Administra-
tion and the Commiission for Technical Education and Vocational Training. The
CCUT may also enter the field of correspondence education for the professional
upgrading of teachers. It is estimated that by 1976 over 1.25 million lessons
will be distributed each year.
3.00      Subeconomic fees are charged:  K 25 for a 6-subject 3-year course
and K 6 for each GCE subject compared with estimated costs of K 60 and K
9.16 respectively.
d.c t,f3  The Unit, now located in an old warehouse in Luanshya, is hampered
zy .ze distance of 200 miles from the national capital and from central
Government administration.
8.10      The Audio Visual Services Library.  This library is the resource
center and repository for audio visual aids used by the Educational Broad-
zasting and Television Services of the Ministry of Education and the entire
scoi1ool system. The library contains about 1,000 radio lessons on tape,



ANNEX 2
Page 9
1,600 films and 800 film strips, and quantities of slides, records and wall
charts, but apart from the locally produced radio lessons, 95% of the
visual aids are imported, and not strictly relevant to Zambia.
8.11      The library operates in completely inadequate facilities at the
educational broadcasting center in Lusaka. It performs storage and maintenance
functions for the radio services, but has not attempted, for the lack of
facilities, personnel, equipment and funds, to fulfil its primary function
of producing and distributing visual aids for the school system. In conjunc-
tion with a proposed integration of this service with the other major serv-
ices, the Ministry intends to revitalize and Zambianize the production of
audio visual aids.
8.12      Zambia Library Srvice   The Zambia Library Service, in *ts tenth
year of operation, administers a network of five regional libraries (to be
raised to seven by 1973), 47 library centers in secondary schools, represent-
ing 41% of the 110 schools, and 382 centers in the 1,170 primary schools.
The normal staff complement of a regional library consists of one library
officer and one trainee librarian, two clerical officers and three service
staff. The importance of the service is recognized by its annual recurrent
budget (about K 150,000) and steadily rising annual provision for the
acquisition of new books.
8.13      The central office, which also houses the Lusaka regional library
and central storage and distributing facilities, is located in temporary
quarters on the campus of the Evelyn Hone College in Lusaka. The completion
of the two additional regional libraries will enable the central library to
delegate postal lending to the regional libraries and devote more of its
resources to the administration of the system, and advisory services to
schools on organization, staffing, and library management. The distribution
of book collections to those primary schools lacking libraries and the
problem of relating library accessions to curriculum requirements, are matters
of high priority.
8.14      The service also renders an important function as the cordinating
office for all external sources of library and related assistance from
bilateral and private sources, ranging from gifts of books to exchange of
cultural exhibits, and the arrangement of fellowships abroad.  Other impor-
tant  libraries are to be found in the larger municipalities, the national
archives, the University of Zambia, the National Assembly and in the head-
quarters of national industries and associations.
Instructional Resources Center of the Department of Technical
Education, Ministry of Education (formerly Cotmission for
Technical Education and Vocational Training)
8.15      Curriculum Development Division.  The Curriculum Development
Division has been very active since its establishment in 1970 in drawing up
new curricula for trades training, technician, technology and para-medical
programs. In close association with 41 advisory committees, representing all



ANNEX 2
Page 10
aspects of Zambia's industrial life, and 100 sub-committees of these commit-
tees, it had finalized by the end of 1971, 51 curriculum charts and 21 com-
plete syllabi. The total staff includes one superintendent, five curriculum
specialists and additional craftsmen employed on a temporary basis for the
production of a ds to teaching.
8. 16     Audio-Visual Division.  The Audio-Visual Division produces charts,
flannel boards, magnetic boards, slides and transparencies, and includes a
library containing these items, as well as educational tape-recordings, 16
mm films, and overhead projection sets.  The division includes a well-equipped
Photography Department and a workshop providing a service for the repair and
maintenance of recorders and projectors used by technical training institutions.
The staff incl-udes a head of Department, two audio-visual technicians, library
assistants, photographers and dark-room technicians totalling nine personnel
altogether.
8.17      Library.  The library contains some 2,500 books, 100 periodicals
and 500 audio-visual items including films, film strips, microfilms, etc.
housed in cramped quarters; it serves the needs for technical information
of the technical and vocational institutions in Zambia.  The Library should
be integrated with the much larger and more adequately equipped Zambia Library
Service.
SiS     The Resources Development Division.  This division provides offset
litI o printing facilities, enabling the Center to produce a wide range of
printed educational materials. The existing machinery, which is accommodated
in very cramped quarters could undertake additional work; for example, the
requirements of the Ministry of Education's Correspondence Course Unit, thus
allowing the latter to concentrate on its primary academic function.  The
Printing and Documentation Section has a total of 44 members of staff and is
able to bind and distribute illustrated publications of high quality.
8. 9      9Orbit Magazine.  This monthly magazine, designed for young Zambians
and distributed widely each month to encourage interest in technical matters,
is at present housed in inadequate facilities and needs to be more closely
associated with other activities of the Ministry of Education and its Tech-
n-cal Education Department.
Other Educational Services
8.20      Other educational services provided by the Ministry of Education
include education of the handicapped, which is largely provided by miissions
and other voluntary agencies, adult education (evening class enrollment of
37,000 in 1970)9 the psychological service, examinations section, training
section ana bursaries committee.  The educational broadcasting and television
service supplements classroom teaching in schools and evening classes; both
the sound and television broadcasting services offer 24 hours of instruction
uweekly.



ANNEX 2
Page 11
IX. MEDICAL EDUCATION
Organization and Aministration
9.01      The provision of medical services in Zambia is divided between
the Government, (which, in 1971, employed 1,188 professional and technical
medical personnel), the missions (289) and the -Ines (684). Of these, 83%
were not Zambians. Employment of auxiliary health personnel totalled
2,442 of whom 64% were employed by the Government and 90% were Zambian.
Details of staff numbers employed in 1971 are given in Annex 12.
9.02      The tripartite structure is also reflected in the provision of
training facilities. The missions and mines run their own programs (except
at the university level) which provide adequately for their needs. Defi-
ciencies in training relate to the Government sector, as a result of the
low priority given to provision of training in the First National Develop-
ment Plan while medical services were expanded substantially.
Professional Staff
9.03      Of the 530 doctors in Zambia in 1971 only 20 were Zambian.  The
majority (314) were employed in preventive, curative and administrative
work for the Government; the University employed 19 and 94 were in the
private sector, military or local Government agencies. The ratio of doctors
to population varies from 1 to less than 3,500 in the Central Province to
1:26,000 in the Eastern Province; the country-wide average was about 1
doctor to 8,000 people. The School of Medicine of the University was
established in 1968 and admitted 22 students of GCE "O" level. The course
is of six years duration, two years are devoted to natural sciences, and the
third and fourth years to preclinical subjects, the successful completion
of which results in the award of a degree in human biology. The clinical
course starts from the fifth year. The first 12 students are expected to
graduate as doctors in February 1973. 32 Zambians were in training abroad
in 1971 and expected to return home between 1971 and 1976.
9.04      Of the 35 dentists in Zambia, only two are Zambian.  Six dentistry
students were studying abroad in 1971. Only two of the 81 pharmacists are
Zambian.  Most of the pharmacists employed by the Ministry of Health function
as hospital secretaries and are not fully utilizing their technical skills.
Ten students were studying pharmacy abroad in 1971.



ANNEX 2
Page 12
9.05      in 1971 there were in Zambia 66 matrons (28 in the Ministry of
'dealth) and 177 nursing sisters(61 in the Ministry) of whom only 25 were
Zambian and 46 nurse tutors (14 in the Ministry) and 46 clinical instructors
(13 in the Ministry) of whom only two were Zambian. Discussions, sponsored
by X1THO and incluading representatives from other countries in Eastern Africa,
have resulted in the drawing up of plans for two levels of training for
nurse tutors, nurse administrators (matrons, ward sisters) and public health
nurses. It was Droposed to set up regional basic and post-basic courses at
the Universitv et Zambia.  The basic course would be of three years duration,
.oilowing completion of the first year of university education in the basic
sciences and successful students would be awarded the degree of BSc (nursing)
on completion of their course. The Government subsequently decided that
further consideration had to be given to this matter and, in particular, the
place which would be occupied by such graduates in the present nursing
career structure. The post basic course would be open to candidates selected
from personnel already employed and experienced in hospital service.  Courses
of one year duration would offer training in public health nursing, nursing
aduiinistration, and nursing education,  Successful students would be awarded
an appropriate diploma.
9.06      in 1971 there were 543 Zambia-registered nurses (383 in the
Mllinistry) and 386 registere  mid-wives (163 in the Ministry); of whom only
145 were Zambian. Of the 23 (17 in the Ministry) public health nurses and
'iea 1h visitors9 only 3 were local citizens. There are three training
schools for registered nurses; one at Kitwe (capacity 100 expanding to 200,
output 60) and one at Lusaka (capacity 300, output 80) which are Government
schools and one at Mufulira (capacity 50) which is sponsored by the mines.
Courses are of three years duration after upper cycle secondary education.
The 1972 output from all the schools was 66; when the schools are in full
operation by 1973, the total student body should be 575 with an approximate
eventual output of 175 per annum.
9.07      Registered midwives are registered nurses who have completed one
year of additional training which is provided at the University teaching
hospital in Lusa'Ka; its output is about 15 per year.
Para-Medical Staff
9,08      This category includes radiologists, physiotherapists, laboratory
technicians, health inspectors and dispensers.  Numbers adequate for the
needs are traired in three year post-upper cycle secondary programs by the
Commission for Technical Education and Vocational Training at the Evelyn Hone
College of Applied Arts and Commerce in Lusaka. Dental technicians are
trained at the Kabwe hospital, also on three year post-upper cycle secondary
courses.
Medical Auxilia-ries
9,09      There were 906 Zambia enrolled nurses in 1971 (537 in the Ministry).
Their trainin= , which is of two years duration post-lower cycle secondary,



ANNEX 2
Page 13
is conducted at 15 training schools, the buildings and facilities of which
vary considerably in suitability. Most of the schools have low enrollments
and many of the hospitals to which they are attached are denendent on the
work of the trainees for their operation. Details of enrollments, outputs
and teaching staff are given in the following table:
Number              Number of Trainees  Number
of                                      Graduated  Tutorial
Agency      Schools  Capacity    1969       1971         1970       Staff
Government    4        247         76       154           39          6
Mines          4        368       127       315           81         16
Mission        7        403       179       331           67         25
Total         15     1,018        382       800          187         47
The locations of the schools are given in Attachment 1.  Enrolled psychiatric
nurses are trained at the Chainama Mental Hospital; the output is less than
10 per year.
9.10      There were 51 enrolled midwives in Zambia in 1971, (40 in the
Ministry). They are trained either through (a) one year post enrolled nurse
courses at nine training schools (their location is indicated in Attachment
2), including one at Kabwe, where the present residential accommodation
provides for about 40 midwives but needs to be rearranged and supplemented
by kitchen, dining and laundry facilities, or (b) two year post-lower cycle
secondary courses at the School of Midwifery of the Monze Mission hospital
which in 1971 had in intake of 10.  The number of trainees, outputs and
teaching staff employed are indicated in the table below:
Number               Number of Trainees  Number
of                                       Graduated  Tutorial
Agency     Schools  Capacity        1969      1971        1970       Staff
Government    3          85         14         14          31          3
Mines          2         65          10        52            6        11
Mission        4         81         35         42          28          4
Total          9        231          59       125          54         18



ANNEX 2
Page 14
9.11      In view of the seriotus shortage of doctors and the length and cost
of their training, the medical assistant represents a vital element in
Zambia's health system and can be trained more quickly and more economically.
There were 918 medical assistants in 1971. The Ministry employed 803 and
the missions and mines 110. Non-Zambians totalled 68. There are two categor-
ies of medical assistants: (a) those trained for general medical work and
(b) medical assistants (2sychiatry). rhey are trained at two different
schools adjacent to the Mental Diseases Hospital at Chainama Mlills in three
year post-lower cycle secondary courses. The training consists of instruction
in basic sciences, nursing, elementary diagnosis and treatment of disease.
The school has a capacity of 160, and in 1971 the output was 30. Training
for health assistants, whose work is mainly preventive, rather than curative
and who total about 200, (125 in the Ministry), is provided also at Chainama
Hills in two year post-lower cycle secondary courses. The capacity of the
school is 90.
9.12      There were 28 radiological assistants in Zambia in 1971.  They are
trained at present at the Livingstone Hospital in two year post-lower cycle
secondary courses. The annual output is less than 10. Laboratory assistants
totalled 66 (33 in the Ministry), of whom five were non-Zambian. They are
trained at two schools; one at the Kitwe Hospital and the other at the Mission
hospital at Chikankata. The annual output is about 7. It is proposed in
future to concentrate training of radiological and laboratory assistants at
the better equipped, neT11y constructed, Ndola hospital.
9.13      The existence of such large numbers of different categories of
medical personnel and the number of institutions in which they are trained
have led to a diffusion of training effort; most training schools deal with
uneconomically small enrollments.
9.14      In addition to the formal training programs outlined above, the
Government also provides health education for the people.  It is given both
as a separate program and as part of the general medical services. All
health personnel are expected to perform an educational function in addition
to the technical service they provide. The Health Education Section of the
Mlinistry coordinates health education programs carried out by different
agencies and ministries, prepares teaching materials for schools and teaching
aids to promote health education in the provinces at maternity and child
welfare clinics, out-patient departments of hospitals, health centers and
other health institutions.



ANNEX 2
Page 15
X. AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION
Primary Education
10.01     Agriculture is not taught as a subject in primary schools, but
agricultural examples are employed as the basis of teaching sciences in the
upper elementary grades. As most primary teachers have a weak background
in science and mathematics, however, the teaching is not completely satis-
factory.
Secondary Agricultural Education
10.02     In 1968, the teaching of agriculture was begun in eight secondary
schools.  Some 59 schools, slightly more than 50 percent of the total, are
now teaching a syllabus which prepares students for the Cambridge examination;
teachers are encouraged to provide a practical course that will promote an
appreciation of scientific methods of thinking.
10.03     Success of the program has been limited due to shortage of quali-
fied teachers, lack of reliable water supplies for irrigation and shortage
of equipment. The first Bank education project will alleviate equipment
shortages by providing improved facilities in thirty schools.
Young Farmers
10.04     There are also 1,200 young farmers groups in Zambia sponsored by
the Ministry of Rural Development; 1,000 are organized il schools and have
a membership of 30,000 children; the other 200 groups have a membership of
6,000 young people of from 20 to 30 years of age outside schools. Group
programs include agricultural courses, varying in length from a few days to
several weeks and utilizing the facilities provided in farmers training
centers.
Agricultural Teachers
10.05     Only 25 secondary teachers in Zambia are adequately qualified
to teach agriculture. A three year diploma course in agricultural education
has now begun to produce qualified Zambian teachers; the first output
totalling eight completed their training in December 1971. The program is
intended to produce 25 trained teachers per annum and to have one qualified
teacher in every rural secondary school by 1976.
Staff Training
10.06     The training of staff for the Ministry of Rural Development, para-
statal organizations and other agricultural enterprises takes place at three
levels; two year post-lower cycle secondary courses leading to the award



ANNEX 2
Page -1 *
of an agricultural certificate and posts as agricultural assistants: three
year post-upper cycle secondary courses, which are at diploma level and
train Government technical officers and farm managers: and, four year post-
upper cycle secondary university degree courses for Government agricultural
officers and other professional staff.
10.07     At the certificate level, the Zambia College of Agriculture at
Monze provides the full two year certificate courses in agriculture and the
first year of training for veterinary assistants. Its 1972 enrollment total-
led 235; 131 first year students (115 men and 16 women), 68 second year
students and 36 first year student trainees intending to become veterinary
assistants. Plans are being implemented to increase the capacity of the
college to 250 and produce an annual output of about 120, and a possible
further expansion to a total of 350 is under consideration. Detailed plan-
ning has begun on another college to be built at Mpika but the nature of
its program is still the subject of negotiations between the Swedish
International Development Agency, which is financing the project and the
Government.
10.08     Following the first year at the Zambia College of Agriculture,
veterinary assistant trainees undertake the second year of their course at
the Veterinary School at Mazabuka. This school enrolled 25 veterinary and
37 tse-tse control trainees in 1971 and also provides in-service staff train-
ing for veterinary personnel.
10.09     Diploma level training in agriculture and related fields, except
forestry, is provided at the Natural Resources Development College (NRDC)
near Lusaka. Courses are provided in eight specialized fields: Agriculture;
animal management; agricultural business management; agricultural education;
agricultural engineering; fishery; nutrition and water development. The
nutrition course is for women only; the other courses are open to men and
women. The 1972 enrollment totalled 348 with an expected output of 65; the
capacity is being increased to 500 so as to give an annual output of 135.
10.10     Specialized training courses are provided at the Forestry Training
School at wkwekera in the Copperbelt Province (capacity 50; 20 forest ranger
certificate trainees on two year courses; 20 forestry diploma trainees and
10 forest guard short course trainees), the Fishery Training Center at
Sinazongwe in the Southern Province, the Chisongo Wild Life Training School
at Luangwe in the Eastern Province, the Luanshya Cooperative Training School
in the Copperbelt Province and the Community Development Staff Training School
at Monze in the Southern Province.
10.11     The first agricultural degree level students were enrolled in the
Ulniversity of Zambia in 1968 in totally inadeqtuate facilities with limited
staff; thc program was administered by the School of Natural Sciences, where
students still do their first year of training, which is primarily devoted
to instruction in the basic sciences.  ey 1972 the total enrollment in the
School of Agricultural Sciences, which was formally establislhed in 1971,



ANNEX 2
Page 17
was 46 (years 2 - 5); the teaching staff had by then reached a total of eight
including the Dean; most members of the staff are on two year contracts.
Accommodation is provided temporarily in the Biology Building of the School
of Natural Sciences. The School of Agricultural Sciences has no physical
identity and lacks appropriately equipped laboratories and a farm for practical
instruction. Turnover of staff has been rapid, and this, combined with the
lack of physical identity, has hampered development of suitable academic
programs and contributed to the reluctance of students to enter the course;
only students rejected by other science faculties study agriculture.
10.12     In-service training of staff of the Ministry of Rural Development
and other agencies engaged in agricultural development takes place at farm
institutes, one in each of the eight provinces. The training is usually in
the form of short courses on specific topics; in 1972, subjects covered
included farm management, conservation planning, food storage methods, irri-
gation equipment, extension work, crop production, horticulture and cattle
management; surplus capacity not required for staff training is utilized
for farmers courses to supplement the work of farmers training centers.
There is sufficient accommodation at most farm institutes and, in the two
which lack buildings of their own, Namushakende and Kasama, other accommoda-
tion is available nearby.
10.13     Farm institutes also provide facilities for the lowest cadre of
extension staff employed by the Ministry of Rural Development, the commodity
demonstrators who, after recruitment at post primary or lower secondary cycle
level, take short courses before working in the field. The value of the
service they provide to the farming community after such limited training is
questionable and they are being phased out; the best demonstrators are being
selected for upgrading to certificate level through courses at the Zambia
College of Agriculture.
Farmer Training
10.14     Zambia also has a widespread system of residential farmer training
in 28 farmers training centers. These vary in capacity from 20 to 50 and
provide short courses, normally of about five days duration, in a variety of
subjects including cotton production, maize production, cattle management,
vegetables and fruits, poultry management, tobacco production, farm management,
home crafts for women, tractor maintenance, sheep and goat husbandry and
literacy. Many centers are not operating effectively due to shortages of
staff, appropriate accommodation, equipment, transport to bring participants
to courses, water and electricity supplies, and a lack of coordination between
different agencies involved in organizing courses; there is also a failure to
appreciate the part played by women in agriculture in Zambia. The result is
that two thirds of the centers operate at less than 50% of their capacity.
No precise evaluation has been made of the effectiveness of farmer training
programs since they were commenced in 1966, and only those operating in the
agriculturally progressive Southern and Eastern Provinces appear to be making
a real contribution to rural development. Some 20,000 persons were recorded



ANNEX 2
Page 1=8
as having attended courses in 1971; in many cases participants attended
more than one course; the total figure includes places occupied by staff of
the Ministry of Rural Development and members of young farmers clubs.
Other Training Programs
10.15     Other institutions offering agricultural training, include three
churches, one UNDP, one Israeli and one Bank sponsored school associated with
settlement schemes; in most cases the trainees, on completion of their courses,
encounter difficulty in obtaining land with a title that makes them eligible
for credit. Although the quality of training provided is often very high,
the schools are, by their nature, limited in size and often utilize staff
endowed with missionary zeal which cannot easily be duplicated on a larger
scale.
XI. TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING
Background
11.01     In 1967 the Government adopted the Saunders Report which recommended
the restructuring of manpower training programs under a proposed para-statal
Commission for Technical Education and Vocational Training. The Commission
was authorized in January 1968, and with the assistance of the Ford Foundation
and an organized technical assistance team from Canada, complementing aid
from other external sources, it entered into a vigorous but short life, with
generous budgets, and operated outside the normal Government constraints.
There was considerable controversy about the sweeping changes which it effected,
and about the management of its very substantial budgets, but the Commission
served its purpose, and brought about substantial increases in enrollments
and improvements in quality of technical and vocational training. By late
1972 the Government came to the conclusion that the Commission should be
returned by January 1973, to the Ministry of Education. A review committee,
established for the purpose of orderly transfer of functions has not yet
reported its findings.
11.02     The most significant contribution of the Commission is probably the
least obvious - the establishment of a Technical Curriculum Unit for teaching
programs and materials relevant to Zambia, and, equally important, the in-
struction of more than 50 advisory committees in the processes of occupational
analysis and program and course construction. The capacity for continuing
review of curricula to ensure that they are responsive to the quantitative
wanpower needs of the nation has been established. In this context it is
anticipated that the outputs of existing institutions will increase because
it should be possible to reduce the length of courses as the outputs from
diversified secondary schools become available.



ANNEX 2
Page 19
11.03     In 1969 the Government repealed the Apprenticeship Training Act with
the intention of substituting full time training programs. This action, taken
precipitately and without adequate consultation with industry and training
authorities, evoked the opposition of many employers and agencies; although
they acknowledged the distortions and abuses that had existed in Zambia, they
had confidence in the apprenticeship method of training. In 1972, the Govern-
ment, with the assistance of the Bank, conducted a survey to determine the
capacity and interest of industry in offering the industrial experience
training which is essential to the success of apprenticeship programs. The
survey recommended the reintroduction of some modification of apprenticeship
training but did not define the nature of the modification. However, the
survey did reveal general support for the pre-employment training policies
of the Commission, and their continuation and extension, in conjunction with
employment experience, were recommended.
Vocational Training
11.04     Vocational training is provided in 19 trades which, in themselves,
comprise clusters of occupations (e.g. plumbing, pipe fitting and sheet metal
work) in accordance with Zambian conditions. Eight Technical Training
Institutes (formerly known as Trade Schools), and the Northern Technical
College (NORTEC) at Ndola, which is being assisted under the Bank's first
education project, offer full-time two year pre-employment courses in excellent
new facilities, for the most part developed by the Commission since 1969.
Total enrollments and outputs in 1972 were 1,900 and 720 respectively and
are expected to rise to 3,350 and 1,500 respectively by 1976 (Table 5).
Employer evaluation of the outputs of the institutions has been favorable.
11.05     Other vocational courses are offered at the Evelyn Hone College
of Applied Arts and Commerce in Lusaka, and at four commercial schools associ-
ated with Technical Training Institutes. Entrance requirements vary according
to the general education requirements of each course from Form III to advanced
Form V (for accountancy); courses are of one to three years' duration depend-
ing upon the requirements of the program. Enrollments at the College are
given in Table 5.
Business and Commercial Training
11.06     The Commission has undertaken studies leading to the rationalization
of business and commercial training, and to the substitution of Zambian
standards for the present multiplicity of programs and external qualifications
which dominate the business education field.
Technician Training
Iil.07    Two year post-secondary technician training programs and three year
technologist programs are offered at NORTEC in Ndola, in temporary quarters
of the Zambia Institute of Technology (ZIT) at Luanshya and Kitwe and at the



ANNEX 2
Page 20
Zambia Air Services Training Center (ZASTI) at Lusaka. Enrollments in post-
secondary industrial programs rose from 20 in 1969 to 675 in 1972 and are
expected to reach 1,500 by 1976.
11.08     The development schedule for ZIT has been disrupted by the cutting
of budgets, and the decision to return the Commission to the administrative
control of the Ministry of Education. The review committee which is preparing
procedures for the transition has also undertaken a review of the ZIT project
to identify possible economies in the construction program which has, in the
meantime, been delayed. The committee is considering the deferment of such
low priority items as the student center, the substitution of existing hostels
at other centers as stopgaps to permit postponement of further student hostel
construction, the reduction of construction standards and the identification
of portions of the project which might be suitable for external financing.
Management Training
11.09     A MIanagement and Development Advisory Center, staffed chiefly by
ILO specialists, offered short courses in business managment to over 1,000
candidates in 1971.
Future Developments
11.10     Possible future developments in technical education include the
offering of a wider range of courses at existing institutes, consistent with
their objective of flexible programming in accordance with manpower needs.
Four additional institutes planned for the current development phase will be
deferred pending improvements in the financial situation, and further manpower
supply-demand analysis. A planned technical teacher training facility, replacing
existing temporary facilities, will now be undertaken by SIDA. A teaching
hotel with a projected enrollment of 180 in courses related to hotel manage-
ment and operation will open in 1973.
11.11     Tuition fees, board and room, and most incidental costs are covered
by the operational budgets of institutions. The Commission, in an attempt
to stop the escalation of education costst has established a guideline ceiling
on hostel accommodation at 60% of total enrollments. Even in Lusaka, where
the most favorable circumstances exist, a boarding policy has been difficult
to implement because of tradition, and the lack of middle class housing to
accommodate boarders. Proponents of boarding refer to the educational benefits
of study facilities in the evening, and the social costs of education, including
meals, which can probably be provided at less cost in an institutional setting
than in individual homes, and with better control of nutritional factors.



ZAMB LA
PRIMARY SCHOOL ENROLLMENT   1964-1971
All Schools
Year       Sex         Grade 1   Grade 2   Grade 3   Grade 4   Grade 5   Grade 6   Grade 7   Grade g    3SN    Totals
19614      Eoys         3834114    38,5427    38 626    39,081    20,935    20,261      9,903      9,234            214.881
Girls        36,229    33,641    28,573    28,573    12,885    11,341        4,878     3,768            163,536
Total        74,643    72,0068    67,654    67,654    43,820    31,602    14,781    13,002              378,1427
1965       Boys         43,745'   40,075    40,194    40,194    23,943    21,648    12,1li4        9,185            230,631
Girls        41,151    35,851    31,387    31,387    15,368    12,742        5,926     3,763            17 9 ,462
Total        8 4.1896    75,926    71,581    71,581    39,311    34,490    18,090    12,849             410,093
1966       Boys         53,410    44,598    42,488    42,488    34,490    24,978    23,672                          265,583
Girls        50,2717    40,151    32,474    32,474    22,533    14,452    12,404                        207,849
Total       104,707    64,749    75,962    75,962    57,623    39,130    36,076                         473,432
1967       Boys          59,744    52,635    43,076    43,076    36,795    35,388    27,781                         300,660
Girls        56,159    48,375    34,723    34,723    24,806    21,324    14,192                          238,692
TotLal      115,903   101,010    77,799    77,799    61,601    56,712    41,973                         539,352
1968       Boys         63,954    60,297    46,875    46,875    37,826    37,816    39,231                          339 ,928
Girls        58,909    54,828    38,406    38,406    26,651    23,116    20,011                          268,965
Total       122,963   115,125    85,381    85,381    64,477    60,932    59,242                          608,893
1969       Boys         65,870    64,114   55,199    55,199    40,229    38,901    42,801                  169      367,986
Girls        61,293    57,080    45,397    45,397    29,639    24,879    21,858                 116      293,295
Total       127,163   121,194   100,596   100,596    69,868    63,780    64,659                 285     661,281
1970       Boys          66,162    64,485    62,120    62,720    43,1435    1,896    43,811                 69      385,676
Girls        61,197    58,1489    50,782    50,782    32,306    27,506    23,411                 39     308,994
Total       127,359   122,974   122,902   122,902    7 ,741    68),402    67,222                 78     694S,670
1971       Boys         66,730    65,403    66,092    66,793    146,298    43,723    47,219                 73      402,331
Girls        62,601    59,269    57,7014   514,990 | 35,112    31,105    26 640                  49     327,470
Total       129,331   124,672   123,796   121,783  | 51,1l10    74,828    73,859                122     729,801
/1   Uto16thprimary systemn consisted of 8 years of schooling, i.e. sub standards A & B & standards 1 to 6.
2   Prior to 1969 educationally sub-normal pupils were not recorded separately.



ANNEX 2
Table 2
ZAMBIA
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY SCHOOL STAFF (1971)
Trained                        Untrained
Non                             Non
Zambian       Zambian           Zambian       Zambian
Primary School Staff
(All schools)            11,740            791             2,106            71
% of Category                       85                               15
Secondary School Staff:
Government                  313         1,843                25            406
Aided                        52           461                 6             89
Private                       2            41                 -             13
Totals                      367         2,345                31            508
% of Category                   14            86                 6             94
Source:  Ministry of Education, Development and Planning Unit.



ZAMBIA
SECONDARY SCHOOL ENROLLMENTS (1971)
LOWER SECONDARY                       UPPER SECONDARY                 TOTALS     ___
Form I        Form II       Form III        Form IV        Form V
Boys Girls  Boys  Girls   Boys  Girls  Boys  Girls    Boys  Girls    Boys  Girls    Totals
Government  7,748  3,677  7,624  3,640  5,300   1,903   4,912  1,087   4,253       851   29,837  11,158  40,995
Aided        1,936  1,923  1,853  1,864  1,262   1,165      932    768     928     749    6,911   6,469  13,380
Unaided        218    251    232    198    143     164       86   109       91     138      770      860   1,630
Totals       9,902  5,851  9,709  5,702  6,705   3,232   5,930  1,964   5,272   1,736   37,518  18,487
Total
Pupils        15,753        15,411         9,937            7,894          7,010            56,oo5      56,005
Source: Planning and Development Unit
CD 



ZAMBIA
THE IJNIVERSITY OF ZAMBIA - ENROLLMENTS (1971)
Fsan uitanities &  Nat,ra1  |                                    Agric.                                 Sueotal  n                                          Total    iI
Year           Soc. Sciences' Sciences   Engineering  Sciences  Medicin   Law   Pegree   Students   D.S,W.| P                              C,A.E. |Dip/Cerc         Total
M        F    M    F    M          F     M     F                M  F      N         F            FIMF                     M    F F F    M    F     M      F
,~~~~~                                                                                                 ~ ~~ I  _ P  i    tY-v--- --t            t    -                    -
1               274      90   295  54                                          I           569      144               30  12      30   6' 10         70    18   1 639   162
J    2   103  33  1 76   7    46   1    17      1              28  4      267       46    1j9  11                                   I9            276    57
3                68      18    48   4       26      -      3          27     5  14         181       27      8   7                                          7      189     34
4                66      15    25   4       13             4          19         11   2   t48         21    I                                                      148      21
I                                       17                                                                                        I     IIt
5                                            8                        17     I              25         1                                                            25       1
6             1               1           !              t          114    1                14         1                                                            14       1
Total         ~        ~         1                                                                               7           12           6  10         87_  36_ -2-1--7-
Full -T e            508     156   449  69  1 93         1   | 24     1   77      7  53   6  1204        240  tl7  18  30 12         30    6  10          87   36   11291    276
SPartu men           25L      37    41   8        2          I                       83   5   377         45    t11  7                                    11    7       388     52
i                4 _---------- ----                                --3--                     6
'Sub-Totals        | 759      193   490  72    95         1124         1   77     7136   11  1581         285          18  41 19      30    6  10          98   43   :1679   328
--___                            --- l---+  _  t-*---4---- _ _ _____ ,__ $___                                          W--- -1---
Totals  __ _1            952          562            96           25         84       147          1866          I 35   ' 60        I  36    i   10   J 141           ,   2007
M - Male       F - Female
D.S.W.  Diploma in Social' Work                                  A.C.E.  Associateship Certificate in Education
P.C.E.  Postgtduate Certificate in Education                     C.A.E.  Certificate of Adalt Educatioa
Source:  Ministry of Education, Development and Planning Unit                                                                                                                z2
(-D t



ANNEX 2
Table 5
ZANFIA
INISTRY OF EDUCATION TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING
EN4ROLUNTS AND OUTPUTS
1972 (Actual) to 1981 (Projected)
1972           1973            1974       - 1975              1976Oupt
Enrol- Output Enr-ol- Output, 'Drol- Output EXirol- Outp-ut M-rol- OutEput 72-76k  77-ETr
ment    _      ment            ment    _      met             bent
Post Upper Secondary Level
A. Industrial Technician
Northern Technical College           155     60      240    100     260    110      280    120     300    125      515     62
Zambia Institute of Technology       400    160    .400    160      600    250      800    330   1,000    395   1,295   1,972
Zambia Air Training Institute        120     50      140            160      6      180     7      200      80    _325     40
Sub-total                          7     270     -                                                      60 0    135  _3.00
B. Paramedical
Evelyn Hone College                  230     90      260    110     260    110      300    130      300    130     570      65
C. Business and Administration
Evelyn Hone College                  320    150      360    160     400    180      400    180      400    180     850      90)
Kitwe College                         20      -       40     20      40      20      40     20       40     20      80      10
D. Applied Arts
Evelyn Hone College                   80     30      120     40     150      60     200.    80      200     80     290      40
E. Technical and Commercial Teacher
lTraning
Luanshya Technical Teacher Train-
ing College                        100     40      120     50     120     50      160     50     200      60     250     30
F. Hotel Services
Victoria Hotel School                 15      -       30     15      30      15      30     15       30     20      65      10
G. Management Training (Part Time)
Management Training Center        (1,000) _       (1,000) _      (1 .000) _      (l .000)   _ (1 ,000) _
Total                           1,440    580   1,710    710   2,020    860   2,390  1,000   2,670  1,090   4,240   5,45
Post Lower Secondary Level
A. Industrial
Technical Training Institutes      1,625    600   1,800    800   2,400  1,000   2,800  1,200   3,000  1,400   5,000   7,00
Northern Technical College           275    120      300    140     300    140      300    140      350    140     690      75
B. Business and Administration
Technical Training Institutes        240     30      300     80     300    100      300    100      300    100     410     50
Evelyn Hone College                  400    230      400    230     400    230      400    230      400    230   1,150   1,15
Kitwe College                         60     60       80     80      80      80      80     80       80     80     380      40,
Zambia Air Service Training
Institute                           20     10       40     10      40      20      40     20       40     20      80      10
C. Hotel Services
Victoria Hotel School                 15       -      45     10       60     20      60     30       60     30      90      15
D. Agricultural and Vocational
Nkumbi Refugee Center               (320)  (160)   (380)  (190)   (400)  (200)   (400)  (200)   (400)  (200)
Total                           2,635  1,050   2,965  1,350   3,580  1,590   3,980  1,800   4,230  2,000   7,800  10,05
Ö,075                 ;j OT                                                 27j 07.
Grand Total                     4,075  1,630   4,675  2,060   5,600  2,450   6,370  2,800   6,900  3,090  12,040  15,50
.....    .....  ... -=  .....  .....                                    ...=W  ... === === ===   U=   ==






ANNEX 2
Attachment 1
ZA_I'A
LOCATION OC
SCHOOLS FOR ENOLLED NU
A.   Government
1.   Livingstone Hospital
2.   Chitambo Hospital
3.   Mbereshi Hospital
4.   Mbngu Hospital/1
B.   Mines
1.   Chingola Division North Hospital
2.   Ronald Ross Hospital, Mufulira
3.   Roaan Antelope Hospital, Luanshya
4.   Rokana Division Wusikili Hospital, Kitwe
C.   Missions
1.   Our Lady's Hospital, Chilonga
2.   Salvation ArnV Hospital, Chikankata
3.   Macha Hospital
4.   Mukinge Hospital, Kasempa
5.   Mwami Hospital, Chipata
6.   St. Francis Hospital, Katete
7.   Kalene Hospital, Kalene/2
/1   Opened in July, 1970.
,72 Reco-nized for training January, 1970.



ANNZX 2
Attachment 2
ZAMBIA
LOCATION OF
SCHOOLS FOR ENROLLED MIDWIVES
A.   Zambia Enrolled Nurses (1 year Courses)
Gove nme nt
1. Livingstone Hospital
2. Mbereshi Hospital/l
3. Kabwe
Mines
1.  Rokana Hospital Nkana (Wusikili)
/1
2. Chingola Division North Hospital-
Missiors
1. Salvation Army Hospital, Chikankata
2. St. Francis Hospital, Katete
3.  Our Lady's Hospital, Chilon-a
4. Mission Hospital, Monze
B.   Enrolled Midwives (2 years Courses)
Mission Hospital, Monze
/I   Started 1970.



ALNNSX 3
ZAMBIA
TOTAL NATIONAL aPENDITURE 0N
JDUCATION ANiD TRATNING, 1971
(K millions)
Recurrent      Capital
Ecpenditure   Expenditure      Total          %
Ministry or Education          54.52          18.12         73.34         93
Mini5try of Health               .7G            .70          1.4>O         2
Mi.4stry of Rural
Development                   1. 69          1.50          3.19          4
Other Miristries                 .7             _            C.74    -   1
TOTAL                     58.05          20.62         78.67       l00
As % of total Government
expenditure                   17%            14%
The Priva te Sector             7.00
Total Niational Expenditure:           $5.67
As % of GDP                             5. &,o
Source:  Financial Report for the year 1971.



ANNEX 4
ZAMBIA
RECURRENT EXPENDITURE BY
THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
(K millions)
1964/6511     1968    1969    1970    1971    1972
Primary Education                     16.57   17.36   19.62   22.13   24.92
Secondary Education                    8.72   10.74   12.13   13.74   11.75
Teacher Training                       1.32    1.45    1.32    1.68    1.56
Technical and
Further Education                      .85    1.49    2.25    5.63    3.00
University of Zambia                   1.40    2.76    3.54    3.70    3.20
Others/2                               4.52    5.72    4.94    8.04    6.91
Total Recurrent
Expenditure:
Education            14.36          33.39   39.52   43.80   54.92   51.34
Overall Govern-    105.60          225.69  233.23  275.00  350.31  296.90
ment
/1  July 1964 - June 1965
/2  Includes administration, headquarters, bursaries.
Sources: Financial Reports, various years; and
Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure for the year 1972.



ANNEX 5
ZAMBIA
UNIT COSTS (ACTUAL AND PROJECTED) AND ENROLLMENT TARGETS
FOR CERTAIN CATEGORIES OF EDUCATION
Cost per Student           Enrollment
(Kwacha-constant 1971 prices)    Targets
1971             1976             1976
Original   Revised    SNDP   Revised
Estimate   Estimate            Target
Primary Education                     30         37         37     880,000 Unknown/3
Secondary Education                  250        300        275/1    74,500   74,500
Teacher Training                     680        670        650/1      3,900    3,900
Technical & Further Education    1,900        1,600      1,600        9,300    6,900/4
University of Zambia               2,350      2,400     2,300/2      3,000    3,000
Basis for the original Unit cost estimates
In the case of primary and secondary education and teacher training,
the share of teacher salaries in the unit cost (using the average for 1969-
1971) was calculated at 80%, 48.4% and 53.5% respectively and adjusted to take
into account a full year effect of the salary increase awarded in May 1971
and subsequently assumed to rise by 3% annually. Two methods were used:
one assumed the same proportion of teachers' salary in the unit cost and the
other assumed increases in the share of items other than salaries to reflect
the expected rise in cost (particularly of food). The average estimated
from both methods was used for the first two categories of education, but
this average was reduced by 15% for teacher training to allow for the fuller
use of facilities. For higher education, the University's estimate is K 2,470
(1974) and K 2,400 is projected for 1976 of which K,2,100 will come from the
Ministry of Education's "grants" to the University and K 300 from bursaries.
Revised estimiates
/1   Assuming that part of the boarding costs would be recovered from the
students;
/2   Assuming a reduction in bursaries;
/3   No revised targets fixed; for purposes of cost projections it is assumed
that primary school enrollments in 1976 would be about 800,000;
/4   Revised enrollment targets (see Annex 2 table 5).



ANNEX 6
ZAMBIA
MNISTRY OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT/1
RECURRENT AND CAPITAL EXPENDITRURE
(K millions)
1964/65L2   1968   1969   1970   1971   1972        1972-1976/L
Hecurrernt Expenditure
Personal Emolumnnts      1.9        2.8    3.9    4.1    4.6    5.3
Recurrent Expenditure    2.0        3.9    5.7    7.0    8.8    6.5
Grants & Subsidies L     1.4        5.5  18.8   15.0   34.7  12.5
Special EKpenditureL       ..        .1     .2      .1     .3     .1
Total Recurrent
Expenditure:
Agriculture            5.3       12.3   28.6   26.2   48.4   24.4
(of which training) (n.a)      (1.3)  (1.1)  (1.5)  (1.7)  (1.8)
Overall Govt.        10C5.6     225.7  233.2  275.0  350.3  296.9
Capital Expenditure
Agriculture            2.0       10.1   11.8    8.7   12.5   16.4          135.0
(of Wiich training)  (.9)      (1.4)   (.6)   (.5)  (1.5)  (1.8)         (16.3)
Overall Govt.         30.6      190.7  147.5  160.5  142.5  124.9         1271.0
h1  The Yinistry of Rural Development from 1969 includes the old Ministry of Agriculture,
as well as the Cooperatives, Water Affairs, Community Development and adult literacy
departments.
L2 July 1964 - June 1965
L3  The major part here is the agricultural subsidy from guaranteed prices.
/4  Inclades purchase of small capital eq.uipment, office equipment, furniture, cars, etc.
/5   Capital expenditure by the Provinces on behalf of the Ministry of Rural Development
s included.
6.  Total 5 years of SNDP.
Sourceb: Financial Reports, various years;
Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure for the year 1972; and
Second National Development Plan, 1972-1976.



ANNEX 7
ZABIA
RECURRENT AND CAPITAL EXPENDITURE ON HEALTH
(K millions)
1964-65L    1968   1969   1970   1971   1972       1972-1976 
Re current Expenditure
Persornel Emoluments        2.4        5.2    6.3    6.o    7.6    8.1
Recurrent Expenditure       3.0        6.8    7.3    9.6   11.8    8.7
Special E&penditure/         .6        2.9    3.3    4.5    4.3    3.2
Total Recurrent
Ecpenditure:
Health                  6.o       14.9  16.9   21.1   23.7   20,0
(of ihich training)   (.1)       (n.a)   (.1)   (.3)   (.7)   (.6)
Ovferall Govt.       105.6       225.7  233.2  275.0  350.3  296.9
Capital Expenditure
Health                   .6        4.8    6.5    7.2    9.5    8.3         30.3
(of which training)   (..)        (.1)   (.3)   (.8)   (.7)   (.3)        (6.0)
Overall Govt.          30.6      190.7  147.5  160.5  142.5  124.9       1271.0
1 July 1Y64 - June 1965.
2 Total 5 years of SNDp.
/3  Includes purchase of small capital equipment, office equipment, furniture,
cars, grants, etc.
Sources: Financial Reports, various years;
Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure for the year 1972; and
Second National Development Plan, 1972-1976.



ANNEX 8
CAPITAL  SPKNDITURE BY THE INISTRY CF EDUCATION
(K millions)
1964/6 .     1968   1969   1970   1971   1972        1972-1976/L
Primary Education       1.33       3.58   2.04   1.87   3.15   4.03           24.22
Secondary Education    2.04        3.32   2.86   2.83   2.37   5.85          37.88
Teacher Training        0.02       0.30   0.38   0.54   o.41   1.33           5.02
Technical Education    o.66        0.84   0.78   3.97   7.52   0.49          30.13
University of Zambia      -        4.26   2.87   2.17   3.85   2.46          13.84
Others                  0.02       0.54   0.21   0.29   1.12   0.40           3.41
Total Capital
Expenditure:
Education             4.07      12.84   9.14  11.67  18.42  22.56         114.50
Overall Governmen 8 30.57      190.70 147.50 160.50 242.50 124.90        1271.0
/1  July 1964 - June 1965
/2  Total 5 years of SNDP.
/3  Net of repayment of Government loans.
Sources: (1) Financial Reports, various years;
(2) Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure for the year 1972; and
(3) Second National Development Plan, 1972-1976.



ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2 nages
7ZAMTTA
FOREIGN AID FOR EDUCATION AND TRAINING
1.        There is a significant amount of foreign aid in education and
training particularly in the fonr of technical assistance. WJhile there
is no accuarate d,etail on its magnitude, it probably totals about US$15
million per vear from, bilateral and multilateral sources.  A large number of
primary and secondary school teachers, notably from ,Britain, the USSR, Nor-
way -.nd Dennark, are working in Zarbia.  The number of bilateral experts
in education was estimated at about 1,200 in 1971.
2.        Canadian aid is directed' mainly to technical education with 13
experts working in the Commission for Technical Education and Vocational
Training and just unider 30 experts teaching at the Z.ambia Institute of Tech-
nology.  About $n.8 million of Canadian aid to edlucation was spent during
the two years 1969/70 and 1970/71.  A furthier 7S$2.0 million is Planned for
the five years of the SNDP, 1972-1976.
3.        The Netherlands helped to finance the All-Africa Literacy and
'.riting Center at KitTie and the Mrakeni Ecumenical Center in Lusaka.  In
addition, there is close cooperation between the UTniversity of Zarbia and
various Dutch Universities in the field of engineering and public adminis-
tration.
4.        Thle Federal. Republic of Germany, in cooperation with ILO, provides
assistance to the President's Citizenshin College.
5.        Sweden is currently considering the financing of a new teacher
training college, and an agricultural college at Mfpika and also provides a
niinher of tutors i-n nursing and midwiferv.
6.        In the field of medlical e4ucation, the UK T)rovides assistance
under the OS/.S nrogram for about 150 doctors and 7n paramedical staff, as
well as 9 teaching staff for the TJniversitv School of Ufedicine.
7.        The General Post Office Staff Training College at Ndola has also
been provided with 20 instructors; TNPP provides additional assistance and
is likely to finance some fellowships in the fututre:. Sweden contributes equip-
ment and also plans to offer sorme fellow7ships to th-e College.
3.        UNDP assistance for the years 1973-1977 is estimated at about
1Jq$7.S million; projects in the nenr fututre will include assistance for the
President's Citizenshin College, tlhe developnent of demonstration health
zones, particularly in rural districts and the promotion of industrial
training services and cuirricul]ur. development.  FAO is providing about *'S,
$0.5 million in the npe;t fotur years for courses in small scale irrigated



ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2 pages
horticultural development.  UNESCO assists programs in adult literacy.
ILn provides funds for a pilot scheme for ore-employment apprenticeship at
the Lusaka Trades Training Institute, assistance in running cooperative
pro,grams at the President's Citizenship College, experts to promote "manage-
ment develoTnment" training courses for both the public and the private
sectors, and exnerts and fellowshins for t'e training of personnel of the
Zanbia railway<s (narallel to but indenendent of the Chinese training program
for railwav technicians).  About US$1.3 million is budgeted by ICAO for the
next 5 years to extend a progran of training in air traffic control, mteteo-
rology, and commTniications oDerations.



ANNEX 10
ZAMBIA
PROJECTION OF RECURRENT EXPENDITURE
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
(K '000,000)
1976
1971        Original          Revised
Projections     Projetions
K          ~~K              K       %2on
Primary Education                22.1   40.3   33.0   35.0   29.6   36.1
Secondary Education              13.8   25.1   22,5   23.9   20.5   25,0
Teacher Training                  1.7     3.1     2.6     2.8    2.5      3.0
Technical & Further Education     5.6   10.2   15.3   16.2   11.0   13,4
University of Zambia              3.7    6.8      6.3     6.7    6.3      7.7
Adult Education                   1.5     2.7    2.5      2.7    2.5    3.0
Bursaries                         1.5     2.7    3.3      3.5    2.7    3.3
Administration & Miscellaneous    5.0     9.1     8.8     9.2     7.0     8.5
Total Recurrent Expenditure:
Education                  54.9  lOoo    94.3  100.0    82.1  100.0
Overall Government 1/    327.0            434.0           434.0
Education as %             16.8            21.7            18.9
I/ Projections of overall Government recurrent expenditure, derived from the
Bank's recert economic mission, are net of capital repayments and differ
slightly, for the year 1971, fron those used in Annex 4.
Mission estimates






&NNEX 11
Page 1 of 4 pages
ZAI4BIA
THE HEALTI SITUATION IN ZAMBIA
(Source: Ministry of Health's Ten Year National Health Plan 1972-1981)
Vital Statistics (1969)
Birth rate:          42 per 1,000 population
Death rate:          17 per 1,000) population
Infant Mortality rate (among children of under one year-of age):
160 per 1,000 live births
Life expectancy:    47 years
Major causes of death (recorded in institutions in 1968): ,measles, diseases
of early infancy, broncho-pneumonia, gastro-
enteritis, avitaminosis and other nutritional deficiencies,
pulmonary tuberculosis and anaemias.
Morbidity - Admissions at medical institutions (1968):  415,754;
in-patient days, 3,672,191; average stay per in-patient
8.8 days; total out-patient attendance 18,390,364.
Chief diseases treated at institutions: Respiratory infections, diarrhoea,
malaria, measles, pulmonary tuberculosis, malnutrition,
anaemias.
Uospital beds per 1,000 population:        2.9
Hiealth centers and clinics:      513 (4,000 beds)



ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 4 pages
Major Diseases
Malaria is endemic and occurs in all parts of Zambia; Bilharzia
is endemic in certain parts of the country; Tuberculosis cases total some
10,000 annually; some 30,000 (1967) suffer from Leprosy. About 44,000
cases of Venereal Disease were treated in 1968 and some 20,000 patients
had worm infestations; over 110,000 patients were treated for Measles.
I.alnutrition exists in both rural and urban areas, even amongst those who
can afford the food required but do not have it due to lack of knowledge.
The commonest type is protein calorie malnutrition between the ages of six
months and four years.
Organization and Administration of Medical Services
The Ministry of Health has three components;
(a)  Central Administration including medical services, preventive
services and administrative services. There are several Statutory
Boards including a Medical Council, Nursing Council, and National
Food and Nutrition Comnission.
(b) Peripheral Administration covers the work of the Ministry in each
of the eight -zovinces, at the teaching hospital, Lusaka, and at
two central hospitals.
(c)  Co-ordinating Committees, which exist at both the central and
provincial level, co-ordinate tne work done by the mines and
missions with that of the Government.
e1edical Facilities
(a) Hospitals
There are 85 hospitals with some 12,000 beds divided into the
aollowing categories:
(i)  Special hospitals (3) for leprosy, mental diseases and
children;
(ii) Central hospitals (3) at Kitwe, Ndola and the teaching hospital,
Lusaka;
(iii) General hospitals at provincial headquarters and two district
headquarters;
(iv) District hospitals at other district headquarters; and
(v)  other hospitals provided by the Government, mines and missions.



ANEX 1 1
Page 3 of 4 pages
Of the total number of hospitals, 36 are provided by the Government,
38 by the missions and 11 by the mines and other industries.
(b) Health Centers
Health Centers are designated as Rural Health Centers - Stage I
(4 beds) and Stage II (16 beds). There are also Urban Health Centers and
Clinics.
(c) Radiological Services
Radiological facilities are provided by the Ministry, missions,
industry and the private sector. In 1969 there were over 100 X-ray plants
in Zambia.
(d) Laboratory Services
Laboratories have been developed in association with medical
institutions at the teaching hospital, Lusaka, and at other hospitals
throughout the country.
fealth Problems
Since independence, provision of health services has expanded
substantially. Problems now faced include (a) a serious shortage of trained
staff, (b) the failure of the administrative organization to develop in
proportion to the expansion of medical service, (c) an over-emphasis on
curative rather than preventive health care, (d) inadequate facilities in
rural areas, (e) high maternal and child mortality and morbidity, (f) lack of
integration of the health services provided by the Government, missions and
industry, and (g) high incidence of preventable diseases especially malaria,
tuberculosis, leprosy and diarrhoeal diseases.
Sunmary of the Governrment's Ten Year iealth Plan 1972-1981
The Government's primary concern will be to develop an effective
system of oreventive health work through the setting up of a network of
basic health services especially in the rural areas of the country. It is
inten(led to bring under care 80% of the mothersF infants and Dre-schooi
children and to provide traiaed assistance at deliveries to an equal per-
centage of the motlhers by the end of the Plan.  On the curative side, the
successful campaign against smnallpox sill be maintained; all new-born
infants wil1 be vaccinated against  tuberculosis; the immunization against
mLeasles will be intensified.  Administration of medical services will be
strengthened; improvements will be miiade in the collection of morbidity and
mortality statistics. Particular emaphasis will be given to the training
program so as to Zam.bianize 80% of the posts in the professional and tech-
nical grades and 100% of the posts in the auxiliary grades (Annex 2) by the
end of the Plan.



ANNEX 11
Page 4 of 4 pages
Health posts will be established in temporary buildings to serve
special population groups.
164 new health sub-centers are planned. All rural health centers,
Stage I, and urban health centers will be in this category. They will each
serve a population of 4,000 to 10,000 and will be staffed by one or two
medical assistants, one enrolled nurse or midwife and a health assistant.
44 health centers are to be constructed during the Plan. Each
will have 16 beds and serve a population of 25,000 to 40,000. Existing
rural health centers, Stage II are included in this category. The staff
will include two or three medical assistants, one enrolled midwife, one
enrolled nurse, one health assistant, a library assistant and dispenser.
At the 42 district health neadquarters, there will be district
hospitals together with health centers each under the control of a medical
officer of health.
A demonstration area for the development of basic health services,
utilizing technical assistance from the IWHO and UNDP, will be established
at Kabwe, which will also provide part-time training facilities in the rural
environment for trainees being trained under the Bank's proposed project.
Construction oF new hospitals is given lower priority in the Plan
although the eight hospitals being built under the FNDP will be completed.
The first part of the Ten Year Health Plan has been included
under the Government's SNDP Program but recent economic developments will
require revisions to be made and these are now under active consideration.



ANNEX 12
;CAMBIA
MEDICAL SERVICES - STAFF EMOYED  - JULY 1971
Zambian                                         Non- Zambian
Mines/                                       Njines/            Grand
Government   Missions   Others   Total   Government   Missions   Others   Total   Total
A. Professional and
Technical Personnel
1. Doctors Specialists             1             -          -        1         72              1        26        99      100
2. Doctors - Others               14             -          4       18        237             36       136       409      427
3. Dental Surgeons                 2             -          -        2         18              1        14        33       35
4. Nursing Administrators         21             -          4       25         68             49        76       193      218
5. Registered Nurses and
Yldwives                   112              4         29      145        434           149       201       784      929
6. Nurse Educators                 2             -          -        2         25             29        36        90       92
7. Pharrnacists                    2             -       -           2         28              1        50        79       81
8. Radiographers                   -             -          -        -         20              2        10        32       32
9. Laboratory Technicians          8             -          1        9         34              6        20        60       69
10. Occupational Therapists         1             -           1       2          3              -         -         3        5
11. Physiotherapists                -             -           -       -          8              1         8        17       17
12. Hospital Almoners               3             -          -        3           1             -         -         1        4
13. Dispensers                      7            10         15       32          2              _         -         2       34
14. Dental Technicians              -             -          3        3          3              -         2         5        8
15. Orthopedic Technicians          3             -          -        3           -             -         -         -        3
16. iEealth Inspectors             10             -         17       27         22              -        31        53       80
17. Public Health Nurses and
Health Visitors               3             -          -        3         14             -         .         14       17
18. Dietician                       -             -          _        _          1              -         -         1        1
19. Night Superintendents           -             -          -        -          2              -         -         2        2
20. Senior Statistician             -             -           -       -           1             -         -         1        1
21. Medical Records Officers        3              -          -       3           -             -                            3
22. Hospital Administrator          -              -          -        -          1             -         -         1        1
23. 4rnalytical Chemists            -             -           -       -           2             _         _         2        2
Total                        192             14         74      280        996            275       610    1,881    2,161
B. Auxiliary Personnel
1. Zambia Enrolled Nurses
and Midwives               488            112        389      989         49             5         93      147   1,136
2. Radiological Assistants        14              4         10      28           -             -         -         -       28
3. Laboratory Assistants          33            11         17       61          -              -         5         5       66
4. Medical Assistants            ?46            53         51      850         63              2         4        68      918
5. Health Assistants             125              -         76     201           -             -         -         -      201
6. Enrolled Midwives              32             2          5       39           8             -         4        12       51
7. Conmmunity Nurses              41             -           1      42           -             -         -         -       42
Total                      1,479            182        549   2,210         118              7       106       232   2,442






ZAI4BIA
MEDICAL PERSONNEL - SELECTED CATEGORIES OF PRIORITY NEED
PRESENT SITUATION AND TOTAL ADDITICNALLY REQUIRED, i972-81
1971 Stock                               Additiol   reu ired for
_  _    ._ _                  ~~~~~~FilingL    Attrit S,t~
Of whom       Zambia-        Existing        of          Expansion
Total      Zambians      nization/1   Vacancies        Zambians      of System    Total
Matrons & Nursing
Sisters                    by          2-1            68            71            13             122          274
Nurse Tutors                  27           2             25           12              1             28           66
Puolic Health Nurses          17          3             14              -             2             52           68
Registered Nurses &
Midwives                  546         112            434           634             71            650        1,789
Enrolled Nurses                                                            .
537        488              49          521            307          2,000        2,877
Enrolled Midwives            140         32              8           156            20             700          884
Medical Assistants          809         746             63           382           470             140        1,055
Health Assistants           125         125              -            61            79             350          490
Laboratory Assistants        33          33               -           49            21             155          225
Radiological Assistants      14          14              -            22              9            100          131
L   Assumed to be completed by 1981.
2  Computed at an annuai rate of 5.0% on the 1971 stock of ZamOlans.
Sources:  Ministry of Health.  Mission Estimates.



ANNEX 14
ZAMBIA
MIISTRY OF RURAL DEVELOPMNT
EXISTING AGRICULTURALLY TRADNED STAFF, 1971
Professional               Technical         Certificate
Department                      Expatriate   Zambian   Expatriate  Zambian    All Zambians
Community De olopment and            -           _            _          3
Adult Literacy
Cooperatives                         -           -                      47 
Cooperative Farm Managers            -           -            -         30             23
Veterinary                           -           -            5         34            212
Tsetse Control                       -           -            2         11             81
Water Affairs                         -          -           23         22              -
Land Use Services                   29           -            2         20             95
Markeiting                           2           2            -         18             15
Headquarters                         2          11            -          -              -
Planning Unit                       15           -            -          -              1
Training                            31           Y            2         16              7
Rural Information Service            -           1            1         16             11
Extension                           39          11            9       129             574
Resaarch                            49           3           20         22             40
Total                         157          37           64       366          1,059
GRAND TOTAL                        194                      432               1,059
Source: Ministry of Rural Development, Planning Unit



ANNEX 15
ZAMBIA
PARA-STATAL ORGANIZAT1ONS AND THE3 PRIVATE SECTOR
aXISTING NANPOWER STOCK, 1971
Profes sional               Technical
Certificate
Expatriate  Zambians       Expatriate  Zambians
Tobacco Boazd of
Zambia                     32         10               10         1_
National Agricultural
Mxketing Board              4         12                -         34             170
Agricultural Finane,
Ccmpany                     1          9                -         92               -
Other Para-statal             27          -                         31              50
Education/2                  15          -               20          0               -
Private SectcxLx             10          -                 -        10              L0
-~ 
Total                   69         31               30        186             320
GRAND TOTAL                120                           21                  32C
Ll  The Tobacco Board oi Zamoia emplQys Section Assistants at the certificate level,
uut as it does its own training at Mukonchi, they are not included here.
/2  Includes agricultural teachers for secondary s_hools.
a3 A token estimate of existing stock in 1971.
Souroa:  Ministry of Rural Development, Planning Unit



ANNEX 16
ZAMBIA
SUMARY CF OV1RALL REQUIREMENTS
FOR AGRICUTURALY TRAINED MANPOWER, 1981
Professional        Techlnical         Certificate
Ministry of I'.ural
Development /1                   346                885                2,055
Para-statal and Private            114                6&2                   37G
TCTAL                        460               i,567                2,465
/1 Computed on the assumption that the Ministry will be increasing its
recurrent budget by at least 7.5% per annum.



AiNNi 17
ZAnIA
AGRICULTURAL lvi;AEPO E REUIRIME;NTS - DWREE HOLD:ERS
iΩ71 -81
1971 Stock:
Total                                                  3iL4
Of whom Zambian                                       66
Ministry of iural Deve opment                      37
Para-statal and Private                            31
Of whom Expatriate                                   246
Ministry of Rural Development                     157
Para-statal and Private                            89
1981 Stock                                             460
Additional professional manpower required:/1
Total                                                  4
Growth                                               146
Attrition of Zambian Stock                            62
Zambianization                                       24'o
/1 Computed on the existing 1971 stock of Zambians only
at 5.0£ p.a. over a 10 year period.



ZAM)IA
FARM INSTITUTES (Fl' s) AND FAMPEHS TRAlININO CSENTED (FTC'a)
UTIICZATION BATES 1970
Maximum
possible
Population of                              Capacity    No. of         No. of
District       Province      Name of Farm Institute/   (No. of       Student DLaya   Student  Utilization
Province      Situated      (1969 Census)   Famers Training Center    Places)      Coursea Held  Days/l        % j2
Central      Kabwe(Rural)   103,000        Keembe FI                      56          5,994        11,200        53
Lusaka         354,000       Chalimbana FTC                 30          4,350         6,oco        72
Mtmbwa           60,000      )tkulaikwa FTC                 54          2,846        10,800        26
Ncushi          57,000        Mkushi FTC                   /3            /3           /3            -
Serenle         53,000       Serenje FTC                   30           2,753         6,ooo        46
Copperbelt   Luanshya         9o,000        Masaiti FI & National
Poultry Training Center     4b          5,902         9,600        61
Luanshya          -           xpongwe FTC                  2C4            5214        4,o00¢4
Kalulushi       32,000       Mibenge FTC                   /3            /2           /-
Ndola (Rural)   72,000       Yutaba FTC                   /13             3           1.2 
Eastern      Chipata         261,000       Katapola Fl                   32k         3,669         6,400        57W6
Chipata           _          Chadiza FTC                    28          1,713         5,600        34!
Chipata           -          Katete FTC/7                  282         3,00OL3        5,6001L      53OL6/
Lundazi         123,000      Lundazi FTC                    28          1,930         5,600        35,6
Lundazi            -         Chama FTC                     L9            62642        L9
patka>:         L25,000      Petauke FTC                   28          2,426          5,600        43L68
Luapula      Mansa            80,000       nansa FI                      32          2,772          6,400       43
Kawambwa        164,000       Hbereshi FTC                  32          2,003         6,400        31
.Samfya          91,000       Samfya FTC                   24            2652         (3
Northern     Kasaam          108,000       Itngwi FI                     64L9        4,739        12,800        37
Isoka           78,0OO       Isoka FTC                     20          1,920         4,000        48
Mpika            59,000      Mpika FTC                     20          1,201          4,000        30
Mporokoso       67,O0o       Mporokoso FTC                 20          1,185          L,000        30
North Western Zabezi          61,000       Zambezi FI                    48          1,563          9,600       16
Solwezi         53,000       Chafukuma FTC                 20            755         4,DCO         18
Kabospo          33,000      Kabospo FTC                   20           1,263         4,000        32
KEasespa         33,000       Kasempa FTC                   20            514         4,000        12
:_inilunga       51,000       lYtinilunga FTC              20            458          4,000        11
Southern     Choma            96,000       Yanchomba FI                  80         15,729        16,000        98
Kalomo           77,000      Kalomo FTC                    24           3,274         4,800        68
Gwembe           76,ooo       Malima FTC                   2123         3,34012       4,800L3      70
Mazabuka        159,000       Monze FTC                    48           8,205         9,600        85
Namwala         37,000        Nasala FTC                   25           3,639         5,000        73
Western      Mongu           110,000       Nawushakende PI              /10          1,398          /10           -
Mankoya         56,coo       Kaoma FTC                     25             112         5,000         2
Senanga         89,000       Nangweshi FTC                 20            412          4,000        10
Sesheke         49,000       Sesheke FTC                   24       12     123        4,800/3
/1 It is assumsed that when working to capacity a center would provide courses of 5 days duration for 40 weeks in the
year; during the remaining weeks, wnen farmers and departmental staff are fully occupied in farming activities, centers
are often used for non-agricultural courses.
2  % Utilization =       Actual Student Oars
Maximum Possible Student nays
1   Under construction.
5  Opened 1970.
5 Later enlarged to 64.
L   Rates of utilization increased considerably in 1971; Katapola Fl, 73%; Chadiza FTC, 63%; Kstete FTC 60%; Lundazi
FT', 71%; Petauke FTC, 72%. Rates for other centers were not available.
/', There are also underutilized Community Doavelopnant and Cooperative Training Centers at Katete.
56 Ralts of utilization during the first months oi 1972 reached 89% at Katets FTC, 76% Lundazi FTC and 98% at Petauke FTC.
5  Limited facilities.
/I0 No accommodation; utilizes a nearby Community Developsent Center.



ANNE1 19
ZAMBIA
MANPOWER REQUIREMENTS BY EDUCATIONAL LEVEL
1970-1976 and 1977-1986
(thou8and persons)
1970 - 76                               1977 - 86
Less than                                Less than
Occupation                                Total Forim III   Fonm III  Form V       Total  Form III   Fom III FormV
1. Professional and Technical       (,)     100.0%     -       25.7 %   74.3 %       100.0%     -       26.0 %   74.0 %
Maxidmum                                29.7      -        7.6     22.1          60.0      -       15.6     44.4
Minimum                                24.5       -        6.3     18.2          30.0      -        7.8     22.4
2. Administrative and Managerial   (%)       00.0%  37.7 %     32.8 %   29.5 %       100.0%  37.0 %     33.0 %   30.0 %
Maximum                                  7.4    2.9        2.4      2.2          26.0    9.6        8.6      7.8
Minimum                                  6.2    2.4        2.0      1.8          15.0    5.5        5.0      4.5
3. Clerical Workers                 (%)     100.0%  18.7 %     52.1 %   29.2 %       100.0%  18.0 %     52.0 %   30.0 %
Maximum                                25.8   4-.8        13.4      7.5         55.0    9.9        28.6     16.5
Minimum                                20.6    3.9        10.7      6.o          26.0    4.7       13.5       '.8
4. Sales Workers                    (%)     100.0%  53.9 %     30.6 %   15.5 %       100.0%  53.0 %     31.0 %   16.o %
Maximum                                 16.8    9.1        5.1      2.6          41.0  21.7        12.7       6.6
Minimum                                 13.1   7,1         4.0      2.0          20.0   1C.6        6.2      3.2
5. Service Workers                  (%)     100.0%  79.5 %     19.5 %    1.0 %       100.0%  79.0 %     20.0 %    1.0 %
Maximum                                 39.0   31.0        7.6      0.4          52.0   41.1       10.4      0.5
Ninimum                                 29.2  23.2         5.7      0.3          15.0  11.9         3,0      0.1
6. Production Workers               (%)     100,0%  86.3 %     11.3 %    2.4 %       100.0%  85.0 %     12.0 %    3.0 %
Maximum                                116.8  100.8       13.2      2.8         301.0  255.9       36.1       9.0
Minimum                                 91.2   78.7       10.3      2.2         152.0  129.2       18.2       4.6
7. Agriculture, Forestry and
Fisheries Workers              (%)     100.0%  25.0 %     60.0 %   15.0 %       100.0%  25.0 %     60.0 %   15.0 %
Maximum                                 14.2    3.6        8.5      2.1          40.0   10.0       24.0       6.o
Minimum                                 10.4    2.6        6.2      1.6          19.0    4.7       11.4      2.9
8. Grand Total
Maximum                               249.7  152.2        57.8     39.7        575.0  348.2       136.0    90.6
Minimumr                               195.2  117-9       45.2     32.1         277t.0  166.6      65.1     45.5
9. 1Mdjm  Average Annual Danand              35.7   21.7        8.3      5.7          57.5   34.8       13.6       9.1
10. Mnim= Average Annual Dw=nd               27.9   16.8         6.5      4.6         27.7   16.7         6.5      4.6
Notes:  1) Figures may not add because of rounding.
2) Because of the uncertainty surrounding the economic situation in Zambia, it was found necessary to
develop alternative sets of projections.  The maximum is based on an average annual GDP rate of growth
of 6.8% including a 1.0% p.a. increase in productivity;  the minimum on an average annual GDP rate of
growth of 4.0% including a 1 .0% p.a. increase in productivity.
3) The distribution of employment (excluding donestic workers), by occupation, was taken from the
Zambian Manpower Report and adjusted for the projection period to reflect relative improvement in the
educational prorile of the employed labor force.
4) Estimation of the educational requirements by each occupational group was made on the basis of the
matrix (in table 12) of the Zambian Manower Report. Estimates of the educational requirements of
workers in agriculture, forestre and n       aerles were based on the mission's own assumptions.
Sources: Zambian Manpower Report, 1969
Mission estimates



AIINJE 20
ZAMBIA
FACILITIES TTO BE CONSTRUCTRD
AN WONt
PTFDJIE  UNDER TH1 TH2iD MICATION PRCJEHCII
Sarollsent                Acoomodtitn (Additional)           Output per sacne
Student       Staff    sing                   On completion
Pro'eet Ites                        Additional      Total     Boarding   Teachers  Ancillary    3xisting    of pro lect
Chainama Hills Health Training
Center, Lasaka:
yedioal Assistants (general)
(3-years post-lower aeaondary2         16         320 )                                           33             100
Medical ASsistants (Psychiatry)t          10           50 )                                           10              20
Health Asoieo.tnte (2-years poet-
lower secondary)                        30         110 )       230          2          -            35             50
Medical Assistant rutora & Adsin-
istrators ill year for experiensed                    5 )
staff)                                                                                            Nil
Senior Nurseo, Nurse Tutors &
Ad.inistratois Scioci, Lusaks
(i-year post-basic):
Poblio Health Nursea                      10           10                                           Nil               10
Nuros Adainietrators                       5            5           .         /1                     Nil               5
hurse Tutors                               5            5                                            Nil               5
Health S-rvices Training S.hool,
((dole:
Registered Nurses (3-years post-
upper eaondary)                        200          200 )                                         Nil              60
Registered Midwlves (1 year for                           )      250          -
aeperiesoed registered  crses)          50           50 )                                         Nil              45
Radiologioal Aesistents (2-years
post-locer sesondary)                   24           24 )                                         Nil              10
Laboratory Aesistarts (2-years                            )       46          -
post-lover secondary)                   24           24 )                                         Nil              10
Brolled Nursi,g (2-years post-Lower
secondary) and Mid,ifery (1 year for
enrolled nurses) Sehoo.sa
Chipata                                90Cr   30m    90n s   3(*   120        r          1          h_Nl          hOn 25=
Kasa=a 4                               90n + 30m    90n I 3001  120           6          1          NjiI          40n 25m
Mans                                   9n + 30m    90n I 30s   120            6          1          Nil           40n 25m
Kbews                                     90n        90r.   30m    eo         6          -          22=           40n 25r
aoral Hea.th Traincl- Centers (6)           |7          /7          60        122          --                            -
8chool of Agro.ultoral Sciences
Urioereity of Zambia:
Caepo5                                   po0         216d                     -          -          b6              20&29
Farm/,                             )     16                                   4        20    )
FPreero Training fosters:
-hadiz.                                   26         56           2b          -         4          632            1,9524
Peadike                                   2i          56          28          1          5          957           2,C7 ill
Lurdaz                                    28         56           25          1          a       1,115            2,235 71
Kaloeo                                    26          52          26          1          2         a0o            1,920
Malie                                      _          2-           -          1          2         640
asZes                                     26          76            -         -          5       1,285             1,516b 1
'lacvale                                   -         25            -          1          2         633              633 T1
Far-  Instit-t:s
KAtapoil                                  26          92            -         -          -         861                /2
KNeho.omb                                 56         10S            -         -          -       ',oO2
Maseiti                                   28          7            -          -          -         545 
Mobils Trainig.  Units                       -           -           -          -         -             -           3,000
gucoatlonel Services Center,LusaXa,a S       -                       _-       
Secondary Scnools                            -       6, 530-2       520       283         13          /14               1
Teacher TrainIng Co.iegesa
Nxkcah Teachers Collegse, Na2 -                      450            -         2
Kite Teacher Training Gclle6e              -        525           9.5         2
National In-Service Training Gelega.   96          300             9        13
Copperbelt Teachers Colie,ge, ((tws        -        300            -        1/iA        -
o * Zzmbia Nc:rolled Nutes.      s - Casil Anrolled Madvvs.
1 The prmje't w-oId provide techicdal asoistanse only for the Senoor Nurses, Nnrse Tutors and Adsinistratcrs School.
Tonal T    aroliement ws-ld be 70 (post lower secondary traineeas) includi, apprerimately 28 firat year snd 22 second
year trainees; the third year of the course would be conducted ir. provincial  .ental health facilities.
Whaln sondonto no regular prc0rea. are in the field, the vacant facilities we-ld bh  coed for this training prograo
The enrplimeot crd co,pot figures are apprexiate and wuld vary according to the need.
f8  Including ceosrelon of some existing facilitie.
9+ New esnetr ctione.
K (cows has at precoct  - enrolm-er.t of eo =idw_ves.
Trai.ees attend part ts=e.
9. Plato.
o3 ls y SS,6, about __5 post-graduat. students cempleti-ng MSc and PhLD degrees.
/C  ossuming fuil vtilioatlon of sew facilities and existing facilities used at present rates.
on scurses  *era  in type and doratien, it is not possible to forecast the nusber who will attend coursea in future years.
Urban schocli  23,355 (day pupls) and 770 (boarders); Ewra- sohoole 1,364 (day pupile) and 25,041 (ioardin,,).
/71  52 for Fri=cipals and Daputy PrIncipals and 236 for teachers.
Zi There a.celd be no increase above the outputs projected under the first education projeot.
-15 Inolu do re'isione in eonversion of 16 hostel blocks to accommodats extra students.
75  Includes 1 house for the Principal.



ANNEX 21
Page 1
Technical Assistance
1.        Zambia continues to suffer from a serious shortage of qualified and
experienced administrators and teachers for educational institutions; tech-
nical assistance would be provided under the project, therefore, for such
services in the medical and agricultural fields and for project implementa-
tion.
2.        A total of some 115 man-years of technical assistance would be
provided, plus a number of man-years of fellowships for the training of Zambian
staff for the CHHTC. The total cost would be US$ 3.5 million plus contingencies;
the implementation period would be about six years. The estimated time span
of the different elements of technical assistance is outlined in Annex 30.
It is subject to revision as may be agreed from time to time by the Government
and the Bank.
3.        Technical assistance to be provided under the project would comprise
the following: (Numbers in parenthesis show man-years).
i15)
(i) Medical Education (30)
(a)  Chainama Hills Health Training Center; Director (5);
Rural Health Services Training Supervisor (3);
(b)  Health Services Training School, Ndola:
Principal Tutor (4); Chief Midwifery Tutor (3);
(c)  Senior Nurses, Tutors and Administrators School, Lusaka:
Director (5);
(d)  Enrolled Nurse and Midwifery Schools, Mansa, Chipata, Kasama:
Three Tutors (10);
(ii) Agricultural Education (28 1/2)
(a)  School of Agricultural Sciences, UJniversitv of Zambia:
Academic Planner (3), Farm Manager (5);
Facilities Planner (2); staff development (17);*
(h) Consultant services for an evaluation study of Farmers
Training Center Programs (1 1/2).
*    Part of these funds may be used for fellowships.



ANNEX 21
Page 2
(iii) Project Management (56)
(a)  £hird Project Unit (Ministry of Power, Transport and
Works): Project Director (5-1/2); Project Accountant
(5-1/2); Project Architect (5-1/2); Project Procurement
Snecialist (5-112); and building supervisors (21);
(b)  Building Branch, Ministry of Power, Transport and Works:
Architects, Engineers, and Quantity Surveyors (13).
Fellowships (5+)
(i) Medical Education
Chainama Hills Health Training Center (5)
(ii) Agricultural Education
Staff development at the School of Agricultural Sciences,
University of Zambia. The amount of technical assistance to
be used for fellowships would be determined during project
implementation.
Agricultural Education
4.        The Academic l-anner for the School of Agricultural Sciences of
the University of Zambia would take major responsibility for the planning
and development of the School. He would help to work out appropriate
relationships between the School and other institutions responsible for
preparing Zambians for positions of leadership in the agricultural sector
and for undertaking research. He would assist in drawing up course
structures related to Zambian needs, development of local staff and, with
the Manager of the University farm, the expansion of the practical experi-
ence of students, not only of farming, but of the many important managerial
tasks which need to be performed in the agricultural sector. He would help
to prepare the architect's brief for the new buildings and, with the Farm
Manager, a timed plan for deveqlopment of the University farm.
5.        The Farm Manager would be concerned, initially, with the prepara-
tion of a phased plan for the development of the farm, distinguishing
between cormiercial operations and those involving teaching and research.
He would be the coordinator of teaching and research operations; the heads
o-ithe various teaching d-lepartments would have direct responsibility for
manac,ement of relevant farm projects.  The Farm Manager would operate under
poLicies formulated by a Farm Management Committee, under the chairmanship
of the Dean of the School and including representatives from each teaching
department.
6.        The Facilities Planner would work with the Planning Office of the
Universitr. 'mder the direction of the Vice-Chancellor, on problems of
spae-- utilization. Fe would collect and maintain data on the use of
exii.ing faci!ti-}es, develop space utilization standards for existing and



ANNEX 21
Page 3
projected buildings, assist in the preparation of the architect's brief for
the School of Agricultural Sciences and help to prepare Zambian staff to
assume responsibilities in this field.
7.        The evaluation study of farmer training programs would be carried
out jointly by the Rural Development Studies Bureau of the University of
Zambia and the Ministry of Rural Development. It would examine the effec-
tiveness of existing programs, including those provided through mobile units
and plans for future development and, on the basis of its findings, make
recommendations to the Government on future policy. It would refer specifically
to the need for expansion and/or consolidation of existing programs, methods
of improving the caliber of staff through selection and training, the most
appropriate programs for the. dl.erent areas of the country, the need for
and nature of the training to be nrovided for women and young people, methods
of ensuring maximum utilization of training facilities and economy in their
operation, and the need for coordination of the efforts of different agencies
engaged in farmer and related training programs.
8.        The survey would be carried out under tarms of reference agreed
between the Ministry of Rural Development and the Universlty in consulta-
tion with the Bank. Staff provided by the Rural Development Studies Bureau
would include an Agricultural Economist and a Rural Sociologist, each for
approximately one year; the Ministry of Rural Development would provide an
appropriate member of staff on a part-time basis. Finance provided under
the project, would cover the salaries of University staff including survey
assistants operating in the field, staff subsistence, transport and miscel-
laneous costs including use of computer time and the preparation of a
report.
Medical Education
9.        At the Chainama Fills Health Training Center, the Director, to be
provided under project technical assistance would be responsibole for ovierall
administration of the Center, supervision and coordination of all staff,
development of an integrated curriculum for the medical auxallaries and of
in-service training programs for existing staff in accordance with 'he require-
ments of the Medical Council of Zambia.  He would Drevare architect's briefs
for facilities to be provided under the project. He would acvise the Chief
Medical Assistant, and the Chief Health Inspector on the deployment of medical
assistants, psychiatric assistants and health assistants.  In order to ensure
relevant practical training for students, the project would finance a Rural
Health Services Training Supervisor, wno would act as Deputy Director of the
CHHTC, and would liaise with him and wiith the Medical Superintendents of the
University teaching hospital and the Chainama Hi'lls Health Training Center's
hospital and with the Chief Realth Inspector and provincial r-c.ical officers
in working out practical programs of training at Rural H>alt.h Centers. He
would supervise and take part in the teaching of these prograns in association
with provincial medical staff and would spend approximately half his time in
direct supervisioin and teaching duties at the rural health centers.



ANNEX 21
Page 4
10.       At the Health Services Training School at Ndola, technical assist-
ance would be provided for a Principal Tutor who would be primarily respon-
sible for the registered nurse programs and a Chief Midwifery Tutor for
the registered midwife courses.
11.       At the School for Senior Nurses, Tutors and Administrators, to be
associated with the School of Nursing and the University's teaching hospi-
tal at Lusaka, the project would provide funds for a Director who would
draw up, supervise and take part in the teaching programs of the courses
for public health nurses, nurse administrators and nurse tutors.
12.       The project would also provide technical assistance for the posts
of Tutor at the Enrolled Nurse and Midwiferv Schools to be constructed under
the project at 1.lansa, Chipata and Kasama; these tutors would also be respons-
ible for administration, project implementation and teaching.
Project Management
13.       The pro1ect would finance technical assistance for the staff of the
third project unit being established in the Buildings Branch of the Ministry
of Power, Transport and Works, which would be responsible for the implementa-
tion of all project items except those being implemented by the University or
representing additional facilities for items being implemented under the Bank's
first education project (Loan 592-ZA). Technical assistance would also be
provided to strengthen the staff of the Buildings Branch of the Ministry of
Power, Transport and WG-ks to enable it deal with the design and supervision
of project institutions (Annex 30). This assistance would be used for the
appointment of architects, engineers and quantity surveyors.
14.       NORAD will continue to provide technical assistance for the staff of
the first education project unit until 1976 (Loan 592-ZA), and the Government
intends to seek assistance from other donor agencies for the staffing of the
third unit. To the extent that it is successful in obtaining technical
assistance for this purpose, the Loan would be reduced. The University School
of Agricultural Sciences element of the project would be implemented by the
University's existing unit.



ANNEX 22
ZAMBIA-
GOTYUNMT MEDICAL TRAINING INSTITUTIONS
FORECAST OF OUTPUT OF TRAINED STAFF 1972-1981
Category
ol Staff                         Institution                         1972  1973  1974  1975  1976  1977  197   1979  1980  1981
Senior Nurses, Matrons,          i;xisting programs                    -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -
Administrators
N.T.A.S.                              - _           4      4      4      4     4      5      5      5
Ftblic Health Nursing            S.N,T.A.S.                            -      -      9      9      9      9      9    10    10    10
lNsrBe Tutors                    S.NH.T.A.S. /                                -      14     4      4      4      4      5      5      5
Medical Assistants (General) acisting programs                        33    36    39    41    43    L6    48            -      -      -
- . . L i H, T  C G --   100   100   100
hedical Asaistante              tl-.6t-ng programs                    10    10    10    10        10    12    12        -      -      -
(Psychiatry)                       l. T.C                            -      -      -     -       -     -      -    20    20    20
Hea Ith Assistar.ta              Sxctizng programs                    35    35    35    35    35    35    35            -      -      -
C,H,Hf.T.C,K.                         -     -       -     -       -            -    50      50    50
&ed.cal Ass.stant   tr                            T  8          0rs      _ _                                            5       5     5
and Adminis;ratorz
Hegisiered Nurses                Exibting programs b                  60    80   100   120   140   150           -      -      -
H. S. T. S. /-                        -      -      -      -      -      -   200   200   200   200
Regis ~arad Midwives             &;Xiating programs                   15    15    15    15    15    15           -      -      -      -
11- S. T. S./4 S tn U /L-                    -      -      -      -      -    50    50    50    50
Raaio  f.      ks Sstoti/        na Existing programs                  7      7      7      7      7      -             -      -      -
.=is S, T. SL                                                       /        S          ... -  -  -  -  -    12    12    12 i2  12
lboratoiry Aesis aamt  LuotInL-  orograms/é                            7      7      7      7      7      _      _     _      _      _
.-S.  GA                             -      -         --               12    12    12    12    12
Zamba - i r,rolled Niurser     ZX-I.Si.S g proorams/2 .  /          39    42    45    50    55          -      -      -      -      -
Schools at Kasama, Chipata,          -      -      -      -      -   170   190   150   190   190
Mares, & ;Kabwe
.2a2h a Enrollad Midwives        ibcisting progrsms/a                 22    214    26    28    32    35          -      -      -      -
Schools at Yasama, C'hipata,         -      -      -      -      -      -   120    130   130   130
.iansa & .abwe
X T..A. S. =    rSerior Naoses, Tutors & Adinitrators School, Lu aka.
/)      O ..Hi.T.C.   - Chainama  -IlEs . a-th Training Center.
4  ;saor. aestimates; deea:l:  not available.
oS. T. Si.           Health Sarvices Training School, Ndola.
aX   PThe eazisLind program; at Liivingstone Hospital would be phased out when the project starts.
L      h ''  extstirLg p-ogram-s at Kitwe Hospital would be phased out when the project starts.
l'he enia-xang programs at Chitambo, Copperbelt (Enrollment 24) and Mlereshi, Luapula (Enrollment 24)
wonlS be closed down when the project institutions are ready.






ZaIA
UNIVERSITY OF ZAMBIA SCHOOL OF AGRICULTURAL SCIENCES
Forecast of Student Numbers to 1981
1968   1969   1970   1971   1972   1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981
UNDERGRADUATE
Enter 1st Year (Sept.) (In School of                       8      14     38      36      36     48 -   60       67      75     90      90      90      90
Natural Sciences)
Enter 2nd Year (Sept.)                                             6      4      18      27      288    32      40     45      53      72      72      72      72
Enter 3rd Year (Sept.)                                                     5      3      12     21-   21        28      35      39     46      63      63      63
Enter 4th Year (Sept.)                                                            4       3     11      21      21      28      35     39      46      63      63
Enter 5th Year (Sept.)                                                                    4      3      11       _-              - _  _  _      _
TOTAL UNDERGRADUATE ENROLLMENT                                   6      9      25      46     63      85      89    108    127    157    181    198    198
GRADUATES BSc (March)                                                                   -      4       3      11      21     28      35      39      46      63
+21
POST GRADUATE
Enter Ist Year M.Sc. (Sept.)/3                                                                           1       1       3       3      4       4       4       4
Enter 2nd Year M.Sc. (Sept.)                                                                                     1       1       3       3      4       4       4
GRADUATES M.Sc. (March)                                                                                                1       1      3/-L    3 h     4 4L    4
Enter 1st Year Ph.D. (Sept.y3-                                                                                                   1       1      1       2       2
Enter 2nd Year Ph.D. (Sept.)                                                                                                             1       1      1       2
Enter 3rd Year Ph.D. (Sept.)                                                                                                                     1      1       1
GRADUATES Ph.D. (March)                                                                                                                               1       1
TOTAL POST-GRADUATE ENROLLMENT                                                                         1       2       4       7       9     11      12      13
POST-GRADUAIES ENTERING WORK                                                                                                           2      1       3       3
Cumulative graduates (B.Sc.)                                                                      4       7     39      60      88    123    162    208    271
Cumulative graduiates and post-graduates entering workc                                                   6     37      55      80    111    146    188    247
Source: University Planning Office and Mission Estimates.
Exlnationo S1_ymbols
/1  This figure represents the number of places in the Natural Sciences which are allocated to agriculture.   it is estimated that 351. will
drop out at the end of the first year, but this number will fall to 20% by 1977.  Selection of students for Agriculture occurs only at the end
of their Natural Science year.
/2   It is estimated that from 1973, 12Ω% of those entering the School of Agricultural Sciences for the second year of their studies will not
graduate.
/3   Assumes that students will have at least 1 year's.  experience after grsduatjion hefore admission to M.Sc. studies and at least one year
between M.Sc. graduation and admission to Ph.D.
)4   Assumes that approximately half of those gaining M.Sc. will  enter  a Ph.D. course one year later.



ANNEX 24
ZAMBIA
LOCATION OF FAPMf INSTITUTES, FARMERS TRAINING CENTERS AND
yiOBITE UN7TS T CLUDED UNDER THE PROJECT
in the Easte-rn Province, which has large reserves of high potential
land, the largest arable area and is the principal producer of groundnuts
and tobacco, the FTCs at Petau,ke, Chadiza and Lundazi would be expanded and
_,aproved. In the Southern Province, where commercial agriculture is well
e3tablished, most of the maize in the country is produced, there is the
largest nunber of cattle, good access to markets and new irrigation and pig
management schemes are underway, the project would include expansion at
Kalomo and imprcvements at 14alima, Monze and Namwala.
2.        To provide improved staff training facilities at the center of the
first of the proposed Intensive Development Zones, which is likely to attract
Bank finance, the Katapola F' in the Eastern Province would be provided
with additioral cLassrooms, equipment and transport.  Also included in the
proaject would be the Kanchomba FE which is centrally situated in the
Southern Province and has the highest utilization rate in the country and the
Masaiti F1 which provides courses for farmers in poultry and vegetable pro-
duction for the large Copperbelt market and is also the national center for
staff training in poultr. y
3.        The mobile units would be situated in the North-Western Province,
an area of high agricultural potential suffering from comnunication difficult-
ies which inhibi.t the use of residential farmer training facilities and in
the Northern Province where communications are better but the population is
also widely scattered.



ANNEX 25
Page 1
ZAMBIA
ADDITIONAL FACILITIES REQUIRED
FOR
SECONDARY SCHOOLS AND TEACHER TRAINING COLLEGES
1.        The Government has requested additional facilities for 61 secondary
schools and 4 teacher training colleges being financed under the Bank's first
education project (Loan 592-ZA). Many of these facilities (water supplies,
sewage treatment, boarding and staff housing) were originally intended to be
financed from Government funds but the fall in the price of copper has
changed the financial situation and caused the Government to look for funds
elsewhere.
2.        Details of the additional facilities required, their specific
justification and/or the reason why the need for Bank financing became
apparent only after the 1968 appraisal of the first project, are as follows:
Estimated Cost
(US$ 000's)
a.   Supplementary water supplies at 32 and
sewage treatment facilities at 19 rural
boarding schools and one teacher training
college; the Government originally under-
took to finance these items;                            4,660
b.   Rousing for principals and deputy princi-
pals at 26 urban day schools and 3 teacher
training colleges to improve security, admin-
istrative control and discipline, and to
allow for the use of school facilities
outside normal school hours;                            1,320
c.   Additional housing for teachers and adminis-
trative staff at 35 rural boarding schools,
2 urban schools and at 2 teacher training
colleges, needs arising from (i) the reduced
access of the Ministry of Education to housing
pools as a result of greater demand from ex-
panded Government and para-statal services,
(ii) the replacement of predominantly unmarried
expatriates able to share accommodation by married
Zambian teachers and (iii) the Government's inabil-
ity to finance additional housing, the need for
whicb was determined at the time of appraisal;          5,690



ANNEX 25
Page 2
Estimated Cost
(US$ 000's)*
d.   13 houses for clerical and catering staff
and laboratory assistants at 4 rural board-
ing schools where existing provision is
inadecuate; the Government originally intended
to finance this item,;                                     190
e.   Additional workshop facilities for practical
subiects including agricultural science, indus-
trial arts and home economics, a need created
by changes made in curricula at some eight
schools, subsequent to appraisal, to expand
the vocational element of their instruction;
the provision of classroom.s under the first proj-
ect would be reduced where appropriate;                    410
f.   New classrooms and library extensions in 5
schoo.ls;                                                  210
g.   Improved communal facilities, including
electriFication, rewiring, staff rooms and
remodeling of a limited number of school
kitchens and 6-:.ing halls and eouipment for
others, after detailed surveys by the consul-
tant architects indicated the need for addi-
tional funds above those provided under con-
tingezncies in the project;                                850
h.   At the Copperbelt and the Chalimbana Teacher
Training Colleges, additional specialist
facilities, including commerce and language
laboratories, due to increased demand for
teachers in these areas;                                   180
i.   96 new hostel places at the Chalimbana Teacher
Training College and revisions in the planned
alterations of 16 hostel blocks at the Kitwe
Teacher Training CclLege, arising from a detailed
cost analvsis by the consultant architects, which
revealed that relocating doors and windows and
electrical rewiring in existing hostels, as en-
visaged at appraisal of the first project, would
not be feasible; and                                       240
j.   Additional a:oarding places in 6 rural schools
and additional ablution areas in 5 schools where
ponulation patterns require a higher proportion
of boarding students than could be estimated
dur,ing appraisal.                                         730
Total                  14,480
LExclud I ri±    ofessional faes, project unit costs, technicaT
assistance and contingencies.



Z A M B I A
SUMM0ARY SF PEO rECT COSTS IN ICOJACHA (IN 000'5). NOVEMBER 1972 PRICES
MEdDICAL ilICATi01
(1)             (2)           (3)         (4)            (5)          (6)         (7)         (8)         (9)             (10)           (11)         (12)           (13)            (14)         (15)
Tntal                                        Coot of Btildings                         Coot of fbmitevre
Areo in         Co-t of       Secti           on I   Section II Sectiction I  Section II                                                  Cont of      Coot of                         Total Cost of
Item No.                  Name nod Location 1                               of New         Site         T-eachiog                                           Tenching                                  Coot          ProJect      Profes-        Coot of      Physical Facilities
Comatroction      Develop-          aod       Zoarding       Staff        Total        and       Boarding       Total            of           Unit        Sional        Teohnioal
(Groas)_-         ment         Comunval                   oovsins_                 Coittstntil                             Etuipoment    Emomoson    Seevtn         Asstntamce       io Rwaoha _ KaT15
CP   I CNHTC   Chai-ne  fills Health Traioing Center, Lu-ako              4060               60             139        272            27           438          19        53              72            79            -             -             _                649          10
CP   2 NTAS    Senior Norses, Tutoro ood Administrator
School, Lusaka-------                                                                                                                                                                 --- 
CBP  3 HSTS    No=lth Servioro Trdining School, Ndola                     5240              123,             62        452             -           614         22         85             107            29            -             _              -               873         1359
Enrolled N-oses med Mtidwives Schools at:
EP   4 ENhS                                              Chipata          1715               36              92         95            54            241         10         14             24            21            -              _             _               322          501
NP   5ENMiS                                              Kaamn            2325                39             80        130            52            262          9         19              28           18             -             -             -                347         540
LP   6 ENMS                                              Manna            2325               41              83        135            54            272          9         19             28            20            -              -             -               361          562
CP  7FENS                                                Kab-e            1371                22             51         59            36            146          7         10              17           21             -             -             -                206         321
Total of Erolled N-uses and Midwives School               1736              138            306        419            196           921         35         62              97           80                                                         1236        1924
gursnlNenlth Trnining Centets at:
EP   8E3C                                                CK-omo            225                 4              -         i9              7            26          -          3               3            1             _             _             -                 34          53
NP   9RHN                                                 MpalanB'         225                 4              -         19              7            26          -          3               3            1             _             _             _                 34          53
LP lo gHC                                                Sanfya            225                 4              -         19              7            26          -          3               3            1             _             _             _                 34          53
NWP  11 hC                                                 -asamb3         225                 4              -         19              7            26          -          3               3            1                           -                               34          53
109  12g0 C                                               SnfOt,           225                 4              -         19              7            26                     3               3             1            _             _             _                 34          53
SP  13 RHC                                               siHso..gwe        225                 4              -         19              7            26          -          3               3            1                    -                    -                 34          53
Total of Hur-I HoaltI T-oining Ccnters                    1350               24               -        11 4           42           156          _         18              18             6                                                         204          318
Project UCit Exp.enses                                       -                -                          -             -                   -                -              -            1_           82              -           420               518          906
Frofession=l Services                                        -                -               -          -             -             -          -                  -              -        _                        13l19         -                189         294
otbolnicOl Asoistacce foo hedi-ml Idoombio-                         -                       -           -             -             -          -          -               -             -            _              -           718               718         1117
iechrica' Ass-stt-ce for Building D0sign                                                                                                                                   -             4            -              -           102               106          165
Sob-Total of MiedIcal Eduction                          18386               345             607       1257           265          2129         76        21B             294           21.4          82            189         1240               4493         6992
Contingencies Aomo-t                                         -              151               -                        -           938          -          _             145           106           31             57          372               1800         2801
TOTAL OF MEDICAL EDUCATION                               15386              496               -          .       .                3067         -           -             439           320          113            246         1612               6793         9793
May 1973



L M    I A
tl9liAYY OF PROJECT COSTS .0 KWAC_A  IF BOOn), NOVEMBER 1972 PRICES
AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION
(1)           (2)           (3)           (4)           (5)            (6)               (7)         (8)             (9)         (10)            (11)          (12)         (13)              (14)         (15)
Total                                     Cost of Boildioo                                  toot of Pu-itt-e
Area in        Cost of      SBcttio   I  Sectios II  Soctiot  IE                       Bootion I  8ootios TI                                    Cost of       Cost of                           Total Cost of
s2 of Nea         Sits        Teaching                                                   T-aohing                                    Cost         Ptoj-ot       Profen-       Coot of          yal  Facilitis
Co-tructiSon      Develop-        and         3oarding        Staff         Total            sod         Boardin8         Total         of          UCit          s-onal        T-nhnical
Itrn  No.            Ns=e xad Loo.tion                              (Ipor-)          neat       Cosonast                       o-inog                       Coosonol                                 Eqoiposnt    Expeoses   Ben-Otes           A-oiot-ooo       ie Loathe       Ia US$
Behest  f Aeg         r   S       s
EaRver.tiY of Z-mbia. Lusaka
CP  I SAGS   Campus Fscilitiec                                         3290             43           387             -             -            387               51            -               51         143             _            _              _                 624          971
CP  2 SASIl   Penn Facilities                                          2915              34          146        -  14             11            171                5            3                8         178             -            -              -                 391          608
Pfejeot USit Btpe.see                                     -                -           -              -             -             -                 -           -                 -          _              _           -               _                  _            _
P-fr..e.aia1  Soevmies                                    -                -           -              -             -             -                 -            -                -          -              -          89               -                  89         138
CeaSsaBail Assiat-ame                                     -                -           -              -                           -                 -           -                 -           -             -            -             623               623          970
SBb-Tntal af Schoal of Agelsal1tr-l S.ieanss            6205             77           533            14            11            556               56           3                59         321             -          89              623              1727         2687
Eanflagenslso AnooA   t                                   _               33           -              -             _            246                -            -               30          159            -           27             187                682        1061
Total of Sahbol of Agrnulttar.l Snleine.                6205            110            -              -             -            604                -            _              89                                    116              blO               2409        3749
fare.-er Tvroainf Ceaters
IP  3 FCc    Chludizo Fore.ee TrainEig Cantos                            740             18           26            40            23             89                2            6                8           29            -           -               -                 144          224
zP  4 rfC    Petakue F-eaero Tratitig Canter                           1005              24           29            40            50            119                4           6                10           46            -           -               -                 199          310
IP  5 FTC    tandozt FWrness Training Canter                             850             21             2           40            59            106                -            6                6           26            -           -               -                 159          247
SP  6 FTC    Kalonsmo Ferzz   Training Cncter                            580             13             7           34            23             64                1           6                 7           21            -           -               -                 105          164
SP  7 FTC    Malisu earners  Teatinag Center                             244              6             4             -           24             29                1                             1           37            _           _               _                  72          112
SP  8 FTC    M.ner Farmers Teaiaig Center                                487              8             2             -           25             27                1                             1           31            _           -               _                  67          104
SP  9 FTC    N-als FParasra Training Centre                              210              5           -              -            26             26                -            -                -           23            -           -               -                  54           84
Total of Far-ses Training Centers                       4116             95            75           134           230            459                9          24                33          213            _          _                -                 806        1245
BP 10 Ft       Katapola Farm 1-stittee                                   222              6            13            11            -              24               3            -                3           31            -           -               -                  64          100
SP 11 FT      Keancheba Fam  Iestttute                                   265              9           21            18            -              39                3            -                3           34            _           _               _                  85          132
CDP 12 DV       SfaFaar  Farm  Insetette                                  212              9            19             9            _              28               3            -                3           43            -           _                _                 83          129
Total of Foam ITstiettee                                  699             24           33            38            -              91                9            -                9          108            _           -               _                 232          361
Mobtle Trsiring Units
NP 13  ffr]   NIrtheen Preoince                                          _                -            -              _           _               -                                              -           13            -           _               _                  13           20
N8P 14 lTU    N-eth-Wastees Pravtnse                                                                                                                                                              -13                       - _                         -                  13           20
TUtol  of Mabile        I Etae.i.i nt -U_ 26                                                                                                                                                                                                               26           40
Peoject Unit Expnses-                                                           - -                                                                              -                            5            29          -               14A               181           262
feofesstonsl BerviBeen                                    -                -            _-                         _____                                                                     ____
Technhosl Assista.ne foe F.T.C. E-alo-tioo  Stsdy                 -              -                                                                -             -            -                                                         2S                 26            40
Teohoi-lo    Asnistot.e Sot Boilding Dsiso                -                -                                          -             -              -2                                                       - .                        61                 i3            9B
Sob-Total of Far-es Traiin,g Cent-rs and
FPrn Iaatitotao                                       4815            119          128            192           230            550              18           24               42          354            29          _              234               1328         2066
Contingencies Ar-ont                                      -               52           -               -            -            242                -            -              20          175            11          _                70               570          887
T.ta1 of Farters TrainOig Centers and
FPrn Castitotes                                       4815            171           _               _             _            792               _                            62          529            40          .              304               18           2953            a
TO1UL OF AG8ICULTU3AL EDUCATION                        11020            281            -              -             -           1596               _            _               1           1              40          1             1114               43                           B
M1ty 1973



W WW  WW WW  Ws  s  sM  sM 9H  OO  F  OO  OO OO  OO0
F w 0 w                       00~ 0 -  0   0 0-0  00000s  000000000000>b>   Ho@X   @ws    No>   
- ~ ~  ~    ~    ~ ~ 0          00
-                                                           W  *  fi  g  et -  ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.- O                                                     09> 
n g;;@ r 9@ >¢  X r  n- > ar gi! c ; @ so 9  r eß; r 9W f i j csO g e r F 1 @ @F 0 
X~ ~      ~~~ *HOHIOO0IO000000H--0 r0 *                                                                                        10fl00r=*e     'XX'*25*c                    a     
6000000   D                0 0 0 0 0 0                 H00'O           000        0'9
oI I 0
10~~~~~~     ~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -  - 1i000-.100    100    0.         0-00                              t0.
H   010-0-0--0400-    0-0-0-00-0'0000'00   00000000' 000.0-00    lo-,  0-I          I            0110c
85 
lW~~~~~~~ 0-                                  g     0              ,_=                _                                 ,.>   '-W ' 0  0      I  '  ' 8 ∞Xtw1i
i  g   E  ¢g   s  a      |   s  > Z  |   s    g  |  eW  t   t  ,   i t    z  t  |  |        S    g;  js  9        8
O~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~     ~      ~     ~    ~ ~        ~ ~~~0 :swq:     40   00...   1          wFj    o9Is S1 s9Ost OW0     j@-=~|$|Isst        -   
4   H                 I, - I I I I l 0 l I 0 l    000 I ', '                                                                        80wSg'gg'g   ww t                           ' |        ;''> S o^¢
1010  0-               0~~~~
00-0-I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I,lollll  11000  *000l~0-  0-0    010   H  H  0  |I  I  0- nn
00-0- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f 0-  0-                                  --O8
0000-..00~l 100  -n 00                                S   .             100    0
..~~~~~~~~~ -                                          0- r         :88w r  
_, I , I l l I l I l l l I l l I l  Ir~s~> Ng< ~ .~*oQ        ~o<wo>S.0<-                       l   es
IH  wH0HH00 _               I__ _ Hwwt. HHOHHH   0w01000000000 wo                                                           0 
o01R0 0gSo   o00   0c o0 0g o1  000011000-O   000000-=  _ oG0 1.o                              00  o,            -        0 o5    0  0oAcawogIr>>>
0  10  0   I           r 0   ∞0 11
aRedsJoSased ~ ~ ~ ~      ~       ~       ~        ~       ~       ~      ~       ~               0    0                   0 
9Z~~~~~~~~                                           0000e000    00I



00      s         g       o  ya  w   n      0000o              00.0                                                00
00 9 o,  0000   000                                       0 l ;       -07  
r   n   n         "   u    w.        _ < D   r   0.0 
.0                                                   00000*0'3¢     rEWa∞   s5    
n~~~~~0  .0   0,0  g  w      i0 tmg Bw*X   
00  00 0c<)00                                  ~       ~        00E   0 Z    400  
.~  ~ ~~0  00 00                               ,--<r             |H> o88w  -00vO∞owo       
00               4000 00 00~~~~~~~~~o
X ~~~~~00 3        II1                                                   -IC v   ~0   ~0 0000000<  C Zgm S 
l~~~~~~~~~~~0                                                 0'00               I 0O0~0  - - 0, w0s>    sH
I~ ~ ~~~~~~0 I                                       Ir0  _0000  I I 0 0                                       ID 0 0
I~~~~~~0                                            0            AR,X-v Rw  w 0OF  0W  000∞0 4 0 
-~~~~~~~~~~~0   0000 ;  10-000F00  0  V0t=   W   1Ri  
I s S IC lXn r l3 000                                             00            00           -0             0
0                  I 0.   C00.  O          I0 CO                 OO\s | 
00                    _0                      '-D neEIr n1 0 w0Ss     aMos    
00                 0   0o            '0    00 -w     pjfr;           lzEo   tt>t||w            ',   
00~~~~~~~~~~ 0
C,  r00'g~4  00         0$       ,         Ooo            v        i  X o -             0       1     -            oA   ∞o> 0 00 0D a
o0       00        e.      Ius        ~             000                    0     s E ∞-.g?; 0 0000000000.000-00000  00∞0 0   9t0   0-
saRwd ~ ~   ~      ~     ~     ~     0         00             00                                                      ooot0.oo~0o    0000                               -0
gz ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ 0                   000aiurv0.00000000



ZAMBIA
SUMiARY OF PRO ECT COSTS IN OWAClRA (IN O0O'S), NOVEMBER 1972 PRICES
SUiMARY
(1)          (2)          (3)          (4)         (5)           (6)    (7)         (8)        (9)        (10)           (11)        (12)      (13)         (143         (15;
Total                                    Coot of Buildings                     Cost of Furniture
Anea in        Co-t or       Section 1  Section II   Section Ill           Section I  Section10c Coot of    Coot of
o2f See         Sit,      T-toiehC                     Stoff                                               Co.st          le-iet    Ponie-   Co-t of           Total Coot of
Sl-  So.                     aNe nod U-c--o                                          Co-truction       So-e1of      cod        Boarding      Iooig                 To....ing   BOarding Total    of                Unit         nio-I Technic-l PyiclF iit
(Gross)             meot      Cosol                                  Total   o_d                                Equipment    EnipL.n      S-ie1    Assistance   in Iacnha in US3
TOTAL OF MEDICAL EDUCATION
Costt 6oreto  Cctottge- tioo                        -               345         607       1257             265      2129       76          218        294        214           82          189       1240           4493         6992
tontingencies  Anosots                              -               151          -         -               -         938               _ _            145        106            31          57         372          1800         2801
Total                                            18386              496                                             3067        -                       3 439    320   1 1 )               246       1612           6293         9793
TOTAL OF AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION
Ctsts Before Co-tiogonc.. s                        -               196         661       206              241         R6       7i         27         191        675            29          89        857           3055         4753
Continpng i-s Aoo.unts                             _                85         -           _              -         488         _          -           50       334            11          27         257          1252         1948
Total                                            11020             281          _                                  1596         -           _         151      1009            40         116       1114           4307         6701
TOTAL OF GENEFAL EDUCATION
C.s-s Befo-e C-oticiO-ci-o                        -              2699       1092         372           3418       4887        152         106       258       1461            19         1111        149         10584        16467
Contingenci-s  A-eants                            -              1180        ----                                 2150         -                     128       724             7          336         45          4578         7122
Total                                           41647            3887      ___            -             -         7037         -           _         386      2185            26         1447        194         15162        23589
G9RAD TOTAL OF  PROJECO: so iwha                                  (711153)           4664        -            -             -        11700         -          -          976      3514           179         1809        2920         25762        -
INCLUDlNG CONTINGENCIES: in us$                                      -               7256         -          -                       18204         -          -        1518       5469           278         2813        4545           -         40083         t
Foreign Exchange Cas-ponen0 i1 1S$                                   -               3830        -            -             -         9608        -           -        1395       5035            85         1697        3636                     252864
in % af Total F-oeign E.c-s-   Co-poot                               -                15%        -           _              -         34          -_                   67.        20%             -            7%         14%         -           IOT 
in % of GStad Tala1 Cost                                             -                10        -            -             -         24%         _           _        3`%        132             -            4%         9%          -            63Y/
May   1973






Z A M B I A
SUMMARY OF CONTINGENCY ALLOWANCES (IN US$ 000's)
Site                                                         Project Unit   Professional         Technical
Development   Construction       Furniture        Equipment        Expenses         Services       Assistance         Totals
Locoal Forei       al        n  Local Foreign                     Local Foreign  Local Foreign  Local Foreign  Local Foreign   Total
Allowance for
Unforeseen Factors             12%    12%      12%    12%       6%      6%       6%     6%       6%      6%       6%      6%       _       _        10%    8%         97.
Allowance for
Price Increases               24%    40%       24%    40%    13%   !47%       13%    47%       30%    36%       23%    25%       30%    30%        24%   39%        33%
Totals                     36%    52%      36%    52%    19%    53%        19%    53%       36%    42%       29%    31%      30%    30%        34%   47%        42%
Total cost before
Contingencies                2520   2590    6321   6321    103    913          365   3291      142      60      865   1295       699   2797    11015 17197    2821-2
Contingencies:
Physical                      302    302      758    758        6      54       21    198        8       4       51      78        -       -      1146  1394      2540
Price                         604   100-8   1517   2529        14    428        48   1546       43      21      200    324       210    839       2636  6695      9331
Totals                     906   1310    2275   3287        20    482       69   1744        51      25      251    402      210    839       3782  8089      11871
Total Cost including
Contingencies                3426    3830    8596   9608    123   1395        434   5035       193      85    1116   1697        909   3636    14797 25286    40083
7256            18204          1518             5469             278            2813              4545           40083
May 1973                                                                                                                                                                   L



ANNEX 26
ZAMBIA
COMOSITION OF PROJECT UNITS
The First Project Unit (Ministry of Education) (Loan 592-ZA)
Director (wlo is also an architect.)
Architect
Finance Controller
Accountant
Procurement Officer
Engineer
Administrative Cfficer
Building Supervisors (in the field)
Supporting staff
The Second Project Unit (University of Zambia) (Loan 645-ZA)
Director (who also acts as the University's Estates
Bursar and is an architect.)
Accountant
Procurement Officer
Supporting staff
The Third Project Unit (Ministry of Power, Transport and Works)
Director
Architect
Accountant
Procurement Specialist
Building Supervisors
Supporting staff



PROJ E.r 1NPLNa&NTATTON SCHEUi_j3
X - Project A,ction
0 - Technical Assistance Specialists |
0 - Teci±i-ical Assistance Fellowships
I. Iledical Education
N'aT-var      Estimated
197 3    157 4     I 'w( -    976r(t  197{7     157 'l1 S.Y _~ars    Esiaed
_9~3  l_?24    l~9'?~  19Th     1977     1976       of Tech.        Total
lost
1 2 3 14  1     2 3 4  1 234    234    2 3 4  1 2 3 4    Assistance   ($ rnillion)
1. DisCussiolls with Go-meriment on:
(a) TechnicaL assistance needed
for medical education component
of project.                            X
(b) Steps to be taken by Govern-
ment to:
- close uneconomic midwifery
schools;                                                     x
- plan administraticn of newly
integrated CHHTC.                   X
(c) Location of 6 Rurai Heajth
Training Centers                    X
2. Selection of candidates for fellow-
ships.                                                 X  X  x
CG



_b  Madical Education (cont'd)
1- 975   1976      1977      1.978      of Tec1h        Tot,al
Cost
1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4, 1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4    Assistance   ($ Willion)
3. Key staff appointed and at work.:
(a) Director, Chainama Hills
Health Training Center.                       0 0 0  0 00         0 O   0 0 0   0 000    0 0 0 0      5           0.20
(b) Fellowships for Chainama Hills
Health Training   Center.                                   0 0  000 0  0000                                      0.03
(c) Itaral Health Services Training
Supervisor.                                             0 0 00  00 0 0  00 0 0                       3           0.11
(d) Director, Post-Basic Nurses
Training Program.                             0 0 00  0 0   0   0 0 00  00 0     0  00 0 0           5           0.16
(e) Principal Tutor, Health
Services Training School, Ndola                         0 0 00  00 00  00 0 0  0 0 0                             0.14
(f) Chief Midwifery Tutor, Health
Services Training School, Ndola                             0 0  0 0 0 0  00 0 0 O O                 3           0.11
(g) Tutors (3) for enrolled Nurse
& Midwifery Schoois (Mansa,                                 00  00 00  00 0 0  00 0 0               10           0.35
Chipata, Kasama)
4. Steps taken by Government:
(a) Uneconomic midwifery schools
closed.                                                                          x
(b) Provisional plan for admini-
stration and teaching at
Chainama Hills Health Training
Center.                              X                                                                                   m
(c) Final plans for CHHTC                                 .                                                             . 
implemented.                                 X
(d) New curricula in use for nurse
training.                                                  X                                                             p
(e) 6 Rural Health Centers located.    X
0!5  man-years Of fellowships.



II. Agricultcural Education: School of Agricultural Sciences
1973     1974     1975      1976     1977      1978 -      of  Tech.    Estoiated
Cost
1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4        Assistance  ($million)
1. Discussions on arrangements for re-
cruiting key personnel, farm plann-
ing, timetable and progress reports. X X
2. Development of School in progress
utilizing technical assistance
personnel:
(a) Academic Planner of the School.       00  00 0  0  00 0 0  00                                      3            0.12
(b) Farm Manager.                         00  00 0   0  00 0 0  00 0    0  00 0  0  00               5            0.18
(c) Facilities Planner                  0 0 0  0 0 0 0  0                                              2            0.07
(d) Plan for staff development
(including fellowships and
teaching staff) available.            X
(e) Teaching staff and fellowships.             0 0  0    0 0 0 0 0  o 0o    0 0       0 0  O 0 o 0  17/1           o.6o
(f) Interim report on Development
of School                                              X
(g) Further report on development
of School                                                                         X
3. Acquisition of Liempe Farm                X X
4. Completion of Farm Plan                      X
___________  _________  ________                 ___ ____   -    -                            CD
/1 Part of this portion,to be determined during project implementation, will be used for fellowships.                         t m
o



III 6   AS,3-icultural rZuc,vti,n: Farmer Trainin-, Pxo.-ram EvaJ.uation St,udy
197l3  1974        1975      197(s    1M77 1978           Man-Years    Estimated
1973  '97)4  197~  197o  1L9?7    19Th     o'f Techi.      Total
Cost
1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  123        1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4    Assistance   ($ million)
1. Discussion with Government and
University on timing of evaluation
study and technical assistance
component.                                  X
2. Staf'f appointed and study in
progress including use of tech-
nical assistance.                                0  0 0                                                                o.o4
3. Preliminary Report available.                         X
4. Final Repor-t available.                                 X
5. Conclusions reviewed.                                      x
IV%.  Educaticniaf          Ceiaiter
19r3t    l27)4 |  " 7,       1,.,     ]K'7      l>Tjh    lIanYears   Estimated
_ _                                          _ _ of Tech.   Total Cost
1 2 3    1 2 3 4  123)       ' 23     1 2 3)1  1  2 3      Assist,ance  ($million)
~~~~~~~~~~~~_ ___    ._ ___   ___                                         _    ._ _    ___ _ _ _    ______ ___ _   b-t
1.  Disclussions with Gcvernrreit abaou]                                                                                   .        7
prapTarairt2  n of p1 an ±'ao admi>  -                                                                                           -t
ra' c01 C.L centex                      Y
2.  Plan suimttteLt  It  the e  c 'or ,                        I
3.  Ic]plpemeni2tion c.' p:i-i                   X



V. Project Management
Man-Years    Estimatea
1973     1974      1975      1976      1977      1978                       Total
of Tech.      Costa
1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4           Assistance  ($ million)
1. Discussions with Governmernt on
arrangements for Coordinating
Committee, phasing of construc-
tion, financing of additional
staff., establishment of third
project unit.                            X
2.  Management ComTittee appointed
and functioning.                         X XX  X  X X  X X X X  X X X X  X X X X  X X X X
3.  Decision on phasing of construc-
tion of project items.                     X
-4. Following technical assistance
staff appointed and functioning:
(a) in third project unit:
Project Director                       0 0  0 C 0 0  0 0 0 0  000    0 0  0 0  0 0 00               5 I            0.17
Project Accountant                     00  OO C O O  0 00 O0  00 00  00 0 0  00 0 0                5 Ω            0.14
Project Architect                      0 0  000  00              0 0 0 0 0  0 000  0 0 0 0          5 Ω            0.17
Project Procurement Specialist         0 0 0 C 0 0 0 0 00   00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0                  5 Ω            0.14
Building Supervisors                   0 0     C 00   0 0 00  00 0    0  00 0 0                   21              0.42
(b) In the Buildin-s Branch,
Ministry of Power, Transport
and Works:
Architects, Enigineers ard
Quantity Surveyors                           0 0 00  00 00  00 0 O0  0  0  0                      13          _   0.33
'IO



V. Project Nanagerent (cont'd)
1 973    1 974     1 975     1 976    1 977     1 978     Man-Years    Estimated
______    ________  ________    _______  _________   of   Tech.  Total   Cost
1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4   Assistance   ($ million)
3.  University FroJect Unit appointed
and functioning                            X X  X X XX  X X X X  X X X X  X X X X
6.  Following in progress:
a. Construction
(1) Preparation of architects
briefs and phasing of
construction                           XX  X X X X  X
(2) Selection and appointment of
consultant architects                  X
(3) Preparation of design and
production documents                   X X  X X X X  X X X X
(4) Site surveys                           XX  X X X X  X X
(5) Prequalification of contrac-
tors                                   XX  X X X X  X X X X
(6) Bank review of designs, tender
documents, etc.                          X  X X X X  X X X X
(7) Tendering and contract awards               X X X X  X X X X  X
(8) Construction including addi-
tional facilities for first
project schools                              XX X X  X X X X  X X X X  X X 
(9) End of guarantee phases                                                                   x
-3
.                                                 b's~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(



V. Project Management (Conttd)
1 973    1974      1 975     1976     1 977     1978        Man-Years    Estimated
-______ * of Tech.          Total Cost
12 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4    Assistance    ($ million)
b. Furniture and Equipment
(1) Compilation of Lists                   X X  X X
(2) Compilation of Supplementary
Lists                                                   x x
(3) Bank review of lists                     X  X X X X  X
(4) Bank review of supplementary
lists                                                      XX
(5) Preparation of contract docu-
ments, tendering and award of
contracts                                   X X XX  X X X X  X X
(6) Manufacture and/or Assembly of
Packages                                       X XX   X X X X  X XXX  x
(7) Delivery and Installation                          X    X X       XX X X X   X X X
TOlTAL      114Ω /1         3.50     }
/j  Plus 5+ man-years of fellowships.                                                                                          0






ANNEX 30
ZAMBIA
RESPONSIBILITY FOR DESIGN AND SUPERVISION OF PROJECT INSTITUTIONS
Responsible                            Responsible
for Design                          for Supervision
Buildings                                    Ministry of
Branch         Ministry                      Power,
Ministry           of                        Transport
Private        Xof Power,      Education    University       and  Works
Type of                               Consultant      Transport      Project       Project         Project
Institution                          Architect       and Works       Unit          Unit            Unit
Medical Education
Chainama Hills Health Training
Center, Lusaka                                          X              -              -               X
Senior Nurses, Tutors and
Administrator School, Lusaka
(Technical assistance only)              -              -                            -
Health Services Training
School, Ndola                            X              -              _              _                X
Enrolled Nurses and Midwives
Schools at:
Chipata                                                X               -              -                X
Kasama                                   X              -              -              -                X
Mansa                                    X              -              -                               X
Kabwe                                                   X              -                               X
Rural  Health Training Centers             -              X              -              _                X
Agricultural Education
School of Agricultural Science
Campus Facilities                        X              -              -             X
Farm Facilities                          X              -              -              X
Farmers Training Centers                                  X              -              -                x
Farm  Institutes                                          X              -              -                X
General Education
Educational Services Center,
Lusaka                                   X                             -              -                X
Secondary Schools                          X              -              X
Teacher  Training Colleges                                X              X              -
May 1973






ZANBIA
EXPENDITURE SCHEDULE
(US$ Millions)
Years:           1973                  1974                   1975                  1976                   1977                   1978                   1979
0uarters:     1    2   3   4        5    6    7    8       9    10  11   12      13   14   15   16      17   18   19   20      21   22   23   24     25   26  27   28
Civil Works (Site Develop-
ment and Construction)
Total                        25.46        -    -    - 0.40   0.70 0.30 0.40 1.40   2.10 2.10 1.05 2.10   2.40 2.80 1.10 2.10   2.50 2.10 1.10    -         -    - 0.81
Furniture
Total                         1.52        -   -    -                         0.05   0.16 0.18    - 0.06   0.22 0.28    - 0.05   0.18 0.28    -    -        -0.06    -
Equioment
Total                         5.47        -                             0.12 0.24   0.42 0.28 0.28 0.70   0.70 0.70 0.14 0.70   0.56 0.42    - 0.21        -    -    -
Technical Assistance
Total                         4.54        - 0.01 0.08 0.19   0.26 0.28 0.30 0.26   0.29 0.28 0.28 0.26   0.24 0.23 0.22 0.21   0.20 0.19 0.19 0.16   0.13 0.12 0.09 0.07
Professional Services
Total                         2.81        -    - 0.18 0.36   0.42 0.42 0.38 0.36   0.24 0.18 0.04 0.03   0.03 0.03 0.02 0.02   0.02 0.08    -    -         -    -    -    -
Pro;ject Unit
Total                         0.28        -   - 0.02 0.02   0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02   0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01   0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01   0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01   0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01
Project Total                40.08        - 0.01 0.28 0.97   1.40 1.02 1.22 2.33   3.22 3.03 1.66 3.16   3.60 4.05 1.49 3.09   3.47 3.08 1.30 0.38   0.14 0.19 0.91 0.08
Local Financing (17.667)      7.08        -    - 0.05 0.17   0.25 0.18 0.22 0.41   0.57 0.54 0.29 0.56   0.64 0.72 0.26 0.55   0.61 0.54 0.23 0.07   0.02 0.03 0.16 0.01
IBRD Financing (82.34%)      33.00        - 0.01 0.23 0.80   1.15 0.84 1.00 1.92   2.65 2.49 1.37 2.60   2.96 3.33 1.23 2.54   2.86 2.54 1.07 0.31   0.12 0.16 0.75 0.07                 /1
IBRD Financing calendar years:                1.04                   4.91                  9.11                   10.06                 6.78                   1.10
Foreign Exchange Component
(63%)    25.28
/1  Closing Date September 30, 1979.
May 1973



ANNEX 32
ZAMBIA
ESTIAATED SCHEDULE OF DE SBJRSFMVWV
rn US$in llions5
1uarteA   _   -~ lDisbur3ements                 Total Balance
Quarte /> -      Quarterly        Acciniulated           Undisbursed
1                  _                 _                  33.00
2               0.01              0.01                  32.99
3               0.23              0.24                  32.76
4               0.80              1.04                  31.96
5                1.15             2.19                  30.81
6               0.84              3.03                  29.97
7               1.30              4.03                  28.97
8               1 .92             5.'?5                 27.05
9               2.65              8.60                  24.43
10               2.49              11.39                 21.91
11               1.37              12.46                 20.54
12               2.60              15.36                 17.94
13               2.96              18.02                 14.98
14               3.33              21.35                 11.65
15               1.23              22.58                 10.42
16               2.54              25.12                  7.88
17               2.86              27.98                  5.02
18               2.54              30.52                  2.48
19               1.07              31.59                  1.41
20               0.31              31.90                  1.13
21               0.12              32.02                  0.98
22               0.16              32.1'                  0.82
23               0.22              32.40                  0.60
24               0.28              32.69                  0.32
25               0.32              33.00
26
27
/1 Starting from the date of effectiveness
May 1973



ZAMBIA
STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM
Pr  rca   s  ~ ~   ~      Sr'aa  rca   a    ----~...--...  ~    Psa     S -ondar    ---- ----   .
J_'.'             ~~Se, or          ~      r                    Se aUr  ar, ty of Zamola
2  3  4     5            ~~~~~Erg: nearing
r 1  2  3   4                   ~~~~Arts and Science
G--era               MINISTRY OF
Eaccanin             EDUCATION
(Di  a3 E                 ~    ~~~~School af Agricultural Sciences
Tesaner                MINISTRYFrmrTecnsClgs
Edeaas-                    OF
EDUCATION                                     ~21Hge   ecesC]ee
... .. .. ... .. .. ...   I .... ... .... .....   . ..... .. .. .   ... .. ... .. .. ... .. ....  .. .g.. . .. .      rTe... .. .chersC  .. . .. .... ..l...ges. ...
Farmeos Training Centers
U            I                                               ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~and Farm  Institutes
MINISTRY                    II                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Forestry, Cartography, Community
E& -i.,            ~~OF                                                    1       2I                                                Larnaia College at Agr-iccire
RURAL DEVELOPMENT
2                                   ~~~~~~~~~~Veter nary Tra.n,rg School
1  2  3                         ~~~~~~Natural Rascorces Denelap,e-nt College
1211111                                    ~~~~~~~~~Ran a ngical and Laboratory Ass stants Schools
1  2  3                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~School, far Medical Ass stants
4                   ~~~~~~Adirnmistranrs, Superaitors anid T,tors
M,  MINISTRY                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Enra  ad Nurses  Schools
cEsnar-                    OF
HEALTH                                                                              ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Enrolled Midmvier Scnoo s
Registered Nurses School
Registered Midwises School!
Matrons, Tutors, Pubnic Health Staff
1  2                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~Vocatinnal Training
Technic an, ISarrd-ech Programns 2Ω/ y-s
MINISTRY
EDUCATION                                                                                                             Tcolgs   S d 1)P9.n    1    ,
1  2                           ~~~~~~~~Disersified Higher Occupational Programs
1  2  3                         Ir~~~~~lds,tr,ia  Sas1ness Sersice Programs
LU                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Craftsman
MINISTRIES OF                                                                                                                         '
EUCATION  AND P'OWER                                           r     r                                                                        Telecommunicat onor
TRANSPORT ANDWOKSF                                                    LZJ-2                                                 Tecnnicians               Tra ning
AND  WORKS                                                                Tenhnalogists             Pr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ogarams
ra     Emeloynment Eaperience
Project AssistedWeetr-gfiR






GHART 2
....... ::::: .:::: .::::.
.   . . . . .   .   . . . . . , ".  . : , ' -'. -   '. .
,,,,,. :. : ,. . . .   :. .   '.'. . : ,   . . , ' .    . . : .
X     . ., :.     .,.,.:..:.   ,...,.'..:
.        .   . . . .   , ::: : :     .. : . . . . . . :  :::.. . . . . .
_  :::::::::   :::::.:::::: .::::::::. :::::::
.-....:,,. .:   ,:    : . :.:.     ..::::   :.::    ,,  :::.   ,,::::::
:.,:,.,.',.. ~ ~ ~ ~   ...  .''..'':..:,.,..,....:,',...'.:: ..:::
. . . . . . ,.   . -. . . . . .   . . - , - , .   . . . . .  ' . . . . . . . ':' " - ' . . . , .   . . . . . . ..
a                                      Q      N   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ ~ . .. .     : . . .. .   . . . . . .   . .: . .   . . . . .   . . . .   . . . . .
_                               g      N      S       :::    ::::::: ::::  :::::: :   :.... . ... ....  ..,.. ........ ......:
_ M O O , :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.:::.: ... :::  .::::::... ....... ....... ..... :::::.::: ::
< z O C > *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .., .. .... . ., .....,.                        ,              , ...,. .......,,:"'"Z
12Xi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. ...
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. .... ......
UJ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~........  ...  ...
0)~~~~~~~~~~~~........  .......                                  ........






IBRD 10266
Q    ,... ~;,.,    .................   ,.   .   !4   b2'A"ii  '    ......................... ,Ei.w'''"5;\!.LsA............................................    
-4=                                             Kss                                                      g
..MuSng.   - ~         ........ MulnuOMb-s                                < 
-   g   g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                     W  -'1,-  ' -
ti  g sAs~~P_                                                                 A <Si>st XgS<  ;0Sg
_  _  S s ßreeruazy0a39zur n<5Sssun;z'mo&az7;'-;' p 'S < g /2 EP8tHC ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M b.e h 1
t_   XMS  g 9 v t / __o AN,
- X AA VMpiWg g~~~~~ t)N-if
/ ~~~~~<\_ <_ X a;ig __ / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,T) (< LnA <
w.   %   W  E  S T E (R N ,_ =t 8X t- M. u  ....
y;                  %\Kbop                                 UE                            j-   --                            Ms!
@  X  _  _r  \  >  I  b$,  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t t~~~~~ 45H~~~~~~ \ ) $ ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~ C EXN T R A L '-' S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
i8a9 + WP /AA,f 1 ..........., C7 Ns\ ...... r/4 S:.,>.a->, Si.r ,t<'l   i,0:
F3 ,AF;     UKIU/                                   _1F                   6        '    F U   a    XK bW      8  * =-{ ...................  Nl~_g. >. , ; r. ercg;
@;    W  F_ 5l T  E  R  N  Kstsb]  g    0+  Sp'FTC  \                 (             \<AmR:SFnSZass0pRHCjoiAPt                                                -, 8                          iJD
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 'PS OF THE CoR     : 
.e ,    Fj>'j>  n:<2e" .... F !bvkeg=                                                                     pi Mp o,h wj






KEY TO MAP (Types of Institutions)
Prov-     Abbrevi-
irice  No.  ation                   Project Item
Medical Education
CP   1  CHHiTC         Chainama Hills Health Training Center, Lusaka
C?   2  NTAS           Senior Nurses, Tutors and Administrators School, Lusaka
CBP   3  HSTS            Health Services Training School, Ndola
Enrol 1ed Niurses and Midwives Schools:
EP   41 EISS                    Chipata
NP   5  aMs                     Kasama
TLP   6  EMS                    Mansa
CP   7  ENMS                    Kaciwe
Rural Health Training Centers:
:ED     RHC                     Chama
NP   9  RHO                     Ypulungu
LP  10  ROC                     Samfya
NXiP  11  RHO                    Kasamba
tWP  12  RHC                    Sefula
SP  13  RHC                     Sinazongwe
Agricultural Education
CP   i  SAGS           School of Agricultural Sciences, University of Zambia,
Lusaka - Main Campus
CP   2  SAGS           School of Agricultural Sciences, University of Zambia,
Lusaka - University Farm
Farmers Training Centers:
&P   3  FTC                     Chadiza
EP   4  FTC                     Petauke
EP   5  FTC                     Lundazi
SP   6  FTC                     Kalomo
SP   7  FTC                     Malima
SP   8  FTC                     Monze
SP   9  FTC                     Namiwala
Farm Institutes:
SP  10  Fl                      Katapola
SP  11  FI                      Kanchomra
CBP  12  FI                      Masaiti



-2-
Prcv-     Abbrevi-
ine  No.  ation                          Project Item
General Education
CP   1  ESC            Lcucational Services Center, Lusaka
Secondary Schools:
NP 101  SS                     Kasama                 (BUD)
NP 102  SS                     Chinsali               (GRB)
EP 103  SS                     Chipata                (MUD)
a 104  SS                      NyimDba                (MRB)
CBP 105  SS                     Ndeke                  (MUD)
CBP 106  S5                     Kabundi                (MUD)
CBP 107  SS                     Lubuto                 (MUD)
LP 106  SS                     Mansa                  (MRB)
CP 109  SS                     Bwacha                 (MUD)
NP 201  SS                     Isoka                  (BRB)
NP 202  SS                     Mungwi                 (BRB)
NP 203  SS                      Kenneth Kaunda, Chinsali (BRB)
NP 204  SS                     Kasama                 (GRB)
NP 205  SS                     Mbala                  (MB)
NP 206  SS                     Mporokoso              (MRB)
NP 207  SS                     Luwingu                (MRB)
SP 206  5                     Chipepo                (BRB)
SP 209  SS                     Linda, Livingstone   (MUD)
SP 210  SS                     Hillcrest              ( BUB)
SP 211  SS                     Kaiomo                 (NRB)
SP 212  SS                     Namwala                (MRB)
SP 213  SS                     Monze                  (BRB)
EP 214  SS                     Chadiza                (MRB)
EP 215  SS                      Chizongwe             (BRB)
EP 21o  SS                     Lundazi                (MRB)
BP 217  SS                     Petauke                (MRB)
CBP 216  55                     Masala                 (MUD)
CBP 219  55                     Chifubu                (MUD)
GBP 220  SS                     Kansenji               (MUD)
GBP 221  SS                     Chiwala                (BRB)
CBP 222  SS                     Luanshya               (BUD)
GBP 223  SS                     Mpatamatu              (MUD)
GBP 224  53                     Roan Antelope          (BUD)
CBP 225  S5                     Luanshya               (GUD)
CBP 226  SS                     Kitwe                  (BUD)
GBP 227  SS                     Helen Kaunda, Kitwe  (GUD)
CGP 22&  SS                     Chamboli               (MUD)
CBP 229  SS                     Mukuba                 (BUD)
GBP 230  SS                     Mindolo                (MUD)
CBP 23.L SS                     Mfulira               (MUD)



-3-
Prov-     Abbrevi-
ince  No.  ation                        Project Item
General Education (Cont d)
Secondary Schools:
CB?o 232  SS                    Kantanshi             (Y.UD)
CBP 233  SS                     Chingola              (MD)
CBP 234  SS                     Chikola               (MUD)
CBP 235  SS                     Kalulushi             (MUD)
GBP 236  SS                    aCililabombwe          (MUD)
W'P 237  SS                    Kalabo                (RB)
WP 23b  3S                     Kaoma                 (MRB)
WP 235  33                     han,bule              (BRB)
WP 24C  SS                     Senanga               (MiB)
WP 241  SS                     Sesheke               (MRB)
LP 242  3S                     Kawamxbwa             (BRB)
LP 243  SS                    MPreshi                (GRB)
LP 2i44  SS                    Mwense                (BRB)
LP 245  Ss                     Nchelenge             (R
LP 246  SS                     Samtya                (MB)
NWP 247  S3                     Zamoezi              (MRB)
RWP 24&  ss                     Mwinilunga            (MRB)
NW? 24   3 $sz                  Solwezi               (BPEB)
CP 250  SS                     Serenj e              (BRB)
CP 251  SS                     Mrrbwa                (MB)
CP 252  SS                     M'1sh                 (MB)
CP 253  S3                     Libala                (BUD)
CP 254  SS                     Kabulonga             (BUD)
CP 255  SS                      aramwala             (MUD)
CP 256  SS                     Mhnali                (BUB)
CBP 401  TTC                    Kitwe Teacher Training College
CP 402  TTC                    National In-Service Training College, Chalimbana
CP 501  TTC                    Nkrumah Teachers College, Kabwe
(formerly Kabwe Higher T.T.C.)
CBP 502  TTC                    Copperbelt (formerly St. Francis) Teachers
College, Kitwe
BRB  =  Boys Rural Boarding              CBP     Copperbelt Province
BUB  =  Boys Urban Boarding              CP      Central Province
BUD  =  Boys Urban Day                   EP      Eastern Province
GRB  - Girls Rural Boarding              LP   =  Luapula Province
GUD  =  Girls Urban Day                 NP   =  Northern Province
MRB  =  Mixed Rural Boarding            NW?      North-Western Province
MUD     Mixed Urban Day                  3P      Southern Province
WP   =  Western Province






KEY TO MAP (Provinces)
Prov-     Abbrevi-
ince  No.  ation                        Project Item
Central Province
CP   1  CHHTC         Chainama Hills Health Training Center, Lusaka
GP   2  NTAS          Senior Nurses, Tutors and Administrators School,
Lusaka
CP   7  ENMS          Enrolled Nurses and Midwives School, Ka'we
CP   I  SAGS          School of Agricultural Sciences, University of
Zambia, Lusaka - Main Campus
CP   2  SAGS          School of Agricultural Sciences, University of
Zambia, Lusaka - University Farm
CP   1  ESC           Educational Services Center, Lusaka
Secondary Schools:
CP log  SS                     Bwacha                (MUD)
CP 250  SS                     Serenje               (BRB)
CP 251  SS                    MImbwa                 (MRB)
CP 252  SS                     Mkushi                (MRB)
CP 253  SS                     Libala                (BUD)
CP 254  SS                     Kabulonga             (BUD)
CP 255  SS                     Kamwala               (MUD)
CP 256  SS                     Munali                (BUB)
CP 402  TTC            National In-Service Training College, Chalimbana
CP 501  TTC            Nkrumah Teachers College, Kabwe
(formerly Kabwe Higher T.T.C.)
Southern Province
5P  13  RHC           Rural Health Training Center, Sinazongwe
Farmers Training Centers:
SP   6  FTC                    Kalomo
SP   7  FTC                    Malima
SP   8  FTC                    Monze
SP   9  FTC                    Namwala
SP  11  FI            Kanchomba Farm Institute
Secondary Schools:
SP 20&  SS                     Chipepo               (BRB)
SP 209  SS                     Linda                 (MUD)
SP 210  SS                     Hillcrest             (BUB)
SP 211  SS                     Kalomo                (MRB)
SP 212  SS                     Namwala               (MRB)
SP 213  SS                     Monze                 (BRB)



-2-
Prov-     Abbrevi-
ince  No.  ation                          Project Item
Western Province
WP  12  RHC           Rural Health Training Center, Se"ula
Secondary Schools:
WP 237  SS                     Kalabo                (MRB)
WP 236  SS                     Kaoma                 (MRB)
WP 239  SS                     Kambule               (BRB)
w? 240  SS                     Senanga               (IMB)
WP 241  SS                     Sesheke               (MRB)
North-Western Province
NiWP  11  RHC          Rural Health Training Center, Kasamba
Secondary Schools:
NWP 247  SS                     Zambezi               (ERB)
NWP 246  SS                     Mwinilunga            (NuB)
NWP 24pi SS                     Solwezi               (BRB)
Copperbelt Province
CBP   3  HSTS          Health Services Training School, Ndola
CBP  12  FI            Masaiti Farm Institute
Secondary Schools:
GBP 105  8S                     Ndeke                 (MUD)
C3P 106  SS                     Kabund_               (MUD)
CBP 107  SS                     Lu buto               (MUD)
GBP 218  SS                     Masala                (MUD)
CBP 219  SS                     Chifubu               (MUD)
CBP 220  SS                     Kansenji              (MUD)
CBP 221  SS                     Chiwala               (BRB)
C0P 222  SS                     Luanshya              (BUD)
CB? 223  SS                     Mpatamatu             (MUD)
CBP 224  SS                     Roan Antelope         (BUD)
"3P 225  SS                     Luanshya              (GUD)
C03  226  S8                    Kitwe                 (BUD)
CBP 227  S                     Helen Kaunda          (GUD)
GBP 226  S8                     Chamboli              (MUD)
CBP 229  SS                     Mukuba                (BUD)
C3P 230  SS                     Mindolo               (MUD)



-3-
Prov-     Abbrevi-
ince  No.  ation                         Project Item
Copperbelt Province (Cont'd)
Secondary Schools:
CBP 231  SS                     Mufulira              (MUD)
CBP 232  SS                     Kantanshi             (MUD)
CBP 233  SS                     Chingola              (MUD)
CBP 234  SS                     Chikola               (MUD)
CBP 235  SS                     Kalulushi             (MUD)
CBP 236  SS                     Chililabombwe         (MUD)
CBP 401  TTC            Kitwe Teacher Training College
CBP 502  TTC            Copperbelt (formerly St. Francis) Teachers
College, Kitwe
Luapula Province
LP   6  aiMS           Lnrolled Nurses and Midwives School, Mansa
LP  10  RHC            Rural Health Training Center, Samfya
Secondary Schools:
LP 1L0  SS                     Mansa                 (MRB)
LP 242  SS                     Kawanbwa              ( BB)
LP 243  55                     Mbereshi              (GRB)
LP 244  SS                     Mwense                (BRB)
LP 245  SS                     Nchelenge              (MRB)
LP 246  SS                     Samfya                (MRB)
Northern Province
NP   5  ENMS           Enro±iled Nurses and Midwives SchooL, Kasama
NP   9  RHC            Rural Health Training Center, Mpulungu
Secondary Schools:
NP 101  SS                     Kasama                 (BUD)
NP 102  SS                     Chinsali               (GRB)
NP 201  SS                     Isoka                  (BRB)
NP 202  SS                     MUngwi                 (BRB)
NP 203  SS                     Kenneth Kaunda        (BRD)
NP 204  SS                     Kasama                 (GRB)
NP 205  SS                     Mbala                 (MRB)
NP 206  SS                     Mporokoso              (MRB)
NP 207  SS                     Luwingu                (MRB)



-14 -
Prov-     AbbDrevi-
ince  No. ation                            Project Item
Eastern Province
EP   4  ENmS           Enrolied Nurses and Midwives School, Chipata
EP   &  RHC           Rural Health Training Center, Chama
Farmers Training Centers:
EP   3  FTC                    Chadiza
,P   4 FTC                     Petauke
EP   5  FTC                    Lundaz-f
EP  10  FI             Katapola Farm Institute
Secondary Schools:
Sp 103  SS                     Chipata               (M4UD)
EP 104  SS                     Nyimba                (MRB)
EP 214  SS                     Chadiza               (MRB)
EP 215  S                     Chizongwe             (BRB)
EP 216  SS                     Lundazi               (NRB)
EP 217  SS                     Petauke               (MRB)
BRB  =  Boys Rural Boarding              CBP     Copperbelt Province
BUB  =  Boys Urban Boarding              CP   =  Central Province
3UD  =  Boys Urban Day                   EP   =  Eastern Province
GRB =  Girls Rural Boarding              LP   =  Luapula Province
GUD  =  Girls Urban Day                  NP  -  Ncrthern Province
MRB  =  Mixed Rural Bcarding             IWP  =  North-Western Province
MU, D  =  Mixea Urban Day                SP   =  Southern Province
WP   =  Western Province



