Document of-
The World Bank                        RETURN T
REPORTS DESK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                      WITHIN
ONE WE~Er-K
Report No. 1869-KE
FILE COPY
KENYA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
March 23, 1978
Urban Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1                     =     Kenya Shilling 8.3
Kenya Pound              =     US$2.40
Kenya Shilling           =     US$0.12
(The official unit of currency in Kenya is the Kenya Shilling (K Sh).
However, in accordance with the practice of the Kenya Government,
some large values in the report are expressed in Kenya Pounds (KL)).
KS                     =     Kenya Shilling 20
K Sh 1                 =     100 Cents (Kenya)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)      2           3.28 feet (ft)
1 square meter (m2)   =      10.76 square feet (sq ft)
1 kilometer (km)       =     0.62 miles (mi)
I hectare (ha)         =     10,00 sq. m. or 2.45 acres
l liter (1)            =     0.246 US gallons (gal)
1 milligram (mg)       =     0.015 grain
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
GOK        =    Government of Kenya
GPT             Graduated Personal Tax
NCC       =    Nairobi City Council
MMC       ==    Mombasa Municipal Council
KMC             Kisumu Municipal Council
NHC       CZ    National Housing Corporation
MFP             Ministry of Finance and Planning
MLG              Ministry of Local Government
MHSS      =     Ministry of Housing and Social Sciences
NCCK      =     National Christian Council of Kenya
IMF             International Monetary Fund
FINANCIAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KENYA
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
Table of Contents
Chapter                                                                      Page No.
I.  SECTOR BACKGROUND ...................... ................                  1
A.  Urbanization Policies in Kenya .....................                  1
B.  Development of Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu .........                  3
C. The First Project: Success, Delays and
Applications of Lessons ............................                 4
II.  PROJECT COMPONENTS, COST AND FINANCING ....             ..............     6
A.  The Project ........................................                  6
B.  Detailed Features ..................................                  7
C.  Cost Estimates .....................................                 14
D.  Financing ..........................................                 15
III.  BORROWING AND EXECUTING AGENCIES .......................                  16
A.  National Authorities ...............................                 16
B.  Local Authorities ..................................                 18
C.  Project Organization and Management ....            ............     18
D.  Other Agencies .....................................                 22
IV.  DESIGN STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS ....................                  23
A.  Site Planning ......................................                 23
B.  Infrastructure Standards ...........................                 23
C.  Housing Standards and Options ......................                 24
D.  Community Facilities ...............................                 26
E.  Provision for Commercial Activity and Small
Industries .........................................                27
F.  Materials Loans ....................................                 30
This report is based on the findings of the Appraisal Mission, consisting
of Messrs. P. Patel (Chief of Mission), G. Beier, M. Mould. P. Callejas,
E. Pratt and Ms. Henneman, who visited Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu in
September 1977, and on reports by E. Thomson and S. Yahya (Consultants).
Ms. A. Nassau assisted in finalizing the report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World lank authorization.



-2-
Chapter                                                                    Page No.
V.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .................................               32
A.  Implementation Schedule ............................              32
B.  Procurement ........................................              32
C.  Disbursement .......................................              34
D.  Details of Project Implementation ........ ..........             34
E.  Monitoring and Evaluation .....         .....................     38
VI.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ......... .  ....................... ........... .  39
A.  Cost Recovery ......................................              39
B.  Affordability and Replicability  .          ....................  40
C.  Project Cash Flows .................................              44
VII.  ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ..................     ..    ..................      44
VIII.  RECOMMENDATIONS AND LOAN CONDITIONS ....................               48
MAP AND SITE PLANS
KENYA       -  Location of Project Cities
NAIROBI    -  Location of Project Sites
MOMBASA    -  Location of Project Sites
KISUMU      -  Location of Project Sites
MIKINDANI  -  Typical Site Plan:  Sites and Services
NYALENDA   -  Typical Site Plan:  Upgrading
ANNEXES
Annex 1    -  List of Related Documents and Data Available in
Project File



I. SECTOR BACKGROUND
A.   Urbanization Policies in Kenya
1.01      By the year 2000, Kenya's population will have grown to 27 million
persons, almost two times its present population. Although most of the
increase in population is expected to be absorbed by the agricultural sector,
9 million Kenyans will have to earn their living from non-agricultural
employment in that year.  The majority of these, 8.5 million, will live
in urban areas compared to the 2.3 million urban dwellers at present.
Decentralization Policy
1.02      Government policy is to encourage growth of a number of selected
towns of all sizes, from market centers to major secondary cities, partly
to divert urban migration from Nairobi and Mombasa, and partly to provide
an integrated urbar. network to support economic growth in all sections of
the country. The decentralization policy which was incorporated in the
1974-78 Development Plan will continue to provide the basis for Kenya's urban
strategy. In preparation for the next five-year planning period (1978-83), the
Government is carrying out further studies with Bank assistance to determine
more precisely the most favorable areas for encouragement of urban growth.
1.03      Two general areas will receive the highest concentration of growth
inducing efforts: the Western area, centered on cities like Kisumu, Kaka-
mega, Eldoret and Kitale that lie within the most densely settled part of
the country, now approaching the limits of agricultural absorption of popula-
tion, and the area near Nairobi centered on towns like Machakos which could
grow within Nairobi's area of influence.
1.04      It is likely that concentration on selected alternative cities can
slow down Nairobi's growth from what it otherwise would have been, but it is
unlikely to become a slow growing city. Growth at about 6% per year, i.e.,
a year 2000 population of between 2.5 and 3 million persons, is a realistic
projection. This would imply growth in other urban centers of 8.5% per year,
and would represent considerable success in decentralization policy.
1.05      Regardless of the success of the decentralization policy, Kenya is
faced with the large task of successfully urbanizing six to seven million of
its people within two decades. The obvious requirements are: (a) a vigorous
employment creation policy which will create decent incomes at low costs per
job; (b) a policy of very rapid growth in urban shelter and infrastructure
provision consistent with the need to stress rural development as the primary
engine of growth. This implies growth of infrastructure and shelter that is
cheap enough for urban residents to pay for it themselves; and (c) improvement
in the city public finances, so that the cities can begin to finance a good
part of their own requirements for shelter and infrastructure as well as
meeting maintenance and other current expenses, with minimum reliance on the
Central Government Treasury.
Urban Employment
1.06      Kenya is making good progress in urban job creation and is evolving
institutions to serve the smaller scale firms which create jobs at lower



- 2 -
costs per job. The Bank's recent IDF project (Credit 750-KE, November 1977)
extends the terms of reference of the Kenya Industrial Estate Corporation
to serve smaller scale firms outside formal industrial estates and provides
financing and other assistance to speed the growth of this activity. The
Government has formally adopted most of the recommendations of the 1972 ILO
employment survey, which stressed support for smaller scale firms and a
positive governmental approach to the informal sector; thus Government policy,
and some investment activity is directed toward encouragement of small-scale,
labor-intensive enterprises. In general the efforts are still too small, but
this is due more to the difficulty of growth of the necessary institutions and
to the slow evolution of technique than to lack of commitment or lack of
capital.
Urban Shelter and Infrastructure
1.07      Government official policy has also embraced the idea of urban
infrastructure and shelter standards affordable by the urban poor; progress
in this area includes the first Bank urban project and the bulk of the site
and service activities of the National Housing Corporation. This effort
is relatively new, however, dating from the early 1970s only, and vast
increases in scale, as well as improvements in institutions, are required to
cope with the problems.
1.08      Construction of new housing for all income classes, and provision
of newly serviced urban land, has been inadequate in all three project cities.
In Nairobi, private sector housing construction has reached about 1,600 units
per year. Public programs have been averaging less than 600 units per year
but are now programmed at about 3,000 units (excluding this project). Actual
completions, public and private, have never exceeded 3,000 units per year,
compared to 10,000 plots needed per year by additions to the city's popula-
tion. The result has been continued growth of illegal settlements on un-
serviced public and private land. Kisumu and Mombasa are much worse off:
squatter areas in these two cities house over 50% of all households in each
city. And in other towns very limited shelter and infrastructure have been
provided.
Urban Finance
1.09      Declining financial performances by local councils since 1970
accelerated after 1973, when the Graduated Personal Tax, the second largest
municipal revenue source, was abolished by Government. In addition, inflation,
inefficient property valuation practices, and salary/wage bargaining processes
outside local councils' control had succeeded in converting most authorities'
operating surpluses of the 1960s to deficits by the mid-1970s. Conversely,
recent increased direct charges for services such as housing and water supply
have demonstrated local capacities to pay, but such increases are now being
used by local authorities to subsidize other services, without ensuring ade-
quate standards of operation and maintenance of the chargeable services.
1.10      The solution to the cities' fiscal problems is fundamental reform
of tax powers and expenditure responsibilities as proposed in an urban finance
study, completed by the IMF in 1976 for the Government as part of the first



urban project. Following consultations with the Bank during 1977, the Govern-
ment is actively considering a program for local government fiscal and manage-
ment reforms, with appropriate training in the period 1978-1983, with the
objective of restoring a level of fiscal autonomy similar to that which
existed prior to 1970. The program, would include, inter alia, the establish-
ment of an authority for property valuation in urban areas; Government financ-
ing of all, or a major part of primary education; a grant-in-aid system to
authorities with substandard resources; and strengthening of the Ministry of
Local Government. This project will finance assistance for key elements of
the program (see para 2.24).
1.11      It is not useful, therefore, to project the accounts of the local
governments as if no reforms were to be introduced. At issue are their
timing and scope. Several alternative projections for Nairobi, depending
on different assumed timing of reforms and level of services provided by
the city, show that taking over education expenditures in the city by the
Central Government (some variant of which is clearly foreseen) would by
itself remove deficits for the next few years. The aim of the fiscal coven-
ants and technical assistance included in this project, however, is to lay
the groundwork for other structural improvements.
B. Development of Nairobi, Mombasa, and Kisumu
1.12      This project includes components in Kenya's three largest urban
areas, Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu, because they dominate the urban shelter
problem and the implementation of urban housing policy in the country.
Their residents make up over 60% of the urban population of Kenya; they house
the majority of the country's urban poor. Moreover, these cities, are also
the most suited institutionally to undertake large-scale implementation of
housing programs within their own administrations.
1.13      Nairobi, with a 1977 population of 890,000 is the largest city in
Kenya and has the most serious housing problem. The city is growing at a
sustained rate of about 7% per year. About 40% of the modern sector jobs in
Kenya are located in Nairobi and about 45% of modern sector incomes are earned
there. It is thus the dominant city in the country and the main natural
attraction point for rural-urban migration. Mombasa, Kenya's main port and
its oldest major city, is the second largest city. It is also a relatively
modern city, with about 45% of its labor force in wage employment. Its rate
of growth has been low in comparison to Nairobi largely because it is located
in a relatively sparsely populated part of the country. Kisumu, including its
newly incorporated areas, is Kenya's third largest city and is probably
growing faster than any city in Kenya. It is located in the very densely
populated Lake area, which can be expected to export population from its rural
areas at a rapid rate. The general economy of Kisumu is much less developed
than the other two major cities. For example, only about 30% of the labor
force is in wage employment. This is accounted for, at least in part, by
severe underinvestment in infrastructure which has inhibited natural growth in
local industries.



- 4 -
1.14      Household Incomes and Urban Poverty.  As the main locus of the
modern sector, Nairobi has a relatively high average income. Estimates of
labor force participation in 1974 showed over two-thirds in modern sector wage
employment, 8% in modern sector self-employment, 12% in informal sector
employment, and 12% unaccounted for or unemployed.   Most of the last group
probably have very low-income employment, perhaps illegal. Modern sector
employment has been growing at about 7.5% per year during the first few years
of this decade, with informal sector growth over 11%. The estimated 1977
household income distribution for Nairobi is shown below.
Table I-1: Nairobi Household Income Distribution, 1977
Cumulative %                    Monthly Household Income Range
Of Families                     K Sh                        US$
0   -   20                     0  -    550              0  -  66
21   -   40                   551  -  1,050             67  - 126
41   -   60                 1,051  -  2,000            127  - 240
61   -   80                 2,001  -  4,000            241  - 482
81   -  100                 over 4,000                 over 482
Thus, there is substantial group of households with incomes below the poverty
level, estimated at US$144 p.a. per capita in 1977 (approximately equivalent
to the real income of the absolute poverty group in rural areas, US$90 p.a.
per capita). This level of per capita annual income (US$144) would imply
household incomes of about K Sh 700 per month for households of the size
observed in project areas (7 persons). Over 30% of households fall below this
income level.
1.15        Comparable statistics on income and employment levels have not
been gathered for Mombasa and Kisumu. In general, however, average incomes
are lower, modern sector employment and its growth are lower, and, for this
reason, the urban poverty group probably makes up a larger share of both
Kisumu's and Mombasa's population than of Nairobi's.
C. The First Project: Success, Delay and Application of Lessons
1.16      The first urban project financed by the Bank and IDA (Ln. 1105 and
Cr. 544) is the largest single effort in low-cost housing so far undertaken
in Kenya (6,000 units at a single site, Dandora in Nairobi). Phase one of the
project consisting of about 1,000 site and service plots has been completed
and the plots were allocated in February 1977. By the end of 1977 house
construction was completed by allottees on well over three-fourths of the
plots, with satisfactory progress on virtually all of the remaining plots.
Standards of self-help and self-contracted construction are very high. There



- 5 -
the development of houses, even by the poorest allottees. Cost recovery ex-
perience has been excellent, with very low arrears and no defaults. Alloca-
tion was, in general, fair and accurate, with only a few cases of richer
persons sneaking into the project through dishonest means. The project
administrative unit has functioned well.
1.17      This experience confirms the main ideas of the project, i.e., that
the urban poor can develop their own housing, can pay back loans and mortgages
on time, and can develop housing of acceptable standards. It indicates also
that the concern with a lower limit to income (because of repayment worries
and fears of nondevelopment) was probably exaggerated. Experience with this
project also establishes the suitability of the basic physical design of the
project and of the internal organization of the project's administrative unit.
These are duplicated in the second project.
1.18      The main difficulties in the first project arose because of govern-
mental and administrative weaknesses rather than because of the target group's
lack of ability. Initial allocation of plots was delayed because of half-
hearted acceptance by the city council of the principles involved. Construc-
tion of some of the community facilities and the second stage of infrastruc-
ture construction was delayed because of disagreements over standards and
costs. To a great extent, these problems, none of which is unusually severe
for a new type of project and a new executing agency, can be traced to an
incomplete appreciation for what the project was trying to accomplish and to
misunderstandings between the city council's politicians and senior officers
and the project unit. Although there were full discussions of the project in
advance, there had been no practical experience with this type of project.
1.19      In order to cut down the delays caused by political and administra-
tive problems, the second project has stressed the continuous involvement of
all of the senior officers of the three city councils in project preparation,
particularly regarding standards. More thorough physical preparation -
complete preliminary engineering and first stage detailed engineering - should
cut down delays in tendering. To improve coordination between city councils
and project units, the latter have been organized, in this project, to fit
permanently into an ordinary slot in city administration as the nuclei of
Housing Development Departments in the three city governments. Thus, this
project will duplicate, reinforce and extend the successful features of the
first project.
1.20      Furthermore, and probably more important than any of these pre-
cautions and improvements, the first project is now a highly visible physical
fact. It disproves by its presence most of the stated and unstated fears
about this kind of project (that they are ugly, that they are slow to con-
solidate, that they produce a rash of bad debts and financial losses for the
city, and so forth). The success of the development of the first project is
also a politically useful fact of life for the city councils, which are now
much more nearly unanimous, in an informed way, in their support of further
low-cost housing development of this type.



- 6 -
II. PROJECT COMPONENTS, COSTS AND FINANCING
A. The Project
2.01      The proposed project would continue Bank support in the urban housing
sector of Kenya initiated under the first urban project at Dandora in Nairobi.
Significant new components directly resulting from inputs of the first project
are: (a) squatter upgrading as a complementary approach to site and services
(which was unacceptable to Government in the first project); (b) lower stand-
ards in site and services; (c) specific institutional components aimed at
improving both central and local government capabilities for developing and
managing urban projects; (d) technical assistance to strengthen the financial
management and resources of local authorities; and (e) efforts to improve
nutrition and family planning service delivery to the low-income project areas.
Project Objectives
2.02      The second project will enable Government to accelerate implemen-
tation of low-income housing programs in Nairobi and initiate similar programs
in two additional cities. During its execution, the project will also build
technical, institutional and financial capabilities to continue and extend
the low-cost approach to urban shelter on a nationwide scale. Specifically,
the proposed project would (a) increase the supply of site and services
plots to meet a significant portion of demand for such plots over the next
four years; (b) introduce upgrading of unserviced squatter settlements as an
official policy; (c) demonstrate an effective low-cost delivery system for
health, nutrition and family planning services; (d) stimulate and encourage
employment and income generating activities for the urban poor; (e) strengthen
the institutional capabilities of Government and local municipal authorities
for implementing and managing urban development; (f) assist Government in
improving the financial resources and management of local authorities;
and (g) help local authorities control the pattern of urban growth and to
develop their land more effectively.
Project Components
2.03      The proposed project would consist of the following components: 1/
(a)  Settlement Upgradlng:  provision of basic infrastructure to
five existing unserviced settlements (total of 536 ha) in
the three cities, affecting about 10,000 households;
(b) Site and services: preparation of about 11,770 serviced
plots in parallel with upgrading of existing sub-standard areas;
1/   See Table IV-1 for detailed breakdown of plots in each city.  The city
maps at the end of the report show the location of project sites in the
three cities.



- 7 -
(c)  Settlement Plots:  preparation of about 2,500 surveyed
plots with public water and sanitary facilities and
unpaved roads;
(d)  Low-cost Housing Plots for Market Sale:  financing of
surplus-generating programs for construction of about
3,240 serviced sites to be sold at market prices;
(e)  Housing Loans:  access to credit for house improvement
and new housebuilding in project areas;
(f)  Community Facilities:  provision of social, education and
health facilities to serve each site including 35 primary
schools, 14 health centers, 11 community centers, 9 social
halls and 2 sports centers;
(g)  Nutrition/Family Planning:  support for improvement of
these services to 265,000 beneficiaries in project areas
including facilities for home visiting, staff training,
monitoring nutritional status, prevention of malnutrition,
and evaluation of benefits;
(h)  Employment Opportunities:  provision for commercial activity
and small industries including space for about 350 kiosks,
1,830 market stalls, 960 serviced sites for small industries,
and loans for construction of workshops; and
(i)  Technical Assistance:  financing for consultants' services for
detailed design and engineering, studies, training programs and
consultants services aimed at strengthening of institutions,
monitoring and evaluation, and future project preparation.
B. Detailed Features
Settlement Upgrading
2.04      This component would upgrade existing uncontrolled settlements
through provision of infrastructure services, community and social facilities
and secure tenure. Selection of viable neighborhoods in each city was de-
termined by criteria such as location, economic and transport linkages, tech-
nical feasibility and need for services. Functional standards for infrastruc-
ture in the upgrading proposals are as low as possible initially so that the
per family costs are affordable by households at the lower end of the income
scale. However, provision is made in the planning for future upgrading of
standards as household incomes increase.
2.05      In Nairobi, the two areas included for upgrading are Riruta in
Dagoretti in the western part of the city and Baba-Dogo in the east. Upgrad-
ing of these two areas would result in approximately 2,050 plots, including



- 8 -
new plots expected through subdivision by the present landowners. In Mombasa
the upgrading area identified is Chaani, which is located 6 km west of the
city center. The proposed upgrading will incorporate 941 existing structures
and add 544 new (infill) plots. Upgrading sites in Kisumu are Manyatta in the
east and Nyalenda and Pandipieri, located southeast of the city center. These
three sites will incorporate about 4,080 existing structures and accommodate
an additional 560 new infi:Ll plots. Every household will have access to
services including water supply and sewerage, which are provided in individual
wet cores located centrally in clusters of 12-15 units.
2.06      Land tenure will be regularized in all sites in the upgrading
process. Owners of existing houses and allottees of infill plots in Mombasa
and Kisumu will be granted secure tenure by the municipalities. In Nairobi,
residents of Riruta and Baba-Dogo will be required to exchange freehold for
leasehold; they will still be charged for the improvement costs and will
be able to subdivide plots (see also paras. 5.12-14 for details on land
tenure).
Site and Service Plots
2.07      The project woulcl also provide residential plots in new development
areas with different levels of services to cater for a variety of needs of
the low-income population. A total of about 11,770 sites will be prepared on
various sites in the three cities. All sites are well located in terms of
employment and transport linkages. Four of the sites are already owned by
the Government and acquisition of the fifth (Migosi) is in progress (see paras
5.06-8). Where feasible, existing houses on these sites would be incorporated
in the layouts and owners will be allocated plots.
2.08      In order to keep initial costs as low as possible and to allow
maximum flexibility for self-help housing consolidation, the majority (86%)
of site and service plots will not have any superstructures. Allottees will
build their own houses with materials loans offered under the project.
Site and Services at Mathare North
2.09      A site and services scheme of about 2,500 plots will be financed
by this project on government-owned land in Mathare North in Nairobi. Provi-
sions for resettlement within Mathare North of all eligible squatter house-
holds who will be displaced. by the scheme are included in the project (see
para 5.15). However, the Bank-financed project is not directly involved in
the redevelopment and upgrading of privately-owned (company) areas in the
eastern end of Mathare Valley which contains the largest poorly serviced
squatter settlement in Nairobi. It has proven impossible either to acquire
the land for systematic upgrading in a Bank project or to insure that the
private land-owning companies would redevelop the land with due regard to the
interests of the low-income population now living there. The companies' main
interest, naturally, is to maximize their gains. Redevelopment of company
lands is therefore inevitable and outside the direct control of NCC. Re-
cognizing this, NCC has developed an overall proposal including a structure
plan to guide development and improvements in Mathare Valley. All developers



- 9 -
including companies will be required to conform to NCC's structure plan and
phasing proposal.
Settlement Plots
2.10      Regardless of any public sector activities in Mathare Valley, con-
siderable dislocation of squatter and low-income renting families is to be
expected in the company areas. In an attempt to provide a viable alternative
to this population, the project includes financing for an option with infra-
structure standards that are low enough to be affordable by them. At nego-
tiations, NCC agreed to develop about 2,500 settlement plots serviced with
public water and sanitary facilities and unpaved roads in the Kayole and/or
Villa Franca sites. Furthermore, NCC undertook to ensure that before it
approves applications to sub-divide any village on privately owned land in
Mathare Valley, the required number of settlement plots are available for the
affected families. Submission of preliminary designs and cost estimates for
this part of the project and NCC's proposals for phasing and development
acceptable to the issociation is a conditions of disbursement for the Nairobi
component (see Chapter VIII).
Low-Cost Housing Plots for Market Sale
2.11      In an effort to promote mixed development and at the same time
cater for the housing needs of households in income brackets immediately
above the target population, the project includes seed financing for low-
cost housing plots to be sold on the market. The standards of construction,
services and plot sizes would be similar to the site and service plots.
Consequently, the market prices, while expected to yield substantial surpluses
over costs, would be relatively low, making them affordable by middle and
lower-middle income groups.   The surpluses realized would be utilized in
creating a separate housing fund for constructing more units  (in the case of
Nairobi), or ploughed back to be used for cross-subsidization (in Mombasa and
Kisumu).  The project includes financing for constructing the first phase and
preparing the second phase of a four-year program in Nairobi, and complete
financing for the programs in the other two cities. The number of plots to be
financed directly under the project for this component is 3,242, representing
about 15% of the project's total units and about 9% of total project costs.
2.12      The principles governing the operation of the housing fund created
by this component in Nairobi were agreed at negotiations within the context of
a broader review of housing finance regulations. The main goal of the fund is
to isolate financial resources generated by NCC's housing operations to be
used exclusively for new housing development (see also para. 6.02).
Community Facilities
2.13      For each of the project sites, an evaluation of the needs for
community facilities over and above those existing was made to determine the
range and number of facilities to be financed under the project. (See Table
IV-2 for detailed breakdown). Thirty-five primary schools will be constructed



- 10 -
to minimum standards developed in the Dandora project to enroll 85% of the
primary school age children in the project areas. In line with national
education policy, primary schools will not include pre-primary classes, nor
will the project include nursery or secondary school construction although
sites have been reserved for these uses.
2.14      The 14 health facilities included in the project are designated to
serve a total population of 285,000-300,000. They are of three different
types; their mix in each city reflects the different stages which the local
Public Health Departments have attained in their efforts to implement the
national health policy of building integrated facilities. The three types
are: dispensary, maternity and child health clinic, and integrated health
center combining dispensary, clinic and a maternity ward. In Kisumu, one of
the integrated centers will include a centralized laboratory iwith X-ray and
a nutrition unit.
2.15      The 20 community centers are of three types:  a simple social hall
plus offices (Nairobi only); the same plus training wing; and the same with
training wing and day-care center (Nairobi only). The social halls, located
within a shorter walking distance of residents than the larger multi-purpose
facilities, are needed in the larger Nairobi sites, which it would be unnec-
cessarily expensive to equip with an equal number of full centers. The 14
markets are of the Jericho (Nairobi) type, the least expensive of any design
now in use in urban areas. They consist of a surfaced, fenced area with no
superstructures other than toilets and a market master's office. Nairobi's
two large, outlying site and service areas (Kayole and Villa Franca) will
each also have a sports center.
Nutrition, Health and Family Planning
2.16      The creation of new housing through the project is expected to
improve general health conditions by providing better environmental sanita-
tion; making clinic, dispensary and maternity services available; and enabling
allottees to earn rental income. Therefore, even without a special component,
health of the project population would improve over time. However, the
delivery of health care services, including family planning and nutrition,
to the urban poor is disproportionately lower than that to the upper income
groups. Although urban areas provide the majority of family planning accept-
ors, acceptance of family planning is low among the urban poor. An appraisal
of nutritional status also showed malnutrition to be a major cause of sickness
and death among children and this was compounded by a weak program and in-
adequate services which affected mostly the low-income urban groups. Such
disparities, therefore, indicate the need for a specific health/nutrition/
family planning intervention for this particular urban group.
2.17      Since family planning, maternal and child health and nutrition
services are currently provided by the city public health departments (PHDs)
as an integral part of health services delivery, this component provides
selective support to strengthen existing PHD efforts in these areas. The main



- 11 -
target groups are women of childbearing age and children up to 5 years, but
other adults will also be sought out in the information and education acti-
vities. On the basis of a needs assessment, the key deficiencies in delivery
of health services to the poor which this component addresses are in home
visiting, staff training and use, information and education materiels and
use, and program evaluation.
2.18      Thus the project will finance additional staff training, initial
salary support for a new nutrition cadre and for statistical clerks in new
family planning evaluation and research (E&R) units, vehicles and equipment
for home visiting and the E&R units, startup of demonstration plots and
nurseries to facilitate family food production and baseline and follow-up
nutrition surveys. The emphasis in both nutrition and family planning will be
on outreach to the target group in the home in addition to conventional
treatment and teaching in the clinics. In nutrition, the focus will be on
making mothers aware of the effect of a better diet on their children's
well-being and on simple means of preparing locally available and inexpensive
foods.
Employment Opportunities
2.19      The project will provide opportunities to the target population to
increase their income and will generate new jobs for them. Since a majority
of the household heads in all upgrading areas are wage employed, and the same
is likely in the site and services areas, access to urban centers of employ-
ment concentration was a primary consideration. In Mombasa the low-income
sites are both on the primary road link into the center of the city and have
access to cheap bus transport. Both locations are also within bicycle range,
at five and seven km from the city center.  In Kisumu, all low-income sites
are directly contiguous to the city, with a walk of one to two km to reach the
main employment centers.  In Nairobi, all sites are well located in relation
to existing and planned employment centers and transport linkages.
2.20      The main attempt to stimulate employment in this project, outside
of the construction industry itself, is through provision of workshop space
and loans for construction of workshops. There is thought to be sufficient
private capital and management ability to use these services profitably until
more complete package including loans and technical assistance can be made
available (see para. 2.23 below). On the other hand, space for such activi-
ties is very scarce at present and there is no easy way for the private market
to supply mortgage capital to the small firms which are expected to use the
space provided. Thus the project is aimed at doing the minimum necessary, at
very low cost in terms of administration, to allow an expansion of employment
in small scale manufacturing, in contrast to a complete-package-of-services
approach.



- 12 -
2.21      The project will provide about 960 serviced sites suitably located
for workshops. Construction of the workshops would be carried out by allot-
tees with loans available under the project. This component will address the
needs of the approximately 10% of project participants who are self-employed
in small-scale manufacturing. In addition to the individual workshop sites,
five bulk workshop sites will be provided to be allocated at cost to charitable
institutions involved in promoting small industries. Small-scale retail trade
is a major productive activity in squatter areas and site and services areas.
The project will cater for this activity by provision of about 350 sites for
retail kiosks at convenient locations and about 1,830 market stalls in cen-
trally located markets.
2.22      Construction of houses in the project is arranged to provide maxi-
mum scope for small firms to participate. Building in the first project has
usually been undertaken with a mixture of self-help and hired labor; almost
nobody has been able to bui:Ld to acceptable standards exclusively by self-
help. As a result, an active market for "fundies" (skilled and semi-skilled
informal sector craftsmen) has been developed. The proposed project will
cater for this mode of construction by providing building loans sufficient
to cover the cost of necessary labor in addition to materials.
2.23      Total employment expected to be provided through components included
in the project would be about 6,400 persons, excluding those involved in the
construction of houses (see para 4.20). The project makes no direct attempt
to stimulate additional formal sector wage employment. Kenya already is
developing an institutional capacity to do this through Kenya Industrial
Estates (KIE), which under the recently approved IBRD loan (IDF project) is
expanding its coverage to a limited number of smaller enterprises. A portion
of the KIE small-scale activities in Nairobi will be located in or near the
project areas. While KIE will eventually provide a package of services to
many small firms, it is not presently capable of catering to a large number of
small, high-risk borrowers.
Technical Assistance
2.24      The technical assistance to be financed through the project is
designed to strengthen institutional capabilities of Central Government and
local authorities in project implementation, organization and financial
management. The major part of the assistance will be in the form of financ-
ing to procure consultants' services, although other items such as certain
capital expenditures in the training components and local costs of travel-
ling and organizing seminars, are also included. A summary of the estimated
amounts and costs of the various types of technical assistance is given in
Table II-1.



Table II-1
KENYA
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
Technical Assistance
Cost
Component                                                   Description                                                             Man-Months         K Sh '000
General Assistance to Urban Areas
L   Training                                Capital cost of expansion of Government Training Institute; provision of furniture
and equipment.
To finance training programs for Government and comsaercial bookkeepers (240 per
year) and to provide cources for managers (60 participants per year)                                       -             8,026
2   Valuation                                Consultants services to Ministry of Local Government.
To assist in establishing central unit for proper tax evaluation and in operating
the unit for initial four years.                                                                           5             2,075
3.  :nstitutional Strenchening              Consultants services to Ministry of Local Goverment.
of MLG                                  To assist in the necessary restructuring of the Ministry to permit more effective
advisory and service role in supporting local authorities and to finance cost of
pool consultants servicing new development wing of MLG during project period.                           100              4.150
4.  Studv of Nacional Housing                Consultants services to Ministry of Housing and Social Services.
Corporation, MHS                        To carry out study of NHC to determine required organization and staffing
appropriate for implementing nation-wide low-income housing projects in the
sofaller cities, following current policies of MHS.                                                      40              1,660
5.  Study of Housing By-Laws                Consultants services to Ministry of Housing and Social Services.
To develop prototype housing bv-laws and building codes that are more appropriate
to low-cost housing.                                                                                     20                830
6.  Preparation of Third Project            Consultants services to Ministry of Housing and Social Services.
To identify priority areas for third urban projects, following the general
recommendations of the next Five-Year Plan and Government policies; and to
design a project on the basis of these priorities and the reconendations of
Studies 4 and 5 above.                                                                                   70              2 905
Sabtotal                                                                                                                                             235             19.646
General Assistance to Nairobi City
Council
7.  Improvement of NCC's Accounting         Consultants services and financing of equipment to NCC.
Systems                                To assist in implementation of recommendations of feasibility study of NCC'c
accounting and management information systems (co be carried out prior to
negotiations).                                                                                           iS                830
8.  Establishment of Transportation         Consultants services and financing of travel and equipment to NCC.
Planning Unit in NCC                    To establish and assist in initial operation of transportation planning unit
which will be responsible for coordinating transport policy and designing
transportation investments.                                                                              36             2,075
Subtotal                                                                                                                                              51             2,905
Project Related Assistance
9.  Study for Cosmercial Complex on         Consultancs services to Nairobi City Council.
Kayole Site                             To plan and design proposed Kayole District Center, a large cossercial area
located on the Kayole Site.                                                                              13               540
10.  Aerial Photography of Project           Consultants services to NCC, MC and KTC.
Cities                                  To contract for aerial photography of Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisuau early in the
project period to provide baseline data on location of settlements; and to
repeat photography at intervals of two years co update this information.                                                1,660
11.  Monitoring and Evaluation of            Consultants services to Ministry of Housing and Social Services.
Project                                 To assist in monitoring of project performance continuously in order to assist
project management; and to evaluate the project periodically to determine
its success (failure) relative to project goals.                                                        20                830
12.  Training for Project                    Financing for travel, per diem expenses and organizing seminars to Ministry of
Implementors                            Housing snd Social Services.
To organize seminars to transfer experience from the first project unit (DPD,
Nairobi) to the new hDDs for the second project (in Kissmu and Mombasa).                                 -                830
Subtotal                                                                                                                                              33              3,860
13.  Design, Engineering and                 Consultant services to NCC, MC and KTC.
Contract Supervision                    To complete detailed design and engineering, prepare tender documents and
supervise construction of infrastructure, housing units and community
facilities provided under the project (107  of cost of these components)                                 -             19.572
TOTAL                                                                                                                                                               45,983



- 14 -
C. Cost Estimates
2.26      Total project cost is estimated at K Sh 576 million (US$69.4 million)
of which 29% is foreign exchange cost. Project cost is summarized by category
in Table 11-2 below.
Table II-2. Summary of Project Costs
K Sh ('000)                    US$ ('000)
Local   Foreign    Total       Local   Foreign      Total
1. Site Preparation           12,415    1,080   13,495   1,495.8        130.1   1,625.9
2. On-Site Infrastructure   96,043   56,406  152,449  11,571.4   6,795.9  18,367.3
3. Community Facilities       42,012   28,008   70,020   5,061.7   3,374.4   8,436.1
4. Core Units                 36,699    9,175   45,874   4,421.6   1,105.4   5,527.0
5. Loan Funds                117,935         -  117,935  14,209.0           -  14,209.0
6. Trunk Infrastructure       18,760   11,018   29,778   2,260.2   1,327.5   3,587.7
7. Nutrition/Family
Planning                    2,984    2,985    5,969       359.5     359.6      719.1
8. Technical Assistance,
Design, Engineering,
and Supervision             9,786    9,786   19,572   1,179.0   1,179.1   2,358.1
Other                     -13,205   13,206   26,411   1,591.0   1,591.0   3,182.0
Base Cost Estimates          349,839  131,664  481,503  42,149.3  15,863.1  58,012.4
Physical Contingencies /a   20,593   10,568   31,161   2,481.1   1,273.2   3,754.3
Price Contingencies /b
(13.1% of Base Cost)         40,322   22,894   63,216   4,858.1   2,758.3   7,616.4
TOTAL                     410,754  165,126  575,880  49,488.5  19,894.6  69,383.1
Note:  Vertical US$ totals may not add due to rounding.
/a   10% of Items 1, 2, 3, 4, and 6.
/b   Calculated by applying inflation rates of 10% per year to yearly estimates of
project expenditure less loans.



- 15 -
2.27      All cost estimates are expressed in July 1978 prices, and are based
on detailed design for typical areas and preliminary design and engineering
for all areas. Physical contingencies of 10% are provided on all site pre-
paration, infrastructure and construction, including the seed capital for
market priced units, which takes the form of direct financing of a small
initial percentage of these units. Price contingencies are included for all
items except loan funds. The 10% annual rate of price increase reflects the
judgement of construction firms and quantity surveyors in Kenya who were
consulted by the appraisal mission. There was unanimous agreement among them
that price response in the urban civil works industry had been slow to reflect
changes in wages and materials costs, and that with increasing demand some
catching up of profit margins can be expected. Hence a rate of inflation
slightly in excess of the general rate of inflation can be expected in this
sector.
D. Financing
2.28      The proposed Bank loan of US$25 million and IDA credit of US$25
million will finance about 72% of project cost, covering 100% of foreign ex-
change cost and 61% of local costs. The Bank loan and IDA credit will be
made to the Government of Kenya, which will on-lend to project cities at
the same terms as in the first project (8.5% annual interest over 25 years).
The remaining 28% (US$19.4 million) of project cost will be provided by the
Government of Kenya. Government funds will be lent to the cities at standard
terms: 6.5% annual interest with a repayment period of 25 years. (See Table
VI-3 for a breakdown of sources and uses of funds for the project.)
2.29      Retroactive financing for about US$250,000 is recommended for
design and engineering and for site preparation on the first sites in each
city, including required minor river works and landfilling in Mathare Valley.
These expenditures will facilitate timely initiation of major construction
soon after loan effectiveness in all three project cities.



- 16 -
III.  BORROWING AND EXECUTING AGENCIES
3.01      Broadly speaking,, the government ministries in Keniya are respon-
sible for policy, financing, and land acquisition, while local government
agencies in the three project cities are responsible for carrying out the
project, operating and maintaining facilities, and cost recovery. Other
aid agencies, local charitable organizations, and local entrepreneurs and
plot allottees contribute complementary financing of physical facilities
located on project land (or serving it, as in the case of water and sewerage
trunk infrastructure) but not financed under the project.
A. National Authorities
3.02      Ministry of Housing and Social Services (MHSS) is responsible for
housing policy, legislation, preparation of budget submissions, and subsequent
supervision of expenditure on housing. Its role in this project is to co-
ordinate with other involved ministries regarding implementation and policy
matters, and generally to see to it from the ministerial level that the
project runs smoothly. A new site and service unit will be established under
the Housing Planning Division, Department of Housing, to provide technical
assistance, particularly to Mombasa and Kisumu.
3.03      The MHSS will also be responsible for project monitoring and evalu-
ation, and for implementing three technical assistance components included in
this project: (a) a review of existing building legislation and proposals for
a new prototype building codie, (b) a study of the National Housing Corporation
(NHC), an agency of the MHSS which implements housing projects in smaller urban
areas, and (c) preparation of a future project for smaller cities for the
latter.
3.04      Ministry of Local Government (MLG) is charged with the responsibility
of overseeing the operations and financing of the 61 municipal, county and
town councils in Kenya. The MLG powers include the delineation of electoral
areas, approval or amendment: of capital and recurrent expenditures budgets,
specification of officers' duties, authorization of council staff increases,
and generally promoting the efficiency of local government. 1/ The Minister
may, following an inquiry, remove an elected council from office and appoint
a commission in its place. Mombasa is presently being run by such a commis-
sion, which may be replaced by a newly elected council in September 1978.
3.05      The MLG is responsible for advising and assisting local councils on
management, administration, accounting and financial management, but because
1/   Powers and duties of the Ministry and of local authorities are pres-
cribed under the Local Government Law (previously Local Government
Regulations 1963).



- 17 -
of its historical establishment as supervisory agency for local government,
it has not had the appropriate staff or organization to fulfill these key
functions. The Government is considering reorganizing and strengthening MLG.
These steps will be vital to oversee the implementation of local Government
financial reform and to facilitate the establishment of a proposed central
valuation unit attached to MLG. The project includes finance for technical
assistance to MLG for consulting services for valuation, and to provide
advisory staff for management, administration, accounting and financial
management systems of local councils. At negotiations assurances were
obtained that (i) MLG will be restructured and strengthened to better provide
advice and assistance to, and monitoring of local authorities; (ii) a central
valuation department will be established by June 30, 1978 and be fully opera-
tional to provide five-year property valuations for local authorities 1/ from
July 1, 1979; and (iii) statutory revaluations of all properties for purposes
of general rate levies are completed to the Association's satisfaction (a) in
Nairobi and Mombasa and all Local Authorities which have not introduced a new
valuation roll since March 31, 1974, by December 31, 1980; (b) in Kisumu and
all Local Authorities which have not introduced a new valuation roll since
March 31, 1976, by December 31, 1981; and (b) in all other Local Authorities
by December 31, 1982. (see Chapter VIII).
3.06      Ministry of Lands and Settlement.  Three officials within the MLS
play key roles in carrying out the established legal procedures necessary to
acquire the land for the project. The Commissioner of Lands (COL), at the
request of the MHS, issues the legal notices of intention to acquire private
land and to set apart tribal Trust Land needed for public purposes (infra-
structure, community facilities), and the letters of reservation of Govern-
ment land to be developed in the project. In Mombasa and Kisumu, COL also
carried out valuation and assessment of compensation to be paid to private
land owners. In Kisumu, the Director of Surveys will survey Trust Land to
be set apart for public uses, and the Director of Land Adjudication will
carry out adjudication of Trust Land to be developed for housing, that is,
the transfer of title from collective or tribal tenure under the Trust Lands
Act to individual freehold tenure, to be held by the present residents. The
COL will retain direct control over formal sector commercial land (which will
be leased directly by the commissioner), and to land for secondary schools.
The Ministry will lease the remainder of the land, including land for kiosks,
markets and workshops, in bulk to local authority and recover land costs
through land rent collected in bulk from local authorities. (See paras.
5.06-5.08 for status of land acquisition).
3.07      Ministry of Education.  The three project cities are among the seven
municipalities which retained responsibility for providing primary education,
including teachers' salaries, following the 1969 Government takeover of fi-
nancial responsibility for education for the 46 other local councils. Follow-
ing the MOE's abolition of primary school tuition fees in 1973, enrollments
soared but the increases in costs were not taken into account in calculating
1/   Other than Nairobi and Mombasa which already have their own valuation
units.



- 18 -
the School Fees Compensating Grants to these seven cities, which were based on
pre-1973 enrollments. As a result, school building and staffing have been
severely curtailed in recent years, and the resulting difficulties have led to
a MOE review of the present arrangement. The IMF study of local government
finance recommended increasing the compensatory grant to fully cover teachers'
salaries, especially since MOE sets teacher pay scales.
3.08      While the Ministry will take over most recurrent expenditure for
primary education for all ciities, an arrangement is necessary to recover the
capital costs of the 35 schools included in this project. Although current
Government policy aims at self-help construction of such facilities, an
exception to this policy has been made in this project in recognition of the
fact that viable community organizations which would facilitate self-help
construction do not exist in the project areas. Agreement was reached during
negotiations that, commencing in 1980, building levies would be collected
through the municipality concerned at a rate at least Ksh 40 per pupil over
and above per capita levies for pupils in effect for the preceding school
year. This arrangement would recover the costs of construction and could
eventually provide the basis for funding of future construction programs.
B. Local Authorities
3.09      The three project cities' councils represent two different cate-
gories of local authorities.  Nairobi is the only one to be called City
Council (NCC). Mombasa, one of 11 municipalities, is normally run by a
Municipal Council (MMC), but is presently operating under the Mombasa Muni-
cipal Commission, appointed by MLG. Kisumu is also a municipality with
the Kisumu Municipal Council (KMC) as its governing body. There are no formal
guidelines for these differences in status, though they are related roughly to
historical population size. The main differences between them are in salary
scales and in broadness of functional responsibility.
3.10      All three councils share the same general structure:  an elected
council, a Mayor elected by the councillors from within their ranks, and a
Town Clerk, appointed by the Council on advice of MLG, who is the chief
executive. The chief officers of the city's operating departments serve at
the pleasure of the councillors; their policies and programs must also be
approved by committees of councillors.
C. Project Organization and Management
3.11      Responsibility for project implementation will rest primarily on
the three city governments. Under the first project, a study was made of
the existing council machinery for NCC's housing operations.  The principal
objective of the study was to set up a strong unified housing agency to
enhance the institutional capacity of Nairobi City Council to program, plan,
implement and manage housing projects and related community facilities quickly



- 19 -
and effectively. In the absence of such an agency, and because of the defi-
ciencies of NCC's administrative arrangements at the time of appraisal of the
first project, the Dandora Project Department (DPD) 1/ was created in 1975 to
implement that project. Since then, the study has produced recommendations
for creating a new department for housing development into which DPD would be
merged. These recommendations have provided the basis for setting up new
Housing Development Departments (HDDs) in each of the project cities, whose
functions in this project are described below. While new and seconded staff
required to implement this project (and in Nairobi, the DPD staff is included)
would form the nucleus of the new departments, the longer term objective of
these departments would be to gradually incorporate all other city staff now
assigned to housing, including those involved in the execution of other
projects.
Housing Development Departments (HDD)
3.12      The HDD has the same status within each city as the other depart-
ments in all but one respect. Rather than reporting to a series of standing
committees, it will be responsible to a single Housing Development Committee.
The committee will consist of members from within city governments (ordinarily
these will be the chairmen of all other standing committees, plus a new
chairman, and the Mayor and Deputy Mayor who are ex-officio members of all
committees) and from Government (the Permanent Secretaries of the Ministries
of Housing and Social Services, Local Government and Finance and the National
Housing Corporation would each nominate a representative). In addition, the
Provincial Commissioner (in the case of Nairobi) and District Commissioner
(Mombasa and Kisumu), who are nominated councillors, would be members of the
committee. Thus, the committee structure ensures smooth and quick decision
making since the chairmen of all standing committees and all branches of
Central Government are represented. Another aspect in which this committee
differs from other council committees is that no meetings will be held uni-
laterally by the council, i.e. without Government participation. This will be
ensured by procedures to be used for calling meetings which will be agreed at
negotiations.
3.13      The HDDs in the three cities are patterned after DPD.  Each would
consist of three operating divisions and two support units under a Director,
who would carry Chief Officer status, and a Deputy Director: the Technical,
Finance and Community Development Divisions, and the Administrative and Legal
Support Units. The new departments will be the principal agencies through
which the cities will design and implement this project and other similar
low-income housing developments that will enable them to achieve their housing
targets.
3.14      The manpower skills required by the HDDs will be provided by full-
time staff as well as staff seconded from other departments. Where the HDD
requires full-time use of a skill and on a greater scale than other
1/   See Appraisal Report (607a-KE) of the first project for a detailed dis-
cussion of DPD.



- 20 -
departments, the relevant individual or team will be assigned to it. This
category will include archiltects, quantity surveyors, land surveyors and
other staff directly engaged in housing operations. Where skills are used
predominantly on other municipal activities and only part-time by the HDD,
the staff concerned would remain in their present positions and be seconded
to the HDD. This would apply for example, to the highways, water and sew-
erage, and structural and electrical engineering departments/sections.
3.15      The financial management and legal staff will be located within the
HDD on a secondment basis so that ultimate financial and legal responsibility
is retained by the City/ Tc,wn Treasurer and the Town Clerk respectively.
During their secondment, they would be responsible to the Director of the HDD
for the contribution required from them, but would be expected on professional
matters to call on the advice of their professional head and colleagues in the
parent department.
3.16      This form of reorganization is considered to be the most appropriate
in devising implementing arrangements for the project because it (a) offers a
longer-term and broader institutional improvement; (b) can be undertaken with
least delay; (c) would permit the best use of scarce professional manpower;
(d) would best ensure that housing finance policies will be related to the
city's overall interest; and (e) provides the most promising framework for
harnessing a collective effort to the housing task of each city.
Department Organization
3.17      The basic work unit within the HDD will be a multi-disciplinary
project team assigned to a single site. Skills will be drawn from each of
the divisions as well as other departments as needed. The Technical Division
will be responsible for supervising detailed engineering, tendering and
construction of civil works and buildings. It will consist of architect-
planners, services engineers, quantity surveyors, land surveyors, and building
technicians. The division would be headed by a senior level engineer or
architect-planner who would be responsible for allocating and managing the
staff.
3.18      The Finance Divis:Lon will be responsible inter alia for project
accounting, preparation and control of cash flow, overall and for each project
site, financial analysis of projects and recurrent costs, financial control
of contracts, calculation and review of charges, administration of allottee
accounts including repayments for plot charges and housing and workshops
loans, and preparation of documentation for withdrawal applications for IBRD
loan disbursements. It will also prepare regular financial management reports
for the Housing Development and Finance Committees including details of project
financial monitoring. The division will be headed by an Assistant Director,
Finance (carrying Assistant City/Town Treasurer Status) who will be seconded
to HDD from the City/Town Treasurer's Department. He would be assisted by
project accountants and other subordinate staff corresponding to the number of
major sites.
3.19      The Community Development Division will have responsibility for a
wide range of community development activities in new site and service areas



- 21 -
departments, the relevant individual or team will be assigned to it. This
category will include architects, quantity surveyors, land surveyors and
other staff directly engaged in housing operations. Where skills are used
predominantly on other municipal activities and only part-time by the HDD,
and existing settlements to be upgraded under the project. The staff of
this division will transmit information between citizens and Government,
advise on and assist in the establishment of community organization and
cooperative self-building groups, stimulate self-help housing consolidation
and liaise with voluntary and Central Government agencies on the best use of
resources.
3.20      In the case of site and service areas, the community development
workers would publicize the project, solicit and process applications, orient
and train allottees prior to settlement and work with families during con-
struction. They will be involved intensively in the site and service areas
only for the period of planned implementation and would work to ensure that
there are strong self-help institutions that can take initiative in community
development with minimum help after this period. In upgrading areas, where
strong communities already exist, a separate section of the division will
deal with their special needs, starting well before implementation actually
begins in order to achieve maximum communication and feedback. The Community
Development Division will be headed by a suitably qualified person with ex-
perience in local community work. Other staff will be transferred or seconded
from the existing municipal Departments of Social Services and Housing.
3.21      The Administrative Support Unit of the HDD will serve as the execu-
tive and administrative arm of the department. The unit will be headed by a
Principal Administrative Assistant and supported by administrative assistants
for staff records, clerical supervision, and so forth; a management services
officer qualified in network analysis who would assist with general program-
ming work in the Department; and clerical officers, secretaries, stenographers
and typists according to the scale of staff and projects.   The Legal Support
Unit will provide legal advice and carry out legal tasks involved in the
Department's work. The unit's staff, consisting of an attorney supported by
law clerks and conveyancing clerks as necessary, will be seconded to the HDD
from the Town Clerk's Department.
3.22      The exact staffing and structure of HDDs will be tailored to meet
the specific needs of each city. In Nairobi, the Dandora Project Department
already exists and has been renamed. It will be expanded and strengthened by
adding about 20 seconded staff and approximately 15 newly recruited (or
transferred from within NCC) staff to its existing staff of about 30 pro-
fessionals and semi-professionals. In Mombasa and Kisumu new HDDs will be
created along lines similar to Nairobi, the one difference being the inclusion
of an Estates Division within the HDD in the case of Kisumu. Mombasa's UDD
will have an establishment of about 16 professional posts while the HDD in
Kisumu will eventually have 20. In both, about 50% of the staff is already
employed by the councils and will be transferred or seconded to the



- 22 -
HDDs. Appointment of senior level staff (Director, Deputy Director and
Division Heads) in the three HDDs will be a condition of disbursement (see
Chapter VIII).
D. Other Agencies
3.23      The Family Planning Association of Kenya (FPAK), founded in Mombasa
in 1961 with the support of the International Planned Parenthood Foundation,
was an important early pioneer in the family planning field in Kenya. Its
field educators continue to be active in information and education activities
in Nairobi and Mombasa, both in the clinics and through home visiting.  The
increased focus on improving home visiting effectiveness which the project's
health component will support is expected to stimulate more effective co-
ordination of the city Public Health Departments with FPAK/IPPF as well as
with the Ministry of Health.
3.24      The Medical Reseaich Center in Nairobi, funded by the Netherlands'
Royal Tropical Institute of Amsterdam, and the Medical Research Council Unit
in Kisumu, supported by the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine,
are the main nutrition research groups in Kenya. Their capabilities will be
used in a consultancy arrangement to supplement the Public Health Department
staff in the execution of the nutrition baseline and evaluation surveys.
Their role is to be primarily an advisory one in the intervention activities
to be carried out by the PHDs following the initial survey.
3.25      The National Christian Council of Kenya (NCCK) is one of the import-
ant private charitable institutions involved in urban areas in Kenya, and has
since 1970 run a very successful program in Nairobi's squatter areas. The
NCCK's most important role in the project will be in assisting the Community
Development Division of Nairobi's HDD in the relocation of Mathare Valley
residents (see para. 5.15). NCCK will also develop workshop space for the
use of individual entrepreneurs and will be allocated sites at cost on other
public-use land for training centers and other community work. Partly be-
cause NCCK feels it can be more effective as a rehabilitation training agency
by working outside the cost recovery constraint (on a grant basis) where
appropriate, and partly because its efforts are still quite small in scale
(about 140 total employees to five Mathare cottage industry shops), its
methods are not amenable to, nor is it interested in undertaking a large-
scale commercially based program to promote small-scale entrepreneurs at
this time. Nevertheless, the training and employment NCCK will offer on the
serviced land which would be allocated to it at cost in project areas is
expected to have more impact per dollar spent than any program that the Bank
would be able to support directly.
3.26      At least two other non-profit groups will also be offered serviced
land at cost for social and educational purposes in Mathare Valley: Undugu, a
Catholic-initiated foundation focussing on training and sponsoring individual
entrepreneurs, will build a "village" polytechnic (secondary technical school),
and the Lions Club is planning a dispensary.



- 23 -
IV. DESIGN STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS
A. Site Planning
Planning Standards
4.01      General planning guidelines and spatial standards applied in the
project were based on a review of existing conditions and consultations with
local authorities. The standards had to be affordable by the target popula-
tion as well as acceptable politically and socially. The planning guidelines
are at the same time intended to maximize efficiency of land use, yielding
approximately 60% for residential plots, 20% for circulation and i0% for other
public areas.  The range of plot sizes in the project is 96-250 m
Physical Layouts
4.02      Settlement Selection.  A detailed evaluation of existing squatter
areas and vacant land available in the three towns was carried out before
selecting the project sites. The principal objective of the evaluation was
to identify those areas which were most in need of improvement and which
had the best opportunities for successful implementation. For each of the
selected sites, consultants carried out socio-economic surveys and infra-
structure feasibility and analyses to provide the inputs necessary in planning
and designing functional layouts for upgrading. To the extent possible, ex-
isting path of communication (tracks and pedestrian paths) are utilized to
minimize disruption. (Typical upgrading and site and service layouts are
illustrated in IBRD Maps 13353 and 13354).
B. Infrastructure Standards
4.03      In designing the infrastructure, minimum functional and by-law
requirements were considered to determine initial levels of services, and
provision was made in the engineering plans for future upgrading as needed.
The specific off-site infrastructure requirements for each of the sites in-
cluded in this project will be adequately met by existing infrastructure, new
infrastructure under construction (or committed) and off-site infrastructure
components financed under this project.
On-Site Infrastructure 1/
4.04      Roads  and Surface Water Drainage  Each site will have a network of
external access, primary distributor, local distributor, minor access roads
1/   These do not apply to the Settlement Plots in Nairobi for which only the
most basic service provisions (public water and sanitary facilities,
unpaved roads) would be made initially in order to keep costs within
reach of settlement allottees.



- 24 -
and pedestrian paths. In site and service areas few, if any, tracks or paths
exist, and thus most roads can be designed from scratch. In upgrading areas,
many tracks already exist, some of which are used for vehicular movement.
Where possible and practical, these alignments are retained as basic structural
elements in the upgrading process. The drainage system for disposal of storm
water and domestic waste water other than sewage is integrated with the roads.
4.05      Water Supply.  Potable water will be supplied to all households.
Site and services areas will have on-plot connections, while in upgrading
areas some of the plots in Mombasa and Kisumu will be served by connections
provided in wet core clusters (12-15 wet core units constructed together at a
central location). In all cases connections are individually metered and
allocated to plots.
4.06      Sewerage.  Waterborne sewerage will be provided on all sites.  As
in the case of water supply, some of the upgrading areas in Mombasa and Kisumu
will be served by connections in wet core clusters. In view of the poor ac-
ceptability and maintenance of communally shared facilities in earlier projects
the wet core nits (with water tap and w.c.) in the clusters are individually
allocated to plot owners who would be solely responsible for their maintenance
and for paying rates for water consumed by them.
4.07      Solid Waste Disposal.  All project sites will be provided with
concrete hard stands at the rate of one for every 20-30 plots at convenient
locations along roads. In accordance with standard practice, each project
city will be responsible for providing the necessary storage bins and col-
lection services. Hard stands, storage bins and collection vehicles will be
financed through the project. The costs of stands will be recovered through
mortgage payments; bins and vehicle costs are charged through user fees.
4.08      Electricity and Street Lighting.  Street lighting and security
lighting will be installed ;at major communal areas. The center-to-center
spacing for street lighting will comply with local standards, varying from 30
to 60 m. Pedestrian access areas will also be lighted. Community facilities
and commercial and industrial areas will be provided with the required power
connections. Individual metered electricity connections will be available for
a fee from the East African Power and Lighting Company, on application by a
minimum number of households.
C. Housing Standards and Options
Service Options
4.09      The range of plot options in the project is described in Table IV-1.
Differing conditions and needs and the desire to promote mixed development
will be met by a variety of service options. Most plots will not have any
contractor-built superstructures provided (Option 1). In Mombasa and Kisumu,
1,823 plots (14% of all new plots in the project) are provided with some
elements of superstructure (foundations and slab in Option 2, and wet core
with kitchen in Option 3) on. an experimental basis to test the difference in



KENYA
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
Site and Services, Upgrading and Market Sale Plots
Service OpLions /a
SETTLEMENT
Site            NEW SITE AND SERVICE PLOTS                  PLOTS                SETTLEMENT UPGRADING               MARKET SALE PLOTS                 Project
Size     Option  Option  Option  Option                     Option         Option  Option  Option                 Option  Option                       Total
(ha)        1        2        3        4      Total            S           1(U)*   4(U)*   5(U)**   Total          1(M)     6(M)                     By Site
NAIROBI
Kayole                225      3,900    -         -        -        3,900      2,500              _        _        _         _          _        _         -               6,400
Ville Franca          112      2,600    -         -       -         2,600       -                                                         700    -           700           3,300
Dandora 6              70       -        -        -        -         -          -                 -        -        -         -          -       1,000    1,000             1,000
Riruta                121       -        -        -       -          -           -                -        -       1,537    1,537        -        -         -               1,537
Baba Dogo               21      -        -        -        -         -           -                _        -         517       517       -        -         _                 517
Mathare North          125     2,500     -        -        -        2,500        -                -        -                             -        -                         2,500
Subtotal              674      9,000    -         -       _        10,000      2,500              -        -       2,054    2,054         700   1,000    1,700             15,254
MOMBASA
Mikindani               68      -         235      938    _          1,173       -                 317    _         -          317       -        -         -               1,490
Chaani                 99       -        -         150     394        544       -                 _         941    _           941       -        -         _               1,485
Niritini                14      -        -        _        _          _          _                _        _        _                     418    -           418              418
Subtotal              181       -         235   1,088      394      1,717       -                  317      941    _         1,258        418    -           418           3,393
KISUMU
Manyatta                75      -        -        -         100        100       -                _       1,361    _         1,361       -        -         -               1,461
Nyalenda               89       -        -        -        -         _           _                _       1,488    -         1,488       -        -                         1,488
Pandipieri            112       -        -        -        451        457       -                 -       1,233    -         1,233       -        -         -               1,690
Migosi                  88      -        -         500    -            500       -                 291    -         -          291      1.124    -1124                      1,915
Subtotal              364       -        -         500     557      1,057       _                  291   4,082      -        4,373      1,124    -         1,124            6,554
TOTAL               1.219      9.000      235   1.588      951    11,774 2. 500                    608   5,023   2.054    7,685    _2242   1,O00             2            25.193
La  Option 1 - Site and Service Plot (100-250 m2) with individual water and sewer connections.
Option 2 - Option 1 and Foundation and Slab
Option 3 - Option I and Wet Core and Kitchen
Option 4 - Plot served by ucllected wet cures, i.e.,  wet cores are grouped together and centrally located to serve 12-15 plots.
Each plot is allocated an individual wet core.
Option S - Settlement plot (100-250 m2) served by public water and sanitary facilities.
Option 5 - Area uipgrading.  Primary and some secondary infrastructure provided to already settled, privately owned land.  Further
servicing and subdivision is left to private developers,
Option 6 - Basic Urbanization,  New land serviced with primary and secondary infrastructure.  Subdivision confined to blocks, each
of which would be capable of further subdivision by private developers into 25 site and service plots.
(U)      - Upgrading area with existing settlement
(M)      - Market Sale Plots
- Existing Structures
- Potential plots at fully developed densities.



- 26 -
the rate of housing consolidation when some superstructure is provided.
Construction of houses on the plots will be the responsibility of allottees,
who will be provided with materials loans and technical assistance, including
approved prototype house designs.
House Types
4.10      In collaboration with local authorities in the three project towns,
a range of prototype designs has been developed by consultants to be offered
to plot allottees. The project towns are located in three different climatic
zones, each with its own design requirements which are reflected in the pro-
posed prototypes. The prototypes are designed to facilitate construction
in phases so that allottees can build the basic unit for quick occupation and
develop the rest progressively. Costs are kept as low as possible by utiliz-
ing inexpensive building materials and simple detailing and specifications
(hard core trench filling for foundations, concrete/stabilized soil blocds for
walls, and corrugated iron sheeting for roofing). Estimated costs per m
for wet cores range from K Sh 850-900 (US$102-108) and for rooms from K Sh
320-350 (US$39-42) (mid-19713 prices and assuming self-help construction;
construction2by contractors would cost about 30% more).  Thus, typical wet  2
cores of 6 m are estimated at K Sh 5,100-5,400 (US$615-650) and typical 9 m
rooms at K Sh 2,880-3,150 (IJS$347-380). Based on these figures a typical
basic unit with a wet core, kitchen and one room would cost about K Sh 10,860-
11,700 (US$1,310-1,410).
Upgrading of Existing Houses
4.11      The state of existing houses in the upgrading areas varies from town
to town, and from settlement to settlement. Detailed engineering surveys were
carried out to classify structures according to their condition. Improvable
structures are expected to be improved by their owners with technical
assistance.
4.12      Upgrading of the few existing houses that are to be incorporated
into site and services neighborhoods will be financed by materials loans to
make it possible for households to immediately take advantage of the service
connections by adding wet cores and kitchens. For upgrading areas served with
wet core clusters, no immediate investment on the part of households is
required. It is expected that the provision of secure tenure and the high
returns that are available for serviced rental rooms will stimulate private
investment in these areas.
D. Community Facilities
Level of Provision
4.13      The numbers of sites for the six types of community facilities
included in the site designs have been determined on the basis of national
planning standards, expressed in terms of the number of people to be served
by one facility (population catchment) and maximum distance from plots. The



- 27 -
smallest catchment areas are for nursery schools (one per 2,500 persons) and
primary schools (one per 5,000 persons). The catchment area for a secondary
school, a health center, a community center, and a market is 20-25,000 persons.
4.14      In both the site and service and upgrading areas, these standards
were applied to determine the number of sites required to serve the ultimate
site populations (at projected maximum densities). In upgrading areas, the
total number of sites reserved includes sites presently occupied by existing
facilities. The population estimates, number of existing facilities, numbers
of sites reserved and numbers of facilities financed under the project are
shown in Table IV-2.
4.15      The application of planning standards ensures that as the cities
develop their capacity to provide social services, land will be available in
the project areas to accommodate the necessary structures and facilities. In
none of the cities, however, is the present level of services as high as the
planning standards; typical catchment areas of existing facilities in develop-
ment parts of the cities are one and a half to two times larger. The present
average level of service in the city was used as the main guide in deciding
the number of facilities to be financed and constructed during the project
period. Other factors considered were (a) known constraints in municipal
finances of the recurrent costs of the facilities and (b) local officials'
judgement on priorities for facilities among project sites. Thus, the people
in the project areas will be served about as well as the rest of the city. An
interim population figure of one-half the ultimate densities on new plots was
used to determine the population to be served by project financed facilities.
This will cater for the population that will be on site at the end of the
project period.
Location and Site Size
4.16      Specific sites have been identified in the preliminary site layouts
for all schools, markets and sports centers. The health and community centers
will be located within the larger areas indicated on site layouts as reserved
for other community facilities. The site sizes used are within the range
accepted by the Ministry of Lands and Settlements' Town Planning Department for
all but primary and secondary schools. The smaller site sizes used for these
two facilities represent a compromise between the national planning standards
and the minimum feasible site size recommended by consultants to the first
project. The local authorities found the latter areas unacceptable because
they did not provide adequate playing field space and because they assumed
sharing of playfields by two contiguous schools which is usually not practical.
E. Provision for Commercial Activity and Small Industries
4.17      Land allocation in the project areas will include provision for
informal commercial activities and for serviced sites to be used for the
development of small manufacturing and repair workshops. The project will
finance the servicing of land for these facilities. The level of provi-
sion for informal commercial services is tied to the predicted demand for



KENYA
SECONDS URBAN PROJECT
coar,unity Pacilitien: Exoltt,nt end NC. P'AciIitlen by Site.
1  __                                                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NUIRSERY  SIKCO1DARY
POPULIATION                          PBWR'KAR  SCHIOOLS                           HEALTnl FACILITIES                          COIOIINITY CENTERS                      C09N11M1Tf MARtKETS                SMVO1.3           SCIIOOOU
Now,                                           Nto
After )After 6          Serving   Total Site.  Included in              Serving   Total Sit..   Iocludnd In                         sitna        * in                      Sit*#        * to          Sites              Bit..
City and site        Relating    Yan ..     years         sit.      Reserved          Project             Site      R.s*rved Le    Project             *No.       Nneervet!L.  Project            N ow    Re..rvndLj  Project         R...,v.dle       R*A.rnodkc
NA I tnBI
R.oyl.                            37,250   71.,500         Nune          12              5                 None          3               1 NC           None            3          1c CCNona                  6            3              24                4
2 SB
Vil  Franca                      25,125   50.250          Nona           a              3                 None          2               B NC           None            3          1c NCBona                  2            2              Il                2
2 SH
Baod.ra North            -         5,000    10.000         None           I              I              2PI ...nna       I                              N one           I          INN           'on."         d           -               2                /
in lot
Project
Rirt.t                 26,000     28,000   50,000        2 on-nit.        5              3              N on-.its        I               I NC         2 on-nit.         3          lcc          I - n..da    I             1               6 
I off-site                                     Crowded                                                                   2 Sl         i.pronement
I.ba-DSoo               5.167      6,462      7,537      I off-nit.e              1                     2 otf-nit.                       IR1  C         Bone            I          IS Ni one                                               3 
Mother. valley         68.597     69.990   93.496        2 off-.It.      IN              ft               off-at. t.                        IC            n-it.,        A          3cc            Nona      .2           .1               I
crow,ded                         2 SC                                     I$il          on-nite
Subtotal               99,784   304.445  431.771                        42              21                              10                7                            3.5          1 5                      16                           93               10
BCOPOASA
Bikindenl               7,368      14,006    23.523      1 on-aut         4              2               Ioff-site       I               I SC         I off-mice        I          I cc         2011f-nit.   I             I               N 
(2 k.)                                       (2 km)                                    (2 k.)
Ch,..ni                18,880     22.333    26,865       i on-sit.        4              2               1 off-ait.      I               I NC         I off-nit.        I          I cc         2 off-aitte  I                              8
(2 km)                                       (2 k.)                                    (2 k.)
Hl'ItIni                 -          3,flj    6.270       1 off-attn                                      I 1.1off-alt.                                   N .  one                   -Bn 
I k.)                        -1(I26.)                         IMn
Subtotal               26,248     39,494   56,658                         95                                             3                 3                            2           2                         2            2               la 
Maeyatts               23,137     23.681   24,237        l oft-slins      3              3               1 off-site      I                I D            None                 I                 I on-lte.   I              I                61
(2 6.)
Nyoienda               23,808     23,8108   23,808       1 on-sittn       I      (2-stream)l             I oft-nit.      I                1 0            None           I                       I  on-nit.    I             I 
(2-atrna,n)I,           (1-2 k.)
Pandipiert             19,128     22.242   24,755        2 on-sit.        3      (2-ntreox)1               None          I                               N  one         I                         N ona       I            -                6
(2-a tream)1
Btnnnt           ~~~4,363    11.297    22.229      I an-nit.        .       (2-ntrnaa)i              Noone        J*                               Non.ej                                 I off -sit.  1               
Subtotal               71,038      83,034   95,029                       16              9                               6                 4                            63                                    4            3               26                4
TOTAL                 197.070   426,983  589,458                         61             35                              1i                14                           21          20                        22             14            127               16 
jj  PopuILtion estimte.a do not Include natural increasen.  They a,nnu.nitneouainas1    annedpplton6c...0    e    l.
.ill tocc  'tthslf ultiont  .nnt   rtA .ynn,lldnity in nix y6ean.
/b  All nchoon  ren   3-otuo .-           ol   (21 cano.)unlann otherwise npccifl*d. 
7   Total nit.. rea.rund on sitn include. ota SE occupied by neintlog .u-nit.  facilities.                                                                                                                                                                                  f-i
7   No n14n0 are rs.,..nd fur aarket. or .condary ..h.Icol   In  Owod"r  North (Aroa 6) b .....  sU   c at  aill an. facilnitie  to be built                                                                                                                                  4
Laeu,rot  U.no,lor  (firat projectS.
SfC - linnith Center       SC - Subc..ntar      DI - Dispensary        cc - Cwaineunity Center    SB - Social Hail           PC  -  Pol.yclinic



- 29 -
these services, and the number of small manufacturing and service places
is based on estimated demand by self-employed craftsmen. The facilities
are not, however, restricted to residents on the grounds that any employment
generation in the area is beneficial, regardless of the residence of the
entrepreneur. Commercial provisions comprise:
(a) Space for retail kiosks, at the rate of 16 per 1,000
families. Space demands for each kiosk are small
(about 9 sq. m. each) and no loans are needed from
project funding since the shops are very simple.
They will be scattered throughout the development
with one each of the four types for each 250 families:
general, tea and light food, butchery/grocery, and
charcoal. This is typical of the densities of these
kiosks in existing low income neighborhoods.
(b) Market space for independent small retailers (e.g.,
individual hawkers of vegetables, groceries, var-
ious limited consumers goods inventories, etc.)
at the rate of one market of about 150 market stalls
in each site and service or upgrading area in Kisumu and
Mombasa, and one market of 120 stalls for each 1,500 plots
in Nairobi. The number of retail stalls was determined
by an analysis of average density of such stalls in low
income areas and their profitability. The provision
is slightly less than the average observed, in an ef-
fort to improve earning of each retailer. The stalls
will be rented by the cities at market prices.
4.18      Provision for small-scale manufacturing consists of serviced
small industrial workshop sites (averaging 250 sq. m. per site) with loans
averaging K Sh 11,000 per site for development of buildings, at a rate of
about 50 sites per 1,000 families (Kisumu and Mombasa). Similar serviced
sites with the addition of surfacing, but without loans for superstructure,
are provided at the same rate in Nairobi. These sites would be allocated
at market prices for use by manufacturing or repair shops.
4.19      The shops will be grouped in manufacturing areas of about I ha con-
taining 40 sites. Some one to two ha areas will be rented or sold in bulk to
charitable institutions to develop activities for creating employment; the
superstructure, necessary credit, and technical assistance for development of
workshops, related training, and cooperative activities will be financed by
private grants to the charitable institutions. The sites will be provided at
cost and for these sites no loan funds will be required. Because of limits to
the development capacity of the main interested institutions, these bulk sites
are estimated at about three ha in the Kisumu project, two ha in Mombasa and
one ha in each of the major sites in Nairobi (Kayole, Villa Franca, and Mathare
North). In the event that they are not taken up by charitable institutions,
these bulk areas will be subdivided into individual workshop sites.



- 30 -
4.20      The permanent employment places that will be provided space by
this component of the projecl: can be estimated as follows.
Table IV-3.  Estimate of Prolect Employment Generation
Total
Number   Employment per Each   Employment
Kiosks                                 350             2                   700
Informal Market Stalls              1,830               1               1,830
Sites for Workshops (individual)       960             3                2,880
Bulk Workshop Sites
for Development by Charitable
Institutions                            5           200                1,000
TOTAL                                               6,410
F. Materials Loans
4.21      The project includes materials loans for all low-cost site and
service plots at rates intended to cover the materials cost and necessary
hired (skilled) labor cost to construct houses up to the level of two bed-
rooms. Loan amounts thus vary by city on account of different unit costs.
Within each city, the amount of loan funds needed to attain the two bedroom
level will vary because of the difference in the superstructure built by the
contractors under the project or existing before the project. The site and
service area loan options for low-income units are summarized below. The
loans for existing structures are intended to allow the households occupying
the few existing houses in site and services areas to take advantage of water
and sewerage reticulation by adding "wet core" facilities (kitchen, shower
and toilet connections and fixtures) to their present houses. No provision
is included for otherwise improving the houses.
Table IV.4. Housing Loan Options, Site and Services Plots
Nairobi                   Mombasa                 Kisumu
Loan Amount        # of   Loan Amount      # of    Loan Amount      # of
Plot Type           Per Plot (K Sh)  Plots   Per Plot (K Sh) Plots  Per Plot (K Sh)  Plots
No Superstructure
Provided or
Pre-Existing          11,500       9,000 /a    7,500 /b        235        -               -
Wet Core and
Kitchen Provided         -            -         5,600          938       6,000           500
Existing Structure        -             -        5,000          317       6,000           291
Total Plots                          9,000 /a                 1,490                       791
/a   Funds provided under project cover about 85% of these sites.
/b   Individual connections and built slabs provided.



- 31 -
4.22      In upgrading areas three types of plots can be distinguished:
(a)  upgrading plots served with wet core clusters (contractor
built) that have existing structures. There are no loans
provided for this group, because minimal dwellings already
exist and the facilities in wet core clusters provide the
households with services without additional on-plot invest-
ment. Households are expected to improve the houses on their
own, once secure tenure and infrastructure are provided.
(b)  upgrading area infill plots served with wet core clusters
that have no existing structures (infill plots). No wet
core facilities are needed on plot. Loans for this group
are to finance two-room structures. The project includes
loans of K Sh 5,600 each for 394 plots in Mombasa and of
K Sh 6,000 each for 557 plots in Kisumu under this category.
(c)  upgrading area infill plots served with individual connec-
tions and wet core plus kitchen. The project includes
loans of K Sh 5,600 to finance two-room structures for
the 150 plots of this type in Mombasa.
4.23      The project also include a loan fund of K Sh 4.32 million for pri-
vate landowners, who will upgrade the infrastructure in the Riruta and Baba
Dogo areas in Nairobi that are provided with secondary infrastructure under
this project. These funds will be lent at commercial rates (11.5% or higher)
and will be disbursed against expenditure for infrastructure extension.
4.24      As in the first project, material loans will be paid in cash to
allottees in stages corresponding to the three or four main phases of con-
struction (foundations, floor, walls and roofing).  Drawing of loan funds
may be made after completion of each phase and on approval of the HDD.
Households will construct their dwellings on the basis of approved house-
types and will purchase materials and necessary skilled labor on their
own.



- 32 -
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Implementation Schedule
5.01      Overall project implementation will take about four years (see
Chart V-1). Detailed design and engineering will begin in the second quarter
of 1978. Preparatory work on the first sites to be developed in each city is
already underway. Phasing of community facilities is closely coordinated with
infrastructure construction to ensure completion of the facilities in time for
the settlement phase. Housing consolidation by allottees will be an on-going
activity spanning 18 months following allocation of plots. The materials
loans program will therefore extend beyond the project's four-year implement-
ing time period.
5.02      In view of the imLportance of maintaining the momentum of project
preparation, Government has requested approval of retroactive financing to
cover project-related expenditures including consultants' fees paid prior
to loan signing: total estimated expenditures between December 1, 1977, and
loan signing is about US$400,000 of which US$250,000 is recommended for retro-
active financing under the loan.
B. Procurement
5.03      Procurement procedures to be employed in this project will follow
those being used satisfactorily for the first project. Civil works components
of the project totalling K Sh 261 (US$31.5) million 1/ and consisting of
preparation and servicing of plots, construction of core units, and trunk
infrastructure would be procured through international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank Guidelines. Tenders will be advertised in Eastern
Africa, and embassies of BaLnk member countries and Switzerland in Nairobi
notified. Prequalificatiorn will be required in order to enable Government to
assess the firms' experience, financial standing and performance on similar
construction in Kenya. Domestic contractors would be accorded a preferential
margin of 7.5% over foreign contractors in the evaluation of bids. 2/
5.04      Contracts for construction of community facilities totalling
K Sh 70.0 (US$8.4) million would be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally in accordance with standard procedures employed
by the three project cities which were reviewed by the appraisal mission and
would be acceptable to the Bank. Efforts to attract small contractors from
1/   Before contingencies.
2/   The local construction industry in Kenya is well developed and active.
Most of the contracts under this project are expected to go to Kenyan
firms.



- 33 -                                                                   Chart V-1
KENYA
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
Implementing Schedule
(Project Period: July 78-July 82)
1978                                1979                                1980o                                981                               1932
1      2       3       4           2       2       31  2                      2                                   2       3 2                 1       2      3       4
J F4M  AIM JJ    A S  011          J I l  AI H    JA          D        J FM  AN J  J            IOD       J FM  AM J  JA S  0 i D             Ji  M   A M J  J A 9  O    D
NFRDAADAsTIRJ!E AND SIrE
NArsD2l ~  ~     ,              -----s S-------   //7/7
M at har e Nor th ----------------///1  
Math-re Centra-           ----------------/
Kayole Phase I                             ---------------------_----_         //
KaYole Pha..  II                                                    ------------------------- /-///
Villa Franca Phase-  I                     ---------------------- ------------- //////                                                                                                 -
Villa Franca                                                           -------------------------------
Bats Dogo--/1-                                              -
Miritni                            ____________     /11'_______________________
C31sni                             ------------------------------/                                                  -
KISNUDD    Migosi                     --------------------
M-ayatta                            ----------/-//I/--
Nyaleda                              ---------------------------
P.adip i                           ------------------------        ------- ///
*CCtMUNIrY   FAC   Ir IES,                             ---------------------------------------
-MATERIALS  OANS:                                                                                               I
.T5ECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
NHC Study                                     oooooor     sO
Third Project Preparatisr                        osooooo          sscssaeeseeaouo
cusing Ey- Laws Study                          oossnesseesQsceSso eso seese
NCC Acsscsthssg Systems                  sooopooeoooo
i NCC Trsport llnit                      oraO o
! Kayole Distrit Study otoeoosnesa
monitoring  and                                         -  - - -  - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --
-------  Deign  ad  agine.ring
f//I/// Teaderlog
Crent-ution
Hse    ousing Coe-truction by A11ott.ee
noooooo Technsical Assistaas.



- 34 -
project towns will be made by grouping contracts to be within their range.
Building materials loans worth K Sh 118 (US$14.2) million would be made in
cash, with plot allottees procuring their own materials and labor. Consul-
tants' services financed under technical assistance totalling K Sh 46
(US$5.5) million will be procured in accordance with local procedures in
consultation with the Bank.
C. Disbursement
5.05      Disbursement of funds for the loan will be made on the following
basis:
(a) 72% of the total expenditure for civil works
including infrastructure and buildings;
(b) 72% of the materials loans;
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures and 61% of local
expenditures on consultants services; and
(d)  72% of the total expenditures for recurrent costs
on the health/nutrition/family planning components.
Disbursements would be fullyr documented except for materials loans under (b)
which would be made against certificates of expenditure for which documenta-
tion would not be submitted but would be retained by the HDDs and available
for inspection by the Bank during supervision 1/. An estimated schedule of
disbursements of the Bank loan is given in Table V-1. Any undisbursed funds
at the closing date of December 31, 1983 will be cancelled unless the Bank
agrees to reallocation for additional project related expenditures.
D. DetaLils of Project Implementation
Land Acquisition
5.06      Most of the land to be developed into site and service plots had
been held by the Commissioner of Lands (COL) prior to selection for this
project and needed only to be reserved for project use (transferred to the
municipalities). Small portions of the Migosi and Mathare North sites were
held by private owners and are in the process of being acquired by the
Government, for transfer to local authorities before the project begins.
The Kayole site in Nairobi was part of the NCC holdings and required no
further legal action.
1/   In accordance with Clause III of CPS memorandum 7.15, the Borrower
should make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, for audit of
expenditures covering disbursements under this procedure.



- 35 -
Table V-1
KENYA
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
(US$ '000)
Cumulative     % of
Quarter       Quarter Ending            Amount          Disbursement    Total
1          Sept. 30, 1978              250                250           0.5
2          Dec. 31, 1978               350                600           1.2
3          March 31, 1979              450              1,050           2.1
4          June 30, 1979               650              1,700           3.4
5          Sept. 30, 1979            1,000              2,700           5.4
6          Dec. 31, 1979             1,200              3,900           7.8
7          March 31, 1980            2,000              5,900          11.8
8          June 30, 1980             3,000              8,900          17.8
9          Sept. 30, 1980            3,500             12,400          24.8
10          Dec. 31, 1980             4,500             16,900          33.8
11          March 31, 1981            5,500             22,400          44.8
12          June 30, 1981             6,500             28,900          57.8
13          Sept. 30, 1981            6,800             35,700          71.4
14          Dec. 31, 1981             5,400             41,100          82.2
15          March 31, 1982            3,000             44,100          88.2
16          June 30, 1982             2,500             46,600          93.2
17          Sept. 30, 1982            2,500             49,100          98.2
18          Dec. 31, 1982               900             50,000         100.0



- 36 -
5.07      The three sites to be upgraded in Nairobi and Mombasa were in
private hands at the time of their selection. The Mombasa site (Chaani)
is in the process of being acquired; notice of intention to acquire was
published in October 1977 and claims to compensation were heard on January 4,
1978. Private owners of t]he two Nairobi upgrading sites (Baba-Dogo, Riruta)
will be required to surrendler a portion of their land to NCC for public use
but will retain ownership Eor the remainder.
5.08      The three upgrading sites in Kisumu are tribal land, held in trust
by the Commissioner of Lands. The legal procedures to compulsorily acquire
("set aside") land required for infrastructure, community facilities and
commercial use were initial:ed in November 1976. These parcels will be avail-
able for on-site works to begin as scheduled. However, the regularization
of tenure for residential lots requires the land title to be adjudicated, that
is, converted from communal. to individual freehold titles. This is a standard
legal process which usually takes one to two years to complete because of
lengthy claims hearings.
Allocation Procedures
5.09      For site and service areas and infill plots in upgrading areas, the
criteria for eligibility are that the applicant:
(a) be a head of household residing in the city;
(b) own no other real property in any city in Kenya;
(c) have resided in the city for at least two years;
and
(d) earn no less than K Sh 400 and no more than
K Sh 1,000 per month.
The income "ceiling" of K Slh 1,000 is about the same in real terms as that
used in the first project (K Sh 650). The income "floor" is lower than the
income actually required to afford a site and service plot (about K Sh 645 -
see para. 6.06) by the average amount it is estimated a household will be
earning from one or more rental units. This change in the "floor" reflects
experience in the first project that even those apparently barely able to
afford a site and service p:Lot have had little difficulty meeting payments or
building their houses, and that most families add to their income by con-
structing rental units--even before constructing their own living space--
which are easily rented due to a shortage of decent rental units. Thus
relaxing the income "flow" will permit poorer households to benefit from
the project without significantly increasing financial risk.
5.10      For squatter households in Mathare Valley who will be relocated
from their present homes to new plots in the site and service or settlement
areas, no minimum income criterion will be applied; however, these and other
applicants will be required to be



- 37 -
heads of households (no single individuals) who have resided in Mathare for
at least two years and who own no other residential property in the city.
They will not have to move until the new site is ready for occupancy.
5.11      For site and service areas other than Mathare North, the Community
Development Section of the HDD will select allottees and a waiting list from
qualified applicants through a computerized random number program in Nairobi
and public ballot in Mombasa and Kisumu. The random selection procedure,
introduced in the first project, has functioned successfully to avoid siphon-
ing off of plots for sale to influential individuals with incomes exceeding
the permitted ceiling. Infill plots in publicly owned upgrading areas will be
allocated in the same way as site and service plots, except for a number of
plots to be reserved for existing households in these areas whose land is
needed for public uses (see para. 5.15 below).
Land Tenure, Lot Transfer and Eviction
5.12      The municipal authorities will grant long-term leases to allottees
of residential plots, including infill plots in upgrading areas, and to
present freehold land owners in Baba-Dogo and Riruta. For residents of
adjudicated plots in the Kisumu upgrading areas, formally held freehold title
will be held (charged) by the municipality until all payments due to the HDD
have been discharged. Stalls and plots in markets and workshop areas will be
leased to users on the market terms by the HDDs on behalf of the COL, which
will be entitled to the usual land rent (3% of market value, 5% after 5 years).
The COL will lease formal sector commercial sites directly. Community
facilities plots will be held by local authorities, except for secondary
school sites, which remain in the hands of the COL.
5.13      Allottees in site and services areas will be expected to reside on
their plots but may rent rooms. The lease will require an acceptable structure
to be erected on the lots and will specify the period within which it should
be built (18 months). Housing construction in the first project has actually
occurred over a much shorter period, once allottees begin work (3-6 months).
5.14      As in the first project, allottees wishing to sell or transfer lots
in site and service areas or infill plots in upgrading areas within the first
five years of lot occupancy will return the plots to the RDD and receive
compensation for improvements (cost of materials paid plus an imputed cost of
labor). This condition will not apply to residents who must be resettled
(see para. 5.15) or to existing households in upgrading areas. Resettled
households may sell after three years and existing households in upgrading
areas may sell immediately, subject to clearing the mortgages held by HDD.
Standard NCC clauses enabling the HDDs to repossess the plots and buildings in
case of default (six months delinquent in materials or standing charges
payments) will be written into the mortage agreement. Transfer of lots and
repossession (eviction) have been minimal in the first project.



- 38 -
Resettlement in Upgrading ireas and the Mathare North Site
5.15      A few households in upgrading areas in Mombasa and Kisumu will need
to be resettled to make room for on-site infrastructure and community facil-
ities. The exact number will not be known until detail design and engineering
is complete. Those households affected will be compensated for their land and
structures and will be allocated an infill plot in the same area; the site
and service criteria for allocation will apply (see para. 5.09), except that
no minimum income will be required. In Nairobi, eligible households now
squatting on Government land to be developed as part of the Mathare North site
and service area will be offered plots in this area, since the squatter
settlements are not upgradable and are located on land unsuitable for plot
development. This land will be used for community facilities (see also para.
5.10 above). In Riruta and Baba-Dogo, private owners of any structures which
must be removed for infrastructure development will be compensated for the
value of the structures.
Community Participation
5.16      The final detailed engineering and design for each upgrading site
will be subject to amendment by the sites' present residents, concerning,
for example, the precise alignment of roads and location of infrastructure
(clustered wet cores) and community facilities. In the Mathare North site
and service area, the residents of squatter villages will work with an NCC
Communications Team to determine which households will be allocated new plots
on an individual basis and which households would prefer to be allocated a
block of plots. These communities will also be involved in the determination
of a schedule for implementation which will permit them to continue to occupy
their present residences until their new plots are ready for occupation.
E. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.17      The project will be monitored to (a) test whether the various project
components undertaken are replicable and affordable for the intended benefi-
ciaries; b) assess the extent to which appraisal objectives are being met for
each of the major components; c) suggest ways of correcting observed weak-
nesses during implementation of this project; and d) contribute towards de-
signing better future projects. The detailed terms of reference for monitor-
ing and evaluation were agreed at negotiations. Responsibility for carrying
out the monitoring will rest on the Ministry of Housing and Social Services.
The Ministry will also be responsible for preparing a Project Completion
Report for submission to the Bank within six months of the last disbursement.



- 39 -
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Cost Recovery
6.01      The following principles of cost recovery are to be applied in all
the low-income developments in the project.
(a)  For all sites, those costs which are ordinarily recovered by
the cities through user charges or rates will be similarly
recovered in project areas (e.g. primary infrastructure for
water, roads, community facilities, etc.).
(b)  Land costs will be borne directly by the Central Government,.
Ministry of Lands and Settlements (MLS). Following their
ordinary practice, MLS will recover these costs through land
rents charged in perpetuity at the rate of 3% of the estimated
unimproved market value per year for the first five years and
5% of the unimproved value per year thereafter.
(c)  One-half of the estimated costs of the HDD for the period of
the project implementation (four years) has been included as
a charge against plotholders to reflect the ordinary practice
of charging for some of the development services of the city.
(d)  All other costs, comprising (i) site preparation, on-site
infrastructure, core unit construction, loan funds, design
engineering and supervision, and contingencies related to that
portion of land not used for public and commercial services;
and (ii) project related technical assistance, nutrition and
family planning expenditure, are borne directly by the
plotholders as part of capital plot costs.
6.02      Loans and capital plot costs will be repayable over 30 years at an
interest rate of 8.5% per annum. A grace period of three years on payment of
principal and interest will be extended to beneficiaries of settlement plots.
They will, however, be required to pay K Sh 25 a month toward these plots
during the grace period. Beneficiaries of all other plots will receive a
grace period of 18 months.  This is sufficient to complete self-help construc-
tion of a basic house. A 5% surcharge has been added for bad debts. The
annual rate of interest to households, 8 1/2%, is set to give the city govern-
ments a spread of about one percent over their average cost of borrowing for
the project. Although anticipated inflation in Kenya reduces the real interest
rate charged to households to a very low predicted level (1/2 to 1 percent) it
is in line with the general structure of interest rates in Kenya. GOK and the
Bank are currently cooperating in a study of the entire structure of interest
rates in the country which may result in the long overdue restructuring of
rates. For the present, however, there is no argument for insisting on a
higher rate in a project designed specifically for the poor. The 5% surcharge
for bad debts on mortgage payments is more than adequate to cover any marginal



- 40 -
losses in resales and financial and administrative costs of delinquencies, and
foreclosures. From the experience of the first project and the long-run
experience of council's housing accounts, it appears that the problem of
arrears is minimal.
6.03      For the units in the project intended for sale at market prices cost
recovery is immediate and exceeds the cost of the units. In Nairobi the
surplus from the 1,700 units to be directly financed by the project is to be
used for financing further development. A total of 6,000 units is expected
to be prepared for construction during the project period, and large surpluses
should therefore be available for further development beyond the project
period. For Mombasa and Kisumu a smaller number of market priced units is
financed directly by the project. Surpluses from these units are to be used
for financing part of the cost of the upgrading components in the two cities,
which will benefit the poorest group of people served by the project. The
market price of plots with individual service connections and no superstruc-
ture is estimated at K Sh 11,000-14,000 per plot. Cost of these plots
ordinarily recovered from plotholders is K Sh 2,300-6,400. Each unit will
therefore produce a substantiLal surplus.
6.04      The unit costs of each plot option are shown in Table VI-1.  The
cross-subsidies shown in this table are designed to ease the burden of repay-
ment for those households which are already in areas to be upgraded. These
are generally the poorest families. In the case of Kisumu and Mombasa, this
subsidy of K Sh 1,550 to K Sb. 1,850 is from 15% to 20% of the full capital
cost of the project to these households. For displaced residents in the
Mathare North site and service area in Nairobi, the subsidy is about 10% of
capital cost. There are no other cross-subsidies required by the project; all
other households can choose a project option which is within their ability to
pay without subsidy.
6.05      Sites for individual workshops, kiosks and market stalls will be
leased by the local authorities at market rents. This is estimated to produce
a minimum rate of return of 13% per year. Loans for workshop construction
will be repayable over 10 years at commercial rates of interest (11.5% or
higher).
6.06      The development cosits of infrastructure constructed under the
project in the Riruta and Baba Dogo areas will be recovered by NCC through
assessments of landowners on the basis of frontage on streets and through
charges for public utilities. This will result in recovery of 90% of such
costs. The balance will be offset by requiring landowners to surrender
without compensation a portion of their land for public use. Infrastructure
loans in these areas (para. 4.23) will be at commercial rates.
B. Affordability and Replicability
6.07      Using the unit costs for the main plot options from Table VI-1,
affordability is demonstrated in Table VI-2, which shows the monthly charges



- 41 -
Table VI-I
KENYA
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
Infrastructure Costs Per Plot and Costs
of Constructing Minimum Shelter
(K Sh '000)
Balance    Plus
Recovered  Loan        Total
Less      from        Required  Required
Basic      Cross    Plot Loan  for          for
Cost       Subsidy  or Down    Minimum   Minimum
Per Plot  Payment  Payment    Shelter   Shelter
KISUMU
Manyatta Upgrading
Existing Houses                   11,205    1,543       9,662        -   la   9,662
Infill Plots                      11,200       -      11,200       6,000 lb  17,200
Nyalenda/Pandipieri Upgrading                                               /a
Existing Houses                   10,821    1,543       9,278        -    -   9,278
Infill Plots                      10,081       -       10,081      6,000 -b  16,080
Migosi Site and Services
Existing Houses                    5,996    1,543       4,453      6,000 'c  10,453
Site and Services                 19,778       -       19,778      6,000 /d  25,778
Market Priced Units                5,997   -6,003    12,000          -           -
MOMBASA
Chaani Upgrading
Existing Houses                   11,200    1,841       9,359        -   /    9,359
Infill Plots
Collected Wet Core              11,200       -      11,200      5,600  -  16,800
Wet Core and Kitchen            19,547       -      19,547       5,600 /d  25,147
Mikindani Site and Services
Existing Houses                    7,681    1,829       5,842      5,000 /c-  10,842
New Plots Site and Services
Site and Slab                  10,472       -       10,472      7,500 /e  17,972
Wet Core and Kitchen            20,188       -      20,188       5,600 4d-  25,788
Miritini Market Priced Units         6,461   -5,539    12,000          -           -
NAIROBI
Low Income Units
Kayole/Villa Franca                                                     if
(Site and Services)              5,165       -100    5,265    11,500  -  16,765
Kayole/Villa Franca                                                     /h
(Settlement)                     2,066        -       2,066        -         2,066
Mathare Site and Services
(Non Resettlement)               6,439        -       6,439    11,500  -  17,939
Mathare Site and Services                                               if
(Resettlement)                   6,439      1,562    4,877    11,500  -  16,377
Market Price Units
Kayole/Villa Franca
Site and Services                  4,900       -      14,000 /i  -              -
Dandora Development
Area for Site and Services         2,360       -      11,000       -            -
/a   For  existing houses, project supplies complete sanitation facilities.
lb Project supplies complete sanitation facilities. Loan will build minimum
two-bedroom structure.
/c   Houses exist with no sanitation facilities.  Project supplies infrastructure
and connections. Loan will build wet core and kitchen.
/d   Project supplies wet core and kitchens.  Loan will build two bedrooms.
/e   Individual connections and slab provided. Loan is required to complete basic shelter.
/f   Project supplies infrastructure connections to individual plot.  Loan is required to
construct basic shelter.
/g Estimated market prices. No cross subsidy within project from these units.
lh   No materials loans available.



- 42 -
Table VI-2
KENYA
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
Monthly Charges to Plot Allottees -
-Main Project Options (K Sh)
Site and                            Settlement
Upgrading    Infill Plots    Services with           Site and            Plot
of Existing  with Clustered    Wet Core and         Services with       Communal
Houses        Wet Cores          Kitchen       No Superstructure    Services
(Kisumu       (Mombasa           (Kisumu             (Nairobi        (Nairobi
Example)      Example)           Example)            Example)         Example)
Balance Recovered
from Plot Loan /a   9,278           11,200             19,788              5,265            2,066
Yearly Plot Loan
Payment                 863          1,042              1,841                490               195
MO;NTHLY CHARGES
Plot Loan              71.9           86.8              153.4               40.8             16.3
Reserve for
Bad Debt                3.6            4.3                 7.7               2.0              0.8
Rates                   8.0            8.0                8.0               10.0             10.0
Utilities             33.0           158.0               33.0               40.0             15.0
Land Rent               5.0            5.0                5.0                6.0              6.0
Subtotal             121.5           162.1              207.1               98.8             48.1
Building Loan
Charges                  -            43.4               46.5               89.2
Total Monthly
Charges               121.5          205.5              253.6              188.0             48.1
/a   From Table VI-1, Column 3.



- 43 -
required from plotholders. Assuming that housing costs, rates, utilities and
land rents will take up about 30% of income, which is about average for the
urban poor in Kenya, the cheapest solution, settlement plots with communal
services, would require a household income of K Sh 160 (US$19.3) per month.
(The household would be paying about 20% of its income for plot loan and land
rent, 10% for rates). The next cheapest solution, upgrading of existing
houses served by wet cores, would require a household income of K Sh 404
(US$48.7) per month or about K Sh 57 (US$6.9) per month per capita. A family
earning K Sh 626 (US$75.4) monthly could afford the other main option, a site
and service plot with a building loan of K Sh 11,500.
6.08      Replicability of all three low cost solutions, settlement, upgrading
and site and service, is feasible for households below the urban poverty line
of US$144 p.a. per capita. The settlement plot solution is most attractive
in this regard: replicability is feasible for virtually all urban households
in Kenya. The upgrading solution is feasible for all families earning over
K Sh 404 per month. For Nairobi, this means about 90% of all households.
In other cities incomes are known to be somewhat lower, and the percentage
below K Sh 404 is probably about twice as high as Nairobi, that is, only 80%
of households earn over K Sh 404. Thus the upgrading solution with collected
wet cores is replicable on a scale which could solve the bulk of the housing
needs of the urban poor.
6.09      The site and services solution is somewhat more expensive than
the upgrading solution and can thus be repeated for a smaller percentage of
the population. Approximately 75% of Nairobi's households and a lower per-
centage of those in Mombasa and Kisumu earn enough to afford this type of
housing. Thus site and service housing is replicable for a wide spectrum of
low-income urban families, but is inappropriate for about the lowest 25%.
6.10      Inclusion of rental income from added rooms would alter the afford-
ability calculations discussed above. Experience in the first project shows
that informal loans are available to develop rental rooms in site and service
areas and that these rooms yield a very high return. This rental market pos-
sibility accounts for much of the development of third and fourth rooms on
plots in the first project where the income of the household was barely
sufficient to finance a single sleeping room, in addition to the wet core and
kitchen provided. Families on the affordability margin (say an additional 5%
to 10% of urban families) are expected to be able to afford site and service
housing if the incomes from such rental units is included.
6.11      A greater emphasis on the simplest urban plot development approach
(or cross-subsidies within site and service developments) would be required in
the long run, however, because exclusion of any significant percentage of the
increase in population from the cheapest controlled settlements guarantees
that unauthorized and irregular settlements will continue to grow. Solutions
that are demonstrated in the present project are: (a) cluster wet cores in
upgrading areas to lower considerably the cost of water and sewerage facil-
ities, (b) joint development of market priced units and low-income units under
a housing fund (such as the one to be started in this project in Nairobi) with
cross-subsidies for some of the low-income units, and (c) settlement plots.



- 44 -
C. Project Cash Flows
6.12      A summary of project cash flow is shown in Table VI-3.  In each
city, the housing component of the project yields a net annual cash surplus
after the completion of the construction period. Small deficits in the
construction period are caused by costs of the project not covered by loans,
for which the payment by households is included in mortgage payments rather
than in a cash charge. These comprise interest during construction and
administrative costs of the project unit.
6.13      Cash flow analyses for each city on items affecting the General Fund
indicate a persistent deficit. This is due to the imbalance between rates and
expenditures on community facilities, and it occurs in spite of utility pay-
ments which yield large surpluses over operating costs. Thus these deficits
reflect the general problem of tax weaknesses of the towns. This problem is
addressed in this project through technical assistance and project agreements
designed to make a start on fundamental improvements in the cities' fiscal
syst em.
ITII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
7.01      The project will generate a wide range of benefits to the urban
poor in Kenya's three largest cities. About 30,000 households in the proj-
ect's site and service and upgrading areas will receive direct benefits in
the form of land tenure, access to credit for housebuilding, and better
environmental sanitation and access to health and education services. About
6,400 informal sector entrepreneurs will benefit from space provision for
kiosks, market stalls and workshops and from loans for workshop construction.
Indirect benefits include a substantial increase in the supply of rental
units to be built by low-income allottees and purchasers of market-priced
plots, which is expected to lower or stabilize housing rents.
7.02      Technical tools introduced to Kenya with this project include:
(a) Large upgrading projects of two types: conventional
upgrading of densely settled unserviced areas where land
is Government owned or can be acquired, and upgrading
of privately owned urban fringe areas by providing
infrastructure loans and supervising development;
(b) Settlement plots as a means of providing affordable
accommodation to the very poorest urban dwellers; and
(c) Cheaper facilities designs. The most important design
modification is the collected wet core, where individually
owned toilets, showers, water and washing facilities are
clustered in a central place. This will cut the costs of
providing these facilities in half.



- 45 -
Table VI-3
KENYA
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
Summary of Project Cash Flow 1978-83
(K Sh '000)
Kisumu    Mombasa    Nairobi    G.O.K.    Total
Uses of Funds
Project Expenditure a/
Housing Components          71,830      51,033       150,583               273,446
General Fund Components   63,615        46,737       109,220   19,646    239,218
Price Contingencies         19,911      13,583        26,304    3,418      63,216
Sub-Total          155,356    111,353        286,107   23,064    575,880
Debt Service                  38,277       29,946       52,428      -        120,651
Other Expenditures             13,561      22,598       28,633      -         64,792
Sub-Total           51,838       52,544       81,061      -        185,443
TOTAL              207,194    163,897        367,168   23,064    761,323
Sources of Funds
IDA Credit         )                                                   (  207,500
IBRD Loan          )       155,356    111,353       286,107            (  207,500
G.O.K. Loan         )                                                  (  137,816
G.0.K. Contribution b/                                         23,064      23,064
Sub-Total                                                         575,880
Payment by
beneficiaries c/          35,990      24,561      106,264               166,815
Other Income e/             15,848      27,983      -25,203 d/             18,627
TOTAL              207,194    163,897       367,168   23,064    761,323
a/   Including physical contingencies.
b/   Contribution for General Technical Assistance.
c/   The greater part of beneficiary payments are mortgages paid after the
project period.
d/   Payment into continuing Housing Fund Account.  To be applied for next
phase of market priced units.
e/   Required additional sources of funds (residual).



- 46 -
7.03      On the institutional side, the project is designed to provide
the basis for the reform of the three cities' housing delivery system as a
whole and especially to develop a capacity to undertake low-cost housing
programs on adequate scale. It is also expected that the project will provide
useful experience for the eventual extension of site and service schemes in
urban centers other than Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu. Finally the financial
reforms will have long-term implications for local governments' ability to
provide adequate services.
Rate of Return Calculations
7.04      The most readily quantifiable benefits have been measured in terms
of a stream of imputed markiet rental values for the dwellings and rooms to
be constructed under the project.  Based on data from studies of existing
low-income areas in the three cities including the first project, monthly
rents prevailing for a room are K Sh 200 in Nairobi and K Sh 175 in Mombasa
and Kisumu. 1/ In the rate of return calculation, it is assumed that these
rents will fall, in real terms, to about K Sh 175 and K Sh 150 respectively
as a result of the big increase in supply brought about by the project.
Market prices have been used in estimating the project's ccsts except for
foreign exchange costs, which have been shadow priced at K Sh 11 per US$1.
The project's economic rate of return on the housing component is about 17%.
The economic rate of return on markets, workshop spaces and kiosk spaces,
calculated separately, is estimated at 13%.
7.05      Risks.  There are no special risks in the project that would re-
duce the rate of return to unacceptable levels. The main uncertainty is the
effect of the project on overall market rental levels.  Assuming rents after
the project to be 20% lower than estimated--far below presently observed
rents--the project would still have a 14% rate of return.   The economic rate
of return on markets, workshop spaces, and kiosk spaces is unlikely to be
lower than estimated, since the retail establishments are purposely under-
supplied compared to other poor neighborhoods and the workshop space is both
cheap to produce and in demand at much higher prices than those assumed in
the calculation.
7.06      Specific efforts have been made to avoid delays experienced in the
first project, most of which have been due to fundamental disagreement over
the standards of housing to be provided or permitted within the city. The
danger of such conflicts has been minimized by ensuring continual involvement
of all parties concerned in the project definition stage, and by establish-
ing agreements on the major relevant specifications of the project during
appraisal. Procedural problems experienced in the administration of the
first project should be greatly reduced through the regularization of the
status of the Housing Development Department as a bonafide department in the
council structure. Should delays occur despite these efforts, the result
1/   These rent figures relate to rooms comparable to the project in terms
of construction quality, location and access to public utilities and
community facilities.



- 47 -
would probably be some increase in project costs, but not to the extent of
jeopardizing the basic project objectives.
7.07      Two risks caused by undertaking new tasks are readily apparent;
neither would affect the economic rate of return. There is a clear risk,
in upgrading of very low income neighborhoods, of difficulties in cost re-
covery, notwithstanding the fine cost recovery record of the first project.
In upgrading areas costs are lower and benefits comparable, but the obvious
quid pro quo of site and service projects - moving onto a new site, with
individual services and building loans in exchange for regular payments -
is lacking. The general no-nonsense approach of the Governments on cost
recovery for services, however, is reassuring on this point.
7.08      A second risk concerns the long-run effectiveness of the fiscal
efforts started by this project. Within the limited timeframe and negotiating
context of a single project, reforms will be started, but the momentum for
continued improvement, which requires mutual consent of traditionally rival
local Governments and Central Government Ministries, cannot be assumed.
Distribution of Benefits
7.09      The urban poor will receive direct benefits from the upgrading,
site and service, employment (markets, kiosks and workshops), and health/
nutrition/family planning components which comprise 81% of project base
costs. They will also benefit from the use of surpluses from the sale of
market priced plots, to cross-subsidize low-income lots in Mombasa and
Kisumu, and to finance further expansion of the supply of serviced resi-
dential land in Nairobi. Other indirect benefits will accrue to the poor
through the expected reduction or stabilization of housing rents due to
the large increase in rental units to be constructed on most plots.
7.10      Urban Poverty Impacts.  When the project is completed in 1983
the urban poverty group is estimated to be about 650,000 in the three cities.
Of this group about 150,000 will receive direct benefits as a result of the
project. Of the loan/credit amount of US$50 million, 80% produced direct
benefits to the urban poverty target groups in terms of goods and services
which are both affordable and replicable for this group. Hence US$40 million
of the loan/credit can be considered urban poverty lending.



- 48 -
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS AND LOAN CONDITIONS
8.01      The project is expected to have a substantial influence on the
Government's approach to urban shelter and infrastructure for lower income
groups. Besides directly increasing the supply of low-cost shelter, the
project will have an impact on broader issues in urban housing, and insti-
tutional and financial pol:icies of urban authorities. The project's various
components are designed to maximize its contribution toward meeting the
needs of the urban poor in Kenya. In the process of negotiating the loan,
a number of undertakings aimed at policy reforms were be obtained from
Government. These are described below.
8.02      During negotiations, agreements and assurances for implementation
were reached with GOK on the following items with respect to local government
administration and financing (para 3.05):
(a) re-structuring and strenthening of the Ministry of Local
Government to better advise, assist and monitor local
authorities
(b) establishment by June 30, 1978, of a central valuation unit
attached to the Ministry of Local Government, including
use of consultants to asssist in setting up the unit and to
carry out the initial assessments. The unit shall be fully
operational to provide five-year valuation rolls for local
authorities from July 1, 1979;
(c)  introduction of an annual tax of not less than 2% on the
annual rental values of commercial and industrial property
located in centra:L and prime developed areas of local
authorities in the same manner as, and in addition to,
general rate levies with effect from January 1, 1981 in
Mombasa and Kisumu, January 1, 1982 in Nakuru and Eldoret;
January 1, 1983 in Nairobi, Thika and Kitale. The Bank will
be consulted on criteria for determining annual rental value
and defining such central and prime developed areas by not
later than July 31, 1979;
(d) ensuring that by January 1, 1980 there shall be uniformity
and regularity of valuation for rating of land within the
jurisdiction of local authorities levying rates,
(e) completion of statutory valuations of all properties for
purposes of general rate levies according to an agreed
schedule,
(f) assurances that from January 1, 1980, each local authority
collecting general rate levies takes all action necessary
to ensure that no general rate levies remain unpaid longer
than 90 days after the date on which they fell due;



- 49 -
(g) preparation by not later than January 1, 1979, of regulations
acceptable to the Bank to control the funds and finances of
trading undertakings (including water supply, sewerage, refuse
collection and disposal, markets, abattoirs, conservancy) of
local authorities, and to issue such regulations for such
services, where applicable, in Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu to
be effective from April 1, 1979;
(h) preparation of regulations to control the accounting and
financing of housing and related activities of local authori-
ties by not later than July 1, 1979; and introduction of
regulations satisfactory to the Bank for such finances and
activities of local authorities effective by not later than
January 1, 1980;
(i) confirmation of Government policy and intent to ensure that
local authorities are provided with adequate funds to carry
out their functions, but as far as practicable local
authorities will be required to provide such funds from
local resources. To facilitate this, Government will
determine fair, efficient and effective actions to be
taken to provide local authorities with the funds they
require, including a system of determining annual grants-in-
aid to be made by GOK to local authorities which shall
be introduced by January 1, 1983 and implemented thereafter
in consultation with the Bank, and
(j) introduction of building levies for the construction of primary
schools within the jurisdiction of each municipality in respect
of each child in primary school in gradually increasing amounts
in accordance with principles and scheduling satisfactory
to the Bank (para 3.08).
8.03       The following items were agreed as conditions of disbursement.
(a) that the Housing Development Department had been established
and key staff appointed for each project city before funds
could be disbursed for the city in question (para. 3.22),
(b)  that consultants had been appointed to assist MMC and NCC
in completing rating valuation of all properties under their
jurisdiction before funds could be disbursed for the city
in question (para. 3.05),
(c) that a certificate satisfactory to the Bank had been
submitted by NCC's auditors detailing the extent to which
debts owing to NCC at December 31, 1977 had been paid before
funds could be disbursed for Nairobi; and



- 50 -
(d) that proposals for phasing of redevelopment of privately
owned land in Mathare Valley, and preliminary designs and
cost estimates for settlement plots had been accepted
by the Bank before funds could be disbursed for Nairobi (para
2.10).
8.04      With the assurances and conditions indicated above, the project
is suitable for a Bank loan of US$25 million equivalent and an IDA credit
of US$25 million equivalent.



ANNEX I
KENYA
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in
the Project File
A.   General Reports and Studies
Al. LOW COST HOUSING AND SQUATTER UPGRADING STUDY, Waweru and
Associates, 1976. Progress reports (seven volumes).
A2. KENYA SECOND URBAN PROJECT, Waweru and Associates, August 1977.
Kenya Government submission to World Bank (four volumes).
A3. NAIROBI's HOUSING NEEDS: MEETING THE CHALLENGE, Coopers and
Lybrand Associates Limited; Institute of Local Government
Studies, University of Birmingham, April 1976. Report on
Nairobi's housing operations (three volumes).
A4. ANALYSIS of LOCAL GOVERNMENT FINANCES IN KENYA WITH PROPOSALS
FOR REFORM, R. Bahl and R. Mant, December 1976, IMF-sponsored
study.
A5. FINANCIAL AND ACCOUNTING SYSTEMS OF LOCAL AUTHORITIES IN KENYA:
PRESENT SYSTEM AND PROPOSED REFORMS, R. Mant, September 1976,
IMF-sponsored study.
B.   Selected Working Papers, Tables, Drawings and Maps Prepared by Bank
Staff and Consultants 1/
INTRODUCTION
PART I - Financial Tables
Document I - Tables (Calculation of Price Contingencies,
Detailed Cost Estimates by Site, Cost
Recovery Worksheets by Site, Mortgage and
Loan Amounts by Site and type of Plot,
Calculation of Monthly Charges, Project
Cash Flow Worksheets, and Project Cost
and Benefit Streams).
1/   To be made available in a separate volume, entitled. Project
Implementation File.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
PART II - Housing and Community Facilities
Document 2 - Charts (Organization and Staffing of HDD for
Kisumu, Mombasa and Nairobi, Housing Department
of the M:inistry of Housing and Social Services)
Document 3 - Maps (Site Plans of Project Areas: existing
site characteristics; plans for upgrading areas;
and layouts for site and service).
Document 4 - Mathare North Site and Services.
Document 5 - Tables (community facilities - details).
PART III - Water Supply and Sewerage.
Document 6 - Report and Maps on Project Requirements in
Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu (P. Callejas).
PART IV - Health, Nutrition and Family Planning
Document 7 - Report by E.O. Pratt dated 12/9/77 (health,FP).
Document 8 - First Report by E. Thomson (nutrition), June 1977.
Document 9 - Second Report by E. Thomson (nutrition), December 1977.
PART V - Technical Assistance
Document 10 - Terms of Reference (Study of National Housing
Corporation, Housing By-Laws Study, Project
Preparation for Third Project, NCC Accounting
Systems, [Attachment 4 of DAS Oct. 18 memo],
NCC Transport Planning Unit, Study of Kayole
District Center, Project Unit Education/
Training,, and Monitoring and Evaluation).
Document 11 - Back-to-Office Report by E. Holland (urban transport).
PART VI - Local Government F7inancing
Document 12 - M. Mould attachments 1, 3, and 6 to D.A. Strombom,
memorandum of October 18:
- Basic measures necessary to strengthen revenue
base and improve revenue yields of local
authorites (Attrachment 1);



ANNEX I
Page 3
- Recommendations for restructuring and
strengthening of MLG (Attachment 3),
- Training program for public service and
commercial administrators and managers
and accounting staff (Attachment 6),
- Housing Finance Regulations (to come).
PART VII - Land Administration by S. Yahya.






IBRD 13349
Su                                                                                                                  "P'r M
~88~                                                                            S~C~t4D JKHAN ~J(UJ"C
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~ ,
i                       r~~r~                 
$0 M A i
,b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wi
-Z-~P                                
Q~~~~~~~~~~Mon88 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ 2wUr.  ,t
/~~~~~~~~~t.j.   oo
A                             A~~~~~~~~~~~~~BS
OCdiafli  5 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                  -dH






IBRD  13350
.-                      r                                                                            KE Y A                                                                                                                   FEBRUARY 978
Tj-..  5 te \      ,,                                                  SECOND  URBAN  PROJECT
NAIROBI
UGANDA                                                                                   E      2   Project s te$
K    E    N    Y  A                              t                                   Exist ng lond use (generlized).
- :                        O0MALIA}                                         ;      2;,.:    Res dent al
I3/ . .,  |   2                     Res dent o (per,pher  low dens ty ond new)
c {aAr*   \   =  ity cente /co  ,merol
I,V/COA                i ,                                  MQjOr icstitUtiOnal
.=  X            '                         \                                                         Hotel / resort
Open space /forest
Roods
| AtN7AN  A    '                    /,V
,,O,nnt,nn[i 5nafonrund s \     C tt               i                                2             PIKILOMETERS                     7 E
0              1              2              3              45
tMILES
h.tre iegCt whmh  te   & seCa
bo mdvlK s s/MUm DN ths map                                                                                                                                                           > SN/
ro nol mPlr o 1 rhe pIvT of the ~ ~ ~ ~        ~        ~         ~        RPOR






IBRD 13351
FEBRJARY 1978
K ENPJYAh
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
MOM BASA
F lPrc]ect sites
Existing land use (generalized):
s                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Res dential
K   E  N    Y  A                                                                                                 Residential (peripheral Iw density and new)
City center / commerc a]
Major institutional
Hotel / resort
Industrial                        ..
Port activities
L - '-'-" I I . / -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 
A~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
K [OMElEtS                                              LII~~~~~~~~K1   D
o                        2~2    34                          -
*5,'"  saUnt' , i xan,ihe              ,            .,
i S ~~~~~~~~~A I L E , 
I.pt!c-c,S,,h,..,,dt,,e
T~-            L                            -  ....
~~~-,h~ ~                              -d- W  >   <
0... ..        h       K LOETR --6 -d,                                                            | 






IBRD  13352
> K F 1\1 YA \ ' fE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRUARY 19V9
K E >4 YA,,
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
KISUMU
GANXPA                                           W                                |         RProject sntes
3                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Exist eg land use (cenerl zed).
K   E   N    Y   A  s                                    ~~~~~~~~Residene a
Resident ir (peripheral low dens ty and new)
-cp                  tt                                                                        C ty center / ce nnercio
Mojor institutional
N.-b                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I ndustrial
F cod area / low  ying
ioN                                         ,                                        I F aRoads
s-.-,                  - - Rai    a-                                                                                                      !-
AIR                                                                                                      S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EWAGE OXIDATION  PLANT
KILOMETERS
T he   mr p h a s   b e - ,   e , e d  a d ho   W o,rd   8 - t ' sffi . c ,5 s V 505  S nI
oftetettof the ,sm,, ra so h, ertt saercnea rne dtY7om/n t,s usedsOOtnd,h
oOoflOaSls showm,o 555 ahsempdn e t,'oi,pi, P thtetto o/ he WorlddOnkand scto'{'                                                                                                                                                            t 
siOI'tes snce ,,do,oe,r Cs  cgs o gosls otf ltr/o annyr,on 'snenor so,eos,                                                                                                                                                                             6,






K ENA                                                                                                                                                                MARCH 1978
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
Typical Site and Service Areo                                                              /    r
- ,E.strrgctrs                            A   RAC+A A/\':- 4                                                                                 ,
HI I     I  os ocr'd   Ishg                                                                        -A  4 -'
Prmory dOstr,boro,roronds                                             /        X      V        YW   t\                                                               4t> 
Seor doory drIroror roads                                           /            ' ;j
M nor occess roars adr poring  ,/                                                                                                                                         N
S       Pdarstria .aa kas arc oId Psooe,                               / dd
~INI] Ntosery scoro s                                                / .At1\
LP| Fr ara chools /II -
Src-hcy boe r. /d,
Otner common ly fa:c irro                               <9/Av''1t\    17 '2 
.r   ha rishlip dtooproor                  -       ~                /-V  g                                 I:                                                                   'Ig/
N
V,~~~V 
0< ~~~   <4- 'N yQ$2  N  Cr~~~~~~~
ml. ~ ~  ~     ~     ~    ~     tI
I  w                              -         OQCA~~~~p                  p~/p
'9 ~~~~ tivA'At      fr~~~~                                10                         1
C4<?A~~~~~~~~~I  //C/  tt<              -\                             ___~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ET~
HIGWA                                                                                                                                0       0        0           Wcod sacced'aco,,
4                                                                                                                  Oaooocora~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F 






IBRD 13354
KENYA                                                                                                                                                                                                  MARCH 1978
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
Typical Upgrading Area
Existing Structures
Primary distributor roads
-Secondary a stribuota roads
'iPedestrian wolkwoys and apes space
2 ~~~~~~~N                    Nursery schools $moo..A /\..i, 
jp       Primary schtrols
S  Secondairy schools
- Other community facilities
Neighborhood unit boundaries
-   -   -   Township boundary
o 200            1ao               2?o              sCo  looo  ,  Ai  0  300 n 's
200            tea        sea        see        icon
FEET
\\  -2  _ <               :;  . , A4 .         N   ~~~~~~~~~~~ .   .                7 !  -       ~          -           .-                     -&                                                      antntrrlayndncn
-                                                                                                          n,ann;'aaeofar ,o.n..,;.s.
\ N 0 ,_it &t -; ' 0 \\% _4,> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
t                                                                 mn srL                                                                         /~~~~~~
00r. "\rt                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  s
\V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '';s)''/z
tr  DYY .  .; / / YVcrld f 0 k 5 stt ff K /UsiveSy fer~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wki -1I ~ff                                                                                                 f~
\;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h                                                                                                                  M{ P -   nwY   fn k h   i/-d
r . any terrltorYor try e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n do cmcn



