Document of
FILE  WirY                            The World Bak
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2284-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT AND LOAN
To THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
April 6, 1978
This document bs a restrlcted dItributIon nd may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their oflcbl duties. Its contents mSy not otberwise be disclosed witbmt World Bank a&thorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Kenya Sh.                US$0.12
Kenya Ll        =        US$2.40
US$1.00         =        KSh 8.3
(As the Kenya Shilling is officially valued
at a fixed rate of 9.66 KSh to the SDR, the
U.S. Dollar/Kenya Shilling exchange rate is
subject to change. Conversions in this re-
port were made at US$1.00 to KSh 8.3 which
is close to the short-term average exchange
rate.)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
GOK     =     Government of Kenya
GPT     =     Graduated Personal Tax
NCC     =     Nairobi City Council
NMC           Mombasa Municipal Council
KMC     =     Kisumu  Municipal Council
MFP           Ministry of Finance and Planning
MLG     =     Ministry of Local Government
IMF     =     International Monetary Fund



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KENYA
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
LOAN/CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:            Republic of Kenya
BENEFICIARIES:       Borrower
Kisumu Municipal Council (KMC)
Mombasa Municipal Council (MMC)
City Council of Nairobi (NCC)
AMOUNT:              Loan of US$25.0 million equivalent
Credit of US$25.0 million equivalent
TERMS:              Loan is payable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace
at an interest rate of 7.5 percent per annum
Credit: Standard
RELENDING TERMS:    Loans to KMC, MMC and NCC are payable in 25 years,
including 4 years of grace at an interest rate of
8.5 percent per annum
PROJECT              The project seeks to strengthen institutional capabili-
DESCRIPTION:         ties of Government and municipal authorities in imple-
menting and managing urban development. It provides for
construction of physical infrastructure and community
facilities to serve existing unserviced squatter
settlements, preparation of new housing areas with
serviced plots, credit for house improvements and new
house buildings, and employment opportunities. In
Kenya's three largest cities Kisumu, Mombasa and
Nairobi, more than 30,000 low-income households will
benefit directly from the project. There are no
special risks. However, the economic rate of return
could be reduced from 16% to about 14% should overall
market rental levels be substantially lower than
expected. Other uncertainties relate to the long run
effectiveness of measures for fiscal reform started
under the project.
This document has a&restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without I[C authorization.



- ii -
ESTIMATED                                                     (US$ million)
COST:                                                 Local       Foreign    Total
Site Preparation                    1.5         0.1         1.6
On-Site Infrastructure             11.6         6.8        18.4
Community Facilities                5.0         3.4         8.4
Wet Core Units                      4.4         1.1         5.5
Loan Funds                         14.2          -         14.2
Trunk Infrastructure                2.3         1.3         3.6
Health/Nutrition/Family
Planning                        0.35        0.35        0.7
Technical Assistance
Design, Engineering
Supervision                     1.2         1.2        2.4
Others                          1.6         1.6         3.2
Base Cost                          42.2        15.8        58.0
Physical Contingencies              2.5         1.3         3.8
Price Contingencies                 4.8         2.8         7.6
Total Project Cost                 49.5        19.9        69.4
of which estimated
taxes and duties                  2.0          -         2.0
Total (net of taxes and duties)  47.5          19.9        67.4
FINANCING
PLAN:               World Bank Loan                    15.1         9.9        25.0
IDA Credit                         15.0        10.0       25.0
Government of Kenya                19.4          -        19.4
49.5       19.9        69.4
ESTIMATED DIS-
BURSEMENT:                                            Bank Fiscal Year
1979   1980    1981    1982    1983
Bank - Annual            -       -       3.9    17.7      3.4
Cumulative        -      -        3.9    21.6    25.0
IDA  - Annual           1.7    7.2      16.1       -       -
Cumulative       1.7    8.9      25.0      -
RATE OF
RETURN:             16 percent
APPRAISAL
REPORT:             Report No. 1869-KE dated March 23, 1978.
MAP:                IBRD-13349



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT AND LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A SECOND URBAN PROJECT
1.          I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit and loan to the Republic of Kenya for the equivalent of US$25.0 million
each to help finance a Second Urban Project. The credit would be on standard
terms and the loan would have a term of 20 years including 5 years of grace at
an annual interest rate of 7.5 percent. US$48.0 million of the proposed credit
and loan would be on-lent to the three project cities at 8.5 percent per annum
interest for a period of 25 years including 4 years of grace. The grant element
of the combined IDA credit and Bank loan is about 45%.
PART I- THE ECONOMY 1/              -
2.          A report entitled "'Economic Memorandum on Kenya" (Report No.
1793a-KE, dated December 28, A977) has been distributed to the Executive
Directors. Summary of social and economic data is in Annex I.
Basic Development Constraints, Objectives and Strategy
3.          With an average per capita income of $240 in 1976, Kenya is still
a poor country despite a rate of economic growth of over 6 percent per year
from Independence until 1973.  This rapid growth was checked in 1974 and 1975
when world inflation (including increases in oil prices) accelerated, while
export demand stagnated and a persistent drought affected the country. The
1974-75 terms of trade deterioration has brought to the fore the fundamental
foreign exchange constraint which Kenya faces. This means that in the coming
years the country will have to achieve its twin objectives of resuming the
past rate of economic growth and of ensuring that the lowest income earners
share in the economic and social progress with a less rapid growth of imports
than before and a more rapid growth of its exports. Import dependence (defined
as ratio of imports to GDP) seems to have declined in volume terms since 1972,
but the gains from this have been lost to relative price changes. Export
performance in volume terms appears to have also been declining while price
increases are likely to be temporary only. Agriculture represents about 30%
of GDP and has shown good growth in years,with favorable weather conditions,
alternating with disappointing perfoirmance in years of drought or floods.
Smallholders contribute substantially to food as well as export crop produc-
tion. Manufacturing has shown rapid growth and now,stands for about 12% of
GDP, but appears to have exhausted most import substitution opportunities.
Industrial policy reform as well as more emphasis on agricultural development
will be essential to reverse the import and export trends.
1/ This section is substantially the same as that of the President's Report on
the Second Nairobi Water Supply Project dated February 2, 1978.



-2-
Recent Developments
4.        Economic recovery from the 1974-1975 recession started in 1976 with a 5.1%
increase of GDP thanks to improved weather conditions, high world coffee prices, and
expansionary credit and budgetary policies, and the balance of payments showed a
surplus, reversing the deficits of the previous years. GDP grew by more than 5%
(probably 7.5%) in 1977 and imports picked up significantly in 1977 but, although
the price of coffee was falling, exports grew even more rapidly than imports.  Hence
a large overall surplus was realized in 1977. Continued growth of imports coupled
with a drop in exports may lead to a much less favorable outcome, maybe even a small
overall deficit in 1978.  After a decline in 1975, wage employment in the modern
sector also resumed its growth in 1976, and continued to rise in 1977. Over the
period 1972-76, however, employment grew at an average annual rate of only 3 percent,
which is well below the labor force growth rate. This reflects the structural gap
which lies at the root of Kenya's unemployment and under-employment problems. The
urban cost of living increases slowed down in 1976 but accelerated again in 1977,
partly as a result of major food price increases in 1977.
Progress in Implementation of Restructuring Program
5.          The Gjavernment responded to the economic crisis in 1974 on three
levels. First, it introduced measures to minimize the loss of foreign ex-
change reserves and control domestic demand. These included an increase in
sales taxes, credit restrictions, passing on the increases in oil prices to
users and a freeze in government recruitment. Secondly, since the Development
Plan had been overtaken by events, it formulated a medium-term Restructuring
Program with more modest-growth and equity targets. Achieving these targets
requires restrainiAg consumption in favor of investments, lowering Kenya's
high import dependence and making the economy more export-oriented. In the
economic sectors, this meant that agriculture would have to improve on its
previous record while industry would have to be more efficient, more outward-
looking and based more on domestic resources. Thirdly, the Government appealed
to foreign aid donors-to increase their financial assistance in response to
the larger need for foreign resources Kenya would be facing in coming years.
6.          The Government has, to date, made good progress in implementing the
Restructuring Program, although there are some areas where further action is
still needed. In the fiscal field, it has introduced procedures to ensure
better control of expenditure, and by increasing expenditure in directly pro-
ductive activities in the FY 76-78 budgets it has moved the composition of
development expenditure in the direction required by the restructuring policy.
Budgetary developments in FY 76 and FY 77,, including increased defense expend-
itures, however, resulted in larger than anticipated deficits-.  Some success
was achieved in enhancing the employment impact of public investments, as the
composition of projects in highway construction is being shifted from large
trunk roads which are capitaliintensive, to rural access roads and regravelling
programs which use more labor-intensive teclnology.



-3-
7.        The Government continues to emphasize agricultural sector
development, although policies in recent years were often frustrated by
weather conditions. It has strengthened its system of annual price reviews
and farmgate prices have generally been raised close to export and import
parities. In the past, agriculture contributed significantly to rapid
growth, increases in productivity of lower-income earners and distribution
of development benefits; monetary agriculture grew at an average annual
rate of 6 percent as the governmentbrought several hundred thousand small
farmers into the market economy through special programs in coffee, tea,
pyrethrum, maize and dairy production. Nevertheless, the majority of the
rural population still lives in poverty. The Government is trying to assist
smallholders by providing support services through programs such as the
Integrated Agricultural Development Program, but as these expand to more
remote and less fertile areas, solutions to novel problems have to be
devised and this makes progress slower than intended.
8.          In industrial policy progress to date has been less than satisfactory.
The Government introduced duties on hitherto duty-free imports of intermediate
and capital goods as steps towards a more rational protective system, increased
the sales tax on luxury goods and introduced an export subsidy of 10 percent to
stimulate the export of manufactured goods and certain other commodities. The
devaluation of the shilling inf bctober 1975 has also helped to make Kenya's
manufactured exports more competitive. Nevertheless, a comprehensive policy
package to eliminate the disadvantages under which export-oriented industries
presently operate as compared to import substitution industries which are
protected by selective tariff rates remains to be formulated. In addition to
policy formulation, strengthening of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, over
and above steps recently undertaken to expand its project preparation arm, the
Industrial Survey and Promotion Centre (ISPC), is a necessary condition for an
effective industrial policy reform.
Impact of the De Facto-Dissolution of the East African Community (EAC)
9.          Recent developments of the East African Community were outlined in
a report to the Executive Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R 77-312). The
de facto breakup of the EAC is expected to have some impact on Kenya's budget
initially but little effect on trade and tourism. Kenya's share of-the Community's
General Fund Services (GFS) used to be financed from customs revenue, and although
the services to replace the GFS are now included in Kenya's expenditure, this. in-
crease is largely offset by the additional customs revenue which Kenya will retain.
Theestablishment of national corporations go replace the former East African Com-
munity Corporations will.require initial investment outlays plus operating subsidies
from the government, but the burden on the government budget will hopefully be tem-
porary, as the Corporations are expected to become self-financing.



4-
10.          Exports to Tanzania and Uganda averaged 28 percent of Kenya's
total exports and imports from these countries averaged 5 percent of total
imports during 1972-76. Kenya has always enjoyed a positive balance in its
trade with Tanzania and Uganda. The curtailment of community trade would
not materially affect Kenya's supplies of total imports, since Kenya has
accelerated its self-sufficiency programs in cotton and tobacco, two major
imports from Tanzania. Moreover, the proportion of exports to Tanzania
and Uganda represents only 3-4 percent of total production in the affected
branches. The closure of the border with Tanzania-does, however, affect
a significant portion of total production of lubricants and greases.  None-
theless Kenya is expected to recover.-this l6ss in exports through export
expansion to other African countries and some success has already been
achieved in this regard. The border closure with Tanzania may have a slightly
negative impact on tourism although Kenya is expected to overcome this by
developing its beach resorts and game parks in other parts of the country.
Development Plan FY 79-83
11.          Background studies are now under way to analyze major economic and
social issues in preparation for the Fourth Five-Year Development Plan. The
major objective for the next Plan period is probably going to be alleviation
of poverty through generating income earning possibilities and providing for
basic needs in nutrition, health, education, housing and other social services.
Two approaches are being considered in.alleviating poverty: rural development,
in the framework of correcting the existing rural-urban imbalance, and employ-
ment creation. Thus, the.Plan would provide for a large degree of continuity
in Kenya's development strategy, but with heightened attention on social ob-
jectives as compared with the ongoing Restructuring Program and the Third Plan.
At the Government's request, the Bank is providing assistance in developing
strategies in--urban development and resource mobilization.
External Debt
12.          The current low overall debt service ratio of about 5 percent
(including a notional share of the debt of the East African Community Corpora-
tions) is expected to rise to about 11.5 percent by 1985. Including the
notional share of EAC debt, the IBRD is presently holding 29 percent of Kenya.'s
outstanding external debt and IDA 11 percent; the IBRD share is expected to
rise to 33 percent and the IDA share to 12 percent. Debt service payments to
the Bank are about 30 percent of total debt service payments; IDA share is about
one percent. These two figures are projected to be about the same by 1985.
Kenya has seen a gradual switch by other donors from loans to straight grants
or to loans on very conressional ter'ms and the Government has pursued a rather
conservative commercial borrowing policy in recent years. Despite the recovery
of Kenya's overall savings performance to a notable 18% of Gross Domestic Income,
Kenya's sound development program will require substantial finance in excess of
public savings and available external capital combined to cover costs including
local costs. We therefore continue our practice of financing a substantial
proportion of total project costs including some local costs.



-5-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
13.          Hitherto, Kenya has received 27 Bank loans and 23 IDA credits
amounting to $477.9 million and $195.7 million, respectively, supporting 43
operations.  In addition, Kenya has been one of the beneficiaries of 10 loans
totalling $244.8 million which have been extended for the development of
common services (railways, ports, telecommunications and finance for industry),
operated regionally for the three Partner States of the East African Community.
Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans'and IDA credits to Kenya and
East African Community Corporations, a summary of IFC investments in Kenya, and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
. , 
14.          The Bank has assisted the Government in its efforts to restructure
the economy. In connection with. loan and credit negotiations, the Government
has taken a number of steps to implement its Restructuring Program (paras. 5-8).
Institution building measures have also been undertaken. The planning and
implementation capacity of the Ministry of Agriculture has been strengthened,
the Cotton Board has been reorganized, a Land Use Committee has beeni set up and
the National Committee on Educational Objectives and Priorities,-established in
connection with the Third Education Project, has now completed its work. How-
ever progress in shifting the locus of the Government's industrial policies from
import-substitution to domestic resource-based production capable of competing
in export markets is slow.
15.          Significant progress has been made in restructuring the Bank's
lending program towards the directly productive sectors, in giving it a rural
focus, and in concentrating on employment and income distribution objectives.
During the last fiscal year seven projects were approved. These include the
first Integrated Agricultural Development Project (IADP) aimed directly at
small subsistence farmers; the Rural Access Roads Project supporting labor-
intensive infrastructural developments; a Sugar Project; a Third Agricultural
Credit Project; and an Irrigation Project. The Bank also supported the tourism
sector in Kenya for the first time -- an effort intended to help Kenya conserve
its wildlife and exploit the foreign exchange earning potential. The indus-
trial lending program included a third loan to the Industrial Development Bank.
Recently a small-scale industry project and a water supply project for Nairobi
have been approved. Loans and credits for a sugar rehabilitation project, a
fourth education project and an agricultural project for the development of
Narok district have been appraised. In the near future, further support
to agricultural processing, water supplies in rural areas, the transport sector
and telecommunications is contemplated.
16.       Overall, project implementation performance is satisfactory.  One
major exception was the Second Livestock Development Project which was
suffering from inadequate beef prices as well as organizational difficulties
reflecting in part the complexity of the project. The Government has recently
increased beef prices substantially and prospects for utilizing the credit
have now improved. Progress on the Group Farm Rehabilitation Project has also
been slow due to administrative difficulties and reluctance of group owners to



participate, but this is now improving. Finally, Kenya has experienced serious
cost overruns, most notably on the Nairobi Airport Project and road construction
projects. The Government of Kenya has made funds available to complete these
projects.
International Finance Corporation (IFC)
17.        IFC has committed a total of $36.8 million for four companies in Kenya:
Pan African Paper Mills, Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd.; Tourism Promotion
Services (Kenya) Ltd.; and Rift Valley Textiles (Ltd.). A credit line for medium-
and small-scale industries was extended to the Commercial Bank of Kenya.   As of
February 28, 1978, IFC held for its own account $28.5 million comprising $20.5
million of loans and $8.0 million of equity.
III. THE URBAN SECTOR
Background
18.        Urbanization is a relatively recent phenomenon in Kenya.  In 1963, at the
time of Independence, the urban population totaled about 670,000 or roughly 8% of
the then national population. By 1977 the urban population had grown to 2.3 million
or 16% of total population. By the year 2000, Kenya's population is expected to have
grown to 27 - 30 million persons, two times its present population, and about
8.5 million will probably live in urban areas.
19.        The broad causes of rapid urbanization in Kenya are not hard to establish.
Recent estimates indicate that average urban household incomes are 5 - 8 times higher
than those of average rural households; moreover, growing population pressure on
good agricultural land has encouraged rural-urban migration. Finally, in Kenya as
in other developing countries, the urban sector is a major source of growth in the
economy, and consequently attracts those, especially the younger and better educated,
who perceive the opportunities for advancement which it offers.
20.        The pace of urban growth has created serious and mounting problems.  These
strains are most evident in the fields of urban infrastructure, especially housing
and related facilities such as water supply and sewerage services. Urban poverty
is also a problem, as income-earning opportunities, especially at lower levels,
have been unable to keep up with population growth. Meanwhile, municipal revenues
have become increasingly inadequate to undertake programs to ameliorate the situation.
21.        The inevitable difficulties associated with a sharp increase in urban
population have been compounded by aspects of past Government policy. While programs
for rural development have been expanded, there has not always been parallel action
to redress the growing problems of the urban sector. For example, urban house-
building has not only fallen far short of planned growth (25,000 urban units were
completed during the 1970-74 Plan period as against a target of 50,000), it has also
concentrated on relatively high standards and has consequently catered almost
exclusively to middle and upper income groups. The resulting shortage of low-cost
accommodation led to the exploitation of the poor by owners of existing housing,
together with the creation of shanty towns and illegal, temporary squatter settlements
which have in the past been the object of intermittent demolition by the authorities
without provision of alternative shelter. Meanwhile, urban employment policy has been
directed towards the expansion of relatively high-wage formal sector employment, and
has neglected the informal sector, the main source of earning opportunities for the
urban poor. This has, in turn, made it hard for the poor to afford shelter and services.



-7-
New Policy Directions
22.       In its 1974-1978 Development Plan, the Government of Kenya changed
its previous orientation and proposed a three-pronged approach involving:  (a)
vigorous rural development programs designed to reduce the rate of rural-urban
migration by increasing rural employment and incomes and by improving basic
infrastructure (roads, irrigation, water supply, electricity, etc.) and social
services, notably health and education; (b) a new effort to divert urban growth
from the large cities to smaller urban centers; and (c) a direct attack on
substandard living conditions in major urban ceitters, in particular through
expanded provision of low cost shelter and related infrastructure.
23.       The new Plan acknowledged the failure to complete sufficient low-
cost units, and proposed to concentrate efforts on meeting,the most urgent
demands during the 1974-78 Plan Period. In addition the Government is in
the process of developing plans to encourage growth of a number of selected
towns of all sizes from market centers to major secondary cities, partly
to divert urban migration from Nairobi and Mombasa, and partly to provide
an integrated urban network to support economic growth in all sections of the
country. And in preparation for the next five year planning period 1978-83,
the Government is carrying out further studies to determine more precisely
the most favorable areas for encouragement of urban growth.
24.       The decentralization policy is likely to be the focal point of
the new urban strategy. However, regardless of the success of this policy,
Kenya is faced with a large task of successfully urbanizing eight to nine
million of its people within two decades. The obvious requirements are:
(a) A vigorous employment creation policy which will
create decent incomes at low costs per job.
(b) A policy of very rapid growth in urban shelter and
infrastructure provision consistent with the need
to stress rural development as the primary engine
of growth. This implies growth of infrastructure and
shelter that is cheap enough for urban residents and
migrants to pay for it themselves.
(c) Improvement in city public finances, so that the cities
can begin to finance a good part of their own require-
ments for shelter and infrastructure as well as meet-
ing maintenance and other recurrent expenses, with
minimum reliance on the Central Government Treasury.
Urban Employment
25.       Kenya is making reasonable progress in urban job creation.  The
Government has formally adopted most of the recommendations of the 1972 ILO
employment survey, which stressed support for smaller scale firms and a posi-
tive governmental approach to the informal sector; thus Government policy,
and some investment activity, is directed toward encouragement of small-scale,



-8-
labor-intensive enterprises. A major step in this direction is the Small Scale Indus-
try Project (Credit 750-KE, November 1977) which extends support to the Kenya
Industrial Estates Ltd. to serve labor-intensive, smaller scale firms in urban
and rural areas.
Urban Shelter and Infrastructure
26.        Government official policy has also embraced the idea of urban infra-
structure and shelter standards affordable by the urban poor; progress in this
area includes the first Bank urban project andthe bulk of the site and service
activities of the National Housing Corporation. This effort is relatively new,
however, dating from the early 1970s only, and vast increases in scale, as
well as improvements in institutions, are required to cope with the demand.
27.       Construction of new housing for all income classes, and provision
of newly serviced urban land, has been inadequate in all three project cities.
In Nairobi, private sector housing construction has reached about 1,600 units
per year. Public programs have been averaging less than 600 units per year,
but are now programied at about 3,000 units (excluding this project).  Actual
completions, public and private, have never exceeded 3,OOQ units per year, -
compared to 10,000 plots needed per year by additions to the city's population.
The result has been continued growth of illegal settlements on unserviced
Government and private land. Kisumu and Mombasa are much worse off: squatter
areas in these two cities house over 50% of all households in each city. And
In other towns very limited shelter and infrastructure have been provided.
Local Governiment Finiance
28.       The financial performance of local authorities, most of which showed
operating surpluses in the 1960s, has steadily declined since 1970. This can
be traced to the abolishment by Central Government in 1973/74 of the Graduated
Personal Tax, the second largest municipal revenue source, which had generated
20% to 30% of local revenues, and its replacement with declining Compensatory
Grants.   The solution to the cities' fiscal problems is fundamental reform of
tax powers and expenditure responsibilities as proposed in an urban finance
study completed by the IMF in 1976 for the Government of Kenya as part of the
first urban project. This study recommends a number of fiscal changes and
improvements for local authorities which this second project will support.
These are highlighted in para. 55 below and described in Sections 4.03,
4.04 and 4.05 of the Development Credit Agreement.
Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu
29.     Given their dominant position within the urban sector, and the propblems
they face,it is reasonable to concentrate a major proportion of the total
effort to improve urban living conditions, initially,in the major towns in Kenya.
This project includes components in Kenya's three largest urban areas, Nairobi,
-Mombasa and Kisunmu, because they-dominate the urban shelter problem and the
implementation of urban housing policy in the country. The three cities make
up over 60% of the urban population of Kenya; the majority of the country's



- 9 -
urban poor live in these three urban areas. Moreover, these cities, besides
being in most acute need for projects such as the one proposed, are also the
most suited institutionally to undertake large scale implementation of housing
programs within their own administrations.
30.       Nairobi, with a 1977 population of 890,000, is the largest city in
Kenya and has the most serious housing problem. The city is growing at a
sustained rate of about 7% per year. About 40% of the modern sector jobs
in Kenya are located in Nairobi and about 45% of modern sector incomes are
earned there. It is thus the dominant city in the country and the main
natural attraction point for rural-urban migration. Mombasa, Kenya's main
port and its oldest major city, is the second largest city. It is also a
relatively modern city, with about 45% of its labor force in wage employment.
Its rate of growth has been low in comparison to Nairobi largely because it
is located in a relatively sparsely population part of the country. Kisumu,
including its newly incorporated areas, is Kenya's third largest city and is
probably growing faster than any city in Kenya. It is located in the very
densely population Lake area, and can be expected to absorb population from
its rural areas at a rapid rate. The general economy of Kisumu is much less
developed than the two other major cities. For example, only about 30% of
the labor force is in wage employment. This is accounted for, at least in
part, by severe underinvestment in infrastructure which has inhibited natural
growth in local industries.
31.       The three project cities are above average in administrative per-
formance for cities in comparable countries. Accounts are reasonably current,
user charges for services are reasonable and arrears are a manageable problem.
However, a number of serious shortcomings remain: surpluses from housing and
water accounts are now being used by local authorities to subsidize other
services; tax structures are poor; the rate (property tax) rolls are out of
date with inadequate provision for updating; and rates in general, especially
rates on commercial property, are too low relative to average incomes and the
cities' fiscal needs. This results in persistently inadequate provision for
maintenance and for investment in social capital.  For these reasons, until
the cities are able to tax themselves for their own development, urban devel-
opment will be severely hampered. Measures to rectify these shortcomings are
included in the proposed project (para. 55).
The First Project
32.       In 1975 Nairobi benefitted from an $8 million IDA credit and $8 million
loan for urban development. This project (Ln. 1105 and Cr. 543) was the largest
single effort in low-cost housing so far undertaken in Kenya (6,000 units at a
single site, Dandora, in Nairobi). It has disproven most of the stated and
unstated fears about this kind of project: that they are ugly, that they are
slow to consolidate, that they produce a rash of bad debts and financial losses
for the city, and so forth. The success of the development of the first project
is also politically useful for the city councils, which are now much more sup-
portive of further low-cost housing development of this type. In addition to
the first urban project, the Bank Group has extended loans for several projects
directly benefitting urban areas. A Bank loan of $8.3 million to expand Nairobi's
water supplies was made in 1970, in 1975 a $35 million loan was made to augment
Mombasa's water supplies and a second loan of $30 million was recently approved
to meet Nairobi's water requirements.



- 10 -
33.       The main difficulties in the first project arose because of government and
administrative weaknesses. Initial allocation of plots was delayed because of half-
hearted acceptance by the city council of the principles involved. Construction of
some of the community facilities has been delayed because of disagreements over
standards and costs, and slow performance on preparation of tendering documents has
delayed the second stage of infrastructure construction. Most of these difficulties
have now been resolved.
34.        In order to cut down the delays caused by political and administra-
tive problems, this second project has stressed the continuous involvement of
all of the senior officials of the three city councils in project preparation,
particularly regarding standards and levels of service for community facilities
and housing. More thorough physical preparation - complete preliminary engin-
eering, and first stage detailed engineering - should cut down delays in tendering.
To improve coordination between city councils and project implementation units,
the latter have been organized, in this project, to fit permanently into the
Housing Development Departments in the three city governments. Thus this project
will replicate, reinforce, and extend the successful features of the first project.
IV. THE PROJECT
Project Concept and Background
35.        mne proposed project would continue bank supporL in Lne urian nousing
sector of Kenya initiated under the first urban project at Dandora in Nairobi.
The design of the proposed project includes a number of new components grow-
ing out of the Dandora experience:
(a) squatter upgrading as a complementary approach to sites
and services;
(b) lower standards in site and services (most plot options
have no superstructures);
(c) provision of settlement plots as a means of providing
affordable shelter to the poorest urban households;
(d) institutional support aimed at improving both central and
local Government capabilities for managing urban projects;
(e) technical assistance to strengthen the financial management
and resources of local authorities; and
(f) efforts to improve nutrition and family planning service
delivery to the low-income project areas.
36.       The project was identified and prepared during 1976 and 1977 by
a Kenyan consultant through a technical assistance component of the first
project. It was appraised by a Bank mission in September 1977. Negotiations
were held in Washington, D. C. in March 1978. The Head of the Delegation was
Mr. George M. Matheka, Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Housing and
Social Services. The main features of the projects are outlined in the Loan/
Credit and Project Summary at the front of this report, and a detailed
description of the project components is contained in the Staff Appraisal
Report which is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors
(Report No. 1869-KE, dated March 23, 1978).



- 11 -
Project Objectives
37.       The second project will enable Government to accelerate imple-
mentation of low-income housing programs in Nairobi and initiate similar
programs in Moombasa and Kisumu. During its execution, the project will
also build technical, institutional and financial capabilities to conti-
nue and extend the low-cost approach to urban shelter on a nationwide
scale.  Specifically, the proposed project would (a) increase the supply
of site and services plots to meet a significant portion of demand for
such plots over the next four years; (b) introduce upgrading of unser-
viced squatter settlements as an official policy; (c) demonstrate an
effective low-cost delivery system for health, nutrition and family
planning services; (d) stimulate and encourage employment and income-
generating activities for the urban poor; (e) strengthen the institu-
tional capabilities of Government and local municipal authorities for
implementing and managing urban development; (f) assist Government in
improving the financial resources and management of local authorities
by strengthening central as well as local capacities and capabilities;
and (g) help local authorities control the pattern of urban growth
and develop their land more effectively.
Project Components.
38.       The proposed project would consist of the following components:
(a) Settlement Upgrading: provision of basic infrastructure and
regularization of land tenure in five existing unserviced
settlements (total of 536 ha.) in three cities, affecting
about 10,000 households;
(b) Site and Services: preparation of about 11,770 serviced
plots in five sites;
(c) Settlement Plots: provision of basic preparation and basic
infrastructure for about 2,500 surveyed plots in two project
areas in Nairobi;
(d) Low-cost Housing Plots for Market Sale: financing of sur-
plus generating programs for construction of about 3,240
serviced plots located within two of the site and services
areas and on two additional sites, to be sold at market
prices;
(e) Housing Loans: access to credit for house improvement and
new housebuilding in project areas;
(f) Community Facilities: provision of social, educational and
health facilities to serve each of the 12 sites, including
35 primary schools, 14 health centers, 11 community centers,
9 social halls and 2 sports centers;
(g) Health/Nutrition/Family Planning: support for improvement
of these services to 265,000 beneficiaries in project areas
including facilities for home visiting, staff training, moni-
toring nutritional status, prevention of malnutrition, sup-
plementary feeding, and evaluation of benefits;



- 12 -
(h) Employment Opportunities: provision for commercial activity
and small industries, including space for about 350 kiosks,
1,830 market stalls, 960 serviced sites for small industries,
and loans for construction of workshops; and
(i) Technical Assistance: financing for studies, training pro-
grams and consultants' services aimed at strengthening of
institutions, monitoring and evaluation, and future project
preparation.
Roughly half of all plots in the project are located in site and ser-
vice areas (54 percent of project costs), a third in upgrading areas (23
percent of project costs), and a sixth in market-priced areas (9 percent of
project costs). The site and service plots and market-priced plots are to
be developed to essentially the same low-cost standard, the main differences
being that the former will be financed by the project and allocated to low-
income households, while only seed financing is included for the latter
which will be sold at market prices to middle and lower-middle income groups
(para 49).
39.       Settlement plots will be developed in Nairobi at a cost of about
four-tenths as much as new site and service plots. These plots will feature
standpipe water supply, public sanitary facilities, and roads and paths finished
to lower standards. Squatter households displaced as a result of the re-
development of privately owned land in Mathare Valley would be eligible for
these plots provided they meet the criteria for plot allocation under the
project (para 46). During negotiations, NCC undertook to ensure that
phasing of this redevelopment allowed for relocation of displaced persons.
Submission of preliminary designs and cost estimates for this part of the
project and of proposals for phasing of development acceptable to the
Association would be a condition of disbursement for the Nairobi component
of the project (Schedule 1, paragraph 4(a) (iii) of draft Development Credit
Agreement).
40.       The other three types of development -- upgrading, sites and services,
and market sale plots -- are to be done in all three cities. Roughly 55 per-
cent of these plots are in Nairobi, 30 percent in Kisumu, and 15 percent in
Mombasa. Most of the Nairobi plots are in site and service and market-priced
areas, while in Kisumu, upgrading predominates. In Mombasa, about half of
the plots are in site and service areas, and most of the rest are in upgrad-
ing areas. Comparing the number of plots developed for low-income households
(site and service,settlement and upgrading) to expected growth in the number of
poor households during the project period, the project will meet about half
the growth needs in Mombasa, almost all of Nairobi's growth needs, and will
meet growth needs and a substantial part of the backlog as well in Kisumu.
41.       Community facilities are provided to service the project areas at
the existing standards prevailing in each of the three cities. The health/
nutrition/family planning component is intended to improve the level of ser-
vice delivery to the urban poor through initial support of supplementary new



- 13 -
activities, which can realistically be taken over by the cities and replicated
for other low-income areas on a city-wide basis.
42.       Aside from design, engineering and supervision, the items included
in technical assistance are of three types: those to aid Central Government,
which will benefit all urban areas (support to accounting and management
training, urban property valuation, an urban housing bylaws study, a study
of the National Housing Corporation, and identification and preparation of low in-
come housing projects for smaller cities for a third urban project); those directed
at Nairobi alone (improvement of accounting systems and assistance in the initial
operations of a transportation planning unit); and project specific items (commercial
area design, project staff training, monitoring and evaluation).
43.       The Government would bear the cost of land which is not included as part of
the project cost. Land costs would be partially recovered through land rents charged
in perpetuity at the rate of 3 percent of estimated unimproved market value per
year for the first five years and 5 percent thereafter. Major administrative
costs incurred by the cities in running the new Housing Development Department
(HDDs), also not included in project financing, would be recovered through
payments by beneficiaries.
Implementation
44.       Overall project implementation will take about four years.  Most
of the land required for the project was in Government ownership or held in
tribal trust at appraisal. Land in four project areas has now been transferred
to the Municipalities concerned and action is being taken to transfer land
in the remaining project areas. Housing consolidation by allottees will be
an ongoing activity spanning 18 months following allocation of plots. The
materials loans program will therefore extend beyond the project's four-
year implementing time period.
45.       Broadly speaking, the Government Ministries of Finance and Planning,
Local Government and Housing and Social Services are responsible for urban
policy formulation and financing, while the cities are responsible for carry-
ing out the project, operating and maintaining facilities, and cost recovery.
Thus responsibility for implementation would rest primarily with the three
city governments. Except for the health/nutrition/family planning component,
which will be implemented by the municipal Public Health Departments and for
most of the technical assistance, the project will be carried out by new
Housing Development Departments (HDDs) in each of the project cities. The
HDDs will be patterned after the Dandora Project Department which has been
effective in executing the first project in Nairobi. The HDDs in Mombasa
and Kisumu would be newly established city departments staffed with both
new and seconded personnel; initially they would carry out this project and
eventually all other city staff now assigned to housing would be incor-
porated and responsibility for the implementation of other similar housing projects
would be assumed. Financial management and legal staff will be located
within HDD on a secondment basis so that ultimate financial and legal respon-
sibility is retained by the City Treasurer and the Town Clerk, respectively.



- 14 -
The HDD will have the same status within each city as the other municipal
departments except that it will be responsible to a single Housing Develop-
ment Committee rather than to a series of standing committees. No funds
would be disbursed for components in the project cities until the HDD has
been established and key staff appointed (Schedule 1, paragraph 4(a) (ii)
of draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Standards and Allocation Procedures
46.       The  project has been designed to standards which will make
housing available to low income levels. For the majority of plots in
Kisumu and Mombasa and for all plots in Nairobi, no superstructure will
be provided. The income "ceiling" of KShl,OOO is about the same in real
terms as that used in the first project while the minimum income is lower
than the income normally required to afford a site and service plot because
it is expected that families will rent out a room to help meet monthly
payments. This change in the "minimum" income reflects experience in the
first project that even those apparently barely able to afford a site and
service plot have had little difficulty meeting payments or building
their houses, and that most families add to their income by constructing
rental units -- even before constructing their own living space -- which are
easily rented due to the acute shortage of rental units. Thus relaxing the
income threshold will permit poorer households to benefit from the project
without significantly increasing financial risk. In addition to the income
criteria, the plot holders have to be a head of household residing in the
city for at least two years, and own no other residential property in the
city. For squatter household on Government land in Mathare North and on
privately owned land in Mathare proper, who will be relocated from their
present homes to new plots in the site and service and settlement areas,
no minimum income criterion will be applied; however, these and other
applicants for the sites will be required to be heads of households (no
single individuals) who have resided in Mathare for at least two years and
who own no other residential property in the city. They will not have to
move until the new site is ready for occupancy and will benefit from an
extended period of grace on plot loans.
47.       Particular care has been taken to ensure impartiality in the alloca-
tion of plots. For site and service areas other than Mathare North, the
Community Development Section of the HDD will select allottees and a waiting
list from qualified applicants. In Nairobi, a computerized random number
program will be used. This procedure, introduced in the first project, has
functioned successfully to avoid siphoning off of plots for sale to
influential individuals with incomes exceeding the permitted ceiling.
Infill plots in upgrading areas will be allocated in the same way as site
and service plots, except for a number of plots to be reserved for existing
households in these areas whose land is needed for public use. In Kisumu
and Mombasa, where a smaller number of plots are involved, a ballot system
will be used. Computer facilities do not exist in these cities, and a ballot
system which can be conducted in full view of the public is likely to be more
readily accepted by the applicants.



- 15 -
48.       All allottees will be required to live on the plots or dispose
of them. For the first five years after allocation, transfers of lease-
hold rights will be made through the HDD's in order to ensure that housing
goes to those who need it the most (Schedule 3, Part 5(b) of Development
Credit Agreement). Resettled household and settlement tenants, however,
may dispose of their plots after three years. In the event an allottee
persistently defaults on his monthly payments, the HDD's will have the
right to terminate the tenancy. Plot holders who remain in arrears for more
than six months will be evicted (Schedule 3, Part 6(b) of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement). Transfers of plots and repossession have been
minimal in the first project.
Low-Cost Housing Plots for Market Sale
49.       In an effort to promote mixed development and at the same time
cater for the housing needs of households in income brackets immediately
above the target population, the project includes seed financing for low-
cost housing plots to be sold on the market. Market prices are expected to
yield substantial surpluses over costs. These surpluses would be utilized
in creating a separate housing fund for constructing more units in Nairobi,
and for cross-subsidization in Mombasa and Kisumu.
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
50.       Total project cost is estimated at US$69.4 million, inclusive
of taxes, which are minimal in this type of project.   Foreign exchange
costs amount to US$19.9 million which is 29 percent of total project
cost. The estimated cost of development for each city is as follows:
$18.2 million in Kisumu, $13.3 million in Mombasa and $35.3 million in
Nairobi. In addition, some US$2.6 million is allocated to technical
assistance and training to be carried out by the Government. The cost
of the major components is described in the Loan/Credit and Project
Summary. The proposed Bank loan of US$25 million and IDA credid of
US$25 million would finance about 72 percent of total net project cost,
covering 100 percent of foreign exchange cost and a major portion of local
costs; no taxes would be financed. Financing of local costs is justified
in this project in view of the low foreign exchange component in the
project and the limitations on domestic resources in Kenya (para 12).
The Bank loan and IDA credit will be made to the Republic of Kenya, which
on-lend some US$48.0 million to project cities at 8.5 percent per annum
over 25 years, including 4 years of grace. The remaining 28 percent
(US$19.4 million) of project cost will be provided by the Government of
Kenya. The Government's contribution will be lend to the cities at
standard terms: 6.5 percent annual interest with repayment period of
25 years.
Procurement and Disbursement
51.       Procurement procedures to be employed in this project would follow
those being used satisfactorily for the first project. Civil works and equip-
ment totalling US$31.5 million for   preparation of serviced sites would be
procured through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank



- 16 -
Guidelines. Prequalification of contracting firms will be required in order
to enable Government to assess the firms' experience, financial standing and
performance on similar construction in Kenya. Domestic contractors would be
accorded a preferential margin of 7.5 percent over foreign contractors in the
evaluation of bids, while local manufacturers would be accorded a 15 percent
preference on equipment contracts over imported equipment. Contracts for
construction of community facilities totalling US$8.4 million would be awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with
standard procedures employed by the three project cities which would be ac-
ceptable to the Bank. This procedure is recommended since construction sites
are scattered among the various project areas and individual contracts would
be small. Efforts to attract small contractors from project towns would be
made by grouping contracts to be within their range. Building materials loans
worth US$14.2 (KShll8) million would be made in cash, with plot allottees
procuring their own materials and labor. Consultants' services financed under
technical assistance totalling US$5.5 (KSh46) million would be procured in
accordance with Bank Guidelines.
52.       The credit and loan would be disbursed against 72  percent of the
total expenditures for civil works including infrastructure and building
materials loans and of the recurrent expenditures on the health/nutrition/
family planning components, and 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 61
percent of local expenditures on consultants' services. The IDA credit
would be disbursed first. Retroactive financing of about US$250,000 is
recommended for expenditures incurred after December 1, 1977 for design
and engineering and for site preparation on the first site in each city in
order to facilitate timely initiation of major construction soon after loan
effectiveness in all three project cities. Disbursements would be fully doc-
umented except for materials loans which would be made against certificates
of expenditure for which documentation would not be submitted but would be
available for inspection during supervision missions.
Cost Recovery
53.       Plot holders would bear directly, through debt service (the plots
will be secured by mortgages), the costs of site preparation, on-site infra-
structure, core unit construction, loan funds, design engineering and super-
vision, as well as the costs of project-related technical assistance, half
the operating expenditures of the Municipality's HDD, and the costs of the
health/nutrition/family planning component. In Kisumu and Mombasa, however,
the surpluses realized from market sale plots would be used to proportionately
reduce the size of plot loans for existing tenants. Those costs normally
recovered by the cities through utility user charges and rates, including
land development costs attributable to these services, would be similarly
recovered by rates and utility charges to plot holders. In Baba Dogo and
Riruta project areas, where landholders are required by NCC to surrender a
portion of their land for public use in connection with subdivision, assess-
ments will result in recovery of about 90% of the development costs of infra-
structure. The balance will be offset by the value of the surrendered land.
The city governments would bear the costs of city-specific technical assis-
tance, and the Central Government would bear the cost of general urban
technical assistance.



- 17 -
54.       Capital plot costs and housing construction and improvement
loans will be repayable at 8.5 percent interest over 30 years
including 18 months of grace; however, in the case of construction loans
for resettled tenants, and plot loans for both resettled and settlement
tenants, there would be a 3 years grace period. Workshop construction
loans and loans for infrastructure extension and improvement in Baba
Dogo and Riruta project areas will be repayable at commercial rates of
interest (at least 11.5 percent) over 10 years, including 6 months of
grace.
Local Government Finance
55.       The primary objectives of the planned reform of local govern-
ment finance are to reestablish by about 1983 as much fiscal autonomy as
possible in local councils, to minimize Government fiscal support and to
improve the management, administrative and accounting systems. To
improve local tevenues, the Government has undertaken to ensure that by
January 1, 198J there will be uniformity and regularity of valuation for
rating of land within the jurisdictions of all local authorities levying
rates, and a new valuation system will be introduced which will tax all
property in prime developed areas of certain towns on an annual rental
value basis (Section 4.04 of draft Development Credit Agreement). Because
of lack of qualified staff, it was agreed that consultants would be
appointed to assist MMC and NCC in completion of revaluation by December 31,
1980 of all properties within their jurisdiction. The terms and conditions
of appointment of these consultants would be acceptable to the Association,
as would be their final report, and appointment of the consultants would
be a condition of disbursement for the Nairobi and Mombasa components of
the project (Section 4.04(e) and Schedule 1, para. 4(a)(iii) and (iv) of
draft Development Credit Agreement). Further measures to improve local
government fiscal performance including regulation of the income, expendi-
tures and financing of local authorities in connection with water and
sewerage, refuse handling, markets and abattoirs by April 1, 1979; and
regulation of the accounting and financing of housing and related activities
by January 1, 1980 (Section 4.05(a) and (b) of draft Development Credit
Agreement). In addition, the Ministry of Local Government (MLG) will be
restructured to better provide advice and assistance to local authorities;
a new rating valuation department will be established in NLG to assist
local councils with property valuation; and expansion and equipping of
the Government Training Institute will be undertaken to provide increased
opportunities for staff training (Schedule 2, Part F of draft Development
Credit Agreement). These measures are aimed at making local governments
self-supporting; however, until this objective is achieved the Government
has agreed to maintain the financial viability of local authorities and
to improve its present grants-in-aid system (Section 4.03(c) of draft
Development Credit Agreement).
56.       To achieve a better match between local revenue authority and
spending requirements, the Government has agreed to meet the cost of
teachers' salaries for primary education and the recurrent costs of
certain  health  expenditures.  While Government policy is aimed at
self-help construction or primary school facilities, provision has been
made in this project for financing of construction of such facilities in



- 18 -
project areas in recognition of the fact that viable community organiza-
tions which would facilitate self-help construction do not exist. The
cost of construction of these facilities will be recovered through the
imposition of an additional levy to be paid for all pupils attending
primary schools in the cities concerned (Section 4.03(b) of draft
Development Credit Agrement).
57.       In addition to the above measures, a timetable for improvement
by NCC in the level of debt collection and repayment of uninvested
balances of the Consolidated Loans Fund due from the General Fund has
been agreed. As a condition of disbursement for the Nairobi component of
the project, a certificate satisfactory to the Association will be
submitted by NCC's auditors detailing the extent to which debts owing
to NCC at December 31, 1977 have been paid (Schedule 1, para. 4(a) (iii)
of draft Development Credit Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
58.       About 30,000 plot holders and residents of upgrading areas will
receive direct benefits in the form of land tenure, improved shelter,
housebuilding, and better environmental sanitation and access to health
and education services. About 6,400 informal sector entrepreneurs will
benefit from space provision for kiosks, market stalls and workshops and
from loans for workshop construction. Indirect benefits include a
substantial increase in the supply of rental units to be built by low-
income plot allottees and purchasers of market-priced plots, which is
expected to lower or stabilize housing rents. The project will also
strengthen local and Central Government capability to carry out large-
scale low-income housing in particular, and the cities' abilities to
finance their operations in general.
59.       The economic rate of return on the housing component, the cost
of which is $62.1 million is estimated at 17 percent. The economic rate
of return on markets, workshop spaces, kiosk spaces, the cost of which is
$5.4 million is estimated at 13 percent. The average economic rate of
return on these components, which account for 97 percent of total project
costs, is about 16 percent. There are no special risks in the project that
would reduce the rate of return to unacceptable levels. The main uncertain-
ty is the effect of the project on overall market rental levels. Assuming
rents after the project to be 20 percent lower than estimated -- far below
presently observed rents -- the project would still have a 14 percent rate
of return. The economic rate of return on markets, workshop spaces, and
kiosk spaces is unlikely to be lower than estimated, since the rental
establishments are purposely undersupplied compared to other poor neighbor-
hoods and the workshop space is both cheap to produce and in demand at
much higher prices than those assumed in the calculation.
60.       Specific efforts have been made to avoid delays in implementation
of the project by ensuring continual involvement of all parties concerned



- 19 -
in all stages of project preparation, and through the regularization of
the status of the Housing Development Departments as bona fide departments
in the council structure. Should delays occur despite these efforts,
the result would probably be some increase in project costs, but not
to the extent of jeopardizing the basic project objectives. Tw other
risks caused by undertaking new tasks are readily apparent, but neither
would affect the economic rate of return. Firstly, in the upgrading of
very low income neighborhoods there is the possibility of difficulties
in cost recovery. However, the general approach of the Municipalities
on cost recovery for services is reassuring on this point. The second
risk concerns the long-run effectiveness of the fiscal efforts started
by this project. Within the limited timeframe and negotiating context
of a single project, reforms will be startedbut the momentum for continu-
ing improvement cannot be assumed.
61.       The urban poor will receive direct benefits from the upgrading,
site and service, employment (markets, kiosks and workshops), and health/
nutrition/family planning components which comprise 81 percent of project
base costs. They will also benefit from the use of surpluses from the
sale of market priced plots, to reduce the costs of low-income lots in
Mombasa and Kisumu, and to finance further expansion of the supply of
serviced residential land in Nairobi. Other indirect benefits will
accrue to the poor through the expected reduction or stabilization of
housing rents due to the large increase in rental units to be constructed
on most plots.
62.       On the institutional side, the project is designed to provide
the basis for the reform of the three cities' housing delivery system as
a whole and especially to develop a capacity to produce adequate low-
cost housing on which further programs can be built. It is also expected
that the project will provide useful experience for the extension of site
and service schemes in centers other than Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu at
a later date. Finally, the financial reforms will have long term implica-
tions on the local governments' ability to provide adequate services to
its people.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       Drafts of a Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Kenya and the Association, a Loan Agreement between the Republic of Kenya
and the Bank, and letter agreements among the Association and the Bank and
each of KMC, MMC and NCC are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Also being distributed separately are the Recommendations of
the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association and the Report of the Committee provided for
in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 20 -
64.        In addition to the features of the Development Credit Agreement
which are referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III,
the following features are of particular interest:
(a)   Conditions of effectiveness include:
(i) conclusion of the Letter Agreements between each of KMC,
MMC and NCC on the one hand and the Association and the
Bank on the other hand (Section 6.01(a) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement; and
(ii) conclusion of subsidiary loan agreements between the
Borrower and each of KMC, MMC and NCC (Section 6.01(b)
of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
(b)   Conditions of disbursement include:
(i) establishment of Housing Development Departments and appoint-
ment of key project staff for each city (Schedule 1,
paragraph 4(a)(ii) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement);
(ii) submission of a certificate satisfactory to the Association
from NCC's auditors detailing the extent to which debts
owing to NCC at December 31, 1977 have been paid; appointment
of consultants to assist NCC in valuing all properties under
its jurisdiction; and submission to the Association of
acceptable preliminary designs and cost estimates for settle-
ment plots and proposals for phasing of redevelopment of
privately owned land in Mathare Valley, before disbursements
can commence for the Nairobi component (Schedule 1, paragraph
4(a)(iii) of the draft Development Credit Agreement); and
(iii) appointment of consultants to assist MMC in valuing all
properties under its jurisdiction before disbursements can
commence for the Mombasa component (Schedule 1, paragraph
4(a)(iv) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit and loan would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and the Bank.



- 21 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit and the proposed Loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
April 6, 1978



- 22-
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
KENYA                - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)
KENYA                                REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL       582.6                                        MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      99.2                        1960        1970   ESTIMATE           TANZANIA        IVORY COAST   KORWA, REP. OF  *
____- __ -       -__ -_ -_ -  ---- --   - _   - - _ _ -   _ - _ - _ _ _ _  -    _  _  _ _
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                      90.0*    140.0 *  240.0*/2                1o  00.L*  35.00*    280.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________--___---
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)             8.3       ii.2       135.8/              12.9 /        5.4        32.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        14.0       19.0       24.0/               14.0        16.0        327.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         84.0      113.0     159.0                 25.0        32.0       1371.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)          48.5       49.0       48.7                50.5         46.1        35.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)           19.8       17.0       1                   23.0         23.3        11.4
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)        159.0      137.0     121.8             160 0-165.0/    ..           60.0A
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)        42.5       49.1       50.0                41.8        41.0         65.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 ..        3.4        3.4                 3.2          3.1         2.6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                  3.0        3-1        r35                 3. 0 /a      3.4/a       2.3
URBAN                                  5.8        L-3 0-3                        5.6          8.7k        6.4
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)            7.3         9.9       11.3                 5.5/b      28.0        41.2
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                        46.0 b2. 48.4                             44          42           42.1
15 TO 64 YEARS                        49.2 a   42.0           .                 53.0 j      64.8         54.5
65 YEARS AND OVER                      4.8 at    3.6           **                2.6          2.7         3.4
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                      1.0        1.1,        ..                 0.9 /       D 0    .8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.3       11         .                  1.2 /ab
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)             ..      66.1     295.0                   ..           . *    4424.7
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)               ..        ..         ..                  ..           ..        42.o
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THousAND)          3300.0    5100.0    5400.0                5600.0 4   2600.0    10200 0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)             ..      90.o0o     86.O                91.0 LaQ   82.0          50.5
UNEMPLnYED (S OF LABOR FORCE)              ..         ..         ..                  ...                    4.5
INCOME DISTRlBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS                .       20.2 0        ..               33.5           ..        17.1
LOGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                .        32.6        ..                63.3           ..        44.5
HOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..       3.8                            2.3           ..         7.1
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..      t1.77k       ..                 7.2           ..        17.7
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
._____________________________
X OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS               ..         ..         ..                  ..          ..        28.0
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS             ..         ..         ..                  ..          ..         2.0
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             10840.0/d7850.OLd 5800.0.Li,d             21570.0    15320.0        2180.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         2290.07 lh70.0f   '500.0LsA               4890.0 L   2830.0 /d  2170.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED            830.0 a    770.0      760.0                700.0  a  1150.0       1900.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)         103.0      101.0       102.0 e             73.0        108.0       103.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)               75.0       71.0       67.0 4              43.0         60.0        65.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          32.0       29.0          ..               23.0         18.0e      19.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4                ..        1.9         ..                  ..
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        47.0       64.0      107.0                35.0         76.0       104.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                       2.0 A      9.0 2      12-0Oj               3.0        11.0        41.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              13.0       13.0       13.0                 13.0        13.0        12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONOARY)                      12.0 /      2.0 /      2.O i               10.0 D       7 0        16.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (x)                    ..       30.0       40.0                  *-        20.0         87.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                  2.5                                                               2 *  *  ..  ..  2.7
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                          ..         ..         ..                30.                        .0 .O
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                     ..         ..         ..                  ..          ..        50.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                       ..         ..         ..                  ..           ..        30.0
CONSUMPT ION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)            9.0       48.0       41.0                11.0           ..       126.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)             8.0        9.0       19.0                 3.0         10.0         2.o
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)             50.0       68.0      92.0                 31.0         95.0       307.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                 0.4        0.5        0.5                 0.1          0.2         3.5
----------------------------------------- - ------------- - - ----------------- - --- - ---- -  -R-E- - ------__
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONs ON REVERSE



-23-
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to soy yeax bet-emn 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 2970, and foe Ihast R-eet Estinats between
1.975 And 1975.
O GiP per capita data are based on World Bank Atlas asthodology (1974-76 basis).
IvOry Coast has been selected as the second comparison country bensate of its simllaarities in ecnonoil policies.
55Korea i.s been selected an a coutry with sound induntrilaloaticn and export promotIon policies.
KENYA                      i960   - /a  1962;       /b  Based on complete enumeration of non-African population, and of urban African population, and on a.
10 pec-ent sample of rura  African population  age 0-14, 15-59 and 60 and over reopetively;                       /c  Ratio Of
population under 15 And 60 and over to total labor force;    /d4  Pegiatered, not all praticing in the cou,ntry;
A   Total secondary includes teacher training at the third level.
1970     A.  Ratio of population under 15 sad 65 and over to labor force age 15-59 years;                     Ab  Labor force age 15-59 years;
/c  Urban;    /d  Registered, not all prsctlcing in the country;                 Ae  Total secondary includes teacher training
at the thied level.
MOST% RMECIT RIT7SAPTE,        A   1976;       Ab  1971;      /4  1972;      /d  Registered, not all practicing to the country;
Ae  1969-71 average;         /f  Total secondary includes teacher trainhing at tie third level.
TANff7ARIA                 1970     A Mainiland Tannania;           Ab  1967;    A   1965;        /d  As perecstage of U.rban households.
IVORY COAST                1970    /a  lai  to imoigrtion population growth rate Is higher than the rate of natu.ra1 increase;  -  A   1965-70;    /4  Ratio
of ppopulation under 15 sod 65 sod o-e  to total labor force ;    / ~ Goveroneot only, including nldwi-e:
Ae 1964-66.
ItoREkREP07/;BITT  OF      1970     /a  Gocerninent estimate is 56.0;           A'  An percentage of snployment;           Ac  Registered, not all practicing is the
country;      Ad  Water piped inside.-
Ril, August 24, 1977
BPIYFlNTIONS OP SOK-CAL INDICATORS
L.,. ________Peaio   ee,rig  eo-Popolatica divded hp s.-be, of prasti.iog
Total - Total sufac4ea.pe  cenpristeg land aces sad island asters,                                  male sand female graduate nurse, "traised' or 'cefttfisd" cares  sa. .d
Agri.  - Mast recn ...    eisrOf agiotclarea -aed tenparartly or pan.-                              auilar  prno-el with training Orso.perieoos.
neatly fcr crops, pasearos, nariet 5 kiechno gardensa or on lie fallow.                         Pocolation one haseital hod - PopuItaton dicided by saber at hospital beds
available in pabli. sod peicate gee-ea and spacialined hospice; and
car pner -neita (US$) -CoIP per capita satinst. tan trurrat nadket pri-c,                           rahahiliteetinnoearer    r            -lua  seiog bh-es sad esteblielearate  for
calculated hy snu - overaione sitbd en World Rash Atlas (1973-75 beasis);                         oustodial and prevetice car.
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                                      Pee -pyita eupoty ofclreClasrg eet) -fap-td term enegy
aquivaisat Of  ect food nupplice  -oilabie is  o-otry per ispita per dip;
Pyulattoo aned vital statiatft                                                                       eaileble noPPlies coupelne d-testl  preduotia, inpn-ta lees exPorts, end
P-oe ti-sc  cid--ea milliln)    is at Ofaly fleast:  if net avilable, average                       ebsagna In  t-kb: set Supplies esolude anisni feed, seeds, quniie               -ed
of two end-year eninat-o; il60, 1970 and 1973 data.                                               in faod pereet-ig sand lasses in dinttibatios; reqafr-mets were estimated
by FAD based Ono physiological needs for aerisal activity end health eaneid-
PceI.Lais- A,.,..iLvoo   no         i..r   - Mid-ye-  pphiuPro tqc..e kiinein                       eriog e..oits smtal.      esue   body  -eg-, age sod ens distribtitns  Of
(102 hcc tarea) of rtotl area.                                                                   Popoletlee, and a11aiog 107 ion scenic at houshold level.
.Poostlsfl    dre-lty-nec noanre he Of noeio  lend - Caepxted as ebeo  far                        Pee eaitra eunely of prti   co   n   al- P-ateis contest sOf par ..pita
gialu al nn-  only.                                                                       net suPPlY Of fond Per dy; net expyly ef toed Ie defined as shon;  eqoites-
masts fee eli ontriteir  established hy tUSDA t~oeteic Riseeseo  Sevice
Vital _  arstie-lo                                                                                  pireide far a sLatixr aloac           f 60 grass Of total pratele par day, and
Crud bith  aseocrthosan, nerns -Asn-Ih Itv  births pae thawa-d of                        20 grass of animal and pulse pototo.i  Of which 1  gren should he animal
aid-pear popolartio; to-yeariaesteif  averages ending In 1960 and 1970,                           prateis; these stanasrdn  see Iur  that th-a  Of 75 g-is  of total praceis
and five-year average ecd-on in 1975 foe ante recent estimate,                                    cand 23 gras of animal peoteir a.n e areage for the word, prapneed by, PA0
Crude death rare Pee thousad, averge - Aossel deaths par thousand of nid-pesr                       is the Third Wo-Id rood Pur-y.
population; ten-pens or isitic  evaragee ending to 1960 and 1970 and fiv-                       Par ..Petta Protein -upol, fca-nise; end pulee  - Protein supply of fend
year averag  ending iv 1975 fnn most resa  es O     timate,                                       derivd  e" animal  and putoon  in Ateos Pee day.
Infact Aotlt   ae7to) -AnOa1 deatha af infants undor one pear af age                              Death rate C/thou) anon  1-4 - oAuslI deaths Par thousa.nd In efe grasp I-A
Per thoucand ifo- births.                                                                         years ,tr children  to this age group; saggested asasidisetne Of
Lifte eo-ctany nt ihtrh (pso)  A- Aerg  asober of years of life  remining at                        MIl-teetio..
birth; u-uily nic-pear -verges ending is 1960, 1970 and 1973 for develop-
tag coonteles.                                                                                 Ldunatto
iron,  ryOd-uttoc rate-acreage nushe  of Ifne d-ofhtere a .oa  w    ill beer                      Adlusard aolwtrti-pimyscsl- iEnOInent nf all agee as Pan-
fo her noeta  rep-odotetv  Period if she empreoen-  Pr eset age-epe-ifto                          ceocage Of Primary scolaopapalurges; includes children aged h-1l peace
fertiliep raes; xusll  five-Year avrages ending is 1960, 1970 aned 1971                           but adjusted foe differcat lengths of primary educa.tion; for nantri.S wish
for dcvrIoping' conasefan.                                                                        neiersal eduatton, enrei1met maY caceed 10M. sinc  son  pupils are bel1-
Ppopl.tion scouth nets iTS - total   C-Caposd anua  geawih -tst Of mid-pane                          te  hov  tie Official school ag..
popoletlon for 1950-hi, 1960-70 nedC1970-75.                                                    Adj.eted ecrolleont -stin - teendaly snhoo   - Capoted an shone; secodary
Ponolati-r frots rote (2         rban - Coputed lik's growth rate of tote1                          educatic requires at las.ts four years of  ppenved primary inst_utino;
popa1.luti; diffaro  dfotosof arhan sesas ny effeot conparebilicy Of                              prnutd.e ge-ena,  ctnefnl ne teac.her tra.inin    -te-otia-s foe pupils
dora ovn       ctrirs.                                                                            at 12 to 17 y-ear  of age .rr-epond-sce-eratsar  genrally seclded.
trie- paPslntbo  17. of -to-tal   - Rtart  of urben in total populotion; difieceti                 Yearnt.. c    choolin  or-cided fieiad  aodlves                Itel yeses Of
definition   of orban area  map effect  onparbility Of date  -mn  sorstries.                      echooling; at secondary level,  taaiesa1 insttroian may he partially at
Osaplately e..lIded.
Age structur fo-net) - Children (0414 years), coking-ago  (15-hi years),                          Vocational  -ren1nce t2 of sooonasy) - V_catfanal isnfrtiont..   -iselde
and toured (65 yeo.. 'end ncec) an oteontcaps cf mid-peer poputartia.                             te -h-i-al, inutra   aother Prc-rn  which op-ens indapandenslyena
Ane ,ic-ccderry _ratio  -   taio of Ppopultion usd-Ac  i  and 65 sod aver en these                   deparoenats Of  _eodaryiniuics
Of nf-  15 through hA.                                                                          Adlt litear   at  1,  - Litsratn  adults (able es read sad -ite) as pee-
toonao deerdeno stin-Ratio of popalatnon under 11 sad 65 sad over ta                         oentage of total adult popoleslio  egad 15 yeses and eve.r
the laove force In age cecun- of 15-h4 yeses.
Levil cievico -oscroova isocaitine.thud  -  wlneti- nuber af acorpeacs               HoustonO
of bieth-ocoreci d-vi-e  ad-r antpine  of national fatly pleasing pragro-asn  n                                 aCnn    Average easier Of persons- per roan is occpied
sic   icpion.                                                                                 -Oeveotio..aI dueIlinga  in -rbasars  dwellinRs e-Ildeno-e aet
family piniguesi   P  aeo   oel-Peoaae    tmried waso                                                 tru--earnsed neocuPird p-rr.
chid-earngate(1-44per.)wi  sa  bripcorea  deie  ta al  mare                          cone1    rioswihe id Pqwe~r   (7), - Occupied ronceriona1 dwellings
warn   to -n  ee grasp.                                                                        islined  ua   ena   iotmd0  se sut ida piped smear facilities
t  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sp-reetego cf all -cr-pied delns
Totals lao forc  (tho....ed)   EC- tooi-aly action pasn,iouigsndeetiiyi   iixqatr   np e Cof mid dwlling   As or~bet end
foce  ad curopi oved hot secludng bhs.... -., etadntss, etc.; defisief...                     en-Ir  seen.
in cae,cmtose san   rot osparable.R~ mea  ~dulIoc Ionocied ta eletrtiyj4-Crapida   io   a   oa
ishorforc  in  priclrur (TI- Agric-lto-a  labor terse (it feemisg, feesetry,                daslli%g  only..r  -t
h-ntiog and fishing; as percetage Of total labor forc.
Onnelerjj  ofIsorforce  -  neployed see us..ally defined as p-r-n  who                        osoin
sea able nod ollliac to sabe a   iot ef aJob on    lne   day, renaised nut                      sadie reevrt        erto   e)     .1tpsa   eonr-frrdobodet
of aoh,  nd eehia  wor   fot pcfedscneprtedI eat  -scdiot ace                              to general public Poer thousand Of population; ce_lodes saltc-eaedrcers
-ke; to   n   o  aprblobtrtoteiedu enld,                    diffesaet deflnielae                   In c-ntries sod io veers whe  regiateation Of radio sor  was in effect;
of cneaplupeui and sorc  et deta, e..  ep oyst fnIic  etetIat-s * saPle                            data for ...eort yeses sup sOs be curprs bl ei-c  ne             ..t rnueir  abolished
euvp.capalcory  -oplyeet insuance                                                             licensing.
incom .Aiseihtv   P- Pr-estege of Private mons-  iboth in sah end bin-Al                       lest        liepros   a  udee e,bulnO-s . he.....s and silitery
-sosd by sti,e-  5%, riobest 705, p-osa   20%,..adpors  40% Of has-vhils
holds.                                                         Plecericiec fbwhjy1gee rag), ~~~~~~~- Annea   -onePsion  of iod-tsrtl. c-sercial.
Diateih,,tioo of Ised ewnerehi e-Psroessages  of land owned by weslthisas 101               based on peadantian dsta  withoutr ..silonesOfne..d  icebyiesatsiistgrids hot dalt.,-
-,d pc...... L 10% Of leand e e.Ing fee imports and soports Of se-rritity.
Rewaria  (if/yrperp   - Par .apita. ..nu.. I-as-pelo    kin  lgras
Aesiti ac-A  Rotririon                                                      ass~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mimetad fran donsci  p-ad-tias plc. ass imporia of nwpit
Par,1, 1s io   prphaicis-  - Papa.lero  dAbided by acetOf praticing
physli.ian   qaai ilied tera a medical -hooi at -sins-ity 1-1s.



All   A            :::::;  2H                                     s' -,                                                                                                                 0 ,
-~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
r >N00      -o   coc  -oni- O           ,-sr--       \<  
*  - _s n  < >N n  <             n000    o- s 
0S                      0 0      4 0                                 00                                                    N'~    80     -         n4          -     0-bn
.-       rtC   0s w4 00-  440                        no   .. r.   .    O va                                         - _1                     I      -      + Oo          E         
S ~ ~ ~ ~ bt                         nnojOrO       _bX  -,  on  0 
a   >                                                   e                       1                  0NN  O| r           r _^N          O       I,_jD             i_O       1
Y B            41. 000000040o o4                 4000tw      vvDe.    S       IoW  er : X88                           -                          sS|    >     _oo 
O   W.         N 000-    .440 C0-                                                                                0 O0 N4-               40         0     0,| O, OOOO I-     OX SO... .. .
rA              S~~~~- ~CNNO    Es     N5|~= 
a0      -                                                                                             .4- ba44 14                         40        -
N   0o O..40 e                      404 N                v               cc                                     o3 v c c::  c                             o3
C~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~~                                                                     On-   00  oto   4   On I             fi8 =H8CH     
o  Z    i g  g g  a  S0 ffi X a > 31 v  X  < v v r 0 c 
e0_ 0N 0004  u .r0 -C___b j       0  00eZuas EwbXWirP  i<mu   



-25 -
KREYA
Balance of Payments and External Aseistance
0(111100 US9)
1972        1973         1974         1975        1976.        1977         1978         1979         1980          1985          1990
A. SuMOrY of Balance of PYaMents
1.  Exports (incl. NPS)                      560.0        698.6      1005.5       1038.7       1147.5       1552.4       1540.6       1713.5.      1877.2       3328.2        6306.4
2.  Imports (incl. NFS)                      632.0        752.6       1237.3      1161.3       1149.4       1399.3       1676.0       1870.5       2112.1        3670.7        6704.4
3.  Resource Balance                         -72.0        -54.0      -231.8       -122.6         -1.9        153.1       -135.4       -157.0       -234.8        -350.6       -398.0
4.  Nat Factor Service Income                -34.1       -101.9       -101.1      -113.4       -113.A       -129.6       -124.1       -143.5       -165.5        -325.1        -630.3
4!1 Set Interest Paymnts of which:           -20.1        -21.9        -24.6       -25.9        -22.5        -37.6        -29.1        -39.0        -50.6        -140.0        -332.1
(Interest on Public H & LT Lons)    ( -14.5)    ( -16.3)    ( -10.2)    ( -19.6)    ( -22.5)    ( -33.0)    ( -41.3)    ( -53.2)    ( -67.9)               (-159.3)      (-362.2)
4.2 Direct Invetent IncoM  (Net)
4.3 Workers Reittance (Net)             )    -14.0        -80.0        -76.5       -87.5        -91.3        -92.0        -95.0       -104.5       -115.0        -185.1       -298.2
4.4 Other Factor SBrvic Income (Net) )
5.  Current Transfers (Net)                   38.1         22.2         19.3        18.4         15.3         20.0         20.0         20.0         25.0          25.0          25.0
6.  Balance on Current Accountt              -.          -133.7       -313.6      -2t7.6       -100.4         43.5       -239.5       -280.        -375.         -650.        -nla.O2
7.  fr1v ate Dirnct 7Inte nt                  34.1         74.7        123.8        42.9         42.9         48.0         53.8         60.3         67.5         119.0        209.7
8.  Capital Grants                            39.5         39.4         69.9        39.4         40.0         60.0         64.2         68.7         73.5         103.1         144.6
Public M &       a.ssen
9.  Diehursemente-                            68.7         67.8.       74.6         87.7        185.5        255.7        245.6        270.1        298.5         704.3       1560.2
10. Anortistion  1/                          -10.4        -12.6       -13.8        -13.1        -19.7        -32.5        -42.8        -47.1        -69.9        -231.3        -013.3
11. Net Diebureements/                        58.3         55.2        60.0         74.6        165.0        223.2        202.8        223.0        228.6        473.0         746.9
Other M   LT Lons
12.  .ilburee mentj-                          10.5         18.6        22.7         24.8         14.5          9.0          5.9          1.6         0.8            0.0          0.0
13. Anortieation-2/                           -5.7         -5.5        -3.7         -4.0         -7.7         -8.9         -6.4         -6.S         -6.8         -6.7          -7.4
14. Net Disbureementi-                         4.8         13.1         19.0        20.0          6.9          0.1         -0.5          4.9        -6.0          -6.7           7.4
15  Use of IMF Rasocrcss-                      0.0         -0.6         53.5        51.6         18.9        -35.0        -35.0          0.0          0.0          0.0           0.0
16  Short-tern Capital Transactions            5.6         15.1         31.1        31.9         33.2         15.0         15.0         15.0         15.0         31.8          36.9
17. Capital Transactions, n.-.i              -49.1        -31.8       -74.2        -27.7        -88.4          c-                        -            -             -             -
18. Change in REsrves (- * increase)         -25.2        -31.4         29.7       -15.9       -118.8       -354.9        -60.8        -81.5        -3.2         -69.5        -127.5
B.  Grants and Loan  Co_itsnts
1.  Official Grante/                         39.5         39.4         69.9        39.4         40.0
2.  Public H & LT Loans                       99.4        102.7        170.1       373.2        217.6
2.1  IBRD                                     29.0         34.0         10.4        193.5        31.0
2.2  IDA                                      28.0          ..         33.5         25.5         14.0
2.3  Other Multilateral                        ..           1.1          3.6          7.2        10.8
2.4  Governments                              22.7         66.0        122.6        76.0         33.6
of which centrally
planned econoes                         _            0.3          -           -            -
2.5  Supplicrs                                 2.3          -            -          47.5         65.8
2.6  Financial Inctitutions                   17.3          1.6          -           8.4         56.6
2.7  Bonds                                      -           -            --                        -
2.8  Public Loans. n.e.i.                      _            -            -          15.0          5.8
3.  other M & LT Loans (where available)A   33.9           23.2          6.9         3.6          7.5
C. Me-oandum Items'
6/
1.  Grant Element of Total Commitmanti        45.5         45.4         66.0        23.8         21.0
2. Avcrage Interest (Percent)                  4.1          4.2          2.1          6.7         6.6
3.  Aver-ge Maturity (Years)                  29.2         28.6         36.4        24.6         10.1
1/ Includes financing of projectad balance of payments deficit (1977-1990) by suppliers  credits.
2/ Represents disbursement and repayent of loa  for  AG projects of which Kenys's share is a notional 50%.
3/ Net of "Drawing" and "RBpayment by Purchase".
4/ Erioldes Technical Asistance greets.
3' For 1972-76 represents a notional 50% of loan commitments for EAC projects.
6/ For 1972-76 represents only grant sement of loans.
Ftra, (PT-A
Fohroory 7, 1976



- 26 -
KENYA                                       Annex I
Debt and Creditworthiness-!/
Actual
1972       1973       1974       1975       1976       1977
Medium and Long-Term Debt (Disbursed Only)
(US$ Million)
Total Debt Outstanding  iDOD:  End of Period)-          441.6      514.5       602.8      656.8      807.9    1029.8
2   Including Undisuu        1/e                             674.3      787.9      958.7    1235.0    1401.0    1537.4
3   Public Debt Service                                       36.3       39.9       42.1       43.0        57.7       82.4
-1 Interest                                                   20,2       21.7       24.5       25.9       30.3        41.1
Other M & LT Debt Service                                  ..         ..
2/
Debt Burden-
Debt Service Ratio                                         6.5        5.7        4.2        4.1        5.0        5.3
2   Debt Service/GDP                                           1.8        1.9        1.9         1.9        2.4        2.0
Public Debt Service/Government Revenue                     8.9        8.3        7.2        6.4        8.3
Terms"/
Interest on Total DOD/TotalDOD                            4.6         4.2        4.1        3.9        3.8        4.0
2.  Total Debt Service/Total DOD                               8.2        7.8        7.0         6.5        7.1        8.0
?. Dependency Ratios for M & LT Debt-
Gross Disbursements/Imports (incl. NFS)                   12.5       11.5        7.9        9.7       17.4       18.9
2.  Net Transfer/Imports (incl. NFS)                          10.0        9.1        6.4         8.2       15.0       16.0
Net Transfer/Gross Disbursements                          79.7       79.0       82.0       84.8       86.3       84.4
1/
Exposure-/
-   IBRD Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements            34.6        38.5       23.8       53.5       38.8       20.0
2.  Bank Group Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements  42.0             55.6       35.4       59.5       45.6        27.6
3.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                        16.2       19.9       20.6       27.7       31.5       29.4
4.  Bank Group DOD/Total DOD                21                26.1       32.2       32.9       40.1       43.2       40.5
D.  IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service-                     14.6       19.3       21.6       27.2       38.2       29.4
Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service2/             15.4       20.6       22.8        28.6       39.6       30.6
outstanding Dec. 31, 1976
Amount          Percent
3/                               (US$ Million)
External Debt (Disbursed only)-
IBRD                                                                   169.5            25.6
2.  Bank Group                                                             264.1             39.9
3.  Other Multilateral                                                      10.3              1.6
4   Governments                                                            299.8             45.3
of which centrally planned economies                                   0.2              -
Suppliers                                                               35.9             5.4
Financial Institutions                                                  21.5              3.2
7 . Bonds                                                                   18.4              2.8
3.  Public debt. n.e.i.                                                     11.8              1.8
9   Total Public M &  U  Debt                                              661.7            100.0
10. Other M & LT Debt-                                                     146.2             22.1
1.  Total Public Debt (incl. Undisbursed)                                 1237.1            187.0
-2. Total M & LT Debt (inl. Undisbursed)                                  1401.0            211.7
I/ Includes a notional 50% share of loans to the EAC.
2,' Includes a notional 50% share of debt service on loans to the EAC.                                        EACPIA
T/ Excludes EAC.
February 7, 1978



- 27 -
ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of February 28, 1978
Loan or                                                                ($ million)
Credit #  Year  Borrower  Purpose                              Amount  Less Cancellations
Bank1/ IDA 1/ Undisbursed
Seven (7) loans and eleven (11) credits fully disbursed    96.0    52.1
224       1970  Kenya      Road Maintenance                            12.6         1.8
276       1972  Kenya      Highways                                    22.0         0.6
826       1972  Kenya      Nairobi Airport                     29.0                 1.3
932       1973  Kenya      Highways                            29.0                12.2
946       1973  IDB        DFC                                  5.0                 0.6
468       1974  Kenya      Population                                   12.0        4.1
477       1974  Kenya      Livestock                                    21.5       19.0
993       1974  Kenya      Tea Factories                       10.4                 6.4
1093      1975  Kenya      Group Farm Credit                    7.5                 7.5
537       1975  Kenya      Group Farm Credit                            7.5         5.5
1105      1975  Kenya      Site and Service                     8.0                 8.0
543       1975  Kenya      Site and Service                             8.0         3.0
565       1975  Kenya      Agriculture-Forestry                        10.0         6.0
1132      1975  Kenya      Agriculture-Forestry                10.0                 7.1 2/
1133      1975  Kenya      Transportation-Pipeline             20.0                 0.9
1147      1975  TRDC       Hydroelectric Development           63.0                25.1
1148      1975  IDB        DFC                                 10.0                 4.1
1167      1975  Kenya      Mombasa & Coastal Water Supply   35.0                   33.3
1184      1975  Kenya      Education III                       10.0                 9.3
650       1976  Kenya      Integrated Agricultural
Development                               10.0         9.8
1303-T    1976  Kenya      Integrated Agricultural
Development                      10.0                 10.0
1304-T    1976  Kenya      Wildlife & Tourism                  17.0                16.9
651       1976  Kenya      Rural Access Roads                           4.0         4.0
1305      1976  Kenya      Rural Access Roads                   4.0                 4.0
1389      1977  Kenya      South Nyanza Sugar                  25.0                24.4
692       1977  Kenya      Agricultural Credit III                     20.0        19.2
1390-T    1977  Kenya      Agricultural Credit III              5.0                 5.0
1438      1977  IDB        DFC III                             20.0                20.0
722 3/    1977  Kenya      Bura Irrigation Settlement                   6.0         6.0
1449 3/   1977  Kenya      Bura Irrigation Settlement          34.0                34.0
750 3/    1977  Kenya      Small-Scale Industry                        10.0        10.0
1520 3/   1978  NCC        Second Nairobi Water Supply         30.0   _            30.0
-    TOTAL                                              477.9   195.7        349.1
of which has been repaid                          14.9      0.6
43      19571
Amount sold                       5.1
of which has been repaid        4.8              0.3     0.0
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA                   462.7   195.1
TOTAL undisbursed                                260.1    89.0       349.1
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
2/ Includes $3.9 million undisbursed grant participation.
3/ Not yet effective.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
B. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF FEBRUARY 28, 1978
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellation
No.      Year    Borrower       Purpose                      Bank            Undisbursed
Five loans fully disbursed                                   93.4
638-EA   1969       EAHC       Harbours                      35.0                1.3
674-EA   1970       EARC       Railways                      42.4               4.9
865-EA   1972       EAHC       Harbours                      26.5               2.0
914-EA   1973       EAPTC      Telecommunications            32.5               5.7
1204-EA  1976       EADB       Development Finance           15.0              11.3
Total                                           244.8             25.2
of which has been repaid                       42.3
Total now outstanding                           202.5
Amount sold                          24.4
of which has been repaid           24.4         0.0
Total now held by BankI/                        202.5
Total undisbursed                                25.2
1/ Net of exchange adjustments.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of February 28, 1978)
There are currently 25 projects under execution in Kenya
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Loan No. 993-KE - Tea Factories: $10.4 million Loan of June 5, 1974;
Effective Date: September 23, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
A combine.l Bank/CDC (the cofinancing partner) mission carried out an in-
depth supervision in October. A combined report will be issued in April
1978. Due to better international tea prices followed by high second pay-
ments the growers have shown increased interest in tea as a cash crop which,
coupled with the fertilizer credit scheme, financed by CDC, will result in
improved yields. The project factory building program is behind schedule
and due to cost escalations funds will only enable 12 factories to be
built instead of 17 if the originally agreed disbursement percentages are
adhered to. A revised financing plan for the balance of five factories will
be determined shortly. The standard of KTDA's management and organization
is high although certain departments work under strain due to the recent
rapid development. The Marketing Department problems should be resolved
shortly. Disbursements are behind schedule: US$4 million against an
appraisal figure of US$8.3 million at December 1977 due to the delayed
factory program.
Credit No. 477-KE - Livestock: $21.5 million Credit of June 5, 1974;
Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Project implementation has been slow and there have been substantive
problems in organization, cost overruns and pricing. An in-depth review of
the project was undertaken in March 1976; the mission's report was presented
to the Government in September 1976 and a series of discussions have been
held since that date. The project was adversely affected by the Government's
failure to raise certain cattle and beef prices to adequate incentive levels.
After a long delay, the Government has recently raised beef prices to more
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress on projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do
not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
appropriate incentive levels. It is expected that the viability of
project subcomponents will improve as a result of this action.
Credit No. 537-KE/Loan No. 1093-KE - Group Farm Rehabilitation:
$7.5 million Credit and $7.5 million Loan of March 26, 1975;
Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Impressive yield and production increases have been accomplished on
some participating farms, and cooperation between the various Government
ministries and agencies concerned has improved. The initial reluctance of
groups of farmers to participate in the rehabilitation program has been
largely overcome, due partly to the example set by the first group farms
participating in the project and partly to the active campaign for the
program by politicians and high-ranking Government officials. However,
farm recruitment overall has reached only 37 percent of appraisal targets,
and it seems unlikely that the appraisal targets will be reached before
the present closing date. Moreover, project costs have increased
substantially. A study prepared by consultants on the large farm sector
is presently being reviewed by the Government.
Loan No. 1132-KE/Credit No. 565-KE - Second Forestry Plantation Project:
$10.0 million Credit and $10.0 million Loan of June 27, 1975; Effective
Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The planting program is progressing fairly satisfactorily, but the
cumulative total to date is 18 percent below target, due to unfavorable
weather conditions in 1975 and 1976, shortage of equipment and, in some
cases, of labor (both now remedied). The building and road construction
programs are both considerably behind schedule. However, all the backlogs
can be made good during the last 3 years of the Project. Progress has been
very slow in implementing most of the covenants of the Credit Agreement,
particularly regarding the sawmilling sector, the national land use study,
the gazetting of nature reserves and new forest reserves, and the study of
stumpage rates for sawlogs. Government is now providing very substantial
budgetary allocations to make up for past cuts. Procurement is proceeding
normally. Disbursements and total project expenditure are both slightly
behind schedule, but they should soon catch up with estimates. The general
situation of this project is improving, slowly but steadily.
Loan No. 1303T-KE/Credit No. 650-KE - Integrated Agricultural Develop-
ment Project: $10.0 million Loan and $10.0 million Credit of July 9,
1976; Effective Date: March 15, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The Annual Work Plan for FY77 was prepared on time and the first group
of smallholders is receiving assistance. The Annual Work Plan for FY78
was also submitted to the Association and BADEA on time, and has been
approved with suggested curtailment of the number of beneficiaries. The



- 31 -
ANNEX II
focus of the project has changed towards assisting large number of
subsistence farmers rather than progressive smallholder farmers. This
change has led to a number of difficulties, but the project objective
of improving the productivity and incomes of smallholder farmers continues
to be met. Some adjustment to the administrative framework is required,
and discussions on this subject are ongoing.
Loan No. 1389-KE - South Nyanza Sugar Project: $25.0 million Loan
of April 15, 1977; Effective Date: November 3, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
This loan became effective on November 3, 1977. Progress with regard
to initial staffing and procurement as well as start-up activities of road
and building construction, land development and planting of nurseries has
been according to schedule. A recent Government decision not to increase
sugar prices in 1978 could have a detrimental effect on the project and this
issue is being kept under close review by the Bank.
Credit No. 692-KE/Loan No. 1390-KE - Third Agricultural Credit Project:
$20.0 million Credit and $5.0 million Loan of April 15, 1977; Effective
Date: September 14, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
This credit and this loan became effective on September 14, 1977.
Progress during the first six months of the project period has been slower
than expected. However, recruitment of additional staff required to implement
the project is underway. Loan recovery from Phase I and II Projects is
satisfactory and steps are being taken to improve control of utilization of
disbursed loans.
Loan No. 1449-KE/Credit No. 722-KE - Bura Irrigation Settlement Project:
$34.0 million Loan and $6.0 million Credit of June 22, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984
This loan and this credit have not yet been declared effective due to
delays by cofinancing parties in processing their documentation.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Loan No. 1184-KE - Third Education Project: $10 million loan of
December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 17, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project is off to a good start. The Project Unit is fully staffed;
a survey of the physical facilities to be extended at the 17 primary teachers
colleges has been conducted. Consulting architects for the Educational



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Broadcasting and Multi-Media Service Station design and construction
supervision are being established. The National Committee on Educational
Objectives and Priorities ENCEOP) has now completed its report. A Bank/
UNESCO meeting to review the NCEOP report took place in January 1977 and
at its suggestion the Government created a Standing Committee to develop
and clarify the NCEOP proposals as the basis for an investment program.
The NCEOP report, now in the form of a Sessional Paper to be tabled before
the Parliament, provides the basis for the proposed Fourth Education Project.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1167-KE - Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply; $35 million Loan
of October 15, 1975; Effective Date: January 13, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Completion is now forecast about the end of 1979, a year later than
the original schedule, primarily because of long delays in the awards of
contracts. All major contracts, representing financial commitments
equivalent to 85 percent of total estimated project costs have now been
awarded and good progress is being made on equipment manufacture and
construction. Total project costs are now estimated at US$78 million
equivalent, which is about US$3 million (4 percent) above the appraisal
estimate. Estimated foreign exchange costshave not changed. There has
also been some delay in the development of the Coast Province Water Branch
due to difficulties in recruiting managerial and technical personnel
but the staffing position is now improving.
Loan No. 1520-KE - Second Nairobi Water Supply; $30.0 million Loan
of March 27, 1978 ; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This loan is not yet effective.
TRANSPORT SECTOR
Loan No. 224-KE - Road Maintenance: $12.6 million Credit of December 28,
1970; Effective Date: March 18, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The project, about a year and a half behind schedule, is now substan-
tially completed, with final completion expected by June 1978. The delay
was primarily caused by a slow start in construction of the regional work-
shops and camps due to unforeseen difficulties in the acquisition of sites
and procurement of steel. The revised cost estimate of US$16.0 million is
about US$2.1 million below the appraisal estimate because of savings on



- 33 -
ANNEX II
staffing costs and equipment and spare parts. There will be a US$1.3
million savings from the credit funds. This remaining balance of US$1.3
million of the Credit funds will be used for rehabilitation or replace-
ment of maintenance quipment and purchase of additional workshop equip-
ment and tools in order to achieve the project's objectives. The
Closing Date has been extended to June 30, 1978, and a further extension
is likely to be required to complete procurement.
Credit No. 276-KE - Highways: $22.0 million Credit of January 5,
1972; Effective Date: March 22, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project, although behind schedule, is now well advanced in terms
of the improvement of the Ulu-Sultan Hamud section of the Nairobi-Mombasa
road and the construction of the tea roads in the Mount Kenya and Meru
areas. However, slow progress is being made on construction of the
settlement roads in the Eldoret area. The vehicle weighbridges at Nairobi
and Mombasa have recently gone into operation. The final estimated cost of
the project in terms of Kenya shillings is expected to exceed appraisal
estimates by 47 percent; this cost overrun will be borne by the Government.
Loan No. 826-KE - Nairobi Airport: $29 million Loan of June 2, 1972;
Effective Date: July 7, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Solutions to the problems of disputes with contractors and cost over-
runs are well in hand, and the contractors are now working again. Construc-
tion is substantially completed and the new facilities opened in March
1978. The main problem now is in the area of recruiting and training
technicians in the various skills in sufficient numbers to operate the
new facilities. Planning and execution of maintenance programs as well as
the unification and proper management of financial and accounting systems
and controls also continue to be problem areas. The Aerodromes Department
is giving due recognition to these problems, and is now actively seeking
solutions.
Loan No. 932-KE - Highways: $29.0 million loan of September 6, 1973;
Effective Date: November 9, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Implementation started two years behind schedule and as a result of
recent inflation and heavy cost overruns, contracts for the improvement of
two roads have not yet gone to tender. In view of heavy cost overruns
it is proposed to exclude the Thuchi-Nkubu (51 km.) road from the project.
The Closing Date has been postponed from December 31, 1977 to December 31,
1979.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 1133-KE - Mombasa-Nairobi Oil Product Pipeline Project:
$20 million Loan of June 27, 1975; Effective Date: December 31,
1975; Closing Date: February 1, 1979
Construction was completed in October 1977 and commercial operations
commenced in February 1978 as originally planned. The oil industry, the
Railways and KPC have agreed to install central railroad loading facilities
at KPC's Nairobi terminal. Financing of the US$1.54 million cost is being
arranged. KPC has updated project cost and financial forecast. The
project is now estimated to have a cost overrun of 17 percent. The increase
is primarily due to escalation in construction costs. Agreement has been
reached on a tariff structure which will enable KPC to show operating profits
from the outset. Although there will be a cash shortfall during mid-1978,
the cash flow in total for calendar year 1978 should be positive.
Loan No. 1305-KE/Credit No. 651-KE - Rural Access Roads Project:
$4 million Loan and $4 million Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective
Date: October 7, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Although the Loan/Credit became effective in October 1976, no funds
have yet been disbursed. The project is one year behind schedule, though
costs are not expected to increase. Economic evaluations for the eight
districts in which Bank-financed units would be set up have been reviewed
and approved by the Bank; four construction units are now operating, an
additional unit is expected to start road construction shortly, and start
up of the remaining three units is dependent on the recruitment of
engineers. Efforts to recruit the necessary staff are underway.
POPULATION SECTOR
Credit No. 468-KE - Population: $12.0 million Credit of April 1,
1974; Effective Date: July 31, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The four-year population project forms an integral part of Kenya's
Five Year MCH/FP program, FY1975-79. All of the IDA financed components
of the project are proceeding satisfactorily. All construction work has
been contracted and 67 percent of the facilities completed. Supply of
vehicles and furniture and equipment has been contracted and delivery is
scheduled in early 1978. The Nursing Activities study is nearly complete
and the IDA-financed program advisor is effectively carrying out his
responsibilities. The program components financed by other donors and the
GOK are also moving ahead and are expected to be completed on schedule.
A major mid-term review of the program in March 1977 by the co-financing
partners expressed general satisfaction with Kenya's MCH/FP program
strategy and progress.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1147-KE - Gitaru Hydroelecttic -Project: $63.0 million Loan
of July 25, 1975; Effective Date: January-29, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
Construction of the project is proceeding satisfactorily on schedule
and within estimated cost. By December 31, 1977, the actual expenditure on
the project amounted to 59% of the total estimated completion cost. On the
basis of contracts awarded for civil works and electrical and mechanical
equipment, present estimates show that the project cost in Kenyan pounds is
likely to be about 1% lower than the appraisal estimate. Due to the devaluation
of Kenyan currency in October 1975, however, the project cost saving expressed
in US dollar equivalent will be about 15% of the appraisal estimate. This
will result in a saving in the Bank loan of about US$5 million, in spite of
the increase made on June 15, 1977 in the percentage of civil works expenditure
to be financed by the Bank loan from 60% to 80%. Consultantst studies on
possible alternatives for future development and a long-term power development
plan are being reviewed by the Government.
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Loan No. 946-KE - Industrial Development Bank Project: $5.0 million
Loan of Novemiber 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 26, 1974; Closing
Date: March 31, 1979
The first Bank loan of $5 million to IDB, which became effective on
March 26, 1974 was 88 percent committed as of December 31, 1977 and
was fully committed in March 1978, two years behind schedule. This
delay is due to the cancellation prior to disbursement of a number of
projects previously approved. As at February 28, 1978, US$4 million
of this loan had been disbursed. The Closing Date has been extended by
one year to March 31, 1979.
Loan No. 1148-KE - Second Industrial Development Bank Project: $10.0
million Loan of July 25, 1975; Effective Date: October 9, 1975;
Closing Date: July 1, 1979
The second Bank loan of $10 million became effective on October 9,
1975. This loan is likely to be fully committed by March 31, 1978, about
9 months behind schedule. As of February 28, 1978 US$9.3 million had
been committed and US$5.9 million had been disbursed.
Loan No. 1438-KE - Third Industrial Development Bank Project: $20.0
million Loan of June 22, 1977; Effective Date: November 10, 1977;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
This loan was declared effective on November 10, 1977.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Credit No. 750-KE - Small Scale Industry Projecti $10.0 million
Credit of -November 28, 1977; Closing Date:- December 31, 1982
This credit has not yet been declared effective.
URBAN SECTOR
Credit No. 543-KE/Loan No. 1105-KE - Site and Service Project:
$8.0 million Credit and $8.0 million Loan of May 6; 1975; Effective
Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Execution of the project is proceeding satisfactorily. The first
phase (1,000 lots) has been completed on schedule and house construction
by allottees is under way with 75 percent of the houses completed.
Design and engineering for the rest of the project has been completed
and tendering took place in two stages in November and December 1977.
Three of the studies attached to the project have been completed; the
fourth, monitoring and evaluation, is in progress.
WILDLIFE AND TOURISM SECTOR
Loan No. 1304-KE - Wildlife and Tourism Project: $17.0 million Loan
of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: November 10, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The loan was declared effective on November 10, 1976. Preparation
for project implementation has been considerably slower than expected,
due largely to delays in recruitment of personnel for the Project
Management Unit (PMU) and the Wildlife Planning Unit (WPU). Project
implementation should now accelerate as officers have recently been
or will soon be appointed for the PMU. CIDA has expressed an interest
in funding WPU posts, and has seconded the acting head of the unit for
about six months. Preparations for the Tourism Pricing Study and the
Very Large Herbivores Study are proceeding satisfactorily. A supple-
mentary letter augmenting the Government's proposal for anti-poaching
operations to be financed by the Loan has been negotiated and signed, but
disbursements on this component will not begin until the Bank has
satisfied itself as to Government progress on the actions described
and scheduled in the letter. A draft proposal for the anti-poaching
program and units as outlined in the supplementary letter has been
discussed with the Government and is now being finalized.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
There are currently 5 projects in execution in the East African
Community. 1/
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: $35.0 million Loan
of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness: December 15, 1969;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: $26.5 million Loan of
December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness:- April 16, 1973;
Closing Dace: June 30, 1978
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single bay tanker terminal for the Port of Dar es
Salaam; two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa;
tugs, lighters, cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general
improvements for both ports. The Third Harbours project included three
new deep water berths, modernization of two berths and a lighterage
quay, a training school building and central repair area for Dar es
Salaam; modernization of several berths and a lighterage quay, construc-
tion of a tug berth, cold storage facilities and a training building in
Mombasa and improvement of a lighterage quay in Tanga. Construction of
all major project elements has been completed. Of the minor project
elements, only two are still under construction, namely the improvement
of lighterage facilities in Tanga and reconstruction of sheds in Mombasa.
Both are expected to be completed before mid-1978. Because of shortage
of funds under both loans, the following minor project elements have not
been submitted for Bank financing: the second phase of modernization of
the lighterage quay and a training school for Dar es Salaam; and moderni-
zation of the lighterage quay and a training school for Mombasa. Locally
financed contracts have been awarded for these project elements with
the exception of the modernization of the lighterage quay in Mombasa.
General cargo throughput has increased above appraisal forecasts for Dar
1/ Since October 1, 1977, the East African Community loans (excluding the
East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of
separate national guarantees. The agreed allocation of undisbursed
balances for each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive
Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12,
1978, is given in this Annex.



-38 -
ANNEX II
es Salaam, and cargo handling productivity has improved with increasing
throughput; however, port labor productivity has stagnated in Mombasa
where general cargo throughput has declined considerably. The ports of
Kenya and Tanzania are now functioning completely independently of each
other. Legislation to establish a Tanzania Harbours Authority has been
enacted, and a Kenya Port Authority is expected to be established soon.
Management of ports in both countries is competent. Some $33.7 million
of Loan 638-EA and $24.5 million of Loan 865-EA has already been
disbursed. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at October 1,
1977 between the countries concerned is given below:
For Loan No. 638-EA                  (US$ million)
Kenya                               0.7
Tanzania                            0.6
Total                           1.3
For Loan No. 865-EA
Kenya                               1.7
Tanzania                            0.3
Total                           2.0



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 674-EA - Third Railways Project: $42.4 million Loan
of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness - October 30, 1970;
Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The original purpose of the project was to complete the Railways'
1969-1972 Development Program, including track improvement, procurement
of rolling stock and other equipment, and to finance studies of the
economic feasibility of certain railway lines and services.  The physical
execution of the original project has been seriously delayed due to
administrative and political problems within the Community.  In November
1974, the Executive Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted
balance of the Loan to be used for consultant services and emergency
investments in track material. All three countries have now enacted
legislation to establish their own Railways Corporations. The agreed
allocation of undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977 among the various
countries concerned is given below:
$ Million
Kenya            2.0
Tanzania         3.8
Uganda           1.9
Total            7.7
Disbursements at February 28, 1978 totalled $39.5 million.
Loan No. 914-EA - Third Telecommunications Project: $32.5 million
Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness - September 19, 1973;
Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/
VHF systems and multiplex equipmuent, interurban cables and wires,
automatic switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data
equipment, and training. All major works other than microwave and UHF/VHF
system construction have now been completed, despite initial delays
caused by staffing and other problems associated with the reallocation
of the headquarters. Funds disbursed to date total $26.8 million and a
further amount of $0.6 million has been committed for cables and
subscriber apparatus, microwave and multiplex telex and telegraph equipment.
A contract for the provision of the remaining microwave and associated
multiplex equipment required for completion of the project is about to be
awarded. The remaining funds ($5.4 million) are expected to be used for
these systems. Because of the long lead time required for the microwave
equipment, the project is expected to be fully completed by mid-1979.
The Closing Date has accordingly been postponed to December 31, 1979.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at October, 1977 among the
countries concerned is given below:
$ Million
Kenya                2.4
Tanzania             3.5
Uganda               0.1
Total                6.0
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development: $15.0 million Loan
of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - June 7, 1976; Closing
Date - March 31, 1979
Over the last year, the environment within the Community has had
a negative impact on EADB operations. Level of operations both for
appraisal and supervision has been depressed, and there has been some
deterioration in the state of the portfolio with the arrears affected
portfolio rising to 50% as of June 30, 1977. However EADB has been able
to retain nearly all its staff who are both adequate in number and
technically competent to continue the operation of the institution and
effect some recovery in the portfolio. Some $3.7 million has been
disbursed to date, and the uncommitted balance amounts to $3.3 million.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
D. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS IN KENYA AS AT
FEBRUARY 28, 1978
Fiscal Year         Obligor              Type of Business   Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Equity    Total
1967, 1968
and 1973      Kenya Hotel Properties    Hotels                5.2       0.7      5.9
1970, 1974    Pan African Paper Mills   Pulp and Paper       13.1       6.3     19.4
and 1977
1972          Tourism Promotion          Hotels               2.4        -       2.4
Services
1976          Rift Valley Textiles       Textiles             6.3       2.8      9.1
Ltd.
1977          Kenya Commercial Bank      Capital Market       2.0        -       2.0
Ltd.
TOTAL Gross Commitments                      29.0      9.8     38.8
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                        8.5      1.8     10.3
TOTAL Commitments now held by IFC           20.5       8.0     28.5
TOTAL Undisbursed                             2.6      0.6      3.2



- 42 -
ANNEX III
KENYA
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
1. Timetable of key events
(a) Time taken to prepare:                   About 20 months
(b) Preparation by:                           Government of Kenya
Kisumu Municipal Council (KMC)
Mombasa Municipal Council (MMC)
City Council of Nairobi (NCC)
(c) Initial discussion with Bank:             1975
(d) First Bank mission:                       1975
(e) Appraisal mission departure:              September 1977
(f) Negotiations:                            March 1978
(g) Planned date of effectiveness:            July 1978
2.  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
3.  Special Conditions
(1) Conditions of effectiveness include the conclusion of each of the
Letter Agreements and subsidiary loan agreements (Section 6.01 of
draft Development Credit Agreement).
(2) Conditions of disbursement would be:
(a) that the Housing Development Department had been established and
key staff appointed for each project city before funds could be
disbursed for the city in question (para. 45);
(b) that consultants had been appointed to assist MMC and NCC in
completing rating valuation of all properties under their
jurisdiction before funds could be disbursed for the city in
question (para. 55);
(c) that a certificate satisfactory to the Association had been
submitted by NCC's auditors detailing the extent to which debts
owing to NCC at December 31, 1977 had been paid before funds
could be disbursed for Nairobi (para. 57); and



- 43 -
ANNEX III
(d) that proposals for phasing of redevelopment of privately owned
land in Mathare Valley, and preliminary designs and cost estimates
for settlement plots had been accepted by the Association before
funds could be disbursed for Nairobi (para. 39).
(3) Other conditions of particular interest include:
(a) restructuring of the Ministry of Local Government to better
provide advice and assistance to local authorities (para. 55);
(b) financial measures including valuation, introduction of annual
taxes on rental values of industrial and commercial property,
regulation of housing and related activities (para. 55);
(c) Government assuming responsibility for recurrent costs for
primary education and health expenditures (para. 56);
(d) confirmation by the Government to continue with a grants-in-aid
system until the Local Governments are financially self-
supporting (para. 55); and
(e) adoption of procedures satisfactory to the Association for
selecting tenants and allocating plots (para. 46-48).



I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



IBRD l3349
\I2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M
0 ~~~~~~~~~~s0M A L Ia
CARISS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
f                                                                                                           i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i.
INDIAN
E]lot Unban Pnojac
2 and Urban Proleo
Natio-a airports
JMMAS         -Pri.rnyprod
>   N>                              ~~~~S-codary rods
PO40an~nayn~Oaus    a.b a  je



