CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 791 KE
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Urban Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 5, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 791 KE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 5, 1978, between REPUBLIC OF KENYA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the Bank to provide
additional assistance towards the financing of the Project and
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and
the Bank (hereinafter called the Loan Agreement) the Bank is
agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000)
(hereinafter called the Loan);
(C) the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this
Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures on the Project
before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan provided for in
the Loan Agreement are made; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿- 2 -
(a) "COL" means the Commissioner of Lands in the Borrower's
Ministry of Lands and Settlement;
(b) "Construction Loan" means a loan from a Municipality to
a Tenant who has been allocated a Plot in a Project Area for
the purpose of financing materials and services for constructing
or improving (i) a dwelling on such Plot or (ii) a building on
such Plot for a workshop or small scale industry;
(c) "HDD" in relation to a Municipality means the housing
development department of such Municipality the functions of which
are described in paragraph 7 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(d) "Infrastructure Loan" means a loan from NCC to a quali-
fied Landholder in the Baba Dogo or Riruta Project Areas for
purposes of financing secondary infrastructure in connection with
the subdivision of his land;
(e) "KSh" means shillings in the currency of the Borrower;
(f) "KMC" means The Municipal Council of Kisumu, a body cor-
porate established and existing as a Municipal Council of the
first class under the Local Government Act, 1963;
(g) "Landholder" means any owner (other than NCC or the
Borrower) of the fee interest in land in the Baba Dogo and Riruta
Project Areas or, if NCC has acquired the fee interest in any
such land or a leasehold interest therein for a term in excess of
25 years, any person to whom NCC has leased or sub-let such land
or any portion thereof for a term of more than 25 years and, for
any such land held in any manner other than that described above,
the person(s) holding the most superior right to possess the land
involved;
(h) "Letter Agreements" mean, collectively, the "Kisumu
Letter Agreement," an agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and KMC; the "Mombasa Letter Agreement", a letter agree-
ment of even date herewith between the Bank and MMC; and the
"Nairobi Letter Agreement," a letter agreement of even date
herewith between the Bank and NCC;
(i) "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date here-
with between the Borrower and the Bank for the purpose of the
Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to time;
and such term includes the General Conditions Applicable to


﻿- 3 -
Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
as made applicable to such agreement, all agreements supplemental
to the Loan Agreement and all schedules to the Loan Agreement;
and the term "Loan" means the Loan provided for therein;
(j) "Local Authority" means a local authority as defined
in Section 2 (1) of the Local Government Act, 1963;
(k) "Market Price" or Market Rates", when used in this
Agreement with reference to the sale or rental of Plots, means
the price or rate which would be obtained on a sale or lease in
the open market between parties independent of each other which
presupposes (i) that the price or rent is the sole consideration;
(ii) that the price or rent paid is not influenced by any commer-
cial, financial or other relationship, whether by contract or
otherwise, between the parties or any person associated in busi-
ness with any of them (other than the relationship created by
the sale or lease in question); and (iii) that no part of the
proceeds of any subsequent resale, use or disposal of the Plot
involved will accrue directly or indirectly to the seller or
lessor or any person associated with him;
(1) "MLG" means the Borrower's Ministry of Local Government;
(m) "MMC" means The Municipal Council of Mombasa, a body
corporate established and existing as a Municipal Council of
the first class under the Local Government Act, 1963;
(n) "Muncipalities" means any or all of KMC, MMC and NCC
as the context requires; and in connection with the execution or
administration of the Project, the actions to be taken by any
particular Municipality are those in respect of the Project
facilities and activities which fall within the geographic juris-
diction of that Municipality;
(o) "NCC" means The City Council of Nairobi, a body cor-
porate established and existing as a Municipal Council of the
first class under the Local Government Act, 1963;
(p) "Occupied Site" means land in a Project Area other
than the Baba Dogo and Riruta Project Areas on which an occupied
dwelling is located, whether or not the dwelling is an Unautho-
rized Dwelling, and the land used in connection with such dwelling
which is immediately contiguous to such land;


﻿-4-
(q) "Plot" means a defined area within a Project Area other
than the Baba Dogo and Riruta Project Areas which has been set
aside by the subdivision of a Project Area in accordance with
applicable law and which is capable of being, or has been, allo-
cated to, or acquired by, a Tenant and such term includes site and
services plots, Occupied Sites whose boundaries have been defined
by such subdivision, Settlement Plots, kiosk spaces, market stalls
and workshop sites;
(r) "Plot Loan" means the loan to be undertaken by Tenants
to pay for the costs of developing and servicing their Plots as
described in paragraphs F.1 - F.3 of Annex B to Schedule 2 to this
Agreement;
(s) "Project" and references to "Parts" thereof mean the
project and parts thereof described in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment, and references to parts of the Project in connection with a
Municipality mean the parts indicated therein to be within the
responsibility of that Municipality;
(t) "Project Areas" means the areas described in Annex A to
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and shown on the Bank's maps numbered
IBRD 13350, IBRD 13351 and IBRD 13352 where the development of
Plots and commercial facilities and provision of infrastructure
and community facilities under the Project is to take place;
(u) "Settlement Plots" means a Plot in the Kayole or Villa
Franca Project Areas which has been reserved for Settlement
Tenants;
(v) "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the three agreements
to be entered into between the Borrower and, respectively, KMC,
MMC and NCC pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
(w) "Tenant" includes Existing Tenants, Resettled Tenants,
New Tenants and Settlement Tenants but does not include persons
who purchase Plots sold at market prices; and
(i) "Existing Tenant" means the head of a household
living on an Occupied Site whether or not the land
involved has become a Plot through subdivision;
(ii) "Resettled Tenant" means the head of a family which
lived on an Occupied Site for the required period
of time, if any, and was evicted from the Occupied


﻿-5-
Site to permit its use for public purposes; and
whom, having qualified therefor, was allocated a
Plot in a Project Area;
(iii) "New Tenant" means a person other than a Resettled
Tenant to whom a Plot has been allocated other
than a Plot created by defining an Occupied Site
through subdivision; and
(iv) "Settlement Tenant" means the head of a family
which was squatting in Mathare Valley (other than
in the Mathare North Project Area or on other
land owned by the Borrower or NCC), so long as
neither such person nor any member of his immediat-
family owns land in Mathare Valley or a share of a
company owning land in Mathare Valley and so long
as such person is not living in buildings built by
owners of land in Mathare Valley;
(x) "Unauthorized Dwelling" means an inhabited structure,
of whatever nature, the habitation of which is illegal or unautho-
rized because of the absence of permission to occupy the land
involved from its owner, or another person entitled to its posses-
sion, or because of the failure of the structure to comply with
zoning, building or other standards imposed by law; and
(y) "Wet Core" means an enclosed structure with water and
sewerage connections containing sanitary facilities adequate for a
family.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiv-
alent to twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and


﻿-6-
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1983
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15 commencing September 15, 1988, and ending
March 15, 2028, each installment to and including the installment
payable on March 15, 1998, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts F (1)
through F (5) inclusive and Part G of the Project with due dili-
gence and efficiency in accordance with the applicable provisions
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, fiscal and planning practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.


﻿-7-
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause each of the Municipalities to perform in
accordance with the provisions of its respective Letter Agreement
and Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set
forth or referred to, including the obligations set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement, which are applicable to it; shall
take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable the Municipalities to perform such obliga-
tions; and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
Section 3.02 (a) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of
the Credit withdrawn under Categories 1, 2 and 3 (as described in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement) to KMC, MMC and NCC,
respectively, under subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into
between the Borrower and each of them under terms and conditions
which have been approved by the Association, including: (i) an
amortization period of 25 years including 4 years' grace as to
principal, (ii) interest at the rat,e of 8-1/2% per annum and (iii)
assumption of the risk of fluctuation in the values of various
currencies by the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any
of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.
(c) Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01
(b), the Borrower shall lend each of the Municipalities, concur-
rently with its lending under the respective Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or in advance if required, additional amounts equal to
the expenditures of the Municipality involved for its part of the
Project (including the operating costs of its HDD) net of receipts
arising out of the Project which are not financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit. Except as the Association may otherwise
agree, such additional amounts shall be repayable over 25 years
with interest at the rate of 6-1/2% per annum.
Section 3.03. The consultants referred to in Section 4.05 (b)
of, and Schedule 2 to, this Agreement shall be employed by the


﻿-8-
Borrower or the Municipality involved within time periods accept-
able to the Association, and their qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be saLisfactory to the
Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure or to
cause the appropriate Municipalities to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower or the Munici-
palities, as their interests may appear, to replace or repair
such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish and cause the
Municipalites to furnish to the Association, promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract docu-
ments and construction and procurement schedules for their respec-
tive parts of the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall itself, and shall cause the Munici-
palities in respect of their parts of the Project, to: (i) main-
tain records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) enable the Association's accredited representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
furnish to the Association at regular intervals all such infor-
mation as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such


﻿-9-
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause the Munici-
palities to take all such action as shall be necessary to acquire
as and when needed all such land and rights in respect of land and
to subdivide the Project Areas as required for the construction
and operation of the facilities included in the Project and for
the conveying of rights of tenancy to Tenants and for sale of
Plots where applicable, including without limitation all actions
required on the Borrower's part to regularize land tenure as
described in Section 2 (a) of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, and
shall furnish to the Association, promptly after such acquisition
or subdivision, evidence satisfactory to the Association that such
land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the opera-
tions, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out any part of the Project.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause KMC, MMC and NCC
each to (i) maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with  consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices
its operations and financial condition and (ii) maintain separate
accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements) in respect of its part
of the Project, and shall furnish the Association copies of such
statements, unaudited, quarterly as soon as available, but in any
case not later than two months after the end of each quarter,
including the last quarter, of its fiscal year. Such statements


﻿- 10 -
shall include a separate accounting of amounts due KMC, MMC and
NCC, respectively, each month from Tenants under the Project and
amounts thereof collected each month. Such separate statements
shall be provisionally audited promptly after the end of each
fiscal year and shall be furnished to the Association, as provi-
sionally audited, as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after thr end of such year.
(b) The Borrower shall cause KMC, MIMC and NCC each to:
(i) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end of each fiscal
year, its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements), including the sep-
arate accounts referred to above; (ii) have such accounts and
financial statements for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Association; (iii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than
nine months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested
including, without limitation to the foregoing, a separate opi-
nion by said auditors as to whether the proceeds of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account for its benefit on the basis of
certificates of expenditures have been used for the purpose for
which they were provided; and (iv) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning its accounts and financial statements
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower hereby confirms that it is its
policy and intent to ensure that Local Authorities are provided
with adequate funds to carry out their functions but to require
Local Authorities to provide such funds from local resources as
far as practicable. Accordingly, the Borrower shall:
(a) enable the Local Authorities to provide themselves with
funds adequate to meet their reasonable recurrent and development
expenditures and, to the extent necessary, provide them with funds
to meet such expenditures until such time as they no longer
require such assistance. "Reasonable recurrent and development
expenditures" means all such expenditures as are necessary or
appropriate to enable the Local Authorities to provide at least
the respective services they have provided in the past within


﻿- 11 -
their jurisdictions in accordance with appropriate standards,
except to the extent such services are provided by the Borrower;
(b) ensure that each of the Municipalities (i) charges and
collects building levies for the construction of primary schools
within its jurisdiction in respect of each child in primary school
in gradually increasing amounts in accordance with principles and
scheduling satisfactory to the Association; (ii) introduces these
levies at the rate of at least KSh 40 per pupil for the school
year commencing in 1980, which shall be in addition to all per
capita levies for pupils in effect for the preceding school year;
and (iii) increases these levies annually so that by the school
year beginning in 1983 its annual revenue from these levies is at
least equal to the development expenditures reasonably required
for primary schools within its jurisdiction for the fiscal year
ending 1984; and
(c) determine fair, efficient and effective actions to be
taken to provide Local Authorities with the funds they require,
including a system for determining annual grants-in-aid to be made
by the Borrower to Local Authorities which shall be introduced by
January 1, 1983 and implemented thereafter in consultation with
the Association.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take all action within its
power, including the introduction of any required legislation
and promulgation of any appropriate subsidiary legislation, to
procure that:
(a) A tax of at least two per cent of the annual rental
value of all property in prime developed areas is
levied and collected by and for the account of the
responsible Local Authority in the same manner as,
and in addition to, general rate levies with effect
from January 1, 1981 in Mombasa and Kisumu, Janu-
ary 1, 1982 in Nakuru and Eldoret and January 1,
1983 in Nairobi, Thika and Kitale;
(b) The criteria for determining annual rental value
and p. ime developed areas are established in con-
sulta.ion with the Association by July 31, 1979;
(c) Annual rental values are established for all
property in prime developed areas for each such
Local Authority at least six months prior to the


﻿- 12 -
date such tax is scheduled, as provided above, to
be introduced in that Local Authority (see Part F
(2) of the Project);
(d) Such annual rental values are incorporated in
valuation rolls for each such Local Authority and
such rolls are promptly amended from time to time
in order to keep them current including amendment
at intervals of not more than five years to incor-
porate up-to-date values for all such property;
(e) Revaluations of all properties for purposes of
general rate levies are completed to the Associa-
tion's satisfaction (i) in NCC and MMC and all
Local Authorities which have not introduced a new
valuation roll since March 31, 1974, by December
31, 1980; (ii) in KMC and all Local Authorities
which have not introduced a new valuation roll
since March 31, 1976, by December 31, 1981; and
(iii) in all other Local Authorities by December
31, 1982; and, in the case of each of NCC and MMC,
the draft final report of the consultants referred
to in Section 4 (a) (iii) and 4 (a) (iv), respec-
tively, of Schedule 1 to this Agreement is fur-
nished to the Association prior to its adoption or
the adoption of revised valuation rolls on the
basis of the work of such consultants and the
Municipalities' valuation staff;
(f) By January 1, 1980 there shall be uniformity and
regularity of valuation for rating of land within
the jurisdiction of Local Authorities levying
rates; and
(g) With effect from January 1, 1980, each Local
Authority collecting general rate levies takes
all action necessary, including without limitation
obtaining judgments and procuring judicial sales
of property, to ensure that no general rate levies
or, if applicable, the additional levies provided
for in this Section remain unpaid longer than 90
days after the date on which they fell due.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall also ensure that:


﻿- 13 -
(a) regulations acceptable to the Association for the
control of the income, expenditures and financing of Local Author-
ities in connection with (i) water and sewerage, (ii) refuse
collection, disposal and conservancy, (iii) markets and (iv)
abattoirs are prepared by January 1, 1979 in consultation with
the Local Authorities with a view to achieving separate accounting
and self-financing of each such function, and that such regula-
tions are promulgated in respect of the applicable services
rendered by KMC, MMC and NCC by April 1, 1979; and
(b) MLG prepares regulations, with the assistance of consul-
tants, to control the accounting and financing of housing and
related activities of Local Authorities by July 1, 1979, and
regulations for this purpose acceptable to the Association are
promulgated by January 1, 1980.
Section 4.06. The Borrower confirms that the policies of the
Municipalities set out in Schedule 3, paragraph 9, of this Agree-
ment are in accordance with its policies and that it will not
make any substantial changes in such policies without first
consulting the Association.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) KMC, MMC or NCC shall have failed to perform any agree-
ment or obligation of KMC, MMC or NCC under the KMC Letter Agree-
ment, the MMC Letter Agreement or the NCC Letter Agreement,
respectively.
(b) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that KMC, MMC or NCC will be able to perform
its obligations under the KMC Letter Agreement, the MMC Letter
Agreement or the NCC Letter Agreement, respectively.
(c) Minute No. 48 A of February 17, 1978 of KMC's Finance
and General Purposes and Finance Committee and Works and Town
Planning Committee, ratified by KMC in its special full Council


﻿- 14 -
meeting on February 18, 1978, shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived without the consent of the Associa-
tion in such a way as to affect materially      ad adversely the
ability of KMC's HDD to carry out its responsibilities set forth
in this Agreement and the Kisumu Letter Agreement.
(d) Mombasa Municipal Commission Minute No. 1269/77 of
December 23, 1977 shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived without the consent of the Association in
such a way as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
the MMC's HDD to carry out its responsibilities set forth in t'Jis
Agreement and the Mombasa Letter Agreement.
(e) Minute No. 1 of February 3, 1978 of NCC's General Pur-
poses Committee, ratified by NCC in its Ordinary Monthly Meeting
on February 7, 1978, shall have been amended, suspended, abro-
gated, repealed or waived without the consent of the Associa-
tion in such a way as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of the NCC's HDD to carry out the covenants, agreements
and obligations set forth in this Agreement and the Nairobi
Letter Agreement.
(f) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action without the consent of the Association
for the dissolution or disestablishment of KMC, MMC or NCC or any
of their respective HDD's or for the suspension of their respec-
tive operations.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) or (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (a) or (f) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General


﻿- 15 -
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that each of the Letter Agreements has been duly
executed and authorized or ratified by KMC, MMC and NCC, respec-
tively, and is legally binding upon KMC, MMC and NCC, respec-
tively, in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that each of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements has been
duly executed and authorized or ratified by the Borrower and
KMC, MMC and NCC, respectively, and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and KMC, MMC and NCC, respectively, in accordance with
its terms.
Section 6.02. The date August 3, 1978 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles
III and IV of this Agreement, and the provisions of Section 5.02
of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 25
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Con-
ditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Planning
P.O. Box 30007
Nairobi, Kenya
Cable address:                    Telex:
FINANCE                           96322003
Nairobi                           FOREIGN NAIROBI


﻿- 16 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By /s/ J. P. Mbogua
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ W. A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit and of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the
allocation of amounts of such proceeds to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit and of the
Loan Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) Expenditures by
KMC for:
(a) civil works              9,150,000      72%
(b) construction,              900,000      72%
infrastructure
and workshop
loans
(c) operational costs,         200,000     72%
vehicles and medi-
cal facilities
for Part E of
the Project
(d)  technical                 575,000     100% of foreign
assistance                            expenditures and
61% of local
expenditures
(e) unallocated              2,875,000
(2) Expenditures by
MMC for:
(a) civil works              6,200,000     72%


﻿- 18 -
Amount of the
Credit and of the
Loan Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(b) construction,            1,100,000      72%
infrastructure
and workshop loans
(c) operational costs,         100,000      72%
vehicles and medi-
cal facilities for
Part E of the
Project
(d) technical                  400,000      100% of foreign
assistance                             expenditures and
61% of local
expenditures
(e) unallocated              1,800,000
(3) Expenditures by
NCC for:
(a) civil works             11,700,000      72%
(b) construction loans       8,200,000      72%
(c) operational costs,         200,000      72%
vehicles and medi-
cal facilities for
Part E of the
Project
(d) technical                1,050,000      100% of foreign
assistance                             expenditures and
61% of local
expenditures
(e) unallocated              3,500,000


﻿19 -
Amount of the
Credit and of the
Loan Allocated         % of
(Expressed in     Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(4) Expenditures by the          2,050,000      100% of foreign
Borrower for                               expenditures and
technical assistance                       61% of local
expenditures
TOTAL        50,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other -than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank and the Association that no
proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan or the Credit decreases or increases, the
Bank or the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank and the Association.
4.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for:


﻿- 20 -
(i) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $250,000 may be made
on account of payments made for such expenditures
before that date but after December 1, 1977;
(ii) expenditures made under Categories (1), (2) and
(3) until each of KMC, MMC and NCC, respectively,
has appointed an appropriately qualified and
experienced director and the heads of the techni-
cal, financial and community development divisions
of its HDD and has approved sufficient numbers of
establishment positions at adequate levels for the
staffing and operation of its HDD;
(iii) expenditures made under Category (3) for NCC until
(A) NCC has furnished the Association with a cer-
tificate from its auditors, satisfactory to the
Association, detailing the extent to which debts
owed to NCC at December 31, 1977 have been paid;
(B) NCC has appointed consultants to assist it in
valuing the real property within its jurisdiction
whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of appointment are satisfactory to
the Association; and (C) The Association has
received from NCC (I) its proposals for ensuring
that the phasing of the redevelopment of privately
owned land in Mathare Valley allows for the reloca-
tion of persons displaced by such redevelopment and
(II) preliminary designs and cost estimates for
Part A (2) of the Project; and the Association has
accepted such proposals, designs and cost esti-
mates; and
(iv) expenditures under Category (2) for MMC until
MMC has appointed consultants to assist it in
valuing the real property within its jurisdiction
whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of appointment are satisfactory to the
Association.
(b) In addition, except as the Borrower, the Bank and the
Association shall otherwise agree, and until all amounts of the
Credit shall have been withdrawn or committed, no withdrawals
shall be made from the Loan Account except under commitments


﻿- 21 -
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or of
the Credit or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table
in paragraph 1 above, if the Bank or the Association has reason-
ably estimated that the amount of the Loan or of the Credit then
allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance the
agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the Bank
or the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan or of the Credit, as the case may
be, which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Bank or the Association are not needed to meet
other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocat.on cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further with-
drawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.
6.    If the Association or the Bank shall have reasonably deter-
mined that the procurement of any item in any Category is incon-
sistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan or of the Credit and the Bank or the
Association may, without in any way restricting or limiting any
other right, power or remedy of the Bank or of the Association
under the Loan Agreement or the Development Credit Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan or of the
Credit as, in the Bank's or the Association's reasonable opinion,
represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise
have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan
or of the Credit.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 2
I.   Description and Execution of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts which will be
carried out in accordance with the provisions below:
Part A:   Plot Development and Upgrading and Provision of
Infrastructure and Services
(1) Site and services:
Provision of infrastructure for and preparation of about
11,774 serviced Plots in five Project Areas as indicated
in Annex A to this Schedule.
(2) Settlement Plots:
Provision of basic infraFLructure for, and basic prepa-
ration of, about 2,500 surveyed Plots in the Kayole and/
or Villa Franca Proj2ct Areas as indicated in Annex A.
(3) Settlement upgrading:
Providing servicing and regularization of land tenure
for about 7,685 Occupied Sites in five settlements as
indicated in Annex A.
(4) Low-cost housing Plots for market sale:
Provision of infrastructure for about 3,242 Plots in
four Project Areas as indicated in Annex A and selling
them at market prices.
(5) "Servicing" a Plot means providing it with a water and
sewerage connection or exclusive access to a Wet Core
(as indicated in Annex A), access to roads, security
lighting and refuse collection facilities.
Part B:   Construction and Infrastructure Credit
(1) Construction Loans. Funding and administration of loan
funds aggregating at least KSh8 million by KMC, KShll.6
million by MMC and KSh90.7 million by NCC so as to make
available to qualified Tenants other than Settlement


﻿- 23 -
Tenants amounts for constructing dwellings with two
rooms, a kitchen and Wet Core or for adding Wet Cores
and kitchens to certain existing dwellings in the
Project Areas.
(2) Infrastructure Loans. Funding and administration of
loan funds aggregating at least KSh 4.3 million by NCC
so as to make available to Landholders in the Baba
Dogo or Riruta Project Areas amounts adequate to finance
secondary infrastructure (site preparation, water,
sewerage and roads) in cases in which NCC has approved
the Landholder's plans to develop his land into a high
density subdivision and the Landowner has agreed to
carry out such plans. For this purpose, "high density
subdivision" means a housing development containing
housing, the density and standards of which are similar
to those of the site and service housing to be developed
by NCC under the Project.
(3) The maximum amounts and terms of Construction Loans,
and the workshop loans described in Part D (3) of the
Project to be made available for various categories of
Plots and of Infrastructure Loans are set forth in Annex
B to this Schedule. Annex B also indicates the portion
of the costs related to each Project Area which the
Municipality involved will recover from Tenants leasing
a Plot for housing together with payments on Construc-
tion Loans and the method of recovering costs in the
Baba Dogo and Riruta Project Areas.
Part C:   Community Facilities
Construction of primary schools, health facilities, community
centers and markets in the Project Areas as indicated in
Annex C to this Schedule. Annex C also indicates for each
Project Area the number and purpose of sites which the
Municipalities involved will reserve for the eventual con-
struction of additional community facilities. The Municipal-
ities will ensure that these sites are adequate for their
intended purposes and that they are not used for residential
or commercial purposes.
Part D:   Commercial and Industrial Facilities
(1) Setting aside appropriately prepared Plots of about
nine square meters each for use as kiosks for (a)


﻿- 24 -
general purposes, (b) tea and light food, (c) meat and
groceries and (d) charcoal. Provision will be made for
about 350 kiosks. The kiosk Plots will be rented by the
Municipalities to traders at market rates.
(2) Construction of retail markets with appropriate stalls
as follows: three markets having 150 stalls each will be
constructed in Kisumu; two markets having 150 stall-,
each will be constructed in Mombasa; and nine markets
having 120 stalls each will be constructed in Nairobi as
indicated in Annex C to this Schedule.
(3) Provision of about 960 serviced small-scale industry or
workshop sites (averaging about 250 square meters each)
in Project Areas. Loan funds of KSh2.2 million for
Kisumu and KSh880,000 for Mombasa will be established
and administered so as to enable the Tenants of these
sites to borrow appropriate amounts for the construction
of workshops. The sites in Project Areas in Nairobi will
be hard-surfaced and rented or sold at market rates in
that condition. The loan terms which the Municipalities
will enforce for this component are set out in para-
graphs D and G (4) of Annex B to this Schedule. In
addition, sites for workshops will be developed of about
three hectares in Kisumu, two hectares in Mombasa and
three of about one hectare each in Nairobi in Project
Areas which may be sold at cost or rented to charitable
institutions for further development.
(4) Planning and designing the proposed Kayole District
Center, a large commercial area in the Kayole Project
Area in Nairobi, with the assistance of consultants
if appropriate.
Part E:   Health, Nutrition and Family Planning
(1) Carrying out suitable programs in each Project Area
to disseminate information on nutrition and to arrest
malnutrition, including training of staff and establish-
ment of demonstration gardens and nurseries as appro-
priate.
(2) Training and provision of clinic and home visitor staff
and initiation of appropriate programs to improve
public health and provide family planning information


﻿- 25 -
and services in each Project Area with the assistance
of consultants if appropriate.
Part F:   Improvements in Local Finance and Planning, Studies
and Training
(1) Expansion and equipping of the Government Training
Institute at Mombasa to increase its capacity to 330
trainees and initiation of expansion of training pro-
grams for Government and commercial bookkeepers (about
240 per year) of 12 months' duration and middle-level
managers (about 90 per year) of 12 months' duration.
(2) Establishing and initial operation of a rating valua-
tion unit in the MLG for valuation of real property for
rating tax purposes with the assistance of consultants
if needed. This unit will be fully staffed and equipped
by July 1, 1979 in a manner which will enable it to
up-date rating valuation rolls, at five-year intervals,
for each Local Authority levying rates.
(3) Restructuring,and strengthening the MLG, with the assis-
tance of consultants if needed, in a manner satisfactory
to the Association so as to enable it to provide effec-
tive advisory and supporting services to Local Author-
ities. In this connection, MLG will provide Local
Authorities with the services of advisors, including
accountants and systems analysts, to review, and where
appropriate initiate operation of improved, accounting
and financial management systems in Mombasa, Kisumu,
Eldoret, Nakuru, Thika and Kitale commencing not later
than January 1, 1981 and in other major Local Authori-
ties by January 1, 1983. However, every effort will be
made to give priority to the training and recruitment of
staffs of such Local Authorities and to make and approve
all staff selections so as to ensure effective operation
of such systems.
(4) Carrying out by the Borrower's Ministry of Housing and
Social Services of (i) a study of NHC to determine
measures to be taken to enable NHC to implement low-
income housing projects in Local Authorities too small
to support their own housing development departments,
with the assistance of consultants, (ii) a study in
consultation with the relevant government ministries


﻿- 26 -
and the Municipalities to develop model housing by-laws
and building codes appropriate to site and services
schemes and other low cost housing with the assistance
of consultants and (iii) a study to identify priority
areas for appropriate futher urban projects with the
assistance of consultants, taking into account the
results of the study described in the foregoing clause
(ii). Such Ministry will be adequately staffed and
supported to enable it to complete these studies and to
provide assistance to Local Authorities in developing
low cost housing and maintaining effective accounting
and financial control systems.
(5) Carrying out a program by the Borrower's Ministry of
Housing and Social Services with the assistance of NCC
to train housing officials from the KMC and the MMC
in the development of low cost housing based on the
experiences of NCC.
(6) Strengthening and appropriately staffing a central
,.ransportation unit within NCC to coordinate transport
policy and design proposed transport investments.
(7) Improvement by NCC of its accounting and management
information systems through provision of consultants,
services and equipment.
(8) The terms of reference of each of the foregoing studies
shall be acceptable to the Association.
Part G:  Project Evaluation
Monitoring and evaluation of the Project and particular
components of it in accordance with methods satisfactory to
the Association with the assistance of consultants if needed.
To assist in this, aerial photography of the areas within the
jurisdiction of KMC, MMC and NCC at appropriate scales will
be completed promptly after the date of this Agreement and
at two-year intervals thereafter throughout the period during
which the Project is being implemented, with the assistance
of consultants if needed.
II. General
A.   In addition to engaging consultants for the purposes
indicated in Section I of this Schedule, KMC, MMC and


﻿- 27 -
NCC will each employ consultants to complete detailed
designs, prepare and evaluate tenders and supervise
construction for the facilities included in Parts A, C
and D of the Project.
B.   The designs and proposed construction methods for such
facilities shall be satisfactory to the Association.
C.   The Project is expected to be completed by June 30,
1983.


﻿KENYA
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
Site and Services, Upgrading and Market Sale Plots
Service Options L
SETTLEMENT
Site           NEW SITE AND SERVICE PLOTS               PLOTS              SETTLEMENT UPGRADING            MARKET SALE PLOTS              Project
Size     Option Option Option Option                    Option        Option Option Option               Option Option                    Total
(ha)        1       2       3       4      Total          S           1(U)*   4(U)*   5(U)**   Total      1(M)    6(M)                   By Site
NAIROBI
Kayole                225     3,900    -       -       -        3,900     2,500            -        -       -        -         -       -        -             6,400
Villa Franca          112     2,600    -       -       -        2,600      -               -       -        -        -          700    -         700          3,300
Dandora 6              70      -       -       -       -         -         -               -       -        -        -         -      1,000    1,000          1,000
Riruta                121      -       -       -       -         -         -               -       -       1,537    1,537      -       -        -             1,537
Baba Dogo              21      -       -       -       -         -         -               -       -         517      517      -       -        -               517
Mathare North         125     2.500                             2500-                                       -        -                                        2-500
Subtotal             674      9,000    -       -       -       10,000     2,500            -       -       2,054    2,054       700   1,000    1,700         15,254
MOMSASA
Mikindani             68       -        235     938    -        1,173      -                317     -       -         317      -       -        -             1,490
Chaani                99       -       -        150     394       544      -               -        941     -         941      -       -        -             1,485
Miritini               14      -       -       -       -         -         -                -       -       -        -          418    -         418            418
Subtotal              181      -        235   1,088     394     1,717      -                317     941     -       1,258       418    -         418          3,393
KISVUfU                                                                                                                                                                      00
Manvatta               75      -       -       -        100       100      -               -       1,361    -       1,361      -       -        -             1,461
Nyalenda              89       -       -       -       -         -         -               -       1,488    -       1,488      -       -        -             1,488
Pandipieri            112      -       -       -        457       457      -               -      1,233     -       1,233      -       -        -             1,690
Migosi                 88      -       -        500    -          500      -                 291    -       -         291     11       -       1              1
Subtotal              364      -       -        500     557     1,057      -                291   4,082     -       4,373     1,124    -       1,124          6,554
TOTAL               1J21     _9Q,0      235  _,588      951    11774      2.500             608  .,023 2.          7.685    _        1        3 22
/a Option 1 - Site and Service Plot (100-250 m2) with individual water and sewer connections.
Option 2 - Option I and Foundation and Slab
Option 3 - Option 1 and Wet Core and Kitchen
Option 4 - Plot served by collected wet cores, i.e., wet cores are grouped together and centrally located to serve 12-15 plots.                                    ,
Each plot is allocated an individual wet core.
Option S - Settlement plot (100-250 m ) served by public water and sanitary facilities.                                                                              3,
Option 5 - Area upgrading. Primary and some secondary infrastructure provided to already settled, privately owned land. Further                                   M,,
servicing and subdivision is left to private developers.
Option 6 - Basic Urbanization. New land serviced with primary and secondary infrastructure. Subdivision confined to blocks, each
of which would be capable of further subdivision by private developers into 25 site and service plots.
(U)      - Upgrading area with existing settlement
(M)      - Market Sale Plots
- Existing Structures
- Potential plots at fully developed densities.


﻿- 29 -
ANNEX B TO SCHEDULE 2
Maximum Amounts and Terms
of Construction Loans
and Recovery of Costs (Plot Loans)
A.   Construction Loan Options for Plots other than Settlement
Plots - Kayole, Villa Franca, Mathare North, Mikindani and
Migosi Project Areas
Nairobi          Mombasa          Kisumu
Condition        Loan Amount      Loan Amount      Loan Amount
of Plot       Per Plot (KSh)   Per Plot (KSh)   Per Plot (KSh)
(1) No super-       11,500 1/         7,500 2/            -
structure
provided
(2) Wet Core            -             5,600             6,000
and kitchen
provided
(3) Occupied Site       -             5,000            6,000
with existing
strucure 3/
1/   Plot with individual water and sewerage connection only.
2/   Individual connections and built slab provided.
3/   Loans for existing structures are to allow the Existing
Tenants in Occupied Sites in the Mikindani and Migosi Project
Areas to add Wet Cores and kitchens to their houses. No loans
will be made for otherwise improving the houses.


﻿- 30 -
B.   Construction Loan Options - Chaani, Manyatta and Pandipieri
Project Areas
In these upgrading areas three types of plots will be dis-
tinguished:
1.   Occupied Sites, defined by subdivision as Plots, that
have existing dwellings and are served by contractor-
built Wet Core clusters. No loans will be provided for
this group.
2.   Plots that have no existing dwellings (infill plots)
served with Wet Core clusters. Loans for this group
will be provided to finance two-room dwellings. Loans
up to KSh5,600 each for 394 Plots in the Chaani Project
Area and up to KSh6,OOO each for 557 Plots in the
Manyatta and Pandipieri Project Areas will be made
available in this Category.
3.   Plots served with individual water and sewerage connec-
tions and slabs (infill plots). Loans for this group
will be provided to finance two rooms. Loans up to
KSh5,600 each for 150 Plots in the Chaani Project Area
will be made available in this Category.
C.   Baba Dogo, Riruta, Nyalenda, Dandora, Migosi and Miritini
Project Areas
No loans for the construction or improvement of dwellings
in these areas will be provided by the Municipality involved,
except for Construction Loans included in Part A of this Schedule
for about 500 site and service Plots in the Migosi Project Area.
D.   Construction Loans for Small-Scale Industry or
Workshop Sites
Construction loans will be available to Tenants of these
sites in Kisumu and Mombasa, in amounts not to exceed KShl5,OOO,
solely for the construction of buildings appropriate to the
business to be undertaken.
E.   Construction Loan Conditions
Construction loans up to the maximum amounts set out above
will be available for the purchase of materials and hiring of


﻿- 31 -
skilled labor. They will be disbursed in stages following certifi-
cation of the HDD involved that a portion of the structure has
been satisfactorily completed in accordance with approved plans
and otherwise pursuant to procedures designed to ensure that loan
proceeds are applied for their intended purpose.
F.   Recovery of Development Costs
1.   For purposes of this Section F:
(a) "other allocable costs" means that portion of the
total cost of site preparation and infrastructure
(including design and engineering fees therefor)
for the Project Area involved and which is not
allocable to (i) community facilities; (ii) trunk
infrastructure; (iii) other infrastructure, the
costs of which are expected to be recovered in
accordance with local public utility practices;
and (iv) kiosks, workshop spaces and market stalls
plus the same portion of interest costs incurred
in respect of debt of the Municipality concerned
which is allocable to such Project Area;
(b) "total allocable costs", for any Project Area,
means the total of items (a) through (d) from
paragraph 2 below;
(c) "residential Plots" means Plots leased to Tenants
for residential purposes and such term includes
site and services Plots, Settlement Plots and
former Occupied Sites; and
(d) "surplus from the sale of market sale Plots" means
the total proceeds from the sale of Plots sold at
market prices in a Project Area less the costs of
developing such Plots, determined by methods
consistent with those described in paragraphs 2 and
3 below.
2.   Except as provided in paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 below,
each Municipality will recover from Tenants of residential Plots
in each Project Area other than the Baba Dogo and Riruta Project
Areas the following:


﻿- 32 -
(a) total costs of Wet Cores including design and
engineering fees therefor;
(b) total costs of Part E of the Project;
(c) half of that portion of the total operating expen-
ditures of the Municipality's HDD during the
Project implementation period which is allocable
to such Project Area on the basis of the relative
number of residential Plots in each of the Munici-
pality's Project Areas; and
(d) other allocable costs.
3.   Except as provided in paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 below, the
total allocable costs for each Project Area other than the Baba
Dogo and Riruta Project Areas will be recovered from Tenants of
residential Plots in such Project Area by obtaining an undertaking
from each such Tenant to repay the principal amount (the "Plot
Loan") determined by pro-rating the total allocable costs among
all residential Plots in such Project Area on the basis of the
relative sizes of Plots.
4.   In respect of Occupied Sites retained by Existing
Tenants in the Manyatta, Migosi, Nyalenda and Pandipieri Project
Areas, each Plot Loan shall be reduced by the amount which results
from dividing the surplus from the sale of market sale Plots in
the Migosi Project Area by the total number of Occupied Sites
retained by Existing Tenants in the Manyatta, Migosi, Nyalenda and
Pandipieri Project Areas.
5.   In respect of Occupied Sites retained by Existing
Tenants in the Chaani and Mikindani Project Areas, each Plot
Loan shall be reduced by the amount which results from dividing
the surplus from the sale of market sale Plots in the Miritini
Project Area by the total number of Occupied Sites retained by
Existing Tenants in the Chaani and Mikindani Project Areas.
6.   In respect of all Project Areas in Nairobi other than
the Baba Dogo and Riruta Project Areas, KShlOO shall be added as
a surcharge to the principal amount of each Plot Loan other
than Plot Loans undertaken by Settlement Tenants and Resettled
Tenants in the Mathare North Project Area; each Plot Loan in
respect of Plots leased to Resettled Tenants in the Mathare North
Project Area shall be reduced by the amount which results from


﻿- 33 -
dividing the aggregate of such surcharges by the total number of
such Plots leased to Resettled Tenants.
7.   The development costs of infrastructure constructed
under the Project in the Baba Dogo and Riruta Project Areas will
be recovered by NCC through assessments of Landowners on the basis
of frontage on streets and through charges for public utilities,
which will result in recovery of about 90% of such costs. The
balance will be offset, by requiring Landowners to surrender a
portion of their land to NCC for public use in connection with
subdivision.
G.   Construction Loan, Infrastructure Loan
and Plot Loan Terms and Security
1.   Except as provided in paragraphs 2 and 3 below, Con-
struction Loans and Plot Loans will be repayable over
thirty years, including eighteen months' grace as to
principal, at 8-1/2% interest per annum.
2.   Construction Loans for Resettled Tenants will be repay-
able over thirty years, including three years' grace as
to both principal and interest, at 8-1/2% interest per
annum.
3.   Plot Loans for Resettled Tenants and Settlement Tenants
will be repayable over thirty years, including three
years' grace as to principal and as to all interest
accruing in excess of KSh25 per month (which amount
shall be collected monthly), at 8-1/2% interest per
annum.
4.   Construction Loans for workshops (described in Part D
above) and Infrastructure Loans will be repayable over
ten years, including six months' grace as to principal
and interest, at not less than 11-1/2% interest per
annum.
5.   Tenants will repay Construction Loans withdrawn and Plot
Loans, and Landholders will repay Infrastructure Loans,
in equal monthly installments of principal and interest
combined plus a surcharge (to serve as a reserve for the
benefit of the Municipality involved against the risk of
default) of 5% of the aggregate principal and interest
due.


﻿- 34 -
6.   Construction Loans, Plot Loans and Infrastructure Loans
will be secured by a mortgage of the Tenant's or Land-
holder's interest in the Plot involved which will be
satisfactory in form and substance to the Association.


﻿KENYA
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
Cc-unity Facilittiest Existing and New Facilities by Sites
la                                 lb                                                                                                                       NURSERY      SECONDARY
POPLATION                     PRIMARY SCHOOLS                       HEALTH FACILITIES                   COMMUNITY CENTERS                COMUNITY MARKETS           SCHOOLS        SCHOOLS
No.                                     Now
After 3 After 6      Serving  Total Sites  Included in       Serving  Total Sites  Included in                Sites      * in                 Sites      a In        Sites          Sites
City and Site     Existing  Years    Years       Site     Reserved      Project          Site     Reserved /    Project        0 No     Reseved/   Project      0 Now   Resered/   Project     Reservedic    Resened/c
NAIROBI
Kayole                -      37,250   74,500      None        12           5              None        3            1 HC         None        3        1 CC         None      6         3            24            4
2 SH
Villa Franca         -       25,125   50,250      None        8            3              None        2            1 HC         None         3       1 CC         None      2         2            17            2
2 NH
Dandora North        -        5,000   10,000      None         1           1            2Planned      1              -          'one         1       I SH         None     /d         -             2            1d
in Ist
Project
Riruta             26,000    38.000   50,000    2 in-site      5           3            2 on-site     I            S SC       2 on-sie      3          CC      1 - needs   1          1            6             1
1 off-site                              crowded                                                      2 S       improvement
Baba-Dogo            5,167    6,462    7,737    1 off-site     1           1            2 off-site    -            I HC         None         1       1 SH         None      -          -            3             -
crowded
Hthare Valley      68,597   6        93.496    2 off-site    15           8            3 off-site    3             1 HC      1 on-ste     _        3 CC         None      7          3           31             3
rowded                     2 SC                              1 S         on-site
(1-2 kon)
Subtotal            99,784  304,445 437.771                   42          21                         10             7                       15         15                  16          9           83            10
MOMBSASA
Mikindent            7,368   14,006   23,523    1 on-site      4           2            1 off-site    1             1 SC      S off-site     1        I CC      2     off-site 1       1            8             1
(2(nW                                 (2 km)                            (2 k.)                                                      t-n
Chaani              18,880   22.353   26,865    1 on-site      4           2            1 off-site    1             S HC      S off-site     1        1 CC      2 off-site 1           1            8             1
(2 km)                                (2 km)                            (2 km)
Miritini              -       313      6,270     ioff-site     1           1            1 elf-site    S             I D         None         -         -          None
Q5 ke)                                   (2 ken)
Subtotal            26,248   39,494   56,658                   9           5                          3              3                       2         2                    2          2            18            2
KISUM
Manyatta            23,137   23,687   24,237    1 off-site     3           3            1 off-ste    1             I 5         None         1         1         1 on-site  1          1             6            1
(2 km)
Nyalenda            23,808    23,808  23,808    1 on-site      4      ?-streail e       S off-site    S             1 D         None         1         -         S on-site   1         1             a            1
'-strne,)           (1-2 k.)
Pandipteri          19,728   22,242   24,755    2 on-site      3      2-strewl)le        None        1             i D         None         1         1           None  /  1          -             6            1
Migost               4.365    12      22229     1 on-site      6                          None        S1 PC                      None        1         1         1 off-site  1         1             6            1
Subtotal            71,038   83,034   95,029                  16           9                          4              4                       4         3                    4          3            26            4
TOTAL              197,070  426,983 589,458                   67           35                        17             14                      21        20                    22         14          127            16       (f
La Popuioen estiaes do non ineclde neuial lineae. They ensume exiing population will remain and population increases on new sites
.dll reach -en-hafI e3ttetee lensS"v Srn h)ree y-ars !%11 ienNiy') in. rtix eanry.
/b All schools are new 3-stream schools (21 classrooms), unless otherwise specified.
/c Total sites reserved on site includes sites occupied by ezisting on-site facilities.
o sie eae eerved lers mar     en .resecondary schools in Dandora North (Area 61 because site occupants will use facilities to be built
eleerne in Dandora (firnt projct)l.
Lc w111 partially replace existing mud-and-wattle schools.
HC - Health Center     SC - Subcenter    D e Dispensary     CC  Comunity Center   SH c Social Hall            r ly-lini-


﻿- 36 -
SCHEDULE 3
Obligations of the Municipalities
1.   General Obligations
(a) Each of the Municipalities shall carry out those parts
of the Project which fall within its jurisdiction as indicated in
the foregoing Schedule 2 and the Annexes thereto with due dili-
gence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate adminis-
trative, financial and engineering practices and shall take all
action on its part necessary or appropriate to ensure compliance
with Sections 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 3.06, 4.02, 4.03 (b), 4.04 and
4.05 of this Agreement and shall take all further actions as are
within its power to assist and enable the Borrower to comply with
its obligations under this Agreement.
(b) Each Municipality shall perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, none of the Municipalities shall take or
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to
which it is party or any provision thereof.
2.   Regularization of Land Tenure, Occupied Sites, Displaced
Persons and Phasing of Project in Relation Thereto
(a) Each Municipality will take all action within its power
promptly as required for the regularization of land tenure in the
Project Areas within its jurisdiction. "Regularization of land
tenure" means:
(i) for the Riruta and Babo Dogo Project Areas: acqui-
sition by the COL, by January 1, 1979, of all land
in such Areas required for trunk infrastructure
which has not been acquired by NCC in connection
with the subdivision of such land by such date in
freehold or in leasehold for at least 99 years, and
promptly granting or sub-letting such land to NCC
for such purpose; provided that, in respect of any
parcel of land from which a portion has been so
acquired by the COL, NCC shall not permit its sub-
division thereafter unless the owner(s) of such
parcel repay to NCC the amount of compensation paid
for such acquisition with interest thereon from the
date of payment at the rate of 8-1/2% per annum;


﻿- 37 -
(ii) for the Mathare North, Villa Franca, Mikindani,
Miritini, Chaani and Migosi Project Areas: convey-
ance by the COL to the Municipality concerned of
all land in such areas in freehold or leasehold
for at least 99 years and subdivision of such land
so as to enable leasing of Plots to Tenants and the
sale of Plots where applicable;
(iii) for the Manyatta, Nyalenda and Pandipieri Project
Areas: (A) issuance by the COL of letters of reser-
vation enabling KMC to enter the land to construct
civil works by January 1, 1979 and conveyance by
the COL thereafter of freehold interests or lease-
hold interests of at least 99 years to KMC for all
land therein required for infrastructure and public
or common facilities; (B) defining all Occupied
Sites so as to convert them into Plots and convey-
ing freehold interests in them to an appropriate
person or persons through adjudication but only on
the condition that such person or persons first
undertake the repayment of a Plot Loan for the Plot
involved and mortgage such Plot as security for its
repayment; and (C) for all land in such Areas not
included in the foregoing two clauses, issuance by
the COL of letters of reservation enabling KMC to
subdivide such land by January 1, 1979, conveying
such land thereafter to KMC in freehold or lease-
hold for at least 99 years, and subdivision of
such land so as to enable leasing of the Plots so
created (infill plots) to Tenants; and
(iv) for the Kayole and Dandora 6 Project Areas: sub-
dividing them so as to enable leasing of Plots to
Tenants and the sale of Plots where applicable.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) below, Existing
Tenants in the Mikindani, Chaani, Nyalenda, Pandipieri, and Man-
yatta Project Areas will be given the right to remain on their
Occupied Site, and Existing Tenants in those Project Areas and the
Mathare North Project Area whose land is taken for public purposes
will be allocated Plots in their respective Project Areas, so long
as, in both cases, they meet the criteria set out in paragraph 4
(a) below and accept the standard conditions of tenancy, including
acceptance of a Plot Loan and, if applicable, undertaking to
construct an acceptable house.


﻿- 38 -
(c) Nothing in this Agreement will be construed to prevent
any Municipality from (i) taking an Occupied Site for public
purposes or (ii) restricting the rights of Existing Tenants set
out in paragraph (b) to those who had established their residence
in the Project Area involved by a date reasonably determined by
the Municipality involved but not earlier than January 1, 1978.
(d) NCC shall ensure that persons displaced by the devel-
opment of the Mathare North Project Area who are not eligible for
Plots in the Mathare North Project Area are afforded every reason-
able opportunity and assistance in finding alternative, comparable
accommodations, includiri grinting at least 90 days' notice of the
public taking of theiL pl,  of residence.
(e) No Occupie,, Site or Existing Tenant in the Mikindani or
Chaani Project Areas will be provided with water and sewerage
connections or access to a Wet Core until the Occupied Site has
been defined by subdivision as a Plot and the Tenant entitled
thereto has accepted the standard conditions of tenancy, including
acceptance of a Plot Loan.
(f) No Occupied Site or Existing Tenant in the Manyatta,
Nyalenda or Pandipieri Project Areas will be provided with water
and sewerage connections or access to a Wet Core (i) until at
least 90% of the Occupied Sites in the Project Area involved have
been defined by adjudication as Plots and the Existing Tenants on
those so defined have undertaken Pl1t Loans and (ii) unless the
individual Tenant involved has undertaken a Plot Loan in respect
of his Plot.
3.   Design of Project Areas
Final design standards and layouts of each Project Area and
the dwellings and community facilities to be constructed in
connection with it and the institutional arrangements for Part E
of the Project shall be satisfactory to the Association.
4.   Allocation and Sale of Plots and Redevelopment
of Mathare Valley
(a) In allocating unoccupied residential Plots other than
Settlement Plots and Plots required for Existing Tenants as
provided in paragraph 2 (b) above, kiosks, market stalls and
workshop plots in the Project Areas, each HDD shall employ pro-
cedures acceptable to the Association which are designed to ensure


﻿- 39 -
adequate publicity of each step of the allocation process, equal-
ity of opportunity for potential applicants to apply, reasonable
steps to   erify information furnished by applicants and random
selection of allotees, by ballot in the case of KMC and MMC and by
computer in the case of NCC, from among all applicants which,
having been given an adequate opportunity to demonstrate it, show
they meet the criteria set out in paragraphs (i) to (v) below.
(i) New site and services Plots   (including  those  in
settlement upgrading areas but excluding Settlement
Plots and Plots to be sold at market rates): The
applicant (A) must be the head of a household whose
family resides with him or her in the Municipality
involved; (B) may own no other residential property
in the Municipality involved; (C) must have resided
in the Municipality, involved for at least two
years; and (D) must have monthly earnings of
between KSh 400 and 1,000 per month; provided that
in respect of families dislocated by Project works
in the Mathare North Project Area, the residential
requirement in (C) above may be satisfied only by
residence for that period in Mathare Valley and the
lower limit of the earnings requirement in (D)
above will not be taken into account.
(ii) Kiosks: The applicant must (i) have at least 2
years' experience in trading or trade-related
activities; (B) have resided in the Municipality
involved for at least 2 years; (C) furnish appro-
priate evidence of access to adequate levels of
working capital for the business in which he
intends to engage; (D) have monthly earnings of
no more than KShl,000 per month; and (E) have no
commercial property in the Municipality involved.
No family will be allocated more than one kiosk
developed under the Project.
(iii) Market stalls: The applicant must (A) have at least
2 years' experience in retail marketing; (B) have
resided in the Municipality involved for at least 2
years; (C) furnish appropriate evidence of access
to adequate levels of working capital for the
business in which he intends to engage; (D) have
monthly earnings of no more than KShl,000 per
month; and (E) have no commercial property in


﻿- 40 -
the Municipality involved. No family will be
allocated more than one market stall developed
under the Project.
(iv) Workshop space: The applicant must (A) have at
least 2 years' experience in the trade required for
the proposed business; (B) have resided in the
Municipality involved for at least 2 years; (C)
furnish appropriate evidence of access to funds for
equipment, furnishings and working capital for the
business in which he intends to engage on the Plot
involved; (D) have monthly earnings of no more than
KShl,000 per month; and (E) have no commercial pro-
perty in the Municipality involved. No family will
be allocated more than one workshop space developed
under the Project.
(b) Residential plots to be sold at market prices  will  be
sold through public sale administered by the HDD involved. The
identity and location of Plots to be sold will be advertised
and they will be made available for inspection at least 45 days
before the date for submission of sealed bids which shall be
publicly opened on such date. Each Plot will be sold to the bidder
who bids the highest price for the Plot provided only that: (i) it
complies with the minimum price, which shall be set in a manner
satisfactory to the Association; (ii) the bidder has paid a cash
or bank-guaranteed deposit of at least 10% of such minimum price
and (iii) the bidder pays the balance of the bid price within 45
days of bid opening in default of which the bidder shall forfeit
such deposit and any rights to the Plot(s) involved. Deposits
paid by unsuccessful bidders shall be returned to them promptly
after sale.
(c) Redevelopment of Mathare Valley and Settlement Plots.
In exercising its discretion in authorizing the subdivision and
redevelopment of privately owned land in Mathare Valley, NCC shall
ensure that persons to be displaced thereby are afforded suffi-
cient opportunity to find adequate alternative housing. In partic-
ular, NCC shall carry out the proposals referred to in paragraph 4
(a) (iii) (C) (I) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and shall take
all action necessary to provide land to Settlement Tenants includ-
ing without limitation the following: In connection with its
review of applications to subdivide any village on privately owned
land in Mathare Valley, NCC shall ascertain the number of Settle-
ment Tenants on such land who meet the qualifications in respect


﻿- 41 -
of families dislocated by Project works in the Mathare North
Project Area set out in paragraph 4 (a) (i) of this Schedule.
Before authorizing the subdivision of such land, NCC shall prepare
an adequate number of Settlement Plots for the Settlement Tenants
so qualified and shall allocate a Settlement Plot to each of them.
The procedures to be employed for this purpose shall be satisfac-
tory to the Association and shall be adequately communicated to
all persons residing on such land at each stage in the process. In
order to assist NCC in meeting the foregoing requirements, the
Association will consider favorably any request by NCC to reduce
the number of residential plots other than Settlement Plots in the
Kayole and Villa Franca Project Areas and to apply the funds saved
to develop an appropriate number of Settlement Plots additional to
those included in Part A (2) of the Project.
5.   Terms of Leases of Residential Plots
Other Than Plots Sold at Market Prices
(a) Tenants on residential Plots in all Project Areas will
be given leases for an initial term of not less than fifty years
subject to acceptance of the financial terms set out in Annex B to
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. All leases will permit Tenants to
sublet a portion of their premises during the first five years of
their tenancy and to sublet their premises in whole thereafter
without however diminishing their responsibilities to the Munici-
palities involved under their leases. Leases of all Plots other
than Settlement Plots having no dwelling on them at the time
they are leased will require that the Tenant constructs a house
meeting established standards for the type of Plot involved within
eighteen months of the commencement of the tenancy involved.
(b) Tenants will be required to reside on their Plots at
all times during the first five years of their tenancy and will be
subject to immediate eviction and termination of their leasehold
rights for failure to do so. The original Tenant of each Plot will
be prohibited from selling, transferring or otherwise disposing of
his rights to tenancy except to the Municipality involved until
the third anniversary of the commencement of his tenancy in the
case of Resettled Tenants and Settlement Tenants and until the
fifth anniversary of the commencement of his tenancy in all other
cases; provided nothing in this Section is intended to prevent
transfer by will or the laws of succession to the extent the
deceased Tenant's successor in interest elects to reside on the
Plot involved within a reasonable period of time after a Tenant's
death.


﻿- 42 -
(c) On the termination of any tenancy during such five-year
period other than under the circumstances described in the f ore-
going clause (b), the Municipality involved will pay the termi-
nated Tenant or his estate, as the case may be, (i) the aggregate
amount of principal repaid on the Construction Loan and the Plot
Loan, plus (ii) the value, as reasonably determined by the Munici-
pality involved of the labor and materials other than those
financed out of the proceeds of a Construction Loan utilized
in building the house, if any, on the Plot, minus (iii) any
amounts the Tenant owes the Municipality involved in respect of
the Plot and minus (iv) the amount, if any, required to restore
the house to reasonable condition if it has been damaged or
subjected to more than reasonable wear and tear. The Municipality
involved shall then allocate the reacquired Plot to a new Tenant
in accordance with the procedures referred to in paragraph 4 (a)
(i) above in consideration of the new Tenant's undertaking to pay
the Municipality involved the sum of the amount the Municipality
involved paid the previous Tenant plus the balance owing on the
previous Tenant's Construction Loan and Plot Loan, in each case at
the same interest rate and within the amortization period applica-
ble to the previous Tenant. The restriction on transfer referred
to above will apply to the new Tenant for the remaining balance of
such three-year or five-year period as the case may require (see
paragraph (b) above).
6.   Leases of Kiosks, Market Stalls and Workshop Spaces;
Enforcement and Form of all Leases Under Project
(a) All leases of kiosks, market stalls and workshop spaces
in Project Areas shall: (i) require the Tenant to pay rent at
rates equivalent to market rates for equivalent facilities in the
vicinity of the Project Area involved, (ii) be limited in time to
periods customary in the private sector for similar leases, (iii)
provide for escalation of rent in accordance with prevailing
market standards and (iv) otherwise be on normal commercial
terms.
(b) The Municipality involved shall promptly evict and
terminate the leasehold rights of any Tenant who becomes six
months' delinquent in the repayment of principal of, or interest
on, a Construction Loan or Plot Loan or any amount payable under
his Lease.
(c) The forms of all agreements between Tenants and the
Municipalities in respect of Plots in the Project Areas shall be


﻿-43 -
acceptable to the Association, and any material amendments to such
forms shall be subject to the Association's approval.
7.   Housing Development Departments
(a) Except as provided below, each Municipality will main-
tain an HDD which, subject to the direction of a single standing
committee (housing development committee) for housing of the coun-
cil involved, will have the sole responsibility for promoting,
designing and constructing and otherwise developing low cost
housing and related community and commercial facilities in their
respective jurisdictions for leasing to any persons meeting
appropriate qualifications of the type set out in paragraph 4 (a)
above or for sale at market prices. The HDDs will not administer
or develop such housing and facilities reserved for any class of
persons determined by criteria and procedures substantially
different from those set out in paragraph 4 above. Following
physical completion of projects developed by HDDs, their ongoing
administration may be entrusted to other appropriate departments
of the Municipality involved, as agents for the HDD.
(b) Parts A, B, C and D of the Project shall be executed
through the HDDs. The HDDs shall be headed by a Director who,
together with the Deputy Director, shall be persons having
adequate qualifications and experience appointed only after
consultation with the Association on their qualifications and
experience, and shall be supported by adequate numbers of quali-
fied subordinate staff.
(c) The HDDs shall report solely to a standing committee
(the housing development committee), established by the Munici-
pality involved to oversee the implementation of the Project which
shall include representatives of the Borrower's Ministry of
Finance and Planning, Ministry of Local Government, Ministry of
Housing and Social Services, National Housing Corporation and
the Provincial Commissioner or the District Commissioner involved.
8.   Housing Development Funds
Until the regulations referred to in Section 4.05 (b) of this
Agreement have become effective, each of the Municipalities will
ensure that all amounts it receives in respect of: (i) fees for
applications for housing developed under the Project and other
facilities offered by its HDD; (ii) repayments on Plot Loans, and
Construction Loans and Infrastructure Loans and other similar


﻿-44-
repayments in respect of housing developed under the Project and
other housing administered or developed by the HDD involved;
(iii) proceeds from the sale of Plots at market prices; (iv) the
proceeds of any loans undertaken by the Municipality involved for
the Project and for other projects to be carried out by the HDD;
and (v) subventions from the Municipality involved required for
the operation of the HDDs shall be maintained in a separate
housing account and used exclusively for: (a) salaries and oper-
ating expenses of its HDD including a reasonable portion of the
Municipality's overheads and reasonable commissions for the
collection of any loan payments by other departments of the
Municipality involved; (b) studies, designs and other capital
costs of promoting and constructing low-cost housing under the
Project and otherwise within the scope of such HDD's responsi-
bility; and (c) servicing debt incurred by such Municipality to
the ex, it the proceeds of the loans involved have been made
availabl to the HDD.
9.   Unauthorized Dwellings
(a) Each Municipality hereby affirms that it is its policy
to discourage erection of any Unauthorized Dwellings but under-
takes not to engage in substantial demolition of Unauthorized
Dwellings existing at the date of this Agreement in areas subject
to its jurisdiction. Accordingly, subject to the Borrower's
policies in force from time to time, none of the Municipalities
shall damage or destroy any Unauthorized Dwellings or evict the
occupants thereof unless:
(i) Persons affected by such action are given notice
of the Municipality's intention to take such
action adequate to enable all such persons to
remove their property from such Unauthorized
Dwellings, AND
(ii) If the land involved is not owned by the Munici-
palities or the Borrower, the owner thereof has
requested the Municipality involved to take such
action, OR
(iii) If the land involved is owned by the Municipality
involved or the Borrower, an immediate, essential
alternative public use of the land involved will be
undertaken, OR


﻿-45-
(iv) The persons affected by such action are provided
with adequate housing, OR
(v) The settlement in which such Unauthorized Dwellings
are located is a clearly extraordinary safety
hazard when measured by the conditions prevail-
ing in similar settlements in the Municipality
involved;
provided that nothing in this Section shall be construed to
prevent any Municipality from demolishing an Unauthorized Dwelling
within a period of not more than 30 days after its erection.
10. Maintenance of Project Facilities
Each Municipality shall maintain and operate the facilities
constructed under its part of the Project, or cause them to be
maintained and operated, in accordance with sound engineering,
educational, administrative and financial practiCes.
11. Information and Consultation
(a) Each Municipality shall at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
its respective Letter Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement to which it is party and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Credit.
(b) Each Municipality shall promptly inform the Association
of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with
the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by it of its obligations under its
respective Letter Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment to which it is party.
12. Amendment and Termination
(a) This Schedule is subject to amendment by agreement among
the Borrower, the Association and each Municipality which would be
affected by the amendment involved.
(b) The obligations of each of the Municipalities under its
respective Letter Agreement shall terminate on the earlier of the
following two dates:


﻿-46-
(i) the date on which this Agreement shall terminate in
accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date twenty-five years after the date of this
Agreement.
(c) If this Agreement terminates in accordance with its
terms before the date specified in paragraph (b) (ii) of this
Section, the Association shall promptly notify each of the Munici-
palities of this event.


﻿- 47 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in accor-
dance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Cred-
its" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the
Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding as
described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding under the Project and in addition to
the requirements of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower
shall prepare and forward to the Association as soon as possible,
and in any event not later than 60 days prior to the date of
availability to the public of the first tender or prequalification
documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procure-
ment notice, in such form and detail and containing such informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request; the Association
will arrange for the publication of such notice in order to
provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the oppor-
tunity to bid for the goods and works in question. The Borrower
shall provide the necessary information to update such notice
annually so long as any goods or works remain to be procured on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   Bidders for civil works included in the Project shall be
prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the
Guidelines.
4.   All contracts for civil works and equipment included in the
Project shall be advertised in at least two English language
newspapers of general circulation in Nairobi; and copies of such
advertisements shall, in respect of the works included in Parts
A and D of the Project, be transmitted promptly to local represen-
tatives of member countries of the Bank and Switzerland which are
potential suppliers of the goods and services required.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for the civil works and equipment included in Part
C of the Project shall be awarded on the basis of competitive


﻿- 48 -
bidding with local advertisement in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association. Civil works will be grouped
together in packages to the maximum extent practicable, in view of
the schedule of development of the Project Areas in each Munici-
pality, for bidding purposes, but bidders will be permitted to bid
for one or more components of such packages; these components will
be small enough to attract the interest of smaller contractors. A
contract, or contracts, will be awarded to the contractor, or
combination of contractors, which offers the lowest aggregate
price for the package involved.
2.   Procurement of building materials and services by Tenants
financed or to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
not be subject to the Guidelines.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes and sales taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Kenya and procured in accordance with
the procedures referred to in Part A.1 of this Schedule may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the following provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Kenya
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Association that the manufacturing


﻿- 49 -
cost of such goods includes a value added in Kenya.
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price
of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Kenya.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes and sales taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or
similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine
the lowest evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids
shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of
this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preference
for Domestic Contractors
With respect to any contract for civil works included in the
Project and to be procured in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 of this Schedule, the Borrower may grant
a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a) Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided
in Part A of this Schedule and applicants for qualification
applying also for such preference shall be asked to provide, as


﻿- 50 -
part of the data for qualification, such information, including
details of ownership, as shall be required to determine whether,
according to the classification established by the Borrower and
accepted by the Association, a particular firm or group of firms
qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding documents shall
clearly indicate the preference and the method that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect
to such preference.
(b) After bids have been received and reviewed by the
Borrower, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before quali-
fication is invited, inform the Association in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request.
The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of
their qualifications and, where applicable, of their eligibility
for domestic preference under Part D.1 above and of the reasons
for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification and for
such eligibility shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Asso-
ciation for its comments before the applicants are notified of the
Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such additions
to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the
Association shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts. With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, and all contracts for
equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations


﻿- 51 -
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed lir the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consul-
tants referred to in Part II to Schedule 2 to this Agreement, on
the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with
the recommendations for award of the said consultants and such
other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding para-
graph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.


