Docamt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
Reput No. P-6007-ERT
4MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMEDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
NENTIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATIONI
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMDJT EQUIVALENT TO US$74.31 MILLION
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
FOR THE
CALUB GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FEBRUARY 18, 1994
MI CROGRAPHI CS
Report No: P-   6007 ET
Type: MOP
This document has a restsiced distribWuon and may be ued by recpients only in the performe of
their official duies. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank auorization.



ETHIOPIA
CALUB GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:      Ethiopian Birr
Birr 1.00    =      US$ 0.20
US$ 1.00     =      Birr 5.0
SDR1.00             US$ 1.39
US$ 1.00            SDR 0.72
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB         -      African Development Bank
CDF          -      Community Development Fund
DANIDA       -      Danish International Development Agency
EU           -      European Union
EMS          -      Environmental Monitoring System
ERA          -      Ethiopian Road Authority
ESMAP        -      Energy Sector Assessment Program
MIGA                Multilateral Insurance Guarantee Agreement
MME          -      Ministry of Mines aisd Energy
NEP          -      National Energy Policy
PFP          -      Policy Framework Paper
PITF         -      Project Implementation Task Force
SAC          -      Structural Adjustment Credit
SERP                South East Rangeland Project
SIOM         -      Supervision of Implementaticn cum Operation Management
TGE          -      Transitional Government of Ethiopia
GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
FISCAL YEAR
July 8 - July 7



FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
EThOPIA
CALUB GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            Ethiopia
Credit
Beneficiaries:       The Calub Company
The Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME)
The Regional Govemment of Region V
The Ethiopian Road Authority (ERA)
Guarantor:           Ethiopia
Amount:              SDR 53.70 milion (US$74.31 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years
On-Lnding Terms:  Commercial rate of 14 percent per year over 10 years with 3 years
grace (applicable only to proceeds of the Calub Company of US$66.31
million; the Calub Company would bear the foreign exchange risk).
Fimnaning Plan (US$ million):
Source of Financing              Foreign        Local           Total
Government                         0           27.15           27.15
IDA                             74.11           0.20           74.31
Dutch Government                 4.00              0            4.00
Othera                          24.85           0.50           25.35
Total                          102.96          27.85          130.81
a:    TIe Afiican DIvelopment Bank has expreed inbtrest in coveing pant of the foreign cost of the Road Rehabilitation.
Posible paallel finangin8 fiom bilateal grant is envisaged for the Communaty Developmert Fund. The TGE has
provided asurance that it will bridge any possable cofinancing gap.
Economic Rate of Return:
Calub Plant:           17 percent (all products valued based on import parity) 33 percent
(LPG and kerosene valued in terms of fuelwood replaced, to capture
enviromnental benefits of mitigation of deforestation).
Road Rehabilitation:   37 percent (at average daily traffic of 200 vehicles)
Staff Appraisal Report: 1161 1-ET
Map:                   IBRD 24070
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IDA TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO ETHIOPIA
FOR THE CALUB GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on
a proposed development credit to Ethiopia for SDR 53.70 million, the equivalent of US$74.31
million on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years to help finance the Calub Gas
Development Project. A part of the proceeds (US$66.81 million equivalent) would be relent to
the Calub Company for 10 years, including 3 years of a gra^e, with interest at 14 percent per
annum. Parallel financing for the Road Rehabilitation component (US$20.35 million
equivalent) is expected from the African Development Bank (AfMB) and donors are being
sought to support the Community Development Fund (US$5.00 million equivalent). The TGE
has provided assurance that it will bridge any possible cofinancing gap. The Dutch
Government has agreed to provide a grant of US$4.00 million equivalent for the Fuelwood
Carriers Credit Scheme.
PART I:
COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
Introduction
1.    The Transitional Government of Ethiopia (rGE), in power since May 1991 has been
operating under a transitional charter due to end with national elections in 1994. Political
conditions during the transitional period constrained the TGE's capacity to engage in a full
program of economic reform and development, although substantial progress has been made in
achieving macroeconomic stabilization and in implementing initial forms to stimulate
productive activities. The Banlk's Country Assistance Strategy, fundamentally unchanged from
last year, reflects the country situafton, and is therefore transitional in nature. The strategy will
be reviewed with the Government after the elections.
Historical Perspective and Recent Economic and Social Performance
2.    Key Historical and Political Factors. The TGE came to power after decades of civil
war, fueled by a strong desire for ethnic self-determination, and opposition to the Mengistu
regime's harsh economic and social policies. Victory has facilitated the expression of national
and ethnic autonomy, changing the map of Ethiopia. A referendum in Eritrea voted
overwhelmingly for independence, declared in May 1993; and the TGE announced 10 new
ethnically based regions. Despite this response to demands for self-determination, the Oromo
Liberation Front and some smaller ethnically-based political groups oppose the elections
planned for 1994, and demand the formation of a new interim administration.
3.    Performance in achieving macroeconomic stabilization and reform has been impressive,
but progress towards the broader reform goals of the TGE's December 1991 Statement of
Economic Policy, and in formulating sectoral objectives and strategies has been decidedly
2



mixed. These trends have been reflected in the Bank's assistance program during this period.
While initial reforms bave stabilized the economy and opened the way for structural change,
the performance of the portfolio of existing projects has been poor, and progress towards
building a pipeline of investment projects has been slow and uneven.
4.    Progress on the Political Front. Despite a difficult climate, the TGE is moving
forward with its political agenda. Proclamations have been issued establishing new regional
administrations with significant devolution of implementation authority; and a Constitutional
Commission has been established to draft the new constitution that will provide the framework
for national and presidential elections. In addition, a special prosecutor has been established to
oversee the trials of officials of the former administration, under close local and international
scrutiny.
5.    Key Economic Trends and Progress. The TGE's first phase of reform included
prudent macroeconomic policies and initial structural reform measures. The macroeconomic
stabilization and reform program improved t;e fiscal position and correced key price
distortions, eliminating all export taxes (except coffee tax) and abolishing all export subsidies.
Tax structures were rationalized, reducing the number of tax brackets, and lowering marginal
tax rates f-om up to 85 percent to 50 percent. The management of external grants and
counterpart funds was centralized, and the first steps taken to shift expenditures from military
to development goals. Positive real interest rates were introduced, and differentials between
public and private sector salaries reduced. In October 1992, the Birr was devalued from 2.07
to S per US dollar. As a result of these measures, the overall fiscal deficit (on a cash basis and
after including grants) was reduced to 10.9 percent of GDP in FY93 from an annual average of
13.3 percent during the three previous fiscal years. Recourse to domestic bank financing
declined to 4.4 percent of GDP in FY93 from about 10 percent in the early 1990s. The year
over year rate of inflation has recently dropped to below 10 percent from a peak of over 20
percent in 1991/92. Tbe TGE also introduced a limited foreign exchange auction system as a
further move towards a market-determined exchange rate. The gap between the official foreign
exchange auction rate and the parallel rate has narrowed to about 17 percent.
6.    Other important reforms have helped improve incentives for production,
competitiveness of markets, and private sector performance. These include streamlining export
and import license procedures, and reducing the level and dispersal of import tariffs;
eliminating most subsidies; initial public enterprise reform, including dismantling the industrial
corporations and establishing commercial goals ard autonomous management structures;
abolishing the transport allocation system (Ketana) and transport tariff ceilings; extending price
reform measures to a wider range of tradable commodities; revising laws covering investments,
labor, commercial practices, and taxation; liberalizing agricultural marketing; and ensuring
rural land-usership rights.
7.    The economy has responded positively to these reforms. Real GDP grew by 7.6
percent in FY93 (compared to a negative 7.4 percent in FY92) due to increased agricultural
production and activity in the industrial, construction, and transport sectors. Exports increased
sharply due partly to rechanneling from parallel to official markets. As a result, the balance of
payments has improved, and foreign exchange reserves have increased to 8.6 weeks of imports
from an annual average of 3.5 weeks over the last three fiscal years. The current account
deficit (excluding official transfers) is estimated at 13 percent of GDP.
3



8.    Progress in Redudng Poverty and Improving Social Conditions. With an estimated
GDP per capita income level of $110 a year, Ethiopia is one of the poorest countries in the
world. Over half of the population, which is expanding at 3.1 percent a year, suffer chronic
food insecurity. This is the result of periodic devastating drought and pest infestation,
significant land loss due to environmental degradation especially in heavily populated, poorer
regions, an undeveloped and badly maintalned road system that severely hampers food
marketing and distribution, and a legacy of disrupted agricultural production caused by civil
conflict and inappropriate policies. With over 30 percent of its population below the absolute
poverty level, Ethiopia is faced with widespread urban and rural unemployment, and millions
of refugees, demobilized soldiers, and people displaced bv war and forced removals. Ethiopia
has some of the worst social indicators in Africa, with an infant mortality rate of 13 percent,
maternal mortality of 700 per 100,000 live births, and a mortality rate of almost 20 percent for
children under five. Half the population has no health facilities within ten kilometers, and the
proportion of doctors and nurses to population is well below the average for low income Sub-
Saharan African countries. In rural areas less than 12 percent of the population has access to
safe water, and almost 40 percent of urban dwellers and most of the rural population have no
sanitation facilities.
9.    While progress in reducing this massive scale of strictural poverty will be slow, the
TGE has already taken important steps, especially a conservative fiscal and monetary policy
that has reduced inflation and stabilized food prices. Timely inputs have stimulated agricultural
production, although recent climatic conditions produced warnings of reduced grain yields.
The up-turn in economic growth, if sustained, will gradually provide increased employment.
Special programs awe being introduced to reintegrate displaced people and demobilized soldiers
into their communities, and to provide training and emplcyment for the disabled and orphans.
A social rehabilitation fund has been fr-nched to support income-generation, and community
efforts to improve essenial infrastructure and social assets. Finally, as the result of a recent
Public Expenditure Review, the TGE has sharply reduced military expenditures, and made
substantial shifts in allocations towards provision of basic social and economic services.
Allocations for education have increased from 7 percent of the total budget in FY89 to 13
percent in FY94. Health allocations during the same period have increased from 3 percent to 7
percent. The allocation for roads (essential for most economic growth activities as well as food
distribution) has increased from 3 percent to 11 percent. The TGE is also developing detailed
strategies for overall poverty reduction, population management, education, and health,
emphasizing improvements in basic services, and ensuring adequate recurrent expenditures.
10.   Remaining Policy Distortions Affecfing Economic Growth. While the TGE has made
substantial strides in reversing the negative policy environment of the previous regime, some
distortions and potential policy problems remain. As the government withdraws from
management of and investment in the productive sectors, it is essential that the private sector
moves in to fill the gap. Although there has been an increase in private sector investment
proposals, the shift to private sector economic participation is constrained by a number of
policy factors. The Investment Code and other regulatory instruments allow discretion in
interpretation, leading to unnecessary controls and delays. Because of past inappropriate tenure
laws, urban land necessary for investment has been in short supply, although the Council of
Representatives has recently enacted an urban land leasehold auction system. There is also a
need to progressively restructure the banking system and make it more competitive, so that the
needs of credit-worthy borrowers can be met at reasonable cost.
4



11.   There is major uncertainty relating to the impact of regionalization, which is
transferring significant autonomy and responsibilities to regional administrations. The main
concern is to ensure that this transfer does not damage the TGE's macroeconomic stabilization
program and the priorities that have emerged from the PER. There are uncertainties about the
rules under which financial transfers will be made from the center to cover the regions'
inevitable deficits, and the revenue raising discretion that the regions will be given. There is
concern as to whether the regions have the capacity to carry full responsibility for project
implementation. There are uncertainties as to how the central administration will maintain
coherent national policy firameworks for the various sectors; and finally, how the Bank and
donors will operate in identifying, appraising, and negotiating investment projects within these
regional structures.
12.   Sustainabiiity of Macroeconomic Stabilization. Projections show that over the next
three years, the flows of external assistance and domestic revenues wouild be sufficient to cover
anticipated Govermnent spending, and keep domestic bank deficit fimancing withiu the agreed
targets. This would be possible if government expenditures are gradually reduced from the
current level of about 38 percent, and the revenue effort is strengthened. Reforms under way
can significantly improve revenues, through improved tax administration, broadening the tax
base, radonalizing tax structres, and devolving some tax functions to the regions. Up to half
of the surplus parastatal contributions to Government revenues would come from agencies that
would remain in the state sector. On balance, macroeconomic stabilization would be
sustainable as long as fast-disbursing aid is available for the next 3 to 5 years, and there are no
major shortfalls in revenue performance. Government prudence in expenditures has been a
long-established trend and is likely to continue.
Extetnal Environment
13.   The most significant external event diring the Transitional Period has been the
independence of Eritrea, which has left Ethiopia a land-locked country. However, there are
positive relations between the governments of the two countries, as witnessed by treaties in
January 1992, making Assab and Massawa free ports, and establishing a free trade area
between the two countries. Eritrea has so far retained the Ethiopian currency and remains
economically closely integrated with Ethiopia which provides its main market. Some
uncertainties exist as to whether future investment in Assab port will be adequate to meet
Ethiopia's expanding demand and avoid the congestion that occurs when there is a need for
increased relief assistance. EthioDia's increased use of Djibouti and other regional ports will be
an important strategic consideration. Another important factor will be the future of the obsolete
and inefficient Assab refinery which provides both Ethiopia and Eritrea with their essential
petroleum products.
14.   Ethiopia has improved its export diversity since 1989 when coffee made up 64 percent
of commodity exports. Ethiopia's exports still rely heavily on coffee which currently makes up
about 53 percent, the other major exports being leather (15 percent), gold (14 percent),
petroleum products (5 percent), and pulses (1 percent). However, Ethiopian coffee, much of
which is high quality, has somewhat of an enclave position and is less vulnerable to market
fluctuations. In the service sector, Ethiopian Airlines is a major sources of foreign exchange.
15.   Ethiopia has made significant progress in improving its external debt situation and
credit-worthiness. In December 1992, it obtained favorable debt rescheduling terms through
5



the Paris Club, which resulted in US$673 million in debt relief (applying comparable terms to
non-Paris Club creditors and excluding ruble-denominated debt). By July 1993, Ethiopia
concluded bilateral agreements with five major Paris Club creditors, and approached others for
debt arrangements in line with the Paris Club agreement. As a result, Ethiopia's scheduled debt
service ratio (to exports of goods and non-factor services) has dropped from 82 percent in 1992
to 59 percent in 1993. Reduction of the bulk of the remaining debt owed to the former Soviet
Union, is still to be nego' %ted. Progress is also being made towards an IDA debt buy-back
operation which will substantially reduce commnercial debt, estimated at about $100 million. In
the FY94 budget, external loans make up about 26 percent of the capital budget, and grants
about 17 percent, compared to FY89, when external loans constituted almost 39 percent, and
grants about 13 percent.
EfIOPIA'S DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND POUCIES
16.   Potential Sources of Growth. Agriculture will remain the major contributor to
economic growth in the mediam tern, contributing currently about 45 percent *o GDP. With
improved inputs, price incentives, research and extension systems, and rehabiliiated
infrastructure, higher output can reduce the food deficit, boost exports, and stimulate growth in
agro-processing industry and zelated services. Coffee yields can increase by 50 percent through
planting of disease resistant trees and better cultivation practices; pulses and seeds have
growing export potential; and cotton and livestock have significant potential for expansion, and
could boost export manufacture.
17.   Industry, based largely on agro-processing, ^ontributes about 15 percent of GDP,
mainly through large state enterprises. During the last 20 years, industrial expansion was based
on manufacture for import substitution, and the sector remains highly dependent on imports of
semi-processed goods, raw materials, spare parts, and fuel. Because of low labor costs,
Ethiopia can increase export production of leather goods and textiies, and efficiendy substitute
for imports of building materials and simple engineered products. In the short term, growth
will come mainly from improved inputs and commercial incentives for state enterprises. In the
longer term, there is scope for the growth of small and medium-scale private manufacturing to
supply expanding domestic needs. Export potential exists in Ethiopia's fairly significant,
largely untapped gold and other mineral resources, and in the country's hydroelectric and
geothermal resources. Growth in these sectors, as is the case for industry and commercial
farming, will depend on imported modern technology and foreign investment.
18.   The service sector is another important potential growth area. Ethiopian Airlines could
increase air transport receipts, and earnings from maintenance contracts in the region. Tourism
could make an important contribution, as long as there is the necessary commercial investments
in hotels and related infrastructure. Because of the wide range of talent in the expatriate
Ethiopian community, many of whom may return or set up partial residence, Ethiopia could
also develop a lucrative regional business in consulting and professional services.
19.   The Main Constraints to Growth. The legacy of the civil war, ethnic rivalry, and
distortionary policies of the previous regime are the immediate constraints to economic growth.
Even with the improved policy environment and political and economic stability, the country
will still face massive structural constraints to growth. The burden of poverty, unemployment,
and poor social services represent the greatest challenge. Significant investment in human
capital development (to improve basic social services, slow population growth, improve
6



literacy, and reverse the high rates of mortality among women and children) will be
fundamental to Ethiopia's longer-term economic and social growth, but due to limited
resources and large imbalances in assets among the regions, progress will be inevitably slow.
20.   Economic progress will require major investments in physical infrastructure. Poor
infrastructure seriously limits Ethiopia's economic growth. The greatest problems lie in the
scant road network, whose ratio of 0.3 km per thousand people is one of the lowest in Africa.
Roads have deteriorated badly due to lack of maintenance and war damage, resulting in high
trucking costs. Rural roads are especially scarce, with three-quarters of Ethiopian farms more
than a half-day's walk from an all weather road. Ethiopia also faces the need for costly
expansion in haydroelectricity. Its energy consumption is one of the lowest in the world, and
demand will soon outstrip current supply as the economy grows a-d living standards improve.
21.   Environmental degradation is severe, especially in the northern regions due to land
pressure, overcropping, and overgrazing. The result is significant soil loss, which if
unchecked, could in twenty years increase five-fold the areas unable to sustain crops. This
could reduce by 15 percent the capacity of farmed land to support its current population, and
incomes from crops and livestock could drop by 30 percent in areas with few economic
alternatives. Over-reliance on fuelwood has resulted in massive deforestation, with forest loss
of 200,000 ha a year. The intensive use of dung as an alternative fuel is robbing the soil of
fertilizer and reducing crop yields. Many regions also suffer severe water shortage due to
drought, erosion and deforestation.
22.   Government's Development Priorities and Strategies. The TGE's economic
development strategy, summarized in their recen. "Towards a Strategy of Economic
Development in Ethiopia," is a response to the major weaknesses in economic development in
Ethiopia in the last 30 years. The central flaw was the reliance on import-substituting
industrialization, with its accompanying growth in protective tariffs and non-tariff barriers.
This policy reversed the trend of the 1960s and early 1970s when economic growth exceeded
population growth. By the 1980s per capita :ncomes were declining, accompanied by a drop in
export production, a contraction in economic diversification, and a failure of domestic
production to meet even limited local market demands due to foreign exch.age shortages.
During the last 30 years, industry's contribution to GDP grew very slowly from 12 to 15
percent. Even though the agricultural contribution to GDP declined over the same period from
65 percent to 45 percent, the sector continued to employ the bulk of the labor force (90 percent
in 1960, and 85 percent by 1990). Reduced agricultural output was due in part to the quota,
price control, and marketing monopoly policies of the previous regime. Also important was the
pressure of population growth and its negative impact on land quality and fertility. These
trends were well established before Mengistu led the economy into its most recent phase of
impoverishment through massive diversion of domestic and foreign resources to the war effort.
23.   The over-riding challenge is the rate of growth in Ethiopia's population, which at
current trends could approach 160 million by 2025. The TOE's goal is to ensure that the non-
agricultural sector will absorb a significant portion of the growth in employment demand,
while safeguarding environmental conservation and effective land usage, and encouraging
productivity-enhaucing agricultural technology. The long-term strategy is one of "agricultural
development-led industrialization," an export-led growth strategy combining three main
features. The first is to increase agricultural production by improving productivity of small-
holder farms, and establishing large-scale private commercial farms especially in the lowlands.
7



The second is an even more rapid expansion of the manufacturing sector to absorb the increase
in labor that cannot be absorbed by the agricultural sector, and to meet the increasing demands
of the domestic market. The third is to significantly supplement agricultural exports by a
growth in mineral and energy exports.
24.   This approach depends on achieving a number of sector goals. In agriculture, the goals
are to improve agricultural and animal husbandry practices; increase use of improvwd seeds,
fertilizers, and pesticides; develop essential infrastructure, especially small-scale irrigation; and
over time, increase farm size parallel with migration of population from agricultural to non-
agricultural employment. Within industry, priorities include expanding small-scale
manufacturing firms aimed primarily at the mass-consumption domestic market, and utilizing
labor-intensive technology and local raw materials. Iu tCie mineral sector, a policy framework
has already been developed to increase production for export purposes. Integral to agricultural
development will be a policy of environmental rehabilitation and conservation, depending
equally on increasing energy alternatives to fuelwood (especially hydro-electricity), and on
programs of reforestation and improved land utilization practices. Increased agricultural and
industial production will require improved infrastructure (especially roads and electricity);
traning to increase labor productivity and support the use of improved technology; and a
strengthened financial sector able to mobilize savings and promote investment. Underlying the
strategy is the need for investment in human capital development, especially primary
education, basic health, and improved sanitation and water supply.
25.   The TGE is committed to shifting the weight of investment in and management of the
productive sectors from the state to the private sector. This is already evidenced by reductions
in alocations to industry from 19 percent of total capital expenditure in FY89, to about 8
percent in FY94; and in state farms from 265 million Birr to 28 million Birr over the same
period. However, the TGE has also declared its intention of retaining state influence where it
feels necessary. Within industry, "policy intervention is necessary to bring about the envisaged
pattern of industrialization. Private sector's choice of technology would need to be directed
towards labor-intensive methods and utilization of raw materials" (p.7 of "Towards a Strategy
of Economic Development for Ethiopia"). Concerned about the uncertain response of the small
and undeveloped domestic private sector, the TGE has expressed the need for a continuing role
for govermment in helping to launch largescale ventures, especially in strategic productive and
infrastructure sectors. For foreign investment, the trend has been to insist on a government
controlling share in joint ventures, and the TGE is especially sensitive to foreign participation
in the banking sector, and foreign investor land-holding.
26.   Priorities for the Next Phase of Reform. The TGE has reached agreements with the
Bank and IMF on the next phase of reform presented in the second Policy Framework Pape-
negotiated in July 1993. PFP II established targets for the program period to reinforce
continued prudent economic management, commitment to social sector investments, and the
shift of resources to the private sector. The key targets are: overall fiscal deficit to remain
roughly constant at 10 percent of GDP (after grants); virtual elimination of bank financing of
the budget deficit; average annual current account deficit (including official transfers) held at
about 5.5 percent of GDP; limits on external commercial borrowing; maintenance of real,
positive interest rates; and a shift of public expenditures to economic and social services and
operation and maintenance. Based on current projections, this would result, during 1994-96, in
an average growth in real GDP of about 5.5 percent (agricultural production growing at
8



between 4 and 5 percent a year, and industrial production at about 9 percent a year), with
inflation dropping below 10 percent.
27.   The Goverment's next phase of reform will cover a number of sectors. In the fiscal
area additional measures will be taken to rationalize taxation and improve revenues. In the
financial sector, new laws will allow private banks and insurance companies; and government
public bonds and bills will be introduced to support indirect methods of monetary control. In
the external sector, the remaining marketing, customs, and regulatory constraints to exports
will be removed, a general export licensing procedure and automatic import licenses
introduced, and tariffs further rationalized. To encourage private investment, procedures for
licensing, land acquisition, and foreign joint ventures will be simplified. Remaining commodity
prices still subjec% to controls will be adjusted in line with world market prices. The retail price
of petroleum will reflect import and distributicnal costs. Cost recovery mechanisms will be
introduced for social services for those able to pay. Changes will be made in work and wage
regulations to encourage the use of labor-intensive methods. For public enterprises, all
budgetary support, foreign exchange privileges, and government loan guarantees will cease,
and a phased program of privatization implemented.
28.   In agriculture, the key policy reforms will include action on land tenure (following a
referendum on the issue); the liquidation or divestiture of remaining state farms; and the
phased liberalization of the coffee sector. In the energy sector, tariff structures will be revised
in line with production costs to facilitate the increased availability of electricity and other
energy sources as essentisl alternatives to fuelwood use and to meet increasing demand. In the
transport sector, the remaining monopolies of state corporations will be ended; large parts of
public sector transportation fleets will be sold to the private sector; spending priority will be
given to road maintenance and labor-based rural road expansion; and state construction
companies will be divested to encourage private sector participation. In the area of urban
development, cost recovery methods will help improve the quality of water and sanitation
services, and governent-owned houses will be sold to improve the housing stock. In the
social sectors, expenditures on basic education and health will be substantially increased with
special attention given to the needs of women; a new National Population Policy will be
Implemented to Improve family planning services and population education; and action taken to
remove legal and administrative constraints on women's access to credit, land-use rights,
inputs and services. In terms of environmental conservation and rehabilitation, a National
Conservation Strategy will create the framework and incentives for improved land use and
conservation practices. Finally, in the area of public administration, the policy framework
governing the regional authorities' fiscal rights and obligations will be completed, and further
steps taken to streamline and improve the incentive structure within the civil service.
THE BANK GROUP'S COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
29.   Major Goals and Objectives. The central objective of the Bank's program of
assistance for Ethiopia, unchanged from last year, is the reduction of poverty through a
combination of sustainable economic growth and employment generation; improvements in
basic social services; and special targeted measures to improve income, self reliance, and
quality of life for the poorest groups and communities. Economic growth is the essential basis
of a long-term strategy to reduce poverty through increased employment and food production.
The aim of the Bank's program is to support this growth strategy through a series of important
9



measures: a policy framework to stimulate production, exports, and private sector growth; a
reliable flow of inputs for the productive sectors; essential improvement and expansion of
infrastructure; environmental rehabilitation and conservation; and institutional capacity
essential for economic growth.
30.   The Quality of the Polcy Dialogue Between the Government and the Bank. There
has been significant po'.cy progress during the first phase, marked by agreements or two
PFPs, accomplishment up-front of a number of reforms in the first SAC, and major shifts in
expenditures towards social programs and operations and maintenance costs through the PER,
which will lay the foundations for future budget formulation. The level of future Bank support
will depend on maintaining this momentum and aehieving the goals of the next phase of
reform. In general, there has been fairly close haranony between the TGE's development
priorities and the Bank's assistance strategy. Both aim at reducing Ethiopia's substantial
poverty through a strategy of economic growth. Both emphasize labor-utilizing methods,
Improved quality of basic social services, and support to community-based efforts to improve
assets and incomes. At a more specific policy level, it is premature to draw firm conclusions
about the depth of consensus between the Government and the Bank. In its 1991 Economic
Policy Statement, the TGE candidly said that as a transitional administration its mandate would
be limited, with a clear division between those reforms on which it can act, and those which
would be taken up by a newly elected government (such as foreign, private banks, and the
question of land ownership). The TGE has fol., wed a scrupulous process of internal debate
and consensus building on all aspects of policy reform, the cost of which has been significant
delays in the Bank's ability to develop the pipeline of projects. However, the TGE has
demonstrated its determination to take the lead in the development process and relationship
with the Bank, which results in strong ownership once agreement is reached on action.
31.   From experience so far, policy differences between the TGE and the Bank arise from
the TGE's reservations about tht adequacy of future market and private sector response as the
economy is liberalized and the state withdraws from the productive sectors. While there is little
fundamental disagreement about the operation and advantages of a market-based economic
system, the TGE believes that government must closely manage the transition, limit risks, and
direct choices if market signals are not sufficiently persuasive. There is also a conviction that
domestic investors must be protected, and this has led to a conservative and even discouraging
response to foreign investment which could both hamper the transfer of essential technology,
skills, and resources from outside, and isolate domestic producers from international
competitive standards. Notwithstanding these differences, the successful experience of the first
phase of adjustment has increased the TGE's confidence that the basic adjustment strategy is
sound, and the quality of dialogue has improved throughout the period.
32.   The Bank's Existing Program. Prior to May 1991, the Bank's activities in Ethiopia
were restricted to a core program because of the failure of the previous regime to produce a
eonvincing program of reform, and because continued civil disrsu 'on made implementation
very difficult. There are In the current portfolio 14 operations frorr this period, concerned with
high priority social needs, or essential infrastructure. Since the political change in May 1991,
the Bank's program during the transitional period has consisted of a three-phased approach.
The first, based on the TGE's commitment to fundamental policy reform, was support for
reconstruction through the emergency Ethiopia Recovery and Reconstruction Program (ERRP).
This Bank-coordinated program of multi-donor support, totalling about $650 million, aims to
help reconstruct the country's war-torn infrastructure, jump-start economic production, provide
10



essential phannaceuticals, and launch a pilot social fund to support community-led
rehabilitation micro-projects. IDA's contribution consisted of project for $150 million together
with $80 million restructured from the existing portfolio to meet ERRP priorities. The second
phase consisted of support for essential measures aimed at macroeconomic stabilization, and
the start of the process of adjustment to shift fro'n public sector control of production to a
market system based on private sector initiativL In the first Structural Adjustment Credit,
which helped bridge the balance of payments financing gap, the TGE accomplished a large part
of the agreed reforms prior to project effectiveness. The remainder will probably be
accomplished and the SAC second tranche released by June 1994. Alongside the SAC, the
Bank approved the vital Road Rehabilitation Project ($96 million) to repair the key transit
route between Assab port and Dese. The third phase aims at deepening the process of
adjustment, with substantial restructuring of the public sector and privatization of state
enterprises. This will be supported by an investment program giving priority to improvements
in basic social services, reforms and institutional strengthening aimed at stimulating
production, environmental conservation and rehabilitation, and improvements in priority
infrastructure.
33.   Performance of the Portfolio. There is a large undisbursed balance of about $659
miilion in the current portfolio. Slow disbursement has a number of causes. Prior to May
1991, project implementation was seriously impeded by the on-going civil hostilities, negative
policy environment, and institutional constraints resulting from inflexible monopoly
arrangements in many implementing agencies. From May 1991, with peace restored, the TGE
has worked hard to remnove some of these constraints, but progress has been slow and
implementation performance has continued to suffer. More recent poor implementation
performance has been due mainly to the fact that the TGE did not regard many of the projects
in their inherited form appropriate for implementation within the goals, policies, and
institutional arrangements of the new administration. In a few cases, poor implemnentation has
been due to a lack of knowledge or violation of Bank procurement requirements. On the
positive side, although not trouble-free, the implementation of the ERRP has been significantly
better than that of other projects in the Ethiopia portfolio. This is due largely to the
establishment of a special program management unit under the Prime Minister's Office to
maintain implementation quality and momentum.
34.   Although the restructuring of the project portfolio has been slow, substantial progress
has been made in bringing projects into line with the TGE's priorities and institutional
structures. Building on these efforts, and in addition to a Special Portfolio Review undertakin
in FY93, the TGE and the Bank completed a Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR) in
December 1993, reviewing the relevance of all 14 active operations (including five problem
projects) in relation to the TGE's macroeconomic and sector strategies. The CPPR confirmed
that four projects (including two problem projects) will close by the end of June 1994 after
minor restructuring, and one by December 1994. Comprehensive, time-bound restructuring
plans were agreed, or will be agreed in the near future, for seven fiuter projects (including
the other three problem projects). The remaining two projects are new and progressing well.
Agreements were also reached on actions to resolve two generic problems. To improve
procurement, the Bank will run training courses for Government project officers in general
procedures and IDA requirements. The Government also gave a commitment to clear late
audits by the required deadlines, through improved efticiency in the responsible agencies. As a
result of the restructuring exercise, disbursements are expected to show a significant
improvement over the next year, and there will be a sizable cancellation of funds no longer
11



needed. This start in cleaning up the portfolio will be carefully followed-up and monitored by
the country team. Dialogue has also started on revisions to the lending program to reflect TGE
priorities. This will strengthen Governuent and beneficiary ownership and improve
implementation of future projects.
35.   Delays in Developing the Project Pipeline in Etiopia. During the time that it has
taken the TGE to develop the detailed strategies that will guide domestic and external
investment in key sectors, the Bank has been constrained in carrying out sector work, except in
a few areas such as the forestry action plan, rural road strategy, and an initial poverty
assessment. This has delayed identifying, preparing, and appraising new projects, especially in
agriculture and social sectors. The Public Works and Employment Project was abandoned prior
to appraisal; and the National Seeds Project, which reached green cover stage has been shifted
to next fiscal year and may require re-appraisal. The result of these delays is that in FY93,
lending fell short of expectations and the same is likely in FY94. However, these delays are
part of a positive trend in which the TGE is building ownership for its own sector development
strategies, which could lead to an improved pace in preparing future projects.
36.   The Scenario for the Bank's Expanded Program of Assistance. With the positive
change in the policy environment, the Bank agreed to expand its program of assistance
predicated on satisfactory progress made L. he adjustment program. Based on the program of
reform agreed in PFP II, it is expected that annual real GDP growth will reach an average of
about 5.5 percent during FY94-96. Table 1 on the next page, based on the most recent
estimates and updated projections, illustrates the various economic indicators consistent with
this scenario. This scenario would justify a Bank program of assistance averaging three
projects a year, for an annual total ranging between $200 million and $300 million, provided
that implementation shows a steady improvement, and provided that project preparation can be
accelerated.
37.   There are a number of short-term and longer-term triggers {policy measures) that are
critical to the economic performance envisaged in this scenario, and failure to accomplish them
would have implications for the Bank's assistance strategy to Ethiopia. The short-term triggers
apply to the remainder of the transitional period which will end when the Bank reviews the
policy framework with the next elected Government, currently expected to be in place by late
1994. If these triggers are not met, there would be a significant reduction in the level of Bank
assistance to a core program of one or two projects per year, totalling no more than $100
million. The short-term triggers are, first, those relating to SAC agreements: (a)
implementation of the PER recommendations in the budget and in a three-year rolling public
investment program; (b) rationalization of corporate and sales taxes; (c) sale of state-owned
shops, hotels, and restaurants; (d) reduction of the size of the negative list of imports; (e)
reviews of civil service structures, and of the sale of government houses; and, second: (I)
maintaining the auction as the prime mechanism for providing foreign exchange; (g) adopting
and disseminating clear sector strategies that lay the basis for a coherent public investment
program and rationally linked programs of assistance from the Bank and other donors; and (h)
improving the implementation of IDA-financed projects, as part of an effort to improve the
effective utilization of all available resources.
38.   Maintaining the base case lending program beyond the life of the TGE would require
continued progress in reforms. The longer-term triggers that would lead the Bank to
reconsider its level of support would be a failure of the new Government to: (a) establish land
12



tenure arrangements that would make land available for the private sector to facilitate the
emergence of productive activities, and of an appropriate land market (e.g. in lease rights),
lead to the creation of a land-tax system, and provide adequate incentives for community
environmental conservation efforts; (b) initiate a program of financial sector liberalization
allowing the full participation for the private sector, including foreign participants if the
domestic response turns out to be inadequate; (c) remove the significant remaining regulatory
constraints on exports, imports,
Table 1. Ethiopia: Selected Economic Indicators, 1991/92-1995/96 v
(scal year ending July 7)
1991/92   1992193 1 1993/94    1994/5 l1995196
Anoual percelt chane,._ 
GDP at constant prices                  -7.4        7.6        3.5        6.5         5.5
Consumerrices 2/                        21.0        10.2       10.0       8.0         6.0
Merchandis export (volume)              -46.3       87.0       14.9       11.9       10.4
Merchandise imipots (volume)            -18.9       15.9       11.8       14.6        5.4
Money and auasi-mone                     13.3       16.2      14.5        10.1        8.2
in1 owee of GDP
Gross invcstment 3!                      8.7        11.6       14.1       14.3       14.9
Domesiic savings                         -0.5       -1.0        2.2        0.4        2.2
iovenmet revenue    u      rants)        15.7       17.6       18.9       19.0       19.2
Government expenditur                   29.2        34.3       37.7       38.9       38.2
Overal fiscal deficit (-) 4/                                  _
Including grants                     -10.3       -10.9      -9.3       -10.8      -9.9
Excluding grants                      -13.5      -16.8      -18.8      -19.9      -18.9
foreign financing of fiscal deficit    1.8        6.5        7.6       10.9       10.4
Domestic financinga of fiscal deficit  8.5        4.4        1.7          0        -0.5
External ourrent account deficit (-)           __
Including public transfers             0.6       -3.3       -5.8       -8.8        -8.4
Excluding pubLic transfers            -5.8       -13.0     -18.3      -21.3       -20.9
Gross official reserves
(in weeks of imports)                   4.4        8.6       10.6       12.9       15.1
Notes:
1.  Data provided by the Ethiopian authorities, and staff esfimates. 1991192-1992/93 data are prelimry
estimates. EsImates for FY93 are based on most recent data. Projections for the period 1993/94-1995196
are updated. Data including Eritrea. Efforts are being made by the TGE to separate Ertrea from
Ethiopia in macoeconomic accounting.
2.  Addis Ababa retail price index.
3.  Constat price data for 1992/93 and on to neutralize distortions caused by exchange rate depreciation.
4.  On a cash basis for FY92 and FY93.
and domestic and foreign private sector investment; (d) make significant progress in
restructuring, privatizing or divesting state enterprises; (e) reflect the recommendations of the
PER in the future budget allocations and PIP; (t) establish within the new regional structmes,
rational systems of budget allocation, expenditure management, and project implementtion;
(g) progress beyond the current auction system to a fully market-based system of foreign
13



exchange provision; and (h) adopt and start implementing a coherent strategy for reducing
population growth. Many of these longer-term triggers will require a year or more to
implement, and the review with the new Government will set specific goals and timetables.
39. A general failure to meet these targets would result in a low case scenario with a reduction
of GDP growth to about three percent, equal to population growth. This scenario would
include weak revenue performance and reduced donor assistance. The Government would have
to choose between higher domestic bank financing or significant curbing of expenditure. The
first option would result in iflationary pressures (further stimulated by concerns over the
unsustanability of the exchange rate), negative real interest rates, and slower rates of saving
and private investment. The second option would lead to cuts in new investment,
reconstruction, and recurrent expenditures. This would fiuther reduce the already low level of
capital assets essential to economic growth. Both exports and foreign aid flows would suffer,
and with slower import growth, the balance of payments would become increasingly difficult to
finance. Reduced foreign reserves would probably result in increased arrears accumulation.
40. Main Features of the Bank's Program of Assistance. The core of the Bank's program is
support for economic reforms through two or three quick disbursing credits over the next five
years to cover the external financing gap at a declining level as exports and domestic savings
grow. The credits will focus on future phases of adjustment, especially financial sector
restructuing and liberalization, land reform, public enterprise reform, increased efficiencies in
public expenditure, and measures to open up sectors of the economy traditionally under public
sector control to domestic and foreign private investment. This phase will be supported by
analytical studies, which include a public expenditure review focused on regionalized fiscal and
budgetary management and implementation capacity, and a country economic memorandum
with a focus on poverty reduction strategies.
41.    The fundamental principle guiding the Bank's support for the productive sectors is to
help create a climate and opportunities for a shift from public sector control to private
initiative. IDA projects will be used to finance only those programs that will help increase
private sector entry opportunities and productivity. Steps have already been taken, reinforced
by the PER, to limit state involvement in production. In the agricultural sector, the aim of
Bank support is to help increase food production by improving the distribution and utilization
of seeds and fertilizers, and strengthening agricultural research and extension services. Some
selective assistance will be given to conservation and expansion of Ethiopia's livestock
resources; and to improving the output of peasant-based subsistence agriculture. The program
will be supported by an agricultural memorandum, which will survey the productive potential
of different branches of the sector, identify constraints to overcome and essential conditions
needed to boost production, prioritize the remaining policy measures required to provide the
necessary incentives, and specify the institutional arrangements and services needed over the
next five years. The memorandum will give special regard to the impact of regionalization on
agricultural production and marketing patterns.
42.    A broad in-depth study has been launched to identify trends and possibilities in the
whole range of business activities, from large manufacture to micro-enterprise. The goal is to
help the Government develop strategies t encourage productive investment, guide the choice
of labor-utilizing technologies, and stimulate export production. The study will identify special
assistance needed to improve labor skills, managerial capacity, and marketing information for
private and public enterprises. The study will support the liberalization of the financial sector
14



and improved access to credit (including micro-credit), and will define specific follow-up
assistance the Bank can offer public and private enterprise and export development. The policy
elements of the study will lay the foundation for future adjustment operations. A detailed
parallel study has been proposed for the vital area of mineral development, its export potential,
and the policy and institutional frameworks which can guide the development of the sector
while ensuring adequate incentives for small and large domestic and foreign investors.
43.    The Bank's involvement in the social sectors will be based upon a human resource
development study, which will help identify the type of interventions likely to have rapid and
lasting impact on improving access to essential services for the poor, removing the constraints
on the economic participation of women, and reducing Ethiopia's population growth rate. It
will explore modalities for delivering sustainable, high quality programs, including
consideration of cost-recovery and increased reliance on private sector participation. The
lending program will focus on primary health, nutrition, and MCH; primary education, with
special emphasis on improving the participation of girls; Improved urban housing and services;
and improved urban and rural water and sanitation. Attention will be given to community
development, in particular the expansion of the Ethiopian Social Rehabilitation Fund, which in
its pilot phase has been effective in supporting community generated and implemented micro-
projects for improving essential infrastructure, and supporting income-generation. This
program could lay the basis for a longer-term effort to improve the quality of social service
delivery in the regions by strengthening the capacity for community investment, maintenance,
and management. These programs will give special attention to displaced and dispossessed
persons, women one-parent families, demobilized soldiers, orphans, and the disabled. There
will also be a focus on economically marginalized regions.
44.    A cornerstone of the Bank's program will be environmental conservation and
rehabilitation, guided by the Forestry Action Plan, and the TGE's National Conservation
Strategy which will fulfill IDA's requirements for a National Environmental Action Plan by
June 1994. The Bank will support operations concerned with strengthening the institutions
responsible for managing environmental conservation; and programs of reforestation, soil
improvement, water conservation, and improved land-use practices. The environmental
program will focus on community-based implementation and management, and be closely
linked to strategies for managing population growth and reducing fertility, increasing incomes
and incentives to encourage communities and small farmers to improve land utilization and
farming practices, and developing a range of energy alternatives to fuelwood.
45.    The program described above will be supported by large, selective investments in
infrastructure development and maintenance that are essential to achieving the goals of each
part of the program. One critical area will be the development and maintenance of rural and
feeder roads based on an extensive study and strategy. This will be complemented by selective
programs to upgrade and maintain strategically important trunk roads. The second area of
priority involves the development of a range of energy sources, including the Calub Gas fields
(the subject of the project proposed in this document), and the exploitation of Ethiopia's
significant hydro-electric potential. A study will also be made of the potential for small-scale
renewable energy projects. Attention will be given to urban and rural water supply. In the area
of telecommunications, Bank assistance will be focused on the policy incentives and
institutional arrangements conducive to the commercial development of this sector.
15



46.    IFC and MIGA Activities. While IFC has planned no specific investments at this
stage, it will become more active in Ethiopia if the current stable conditions continue and
additional measures are taken to encourage private investment. Priorities would focus initially
on supporting the privatization of selected public enterprises; financing the rehabilitation and
expansion of these enterprises; and assisting financial sector reforms to help mobilize funds for
private investment.
47.    Ethiopia has been a full member of MIGA since July 1991. To date MIGA has not
insured any investments in Ethiopia but has registered three preliminary applications for
investments in the transport, leather, and medical supplies sectors. MIGA's Policy Advisory
Services has invited Ethiopia, along with other African countries, to participate in an African
Mining Conference in June 1994, to present policies and geological information to potential
investors. The Foreign Investment Advisory Services visited the TGE's Investment Office in
April 1993 to identify how they might work with them and define an international investment
project.
48.    Mehanibm for Bank Review of the Assistance Program. The Bank and the TGE
have established methods of reviewing progress with the overall program and the pace of
reform, through the PFP process, public expenditure reviews, and consultative group meetings.
Once the new elected Government takes office, the Bank will formally revisit its strategy and
program of assistance through a special mission to consult with the new adminion on its
policy framework and timetable. Attention will be given to the continuity of the adjustment
program, and the triggers described above will be translated into specific measurable targets in
anticipation of the next phase of the PFP. Following the mission, the Bank will prepare an
updated Country Assistance Strategy and lending progra;n, which are expected to be consistent
with the reform path already established and in line with the overall objectives and goals
described in this paper.
1Donor Coordination
49.    The Bank has actively assisted the TGE establish donor coordination mechanisms at a
nuraber of levels. With its commitment to a program of adjustment, Ethiopia has participated
in d e Special Program of Assistance (SPA) since April 1992. The first Consultative Group
(CG) meeting took place in November 1992, and attracted donor pledges of over $1.2 billion
for the period up to mid-1994. A second CG meeting is planned for early March 1994.
Locally, the Bank's Resident Representative convenes a fortnightly donors' development
group, and assists periodic, topic-specific donor meetings convened by the Government. At a
project level, there has been success in achieving donor cooperation and coordinated financing.
The ERRP has been the most important example, involving a consortium of nine donors. The
Bank is administering trust funds for Canada, Denmark, the Netherlands, Sweden, and
Switzerland. In operations currently under design, the Bank is working especially closely with
Italy, the Netherlhnds, Sweden, and UNDP. Close working relations are maintained with
ADB, the EEC, Japan, and USAID. The Bank is committed to continuing to support donor
coordination, which will be important as new policy directions and sector priorities emerge.
16



Agenda for Board Consideration
50.    Because of the complex nature of the transitional period, the Bank's experience in
Ethiopia over the last two and one half years has been uneven. Impressive progress has been
made in achieving macroeconomic stabilization, and important early steps have been taken in
the process of adjustment, setting the country on a more viable economic course, and creating
the enviroment for private sector initiatives on which sustainable economic growth and the
reduction of poverty depend. There are still actions needed to remove constraints on domestic
entrepreneurs and open the country to international trade and investment. It is too early to tell
whether the process of regionalization can be carried out in such a way as to preserve the
overall macroeconomic policy framework and ensure the effective and rational utilization of
resources, although the TGE is committed to such principles. The Government has shown skill
in managing complex changes in a period characterized by sharp ethnic and political diversity,
and has established a strong style of leadership in its relationship with the Bank and other
development partners. However, this process of building ownership and establishing consensus
on policy change, has had its cost in a deterioration in the performance of the portfolio and in
delaying the pipeline of future Bank project assistance.
51.    There are a number of reasons why the Bank should not make any radical changes in
its program of support for Ethiopia at this time. Firstly, the TGE has achieved some promising
results during a transitional period in which it has been quite explicit about the limits of its
mandate. Nonetheless, the TGE acknowledges that the charted course needs to be followed
with greater rapidity and depth after the transition. Clear triggers have been established to
determine whether the content and direction of reform are maintained, and arrangements are in
place to reassess the appropriate level of Bank support to the next administration. Second!y, an
agreement has been reached on the restructuring of the portfolio and on measures to improve
implementation of the portfolio. The results of this exercise should be demonstrated in terms of
disbursement improvements during 1994. Thirdly, the Bank has made it clear to the TGE that
the pace of progress in developing new projects depends on their readiness, both in terms of
sound sectoral policy frameworks and priorities, and their commitment to take on specific IDA
credits. Dialogue with the TGE has already started on a revised lending program based on
early drafts of the TGE's sector strategies. The actual level of project lending during the
remainder of the transitional period will therefore depend on reaching consensus on project
priorities, and thereafter on the Government's responsiveness in terms of project preparation.
52.    The Board is invited to consider whether this strategy provides a sufficient balance
between the opportunity to support a promising new economic direction for Ethiopia, and the
risks inherent in a transitional situation.
17



PART II:
THE PROJECT
Energy Sector Background
53.          An efficient energy sector, energy sufficiency and increased diversity of energy
supply are essential ingredients for achieving the objectives of the TGE's development
strategy, centered on economic growth and poverty reduction. At present, the country is
excessively dependent on traditional fuels, consisting mainly of wood, but also including crop
residues and animal waste. Diversifying the supply of household fuels, improving energy
efficiency and reducing the consumption of traditional fuels is the immediate goal of the energy
sector. This will contribute to the mitigation of deforestation, thereby improving soil
productivity and farm output on which a large segment of the population is dependent, and
reduce the time required for cooking and increase the time available to pursue income
generating activities. In addition, the proportion of family income spent on domestic energy
has increased substantially: a 1984 ESMAP study indicated that fuelwood prices in Addis
Ababa soared from Birr 19 to Birr 190 per ton between 1973 and 1983, by which time
household energy was claiming up to 20 percent of household income. In 1992, prices were
Birr 330 per ton, representing a substantially higher proportion of income considering that
there has been almost no increase in per capita income over the last ten years. A second
important goal of the energy sector is the need to increase the supply of modern energy in
order to support the development of the country's industrial and transportation sectors. The
industrial sector contributes about 15 percent of GDP and 15 percent of export earnings.
Industrial growth is expected to generate general economic growth, employment, and overall
poverty alleviation.
54.          At the 1989/90 per capital consumption level of 0.29 tons of oil equivalent
(toe), Ethiopia has one of the lowest energy consumption levels in the world. Of this
consumption, only about 0.02 toe (6 percent) was from modem energy sources (petroleum and
electricity) with the balance being from traditional fuels. This consumption level may be
compared with the 1989 average of 0.472 toe for all Africa (of which 37 percent is in the form
of traditional fuels). In many areas, including the semi-desert Somali Region V, formerly
called the Ogaden, where the Calub natural gas deposit is situated, wood resources have been
largely depleted and lack of access to reliable sources of energy is a primary constraint to self-
sustaining development. Agriculture, transportation (specially for food distribution), human
and animal health care, and other social services in these regions could be gready facilitated by
the sufficient and reliable supply of energy. An expanded supply of modern fuels will help spur
industrial growth and facilitate transportation, particularly the transport of agricultural products
on which the economy is so dependent.
55.          The TGE's National Energy Policy (NEP) has been recently (November 1993)
formulated, and is consistent with the general economic policy of the TGE. The NEP's key
objectives are reflected in the Letter of Sector Policy. The TGE's Investment Code, released in
May 1992 allows for private sector equity and operational participation in power and
petroleum operations in Ethiopia. In the petroleum sub-sector specifically, distribution of
petroleum products is, and will continte to be, handled by the private sector. Price and
18



exchange rate revisions have moved prices closer to their import parity-based prices and are
creating more attractive incentives for private participation in petroleum distribution and
production activities. These revisions, promotion of private sector participation, and a general
optimization of the petroleum sub-sector will be supported by specific actions under the
proposed project.
56.          The TGE's energy strategy focuses on exploiting domestic energy resources in
an economically viable and environmentally sound manner in order to reduce the excessive
reliance on forests and on the import of petroleum products. The Government's major
objectives are to develop identified natural gas and hydropower resources, and expand
petroleum exploration efforts, with the goal of supplying its domestic needs, including
substituting, to the extent possible, woodfuels with modern fuels, and possibly exporting
electric power to neighboring countries. Expanding the supply of modern energy will be
pursued in parallel with improved forestry management, reforestation and energy efficiency
enhancing programs. An IDA/DANIDA-financed energy project (Credit 1704-ET) is providing
assistance in developing least cost expansion plans/programs in the power sub-sector and in
establishing pilot schemes featuring energy conservation measures to reduce the consumption
of woodfuels in the household energy sub-sector. An IDA funded Petroleum Exploration
Project (Credit 1386-El), has assisted the Governmnent in exploration promotion. A
preliminary feasibility of Calub gas exploitation was conducted under this Credit and additional
oil and gas exploration by a few foreign companies is presently underway.
57.          Long lead times, large investment requirements and low demand outside the
main urban centers make development of geotherma' power and additional hydro power
resources difficult in the near future. This leaves natural gas, and its associated liquids, as the
most attractive energy resource to be developed in the short/medium-term. The Calub gas
reserves, estimated at about 2.7 trillion cubic feet (in two reservoirs of 0.7 and 2.0 trillion
cubic feet), are significant. The upper layer (0.7 trillion cubic feet) is estimated to contain
sufficient associated liquids (LPG, gasoline, kerosene and diesel/gas oil) to justify an extraction
plant to recover and market the liquid products and re-inject the gas back into the deposit for
possible utilization in the future. This scheme is sophisticated but commercially proven. It
would postpone the need to make major investments while supplying much-needed liquid
petroleum products to the market. The project's contribution is expected to be approximately
70,000 toe/year (or about 8 percent of the current consumption of petroleum and electricity).
Approximately 50 percent of this supply (LPG and kerosene) will be used for household
purposes. With their higher energy efficiencies, these modern fuels can potentially replace
about 400,000 tons/year of fuelwood (about 18 percent of current urban consumption). The
balance, consisting of gasoline and diesel, is expected to be used for road transportation and
power generation.
58.          Institutional responsibility of the Energy sector is mainly with the Ministry of
Mines and Energy (MME). Sector planning and performance by the MME and its operating
agencies has been generally satisfactory. The central component of the proposed project, the
extraction and processing of the Calub natural gas, is to be the responsibility of a newly
created company with Government and private equity participation (para. 61). The other main
institutions having direct involvement in the project are: (i) the Ethiopian Road Authority
(ERA), under the Ministry of Public Works & Urban Development, which is responsible for
planning, design, construction, administration and maintenance of Ethiopia's roads; (ii) the
Regional Government of Region V (formerly the Ogaden), which is still in the process of
19



formation (a central government proclamation establishes regional goverments and empowers
each one to establish, direct and supervise social and economic development; prepare its own
budget; and collect revenue and taxes); and (iii) the Women's Affairs Coordinating Department
(WACD), in the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs, established in 1990 to enhance the
empowerment of women through education, training and employment. ERA has a favorable
performance record, however political disturbances over the last few years have taken their toll
on the organizational and financial capabilities of this institution, particularly with respect to
road maintenance. Institutional strengthening of the ERA is being supported by other Bank
projects, and specific assistance is included under the proposed project. The components for
which the Regional Government of Region V is the beneficiary will be autonomously
management by specific Project Units which will report to a Steering Committee comprising of
the regional government, the Ministry of Natural Resource Development and Environmental
Protection, the P1TF, and local representatives of government institutions dealing at the
regional level with health, education, environment, agriculture, planning and energy. The
WACD, and its performance record, is still being developed, however, the organization is well
staffed and its responsibilities include collaborating with the Government and non-
governmental and international organizations to secure assistance for urban and rural women to
facilitate their access to credit, fertilizer and land use and ownership.
Project Objectives
59.          The central objective of the project is to augment the availability of Ethiopia's
indigenous energy resources in an economically viable, and commercially and environmentally
sustainable manner. The proposed project is designed to: (i) improve the present unbalanced
structure of energy supply in Ethiopia by increasing the availability of modern fuels (at
economic prices); (ii) support economic growth by expanding the supply of petroleum products
needed in the modern sectors of the economy (particularly for road transportation, thermal
power generation and agricultural activities); (iii) contribute to mitigating the negative
environmental impact of rapidly depleting peri-urban forests by inducing replacement of
woodfuels with LPG and kerosene in urban households; (iv) develop the country's technical
capacity to promote and commercialize its fossil fuel resources; and (v) contribute to poverty
alleviation through direct measures and induced economic activities. Direct measures include
the facilitation of alternate income generation opportunities for urban fuelwood carriers (who
are predominantly women) and the implementation of a Community Development Fund
targeting areas ira geographical proximity of the project. A substantial contribution to poverty
alleviation is also expected through the project's overall economic impact and through the
development of Ethiopia's remote south-eastern region.
60.          The project will also stimulate and facilita.e private sector participation in the
energy sector and enhance MME's ability to promote petroleum exploration and development.
The proposed project has a significant "pilot" dimension and may be viewed as the starting
point for a comprehensive, long-term development of the country's fossil-fuel resources.
Project Description
61.          Commercial Component (X --'alub Company) consisting of natural gas
production, separation of liquified petroleum gas (LPG), gasoline, kerosene and diesel
associated with gas, and reinjection of the remaining gas into the gas deposit. The beneficiary
of this component will be the Calub Company, an independent, share company, which has been
20



formed and registered under the Commercial Code of Ethiopia. This company will function as
a purely commercial, profit-oriented entity. It is expected to sell its products at the Calub
factory gate to private distribution companies operating in Ethiopia. Technical assistance,
financed through project preparation facility (PPF), has been provided to the TGE/MME to
draw up the corporate and legal structure of the Calub Company so as to ensure the Company's
managerial, operational, administrative and financial autonomy. This assistance was provided
through an international management consultancy firm and further supported by an
international merchant banker.
62.          The sale of 35 percent of the Calub Company's declared equity to the private
investors has already been offered by Government.
63.          The total cost of the project is estimated at US$130.81 million equivalent, with
a foreign exchange cost of about 79 percent. The main cost items for which financing is to be
provided consist of: (i) well completion and remedial work on the wells already drilled; (ii)
construction of a pr,cessing plant and ancillary facilities; and (iii) assistance under a
Supervision of Implementation and Operations Management (SIOM) contract by an
internationally reputable firm covering plan construction supervision and the initial years
(about three) of operation. Estimated costs of this component are US$85.96 million of which
IDA financing of US$66.31 million is provided to cover 100 percent of foreign costs,
including US$1.17 million in retroactive financing of project preparation. Credit proceeds to
the Calub Company will be on-lent at the prevailing commercial interest rate of 14
percent/annum. A breakdown of costs and the financing plan are shown in Schedule A.
Amounts and methods of procurement and of disbursements, and the disbursement schedule,
are shown in Schedule B. A timetable of key project processing events and the status of Bank
Group operations in Ethiopia are shown in Schedule C and D, respectively. The Staff
Appraisal, Report, No. 11611-ET, dated February 18, 1994, is also attached.
64.          ReIonal Development Components consisting of: (i) rehabilitation of the
Shilabo-Harar national highway (571 km). This road is part of the main artery connecting
Region V with central Ethiopia and northern Somalia and although it is essential for facilitating
the transport of Calub products, its rehabilitation will have a much broader impact on regional
development in terms of job creation and trade facilitation. IDA will finance the initial
equipment needed to maintain this road (US$2.5 million) and technical assistance needed for
contract preparation, selection of contractors, and supervision of road rehabilitation (US$2.0
million). Actual road rehabilitation (UiS$27.0 million) is expected to be financed, under
parallel financing, by the African Development Bank; and (ii) an Environmental Monitoring
System (EMS - for US$0.85 million) and a Community Development Fund (CDF - for US$5.0
million) to monitor the project environmental impact within the project area and provide social
and economic support to inhabitants of the concerned areas. IDA will finance 100 percent of
the EMS.
65.          Support Components consisting of the following sub-components to be
completely financed by IDA except where indicated: (i) technical assistance to the Ministry of
Mines and cnergy for strengthening the project's Project Implementation Task Force (US$0.30
million), and strengthening MME's capacity to promote private and joint venture participation
in petroleum exploration and development in Ethiopia (US$1.0 million); (ii) support for LPG
marketing and interfuel substitution (US$0.70 million); (iii) poverty alleviation among poor
urban fuelwood carriers through a program to support income diversification (US$4.0 million,
21



financed through a Dutch Government grant); and (iv) three studies, a Petroleum Pricing and
Market Structure Study to assist the Government in formulating petroleum pricing policy and
optimizing the petroleum sub-sector, a regional electrification study to supply selected urban
centers with gas-generated electricity from Calub, and a study to assess the feasibility of a
larger-scale exploitation of Calub's gas resources (US$1.5 million of which US$1.0 million
financed by IDA). This last study will also review the policy and regulatory framework for gas
commercialization in Ethiopia.
Project Implementation
66.          Overall Project Coordination. Thc' focal point of project implementation will
be a Project Implementation Task Force (PITF) which has been established within the Ministry
of Mines and Energy (MME). The PIM will utilize services and expertise available within
and, as needed outside MME. Outside the MME, it will liaise directly with the Calub
Company (for the implementation of the Calub Plant), the Regional Government of Region V
(for the EMS and the Community Development Fund), the Ethiopia Road Authority (for the
Harar-Shilabo-Calub road rehabilacation and maintenance), and with the Women's Affairs
Coordination Department (WACD) of the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs for the
Fuelwood Carrier program.
Calub Plant
67.          The Calub Company will be responsible for implementing well completion and
processing plant construction and operation. The Company, with the assistance of the SIOM
consultants, would implement these activities. Well completion, under a service contract, is
expected to be completed by April 1997. Plant construction will be carried out by an
international contractor on a turn-key basis. Invitations to bid for the well completion and plant
construction contracts will be issued within six months of Credit Effectiveness. Construction
completion and plant start up is projected for the end of June 1997.
68.         In the event that the initial private shareholders of the Calub Company are
unable to provide the technical and managerial expertise needed for construction supervision
and operational management, the Company will enter into a Supervision of Implementation and
Operational Management (SIOM) contract, with an internationally reputable firm. The contract
would be in three phases (described below) with Phase I beginning prior to Credit
Effectiveness (June 1994). Phases II and III are estimated to run from May 1995 to June 1997
and March 1997 to June 2000, respectively. The SIOM Teams would maximize local hiring
and would report to the Calub Company's Managing Director through their Team Managers.
(i)    Phase 1: Completion of basic plant design, preparation of bid documents for
well completion (under a service contract) and plant construction (under a
turnkey contract), and evaluation of bids and selection of well completion and
plant construction contractors;
(ii)   Phase 2: Supervision of well completion, plant construction, project
management and start-up assistance. This phase will be performance-based and
contain incentives to ensure at-cost and on-time implementation; and
22



(iii)  Phase 3: Operational and commercial management for the first three years,
beginning at the latest three months before plant commissioning. This phase
will also be performance-based to ensure operational and commercial
efficiency.
Road RehaWilitation and Maintenance
69.          The Contract Administration Office of Ethiopia Road Authority will be
responsible for coordinating and supervising the rehabilitation of the Harar-Shilabo road.
Design of the road rehabilitation will be undertaken by the Transport Construction and Design
Enterprise. The rehabilitation work will be separated into four contracts for the concurrent
rehabilitation of the segments Hara-Jijiga, Jijiga-Degahbur, Degahbur-Kebridehar and
Kebridehar-Calub. It is expected that contractor mobilization will be completed by September
1995. On this basis, completion of road rehabilitation would be achieved by December 1997,
six months after Calub plant commissioning. Prior to road rehabilitation, two flying crews
from the ERA Dire Dawa Section will be established and equipped. They will be responsible
for maintaining the road sections not rehabilitated yet. Technical Assistance to ERA for
contracts preparations and supervision of rehabilitation will be provided under the Credit.
Environmental Monitoring System (EMS)
70.          The EMS would be an ongoing activity for the duration of the project and it
will require specialized personnel stationed in the field. A special Monitoring Unit will be
established with responsibility for overall coordination and for the direct implementation of the
EMS's socio-economic monitoring functions. The South-East Rangeland Project (SERP) would
be sub-contracted for monitoring natural resources.
Community Development Fund (CDF)
71.          The Fund will be managed by a small Coordination Unit (CU) established and
staffed for that specific purpose. The CU will be institutionally linked to the Regional
Government and will be responsible to a Steering Committee comprising of the Head of the
regional government, the Ministry of Natural Resource Development and Environmental
Protection, the PITF, local representatives of government institutions dealing at the regional
level with health, education, environment, agriculture, planning and energy, and would also
include local representatives of the Relief and Rehabilitation Committee, and of relevant
NGOs, donors and local government projects.
72.          Technical Assistance and Training to the MME will commence upon Credit
Effectiveness, according to agreed upon terms of reference.
73.          LPG Market Support and Interfuel Substitution will be provided through a
Project Unit, composed of a Program Coordinator and five qualified persons from the he
Ethiopian Energy Authority (within the MME). This Project Unit will coordinate the
implementation of a LPG stove development program, a Public Awareness Campaign for LPG
use, and the establishment of national standards for LPG.
74.          Studies: Implementation of all three studies will be managed by the PITF.
23



75.          The Poverty Alleviation Credit Scheme has a separate institutional
arrangement. This component will be coordinated by the Women's Affairs Coordinating
Department of the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs, and jointly monitored by the Dutch
Government and IDA.
Project Sustainability
76.          A number of key features have been incorporated into the project design in
order to ensure its sustainability. First, the project's commercial component is designed to
encourage private sector partidpaston In a country which is just emerging from the policy
structures of a command economy. The main beneficiary, the Calub Company has been
registered as a share company, with specific measures to ensure its operation according to
principles of commercial efficiency. The Company has been actively promoted to the
international investor community to attract equity and important technical and managerial
expertise. Despite an internationally competitive environment which has reduced the
attractiveness of petroleum related investments in Ethiopia, private investors have expressed
interest in the Calub Company. There are also reasonable prospects for further private
Investment in the Company. Secondly, in order for the project to operate in an appropriate
enabling regulatory environment, the TGE will implement and maintain a new LPG pricing
policy based on import parity, maintain a suitable price ratio between LPG and kerosene, and
undertake a comprehensive Petroleum Pricing and Market Structure Study and a Second Phase
Calub Gas Commercialization Study, aimed at enhancing the efficiency of the gas and
petroleum sector through pricing and policy reform. Convertibility and timely repatriation of
Calub Company foreign dividends is ensured by the current legislation. The TGE will establish
national LPG standards. Pricing policy reform and repatriation of dividends and profits are
also key elements of the Bank's Structural Adjustment Credit. Thirdly, the road rehabiltation
component will contribute, through rehabilitation and sustainable maintenance, to the
accessibility of the production site. Finally, by adopting a participatory approach to regional
development, through the inclusion of an Environmental Monitoring System and Community
Development Fund, the project is expected to widen its development impact, reduce security
risks and further ensure its sustainability.
Lessons Learned from Previous IDA Operations in the Energy Sector
77.          Past experience indicates that the main sectoral problems have involved
implementational delays caused largely due to political and civil instability, and to a lesser
extent by institutional weaknesses. The sector institutions have the technical skills needed for
project implementation and past training programs have been effective in building technical
capacity. There have been weaknesses detected in reporting and audits. This is an issue not
restricted to the energy sector and has been addressed in the overall dialogue between the TGE
and IDA. The MME's organizational structure is being rationalized. Technical assistance under
the project will help strengthen the MME's implementation, reporting and petroleum
exploration promotion capacity.
24



Rationale for IDA Involvement
78.          IDA's involvement will foster a long-term dialogue with the TGE regarding the
establishment of a comprehensive sector strategy and a rational investment program in the
energy sector, which tynically requires long range planning and has strong implications for
macroeconomic stability. IDA is well positioned to advise the TOE on the integration of
macroeconomic objectives with sectoral development strategies. Second, the Bank Group can
play a role in promoting the creation of an enabling economic environment to attract private
participation in the energy sector through policy reforms. In its design, and through
implementation, the proposed project is expected to break considerable new ground in
expanding private sector participation in the energy sector. Finally, the integration into the
project of two poverty alleviation components (the Fuelwood Carriers Credit Scheme and the
Community Development Fund) will allow the project to address social issues which have
logical links with the Project. These targeted actions will be consistent with Bank strategy for
poverty alleviation in Ethiopia. In the context of Sub-Saharan Africa, these poverty alleviation
schemes are relatively innovative in their scope and content, and can, therefore, serve as
models for other such actions.
Consistency with Bank Country Assistance Strategy
79.          The general objectives of IDA's country assistance strategy are to promote
economic growth, generate employment, and alleviate poverty. The latest Country Strategy
Paper on Ethiopia recommends a comprehensive energy strategy aimed at: (i) attracting the
significant capital investment required to develop the country's modem energy resources; (ii)
improving commercial operations through revisions in tariff regulations, restructuring the
electricity and petroleum corporations, and increasing private sector participation; and (iii)
improving the importation/procurement, storage, distribution and pricing of petroleum
products. The proposed project has a significant "pilot" dimension and is designed to achieve
the above mentioned aims in the petroleum sub-sector; it would also contribute to improving
agricultural productivity (by alleviating deforestation and top soil erosion), improving national
supply of modern fuels, supporting industrial development, reducing the current account
deficit, promoting technology transfer, and supporting infrastructure, institution and capacity
building. The project also contains a significant poverty alleviation and employment creation
dimension through its contribution to regional development and the Fuelwood Carrier Credit
Scheme. A substantial contribution to poverty alleviation is also expected through the project's
overall economic impact and through the development of Ethiopia's remote south-eastem
region. The policy reform content is consistent with that proposed under the Structural
Adjustment Credit 3nd is designed to stimulate private sector participation in the energy
sector.
Agreements Reached
80.          Government has already implemented the following actions to improve the
enabling environment for the project and facilitate its implementation: (i) it has provided IDA
with an acceptable signed Letter of Sector Policy; (ii) it has appointed the Managing Director
and initial Board of Directors of the Calub Company; and (iii) the ERA has adopted a suitable
plan to establish the appropriate arrangements for the rehabilitation and routine maintenance of
the Harar-Shilabo road.
25



81.          During negotiations, Government provided assurances on the following: (i) all
petroleum product prices (including LPG) would be based on their import parity price and
reflect economic costs of port handling, inland transportation, distribution and retailing; (ii) the
pricing policy for all petroleum products will be reviewed by a Petroleum Pricing and Market
Structure Study, the recommendations of which will be implemented, upon Government
approval, by April 30, 1996 (12 months after the Study's completion); (iii) the policy
recommendations of the Second Phase Calub Gas Commercialization Study will be
implemented upon Government approval within 12 months of completion of the study
(September 30, 1996); (iv) LPG and kerosene prices would be linked to minimize market
distortion based on the results of the Petroleum Pricing and Market Structure Study; this
linkage between LPG and kerosene will be implemented upon Government approval by April
30, 1996; (v) the Government will establish national LPG standards (including safety
standards) not later than 18 months from the date of Credit Effectiveness; and (vi) a Mid-Term
Review will be held no later than December 31, 1996.
82.          As conditions of Credit Effectiveness, (i) the Government and the Calub
Company will have signed a subsidiary loan agreement on terms and conditions acceptable to
IDA; (ii) the Calub Company will have signed a suitable performance-based Supervision of
Implementation and Operational Management (SIOM) contract acceptable to IDA; (iii) the
Government will have provided to IDA satisfactory assurances for the financing of the road
rehabilitation component; and (iv) the PITF will have finalized the Terms of Reference for the
Second Phase Exploitation of Calub deposit (Study) acceptable to IDA.
Environmental Aspects
83.          The Project is classified as a Category A project and consequently a
comprehensive environmental assessment (EA) has been carried out and is available in project
files. Negative environmental effects are expected to be minimal whereas the positive impact is
expected to be significant. In particular, the expansion in supply of modern household fuels
will result in fuelwood substitution in urban areas, thereby mitigating the presently
unsustainable rate of peri-urban deforestation. The amount of LPG and kerosene introduced by
the project is equivalent to about 400,000 tons of fuelwood or 18 percent of current urban
fuelwood consumption. This amount of wood represents a standing forest of some 6,500
hectares but can be obtained on a sustainable basis, from about 40,000 hectares of forest.
Capturing the benefits of such a contribution to forest cover conservation has been attempted in
the project economic analysis. The Regional Development component is expected to enhance
living conditions in the target areas. Possible negative effects from the plant will be mitigated
by ensuring that well completion/drilling and plant design and operation follow internationally
acceptable industry standards and incorporate the recommendations of the EA and the
Environmental Monitoring System (EMS). Possible long-term negative effects of establishing
an industrial center in an economically underdeveloped and socially unstable area will be
addressed through the establishment of an EMS and Community Development Fund.
Benefits
84.          The main project benefits will be the expansion in supply of modern fuels
which will facilitate the following: (i) a reduction in the dependence on woodfuels, mitigation
of deforestation and consequently an increase in agricultural productivity; (ii) economic growth
by providing modem fuels to the country's industrial, transportation and power sectors; (iii)
26



poverty alleviation through direct measures and through induced economic activity; (iv)
technical and institutional capacity building in fossil fuel exploitation; (v) conservation of
recurrent foreign exchange expenditures in the net amount of approximately US$15
million/annum; (vi) promotion of private sector participation in the petroleum sub-sector; (vii)
contribution to the development of Ethiopia's remote southeastern region; and (viii) promotion
of participatory approaches to regional development.
85.          The economic rates of return were determined for two project components:
Calub Plant:        17 percent   (all products value based on import parity)
33 percent    (LPG and kerosene valued in terms of fuelwood that
can be potentially replaced in order to capture the
environmental benefits of mitigation of deforestation).
Road Rehabilitation: 37 percent   (at average daily traffic of 200 vehicles)
86.          Switching Values. The plant can cover its operating and fixed costs at a
capacity utilization rate of 60 to 65 percent after start-up and initial technical assistance for
operations and management has been phased out. Below this utilization rate the plant has a
negative net present value. Capacity utilization switching values are indicative also of the
flexibility of the Calub plant to respond to changes in product values or operating costs. There
is an improvement in economic switching values if LPG is valued in terms of fuelwood. The
above capacity utilization thresholds are considered technically achievable.
Risks
87.          Regional security has shown marked improvement over the last year (since
regional elections were held) and is no longer considered a significant risk which may affect
Calub Plant construction and operation. Implementation and operation risks have been
minimized through a combination of corporate structuring, perfonrance-based, private
management of implementation and operations, appropriate contractual bases for plant design
and construction, the inclusion of a road rehabilitation component, and a participatory
approach to regional development. Regarding risks stemming from the policy and regulatory
framework, the Government is introducing a number of up-front reforms needed to attract
private capital into the Calub Company and into downstream activities. The Government's
continued commitment to maintaining an enabling policy environment is essential for project
success.
88.          Technical risks and environmental risks have also been addressed and
minimized in the project design. Risks associated with the quantity estimates and producibiity
of the Calub gas reserves have been minimized through appropriate studies and analyses.
89.          The economic viability of the project is particularly sensitive to cost overruns,
start-up delays, increases in transportation and operating costs, and drops in product value
and/or production level. These risks have been minimized through appropriate measures
incorporated into project design. Reductions in product value is unlikely as economic values
used are based on 1992 world petroleum prices which are already depressed. Product yields are
based upon reliable seismic studies and gas and condensate samples.
27



Recommendation
90.          I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the
proposed Credit.
Lewis Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
February 18, 1994
28



Schedule A
page 1 of 1
Estimated Costs (US$ million)
Cost Component                             Foreign    Local       Total
Calub Plant, Facilities, and Well Completion  66.31    19.65      85.96
Road Rehabilitaton (mil. TA)                 22.35      6.65      29.00
Equipment for road maintenance                 2.50        0       2.50
Environmental Monitoring System                0.65     0.20       0.85
Community Development Fund                    4.50      0.50       5.00
TA to MME, LPG Market Support, Studies         6.65     0.85       7.50
TOTAL PROJECT COST                           102.96    27.85    130.81
a.  Inudes US$11.52 million interes during constucdon.
Financing Plan (US$ million)
Source of Financrg                          Foreign    Local      Total
Goverment                                        0    27.15       27.15
]DA                                          74.11      0.20      74.31
Dutch Govermment                               4.00        0       4.00
Othee                                        24.85      0.50     25.35
TOTAL                                        102.96    27.85    130.81
a.  The Afiican Deeopment Bak has expressed iuterst in coverng pant of the foreign cost of the
Road Rehabilttion. Possible parallel fiancing from bilatal grants is envisaged for the
Communiky Deelopmnt Fund. The TGE has provided assurance that it will bridge any
possble finaing gap.
29



Schedule B
page 1 of 2
Summary of Proposed Procment Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
- Total
Projec MOLeetCoMu.nen                            ICB    LCB   Otherb   NBe1    Cost
A. CTlU Wor: Calub-Shiabo Link Road                        1.00                       1.00
(0.65)                    (0.65)
1. Calub Plant: Tunkey conta for Detaild          56.39                              56.39
Engining, Equpment. Constution, ecw.           (50.11)                           (50.11)
2. Road Maintance                                  2.50                               2.50
(2.50)                            (2.S0)
3. EIMS                                            0.10                               0.10
(0.10)                            (0.10)
4. Pr1FS Petrolem Eploration Promotion             0.30                               0.30
(0.30)                            (0.30)
C. SerdkeeCoobsub
1. C"   lant                  Well Compledon       7.00                               7.00
(6.00)                            (6.00)
2. Road Rehabi_ation                                                       27.00     27.00
D. Consultaumb
1. Calub Pnet            a. TA for Prvatizaton                      0.50              0.50
b. SIOQMSnc
(D Bid Does PreplEvaYSebation of Tunky   Cntr.                   0.58              0.58
(0.58)           (0.58)
(ii) Constr. Supevision                    2.50             2.50
(2.50)           (2.50)
(Oi Oprations & Maagemnt                         4.50             4.50
(4.50)           (4-50)
c. Tmining                       0.80             0.80
(0.80)           (0.80)
2. Road Rehabilitation                                              2.00              2.00
(2.00)           (2.00)
3. Environmntal Monitorig Sytem (EMS)                               0.75              0.75
(0.75)           (0.75)
4. Fuelwood Canier Credit Schme                                             4.00      4.00
S. TA to MME: PITM & Petro. EiTloration Promo.                      1.00              1.00
(1.00)           (1.00)
6. LPG Market Support                                               0.70              0.70
(0.35)           (0.35)
7. Studies                                                          1.50              1.50
(1.00)           (1.00)
E. CommuntyDeeonmeFund (CDX                                1.50     3.50              5.00
F. MbseeHaneous               PPP Reinancing'              0.17     1.00              1.17
(0.17)   (1.00)            (1.17)
Intres dudn8g constton                               11.52    11.52
Project Total                                    66.29    2.67    19.33   42.52       .81
(59.01)  (0.82)  (14.48)     (-)  (74.31)
(a) Fgre in parenuss ae amuns finanCed by IDA. (b) Includes L-ited International Bidding (LIB). International
Shopping. etc. (o) NBR: Non-IDA (Bank) financed. (d) Includes US$0.3 million to MME for Calub ConPany fonnation and
iDitial priva;zaion promotion.
30



Schedule B
page 2 of 2
Disbursement: Alocation of MDA Credit Proceeds'
(in million US$)
Calub Company
atS m-                                           Road             Support    Cat.
Gas             Rebab    EMS    Comp.    Total
Fiidd    PlaHtu
civil wors                               0.6S                                 0.65
(65%)                               (65%)
& Mateiab                      50.11    2.50     0.10     (0.30)    53.06
(89%)   (100%)  (100%)   (100%)    (90%)
srice Conrat (we completion)    6.00                                          6.00
(86%)                                        (86%)
& Sudios                      8.38    2.00     0.75     2.35      13.48
(100%)  (100%)  (100%)   (100%)   (100%)
Miac_anecusb                    0.25     0.92                                 1.17
(100%)  (100%)                               (100%)
Tota                            6.2     60.06    4.50     0.85      2.65     7431
(86%)   (69%)   (16%)   (100%)   (35%)    (57%)
Numbers hi parnthee am % of categozy fiancoed by MDA. No IDA fimding for the Fuedwood Carrr Credit
Soheme and Community Devdopment Pund.
a. ncludes Calub-Shilabo hut rad construction.
b. IDA financing of Project preparon
Estmnated IDA Credit Disbursements (US$ milion):
MDA FY   1994   1995    1996        1997      1998      1999      2000
Annual         1.10   8.29    25.02    27.95       8.90       1.90     1.1S
Cumulative     1.10   9.39    34.41    62.36    71.26    73.16    74.31
31



Schedule C
page l of 1
E~JIIOPIA
CALUB GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
Time taken to prepare:                         14 months
Prepared by:                                  OGEDO/MME" with assistance from
consultants fimded by IDA and Japanese
Grant
First IDA mission:                            February 1992
Appraisal mission departure:                  December 1992
Negotiations:                                 December 15-22, 1993
Board Presentation:                           March 24, 1994
Planned Date of Effectveness                  June 1, 1994
List of relevant PCRs and PPARs:              Not Applicable
a. OGEDO: Oil & Gas Exploration and Development Organization; MME: Ministry of Mmes and
Energy
The project preparation was coordinated by Mr. Luciano Bonn who was the Task Manager. IThe peer
reviewers were Messrs. James Bond and Wilhelm Floor. Mr. Robert Hindle was the Division Chief
of the Division responsible for preparing the project and Mr. Francis Colago was the Department
Director.
32



Schedule D
Page 1 of 3
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ETHIOPIA a/
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of December 30, 1993)
Twelve (12) Loans and thirty four (34) Credits fully disbursed.  108.60   542.40
Cr.1404      1983   Ethiopia   Secod Road Sector                          70.00     7.50
Cr.1509      1985   Ethiopia   Sixth Telecommunications                   40.00     0.19
Cr.1520      198S   Ethiopia   Sixth Education                            70.00    24.61
Cr.1521      1985   Ethiopia    Agricultural Research                     18.87     5.52
Cr.1704      1986   Ethiopia    Energy                                    62.00    25.06
Cr.1722      1987   Ethiopia   Forestry                                   45.00    33.23
Cr.1765      1987   Ethiopia   SmaU Scale Irrigation & Const.              7.00     4.33
Cr.1782      1987   Ethiopia    Fourth Livestock                          39.00    16.19
Cr. 1873     1988   Ethiopia    Education VII                             70.00    64.36
Cr.1913      1988   Ethiopia    Family Health                             33.00    20.26
Cr.1956      1989   Ethiopia   PADEP I                                    85.00     8.18
Cr.2002      1989   Ethiopia    Transport                                 72.00    54.03
Cr.2103      1990   Ethiopia    Market Towns Dov.                         40.20    35.36
Cr.2161      1990   Ethiopia   Second Addis Urban Dev.                    35.00    31.19
Cr.2351      1M     Ethiopia    Emergency Recovery & Reconstruction Progra   150.00    75.42
Cr.2438      1993   Ethiopia    Road Rehabilitation                       96.00    91.70
Cr.2478      1993   Ethiopia    Eritrea Econ. Rec. Rec.                   25.00    22.60
Cr.2526      1993   Ethiopia   SAC I                                     250.00   139.20
Total                           108.60  1750Q47   658.93
of which repaid                104.46    45.85
Total held by Bank & IDA          4.14  1704.62
Amount sold     6.04
of which repaid 6.04
Total Undisbursed                                  658.93
a/ No SECALs, SALs and Program Loans.
etledl.wkl
01-21-94
33



Schedule D
Page 2 of 3
B. STATEBMEN OF IFC INVESTMENTS IN ETHIOPIA
(As of December 30, 1993)
1965, 1970,   Dire Dawva     Spinning Weaving and                  3.40    1.42    4.82
1973                         Finshing
1966         Ethiopian Pulp    Mfg. of Pulp Paper & Paperboard     0.00    2.11    2.11
1968         Meotsbara       Sugar Factories and                   5.52    3.52    9.04
Refineries
1989         Rled Sea        Crude Petroleum  and                  0.00    7.80    7.80
Natural Gass
Total Gross comnmitments                             8.92   14.85   23.77
Less: repaytnents, cancelations,
exchtge adjustments,
teniatonsand sales                             8.92    7.90   16.82
Total Commutments now held by rFC                    0.00    6.95    6.95
Total undisbursed                                    0.00    6.70    6.70
Total Outstaning IFC                                 0.00    0.25    0.25
et2edI.3kI
34



Schedule D
Page 3 of 3
Disbursement Issues
1.    The IDA portfolio for Ethiopia consists of 18 projects totalling $1.2 billion with $659
million undisbursed. This includes 17 investment projects for a total of $958 million committed
and $520 million undisbursed. Over the last five years, average annual disbursements from the
investment portfolio were about US$75 million. The disbursement factor, however, (ratio of
annual disbursements to net undisbursed balance at the beginning of the FY) declined from about
17 percent to about 15 percent over the last three years. Meanwhile, the proportion of problem
projects increased from 21 percent in FY92 to 29 percent in FY93.
2.    Slow disbursement has a number of causes, Prior to May 1991, project implementation
was seriously impeded by the ongoing civil hostilities, negative policy environment, and
institutional constraints resulting from inflexible monopoly arrangements in many implementing
agencies. From May 1991, with peace restored, Government has worked hard to remove some of
these constraints, but progress has been slow and implementation performance has continued to
suffer as (a) the TGE did not regard many of the projects in their inherited form appropriate for
implementation within the goals, policies, and institutional arrangements of the new administration
and therefore considered that such projects required restructuring; and (b) there have been
recurring problems in the application of IDA's procurement guidelines and in the timely
preparation and audit of financial accounts.
3.    There are, however, signs of improvement. Disbursements increased to US$91 million in
FY93, primarily due to the good implementation of the ERRP which has been significantly better
than that of other projects in the Ethiopia portfolio. This is due largely to the establishment of a
special program management unit under the Prime Minister's Office to maintain implementadon
quality and momentum.
4.    Also, substantial progress has ben made in bringing projects into line with the TGE's
priorities and institutional structures. Building on these efforts, the TGE and the Bank completed
a Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR) in December 1993, reviewing the relevance of
all active operations (mcluding five problem projects) in relation to the TGE's macroeconomic
and sector strategies. The CPPR confirmed that four projects (including two problem projects)
will close by the end of June 1994 after minor restructuring, and one by December 1994.
Comprehensive, time-bound restructuring plans were agreed, or will be agreed in the near future,
for six further projects (including the other three problem project). The remaining projects are
new and progressing well.
S.    Agreements were also reached on actions to resolve two generic problems. To improve
procurement, the Bank will run training courses for Government project officers in general
procedures and IDA requirements. The Government also gave a commitment to clear late audits
by the required deadlines, through improved efficiency in the responsible agencies. As a result of
the restructuring exercise and other measures, disbursements are expected to show a significant
improvement over the next year.
35



Schedule E
Page 1 of 8
ErmOPIA
Selected Indicators of Por o Perfonnan  and MWnagement
FY91   FY92   FM3   FY94 11
Portfolo Performance
No. of Projects under Implementation                       20      19      21       18
Aveage Implemetation Perid (years)                        5.3      S.7     6.0      6.0
% Projects Rated '3' or W4*
Development Objecdves                                    25       16      10       5
Overall Satus                                            25       21      29       26
Average Ratings
Developent Objectives                                    1.9S    1.89    1.71     1.68
Overall Status                                           2.0     2.0    2.05      2.11
Disbursement Ratio (%)                                    13.6    15.4    15.1      N/ 4
Memorandum Item: % Completed Projects Rated Unsatisfctory                  21
Portfolio Manageme
Supevision Resources (total sws)                         2S6.0   222.3   344.4  297.0 2/
Average Supervision swslproject                           12.8    11.7    16.4   16.5 2/
SupervisioD Resources by Location (in %)
Percent Hadquart                                         9S.5    89.4    93.9   96.3 21
Percent Resident Misgon                                  4.5    10.6    6.1    3.7 2/
Supervision Resous by Rating Category
(staffwekp   ect)
Projects rated 1 or 2                                    13.3    12.6    17.2
Projects  ted 3 or 4                                     11.3    8.0    14.6
Memorandum item: date of last CPPR                                     12/93
1/ As of December 30, 1993.
2/ Planned.
36



Schedule E
Page 2 of 8
@t3Xx~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ S  X   I          
|~~~~~~~A ;-;12 gi'       '     '                    S  8 St  aa   : 
tA~~~~~~
t1*
1 I I .:!37
37



Schedule E
Page 3 of 8
Ethiopia: Priority Poverty Indicators
MstSus 5rqevsaugrep                        Nat
W-o           ii           .w              .*-                            er
VUdtOf                              ON,         utiuat       Saho"             Lm          m
i,tdacaw                                            aseaswe                  ag             g            h'          4Ioa-        iameesgr
POVERTY
Uppot li loc                                              r,                  ..            ..            ...
Headount index                                     9ofp.                                    ..            ....
Lowe povwy line                                     loa cuwr.                                ..            ..
H"dcowtindex                                       %of pop.                                 ...
GNPpercapit                                           USS                     50            90           110           350            350          1.610
SHOKr TERM INCOME INDICATORS
UnJslled urban wages                               loedwr                                    ..am.
Unskille rnwl wages
Rumal tamoftrden
Copumerpriceindex                                   19S7-100                  29            38           165
Lower inucome
Food                                                                                 .                  171
Utban
Rural
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure on bauic social srices           % of GDP                   _             ..
Gross enlmet ratios
Primr                                            % scoolagrpop.               11            24            38            70            113           100
Male                                                                         16            32            46            76            122           106
FeMae*                                                                        6            15            30            60            106            98
Motality
bftmortaly                                      thou livbths                165           IS1           130            104            70            40
Under 5 mnoalitny                                                             ..            *-          195            177            98            53
immunization
Masles                                            %arup                       _             _            23            40             73            70
DPT                                                                           ..                         26            35             81            74
Child malnArition (under-5)
Lif execantc
Total                                                                        43            44            48            51             63            67
Fateaales                                            attio                  1.02          1.02          1.08          1.06          0.95           1.08
Total feility rat                                biduperwmn                   5.8           5.9           7.5           6.4           3.7            3.5
Materal motlty rate                             100,000 lbih                   ..            ..          700              _
Population growth rate                               Infant mortalty rate                               Prima   enrollment
(pecnt)                                         (th  of livU  bits)                                   (peW)
6+-                                                 250                                                 120+.
5 v                                                 200                                                100.
mid 60s       7niid 7s         m                     mnid 60s     mnid 7b        nuo                    mi 6bs       tud 70s        tni
a Ethiopia
-    Lowincoms
38



Schedule E
Page 4 of 8
Ethiopia- Resourmes And Expenditures
mostSm     io4osegoq                      Newt
25-39        15.29         recent         3ub                       hih
Unit of               pm,x         peffs       taemate      Sehara*          Low.         smean
Ia&aso,   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~sap"er                                go0          go           (-e)         Afre         ia.             r
HUMANRFSOURCES
Popuzlatlo (aar*-1991)                             dwousnds              25,409        32,954        52,79       488,932      3,127.26        773,803
A4e edepncy ratio                                   ratio                  0.88          0.89          1.00          0.97          0.66          0.71
%ofpp                    7.6           9.5         13.0          28.7          403           33.9
Populatio groth rane                               anual                    2.5           2.7           3.1           3.0           1.9           1.7
Urban                                                                      5.7           4.6           3.9           5.0           5.2           3.1
Labor forc (1544)                                  mmiion                    13            16           22           204          1,448          302
Agriculture                                     % of labor force             86           82             .
Industry                                                                      5            7                          33                          3
Female                                                                       40           40377332
Fmale par 100 males
Urban                                              number                   ..102                     123
Rural                                                                      9~96                       102
NATURAL RESOURCES
Ame                                              thou. sq. km             1,222         1,22          1,22        23,066         38,828        23,99
DenSit                                           pper.km                   21.0          27.0          41.0          20.0          77.0          31.0
Agricultra land                                  %o adae                    3.3          53.9          53.5          51.0          47.4          41.8
Chang in agriulwdterllnd                           aul%0.6                               .0.1          .0.1           0.0           0.0           0.0
Agricultura land under irrgation                      %0.3                                0.3           0.3           5.5          13.7          12.6
Foreta and woodland                               thG.Mq Ion                296          286           272          6,651         9,197         5.396
Deforcatstion (not)                                anua%                   .0.3          .0.3          -0.4
VICOME
Household'icm
Share af top 2D%oafhouseholds                    % Of'icm                    .             .
Shmarofbottom 40% of homseholds
Sbare of bottom 20% ofhomusholda
Food                                               %ofGDP                     .             .43.3
Staples                                                                      .             .21.1
Meat, HA mik che-                                              ..cm.9.4
cama imports                      ~~~~thu. mrctomnea             28           67           687          7,838        36,008        44,418
Food aid in cauls                                                  ~~~~~~~~~54   538         2,677         6,69          4,047
Foodpmductionpareop1979.81-100                                 110            98            87            94           122           101
Ferfifim                              ~~~~~~kutla              0.0           2.0           4.0          14.5          47.5          94.2
Share of arclueiGDP                                %afODP                  53.8          44.1          42.7          29.2          28.7 
Housing                                            %ofGDP,                    ...                      12.1
Aveage househol size                          prsouo  per household                        S.
Urban44
Find iuv~    houdng                   %cfG;DP                                3.9           3.0
Ftod md                              ~~~~%*ofDp                  ..                        6.3
EnerV  On PW capita    ~kg of oi equiv.                          t0           14            20           100           350          1,249
tkban                              ~~~~~%af househols.                         ..
Transport and conununcatton                        %ofGDP                     -             .7.3
Fixed gnvestuunt transor equipment                                            .           1.2           1.6
Total road lengt                                      kmn...                                         38,987
iNVESTMENT IN HUMAN CAPfTAL
Health
Accea to health car                                %ofpop.                    .             ..
Populationperphysicia                               paios                70,19i        86,100        32,652
Population per nuie                                    -                     ..         3,0            ,4            ,2            ,4
Population per hospital bad3,0411                                                                                     2           14             5
Access to safe wate                                %ofPo.                                8.0          21.0         36.7           70.6
urban                                                                                   58.0          80.0          74.3          79.3
Rural                                                                                     I .  .0     II'5          24.2          62.8
Oral rhydyration theap (under-S)                   %of cases                  .             .32                       35            32
Educatio
Grossaerlmentu ratio
S-conary                                        ofhok pp.2                                 6            15            1s            44            56
Fealn                                        1O 4epp                                     4            12            14            37
Pupil.eacher ratio: primary                     pu"pils per teacher          41           4436                        39            39            25
Pupil-teache ratio: secondary                                                21           34            38             ..20
Pupilsreahiag gmde 4                              %ofcodbet                   ..59                      56            69
Repeater tate: prmr                               ottl nol.                                 .1
Uiterac                                        %ofpop. (age 15+)              ....51I                                               39
Female                                        % offesn (Age 15+)            ...                         .62                        52
Newspapr circulton                               pr thou pop.                              2             15
Sotuce: World Bank Internatioinal Economics Departmenut, Jainuay 1994
39



Schedule E
Page 5 of 8
ETHIOPIA - Key Economic Indicators
Actual                           Projected
FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91    FY92          FY93    FY94    FY95
NatlonaAccounts as 9 GOoPat cumonrt market presk
Groes Domestic Product                       100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0       100.0   100.0   100.0
Agriulture Ia                              40.7    41.3    41.9    47.1    47.7        47.1    46.3    46.6
Industry /a                                 17.5    17.1    16.7    13.2    13.1       13.9    16.3    15.6
ServIe /a                                  41.7    41.6    41.4    39.7    39.2        39.0    38.4    38.7
Consumption                                   96.0    94.1    94.2    99.8   100.6       101.0    97.8    99.6
Gross Investment le                           15.8    13.4    12.3    10.4       8.7      16.4    24.9    26.6
Private Investment /d                       ..      ..       ..      ..    6.7        8.6    14.3    16.6
Govemment investment                        ..      ..       ..      ..    3.0        7.8    10.6      9.9
Export GNFS                                   11.1    12.5    11.2      8.2      6.7      13.4    18.2    21.0
Import GNFS                                   21.9    20.0    17.8    18.8    16.0        30.7    40.8    47.1
Gross naional savings lb                       6.0      7.7     7.5     2.0     2.9        3.4     6.6      5.3
Gross domestic savings                         5.0      5.9     5.7     0.1    -0.6       -1.0     2.2      0.4
Memorandum Items
Gross Domestic Production                 8,725   5.995   6,009   6,602   6,723      4,121   3,632   3,668
(million US$ st current prices)
Gross Domestic Product per Capita           120     120     120      120     110
(US$)
pub/i Fiance las 9 of GOP at current market prkces
Current revenues                            29.3    31.4    24.9    19.8    15.7       17.6    18.9    19.0
Current expenditures                        28.9    31.0    33.9    27.4    22.5       22.1    22.5    24.4
Surplus(+) or deficit (-) /c                -8.6    -8.8   -16.5   -13.0   -10.3      -10.9    -9.3   -10.8
Capital expenditure                         12.3    15.6    11.2     8.9      6.7      12.2    16.2    14.6
Foreign financing                            3.4     5.3     5.5      3.2     1.8       6.6      7.6    10.9
Read Annual Growth Rates /96J
Gross Domestic Product                       1.9     1.6    -1.6    -0.3    -7.4        7.8      3.5     6.6
Gross Domestic Income                                  ..     ..       .       . 
Real Annuat per capia Orowth Rtoes 1%)
Gross Domestic Product                      -1.0    -1.3    -4.4    -3.2   -10.3        4.5      0.4     3.4
Total Consumption                              .       ..     ..       ..      ..
Private Consumption                           ..      ..      ..       ..      ..
Money Indicators
.M2tGDP                                     0.44    0.46    0.54    0.58    0.66       0.59    0.58    0.57
Growth of M2 (%)                             9.0     8.9    17.6   .18.7    13.3       16.2    14.5    10.1
Private credit change/total cradit change (5) Id  ..  ,,     ..       ..      ..      61.1    72.7    89.9
Note: The data In this table and all the foliowing tables include Entrea. Efforts are being made by the Government to separate
Ertree from Ethiopia in macroeconomic and other accounthg.
at Components are estimated at factor cost
b/ Excluding all offical grants
c/ On a cash basis, including grants
d/ Separate data on real private sector are not available. Figures for private sector were calculated as residuals, and thus include
public enterprises.
o/ The sudden Increase in the ratio between FY92 and FY94 is mainly a price effect due to devaluation.
40



Schedule E
Page 6 of 8
ETHIOPIA - Key Economic Indicators (continued)
Actual                          ProJected
FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92          FY93   FY94   FY95
Balance of Payments (UJS$mJ
Exports (goods and NFS)              636.2  751.9  671.6  543.0  452.6          551.9   643.3   745.7
of which: Merchandise, fob       380.7  443.5   366.7  276.4  153.8         267.5   319.7   389.6
Imports (goods and NFS)             1251.9  1200.9  1068.6  1226.1  1074.2    1266.4  1442.8  1677.0
of which: Merchandise, fob      1098.8  1019.5  881.0  1029.3  875.2    1055.1  1220.0  1438.6
Resource Balance                    -615.7  -449.0  -397.0  -683.1  -621.6    -714.6  -799.5  -931.4
Net current transfers                306.3   397.2   333.3  491.0  747.2        646.2   686.0  699.4
Current Account Balance             -374.0  -134.7  -130.7  -265.7   41.0    -134.6  -205.0  -313.5
Private direct investment               0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0      3.0
MLT loans (net)                      328.6  231.2    99.2  170.1   273.7        154.4  235.1    99.4
Official                          317.2  369.9  258.8   131.6  199.9
Private                            11.4  -138.7  -159.6   38.5    73.8
Other capital (including errors      -144.4  -106.7  -41.6  242.5  -248.9        71.8    28.5   302.4
and omissions)
Changes in reserves /a               189.8    10.2   73.1  -146.9  -65.8        -91.5   -58.6   -91.3
Memorandum Items
Exports as % of GDP                11.1    12.5    11.2    8.2      6.7      13.4    18.2    21.0
4mports as % of GDP                21.9    20.0    17.8   18.6    16.0       30.7    40.8    47.1
Resource Balance as % of GDP      -10.8    -7.5   -6.6  -10.3    -9.2       -17.3   -22.6   -26.2
Real Annual Growth Rates (FY87 prifes)
Merchandise exports, fob           -6.9     9.4    -5.4  -25.2  -46.3        87.0    14.9    11.9
Primary
Manufactures                       ..      ..      ..      ..      ..
Merchandise imports, fob           -6.4  -10.1   -19.9    13.7  -18.9        15.9    11.8    14.6
Price indices (FY87 = 100)
Exports price index              104.5   106.5    92.8   93.8   97.2         90.4    94.1   102.4
Imports price Index              108.7   112.2  121.1   124.4  130.5        135.7   140.4   144.4
Terms of trade index              96.2   94.9    76.6   75.4   74.4          66.6    67.0    70.9
Real exchange rate index           99.6   106.7    99.4  132.1   116.0
Consumer price index (% growth rate) /    2.2  9.6  5.2   20.9    21.0       10.2    10.0    8.0
Real Interest rates                  ..      ..      ..      ..      ..        ..
GDP deflator (% growth rate)        2.1     3.1     2.4   10.9    12.4       17.5    12.5      6.0
a/ Including use of IMF resources, minus sign for increase In reserves
b/ Addis Ababa retail price index average
41



Schedule E
Page 7 of 8
ETHIOPIA - Key Exposure Indicators
Actual                              Projected
1988    1989    1990    1991    19S2           1993     1994    1995
Total Debt Outstanding and Disbursed  3,252    3,456    3,764    4,155    4,354     4,585    4,848    5,250
(TDO) (US$m) /a
Net Disbursements (US$m) /a           401      227      181      340      244        213       259      159
Total Debt Services (TDS) /a&b        354      372      370      343      371        323       226      210
Debt and Debt Service Indicators (%)
TDO/XGS                        422.3   365.3   442.8   555.5   661.9          569.0   537.2   514.8
TDO/GOP                         56.8     57.6    62.7    62.9    64.8         111.3    137.2   147.5
TDS/XGS                         46.0    39.3    43.5    45.9    47.9           40.1      25.1     20.5
ConcessionaltTDO               74.5    76.5    77.9    73.8    75.6            78.2
IBRD Exposure Indicators (%)
IBRD DS/Public DS                4.4      4.7      4.5      7.2      7.4        6.6
Pref. Cred/Public OS           18.8    22.2    28.6    37.7    39.2
IBRD DS/XGNFS                    1.9      1.7      1.3      1.6      1.7        1.4
IBRO Portfolio Share            1.4       1.0     0.8      0.6      0.0         0.0      0.0      0.0
IFC (US$ million)
Loans
Equity and quasi-equity
MIGA
MIGA Guarantees (US$ million)
Source: Debt Reporting System, the World Bank, and staff estimates.
Note: Calendar years; XGS =exports of goods and services.
a/ Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private non-guaranteed debt, use of IMF credits, and short-term capital.
Excludes Ruble-denominated defence loans from the former Soviet Union.
b/ On an accrual basis. It takes into account the impacts of Paris & non-Paris Club debt reschedulings.
42



Schedule E
Pago 8 of 8
STATUS OP BANK GROUP OPIRATIONS IN ETHIOPIA
STATEMENT OF BAN LOANS p AND L2A CdIS
(aof Docember 30, 1993)
Twelve (12) Loans and thirty four (34) Ceits fbly dlsbwssd.   108.60   542.40
Cr.1404      1983    Ethopla      Second Road sector                    70.00   7.50   (4.7)            2           2
Cr.M09       1985    EtWiA        Sixth Telecom_nicatoas                40.00   0.19   (23.1)           1           2
Cr.1520      1985    Ethopia      SZi Education                         70.00  24.61    10.5            I           I
Cr.1521      1985   Ethopi        Agricultural Resarch                  18.87   5.52    2.0             2           2
Cr.1704      1986    Eipi         Enrv                                  62.00  25.06    25.2            1           2
Cr.1722      1987   Ethiopi,      Foresry                               45.00  33.23    S4.6            2           3
Cr.176S      1987   Ethlopla      Smia Scaca blrira  a& Cona             7.00   4.33    34.9            2           3
Cr.1782      1987   Etiopia       Fourth Livestok                       39.00  16.19    32.0            2           2
Cr.1873      1988   Etiokpa       Educadon Vi                           70.00  64.36    87.5            1           3
Cr.1913      1988    EWhopIa      Family Heath                          33.00  20.26    42.6            3           3
Cr.1956     1989    Ethk*d        PADEP I                               85.00   8.18   (4.1)           2           2
Cr.2002      1989    Etopia       Transport                             72.00  54.03    68.1            2           3
Cr.2103      1990    Etiopisa     Mariet Towns 0ev.                     40.20  35.36    61.5            2           2
Cr.2161      1990   Ethiopa       Second Addis Urban Dev.               3S.00  31.19    69.3           2            2
Cr.2351      1992   Ethiopa       Emerency Recov.& Rcawa Prog.         1S0.00  75.42    35.0            2           2
Cr.2435      1993   Ethbop        Road Rehabilitatin                    9.00  91.70   100.0             1           2
Cr.2478      1993    Ethiopa      Eritrea Boon. Rea. Rec.               25.00  22.60    49.8            1           1
Cr.2526      1993    Ethbda       SAC I                                Z20.00 139.20  (216.1)           1           1
ToWa                       108.60   I50.47 658.93
of which rwd              104.46    45.85
Totl held by Bank & IDA      4.14  1704.62
Amount sold     6.04
of which repadd 6.04
Tota Undtsbursed                            658.93



Notua



MAP SECTION



IBRD 24070R
Ilurso r           Otnohosy  tle lbgochole            44                                                        ETHIOPIA
CALUB GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Deder<51Gtzwo  ~~~~~~~ iA  86   \ ~~~Region 5 (Somali) 
Danwvo                                                                                      TARGE ARMA FOR THE COMMUNITY          AU. WEATHER GRAVEL ROAkDS.
DEV W PMENT FUNDHECOMMUNI               SECONDARY AND FEEDER
<   .    Meumqluke .    .   +  \         InesuhQ 4     d s nTo                                                           RURAL
. x I r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DRY WEATHER ROADS:
. . > W / I -- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MSMTRABLE TRACKS
.   ..   8   \1  / } Detuksp~~~~~~~~~D                                     l                                        TRAwILS
%6   M  \  } lwu|J __o   SELECTED TOWNS AND VILLAGES
-    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARES
b Oo Li                         il hnxAt//
lbibb M.Q.A\%                                                                                                                       T / \    , lhe bhoundari;es, xolo dsnoor kno ions and any ottw informaion
shown an fhis map do not ,ma,  on Me part of The Word Fonk
\ 9eb                                                                                vtaftry or > < I \ / \gxSanyIAnsy
Or*,d.W ZZ !   /   ofZ               Gulf of
bfilh t\ Shiiiindibi -2 S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ETHIOPIA2o nAre 'f M
t   %k\ Sdeyn              9                                                         X                                          \               / / / Gde  4/
ts - _ ga qu~~~oMsews$o5                              io o     150   z oo    S O% . o                                                     KENYA        |       /OCEAN 
usoo4,1 K50 \b                                                                                                                   SAUDI ARABIA I  I
SUDAN ~ ~ ~ ~~~JAUJI'19



