Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22478
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-25880; TF-20125)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR53,700,000
TO
ETHIOPIA
FOR A
CALUB ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 28, 2001
Energy UnitAFC06
Africa Region, World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 27, 2001)
Currency Unit = Ethiopian Birr
Birr 1 = US$ 0.12048
US$ 1 = Birr 8.3
FISCAL YEAR
July 1  June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB            African Development Bank
CGSC           Calub Gas Share Company
EA              Environmental Assessment
EEA            Ethiopian Energy Authority
EELPA          Ethiopian Electric Light and Power Authority
EIGS            Ethiopian Institute of Geological Surveys
EMRDC          Ethiopian Mineral Resource Development Corporation
EPA             Environmental Protection Authority
EPC            Ethiopian Petroleum Corporation
ERA            Ethiopian Road Authority
FCCS           Fuelwood Carriers Credit Scheme
LPG            Liquified Petroleum Gas
MME            Ministry of Mines and Energy
NFPTA          National Fire Protection Agency
OGEDO           Oil and Gas Exploration and Development Organizafion
PITF            Project Implementation Task Force
PMC            Project Management Consultancy
TOR            Terms of Reference
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer                  =    0.621 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)     =    0.386 square miles
1 kilovolt (kV)              -    1,000 volts
1 megawatt (MW)              =    1,000 kilowatts
I megavolt ampere (MVA)      =    1,000 kilovolt amperes
I gigawatt hour (GWh)              1 million kilowatt hours
I ton of oil equivalent (toe)  =    10,500,000 kilocalories
Vice President:   Callisto E. Madavo, AFRVP
Country Manager/Director:    Oey Astra Meesook, AFC06
Sector Manager/Director:    M. Ananda Covindassamy, AFTEG
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Alfred B. Gulstone, AFTEG



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ETHIOPIA
CALUB ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   9
6. Sustainability                                                                       9
7. Bank and Borrower Perfornance                                                       10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     11
9. Partner Comments                                                                    12
10. Additional Information                                                            27
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   28
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  35
Map - Ethiopia-Calub Gas Development Project Region 5 (Somali) IBRD 24070R.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P000758                                        Project Name: CALUB ENERGY DEV. PROJECT
Team Leader: Alfred B. Gulstone                            TL Unit: AFTEG
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: June 28, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: CALUB ENERGY DEV. PROJECT                       L/C/TF Number: IDA-25880; TF-20125
CountryIDepartment: ETHIOPIA                                              Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: GI - Oil & Gas Exploration & Development
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  01/16/91                                 Effective: 09/21/95           09/21/95
Appraisal:  09/08/92                                  MTR: 09/30/98
Approval:  03/29/94                                 Closing:  12/31/2000         12/31/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/MME
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto Madavo
Country Manager:     Oey Astra Meesook
Sector Manager:      Ananda Covindassamy                        Stephen Weissman
Team Leader at ICR:   Alfred Gulstone                           Luciano Borin
ICR Primary Author:   Colleen P. de Freitas
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         U
Project at Risk at Any Time:



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1        The project's objective was to augment the availability of Ethiopia's indigenous energy
resources in an economically viable and commercially and environmentally sustainable manner by (i)
improving the present unbalanced structure of energy supply in Ethiopia by increasing the availability of
modem fuels; (ii) supporting economic growth by expanding petroleum supply from indigenous resources;
(iii) contributing to the mitigation of peri-urban deforestation by inducing the replacement of woodfuels
with Liquified Petroleum Gas (LPG) and kerosene in urban households; (iv) developing the country's
technical capacity to commercialize its fossil fuel resources; and (v) contributing to poverty alleviation
through direct measures, induced economic activity, and through the development of Ethiopia's remote
south-eastem region.
3.2 Revised Objective:
3.2.1        The project objectives did not change, but the methodology of implementation significantly
changed. Because of the response of the private sector to the project in its original design, it became clear
that the commercial portion of the project (that of bringing the gas field and its associated surface
installations and facilities into production) should be privatized, rather than developed by a share company
with majority Government ownership. The noncommercial project components would continue to be
carried out by the Government. The result is that nearly $60 million of the original credit would be surplus
to the original requirements.
3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1        The Project included three components: (i) a commercial component; (ii) a regional
development component for Ethiopia's south-eastern region; and (iii) a support component.
3.3.2        The commercial component consisted of completion of the gas wells and plant construction
at Calub, privatization promotion, and operation of a petroleum extraction and processing plant by an
independent, share-capital company.
3.3.3        The regional development component for Ethiopia's southeastern region consisted of (i)
rehabilitation of the Shilabo-Harar national highway (571 km); and (ii) an environmental monitoring
system and a community development fund to monitor, through project life, the project environmental
impact within the project area, and provide social and economic support to inhabitants of the concerned
areas.
3.3.4        The support components consisted of (i) technical assistance to the Ministry of Mines and
Energy for supporting a project implementation task force, and strengthening the capacity of the Ministry
of Mines and Energy (MME) to promote private and joint venture participation in petroleum exploration
and development; (ii) support for LPG marketing and interfuel substitution; (iii) poverty alleviation among
poor urban fuelwood carriers through a program to support income diversification; and (iv) three studies,
namely, a Petroleum Pricing and Market Structure Study to assist the Government in formulating
petroleum pricing policy and optimizing the petroleum sub-sector; a Regional Electrification Study, to
supply selected urban centers with gas-generated electricity from Calub; and a study to assess the
feasibility of a larger-scale exploitation of Calub's gas resources.
3.4 Revised Components:
N/A
-2 -



3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5.1        The quality at entry was unsatisfactory. The project design was complex. The project
design relied on the willingness of the Government to implement programs that would stimulate and
facilitate private sector participation in the energy sector and promote the Ministry of Mines and Energy 's
ability to facilitate petroleum exploration and development. The project had a significant "pilot" dimension
and was viewed as a starting point for a comprehensive, long-term development of the country's fossil fuel
resources. In order for the project to operate in an enabling regulatory environment, the Government, at the
time, pledged to implement and maintain a revised Liquified Petroleum Gas (LPG) pricing policy based on
import parity; study ways to optimize pricing policy for all petroleum products; and establish national LPG
standards.
3.5.2        The commercial component of the project centered around the Calub Company and
involved completion of the existing wells on the Calub gas field, construction of a processing plant and
ancillary facilities, and technical assistance for privatization promotion and supervision of construction and
initial plant operation. The Calub Company was expected to be registered as a share company, under the
provisions of the Commercial Code of Ethiopia. This would provide the legal basis for the private sector to
acquire equity participation in the company. The newly registered Calub Gas share Company would offer
for sale to private investors, at least 35 percent of its declared equity as a condition for presentation of the
credit to the Board. The processing plant was expected to produce bottled LPG, which would be taken by
road to Addis Ababa for sale in the local market, along with kerosene. The unused natural gas was
intended to be reinjected to store it for future use and to maintain high reservoir pressures.
3.5.3        The regional development component involves road rehabilitation, an environmental
monitoring system, and a community development fund. A study carried out by BACTEC, an Ethiopian
consulting firm funded under the project's PPF, identified the conditions and the need for rehabilitation of
the Shilabo-Harar road (571 kms). Preparations were underway to use flying crews of maintenance
workers to maintain the road during rehabilitation, using funds identified from an expected African
Development Bank (AfDB) credit.
3.5.4        The environmental category A classification for the Calub Gas Development Project was a
result of the long-term impact of establishing a center of industrial development in an area traditionally
underdeveloped, and historically the support of a delicate equilibrium between settled groups and nomadic
Somali tribes. The Environmental Assessment (EA) provided essential baseline information to guide the
planning and implementation of the project. In addition there were various Government departments
involved in collecting and analyzing environmentally relevant data. This information could be organized
into an adequate data base, which once developed, could identify gaps in the available information and
establish a comprehensive Environmental Monitoring System for the project impact zone (150 km of Calub
and 25 km on either side of the road).
3.5.4        The support components included: (i) Technical Assistance to the Ministry of Mines and
Energy (MME) financed by IDA (under a PPF) to (a) support a Project Implementation Task Force (PITF)
responsible for coordinating, supervising and reporting on various project components and (b) strengthen
MME's capacity to promote private and joint venture participation in petroleum exploration and
development in Ethiopia; (ii) Market Support and Interfuel Substitution: Liquified Petroleum Gas (LPG)
from Calub was projected to result in a four-fold increase in national LPG supply. The project supported
initiatives to accelerate market absorption by promoting the use of LPG in urban centers and to ensure
- 3 -



product safety. National LPG safety standards were to be established within 18 months of credit
effectiveness; (iii) Poverty Alleviation Credit Scheme: The project proposed a program to support
diversification of income generation sources for urban fuelwood carriers through a Fuelwood Carriers
Credit Scheme (FCCS). This would allow the project to develop and implement a credit and training
program targeting fuelwood carriers, mainly poor urban women who would be displaced by the increased
supply of modern domestic fuels; (iv) Studies: (a) Petroleum Pricing and Market Structure. This study
was aimed at assisting the government in formulating rational pricing policies for petroleum products and
defining cost-effective procurement and distribution policies. The study was scheduled to begin upon credit
effectiveness and to be implemented within 12 months of its completion. (b) Electrification of selected
urban centers around Calub. This study was aimed at evaluating the potential of supplying electricity
from Calub to the district of Gode, the regional capital, and other local urban centers. It was agreed that
Terms of Reference (TOR) for this study would have been finalized by Ethiopian Electric Light and Power
Authority (EELPA), and agreed upon with IDA within six months from the time of credit effectiveness. (c)
Second Phase Exploitation of Calub deposit. This study was directed at analyzing the market potential,
technical feasibility and economic viability of a larger scale exploitation of Calub gas resources. The TOR
was scheduled to be finalized by the Project Implementation Task Force (PITF) and agreed upon with IDA
within six months from the time of credit effectiveness.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1        The commercial objective of the project has not been achieved. The Calub Gas Share
Company was established to manage and operate the gas extraction and processing plant at Calub. This
entailed the removal of wet gas; refining of condensate; reinjection of dry gas; processing condensate to
produce LPG, kerosene, and diesel fuel; and taking products by road to market (mainly to Addis Ababa).
To advance these activities the share company needed to rehabilitate the wells, install a processing plant
and repair the roads. To do these through public financing, was the only viable option at the time, since
Ethiopia had just come out of a civil war and private investors perceived the project as a high political risk.
4.1.2        The share company did not attract enough private sector interest. In the meantime,
conditions had generally improved in Ethiopia, and it became possible to attract serious private sector
interest. In order to move the project along, the Bank offered to finance the preparation of a prospectus but
the Government did not take up the offer. At least five serious bids were received; the Government
evaluated these bids, but was unhappy with the response since no bidder was willing to pay the $100
million of sunk cost up-front.
4.1.3        The Bank continued to work closely with the Government and offered expert assistance to
facilitate negotiations with the best bidder. The Government, however, showed no interest in the offer. For
a time, it appeared that the Government would not commit to advance the project. Eventually, the Bank
leamed from press reports that the Government was negotiating a contract with a private company (SICOR
Inc.). The Bank understood that the company proposed piping wet gas to Awash where it would be
processed, supposedly, to fill all the petroleum needs of Ethiopia.
4.1.4        Project closing date was approaching and it was clear that there was insufficient time for
the Bank to assess this scheme. In any event, the Government did not accept Bank's assistance, and the
Project was closed.
-4 -



4.1.5        The regional development objective was only partially achieved. The Harrar-Shilabo
road rehabilitation and maintenance was only partly concluded. At the close of year 2000, only 180 km of
road rehabilitation had been accomplished out of a proposed 571 km.
4.1.6        The support objective was mostly achieved. (i) The PITF secretariat was put in place,
and the development studies supervised by the secretariat were completed. (ii) Twenty three geophysical
and geological staff were trained under the petroleum exploration promotion, and a final comprehensive
petroleum evaluation report was submitted to the MME in September 1998. (iii) A final report on the large
scale gas development study was submitted to the Government, but the study's implementation and
recommendations are not likely to be given precedence. (iv) The implementation of the petroleum pricing
and market structure study was delayed due to the privatization process. (v) The Calub regional
electrification study was suspended. (vi) The LPG studies were completed and a final report was prepared
for the Government in March 1999. (vii) The Government financed the community development fund, but
did not pursue this activity after the decision to privatize Calub.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Commercial Component
4.2.1        Calub well completion. (US$6,000,000; actual $5,532,000). As early as April 1994, a
review of the details of various technical disciplines required for implementation of the Calub well
completion, gas and liquid separation, liquified petroleum gas (LPG) extraction, and petroleum product
refining, showed that it would be difficult and expensive to obtain personnel covering all such disciplines
from a single engineering company. It was proposed therefore, that the expertise required for well
completion and reservoir management will be separated from the rest of the job requirement by engaging
two separate consultancy contracts: Project Management Consultancy (PMC-1) contracts (for well
completion and testing) and PMC-2 (for Gas Plant and Ancillary Facilities Component).
4.2.2        In July 1995, the Calub Gas Share Company (CGSC) entered an agreement with Alconsult
Intemational Ltd. for well completion and testing. For the Well Completion Consultancy - PMC- 1
(US$470,464; actual $540,832), the contract with Alconsult (Canada) was designed to provide CGSC
with expert technical advice pertaining to the subsurface elements involved in bringing the Calub gas field
into commercial production. To this end, the contract was divided into three phases:
Phase 1: Well Completion bid document preparation, and assistance in bid evaluation;
Phase II: Supervision of well completion and serving as CGSC's representative at the work site;
and
Phase III. Management of the early stages of the resulting commercial production including
reservoir pressure maintenance.
Phase I and Phase II have been completed. Phase III was discontinued due to the privatization process.
4.2.3        In September 1995, a contract for the gas plant design and supervision was signed.
PMC- I plus PMC-2 (SIOM) (US$1,080,312; actual $918,600).Parsons Engineering Consultants (UK)
completed the basic plant design. This contract was divided into two phases:
- 5 -



Phase I: (i) review feasibility report prepared by CGSC, and modify to the extent required; (ii)
preparation of project specifications and tender documents for turnkey contract; and (iii) assistance in the
bidding procedures and bid evaluation for selecting qualified and experienced contractors to complete each
of the existing nine wells.
Phase II: Provide supervision during plant construction; and project management.
4.2.4        All activities under Phase I of the Parsons' contract, with the exception of assisting in the
bidding procedures and bid evaluation, were completed. The subsequent phases II and HI were suspended.
4.2.5        Gas plant construction (US$50,110,000; actual $0). The Government agreed to privatize
the entire operation after very few shares were bought in the Calub Share Company, and to install the
processing plant. The Bank advised against the installation of the processing plant, since it would limit
potential bidders to a particular technology and thus could limit competition.
4.2.6        Training (US$800,000; actual $165,962). Five CGSC managers received external
training. Two were trained at the US Academy for Educational Development in Washington, D.C., in
project management and implementation and computer utilization, and one was sent to Oxford College of
Petroleum Studies in the U.K. for training in Gas Development and Management. Two technical managers
were trained in China at the Zhongyuan Petroleum Exploration Bureau on Gas Field Development
Planning.
4.2.7        Shilabo-Calub Road (US$650,000; actual $0). Road design work, road surveys and
tender document preparation were completed (paid from a non-IDA account).
4.2.8        Privatization of CGSC. The major work of CGSC since 1997, was implementation of the
well completion and testing contract, paid from Government resources.
4.2.9        Procurement under the Commercial Component(US$0; actual $1,433,515: includes
payments made for other consultancy services other than for those of PMC-1 and PMC-2). All
procurement under the commercial component was completed.
Regional Development Component
4.2.10       Harrar-Shilabo Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance (US$2,500,000; actual
$2,500,000). At end-December 1997, the Ethiopian Road Authority (ERA) rehabilitated a total of 46.71
km of road. At end-December 2000, 180 km (31.5%) of road rehabilitation had been accomplished out of
a proposed 571 km.
4.2.11       Contract review and road rehabilitation supervision (US$2,000,000; actual $0). In
March 1996, IDA provided its No Objection to ERA and Government's request, to utilize US$2 million of
IDA funds, which were allocated for supervision, to purchase additional equipment for the rehabilitation of
the Harrar-Shilabo road. However, due to the privatization process, the Government decided to assume
responsibility for this activity.
4.2.12       Community Development Fund. The provision of funding for this component which was
to be provided by unidentified bilateral donors, failed to materialize. By agreement reached during
negotiations, implementation of this component was to be supervised by a specific Steering Committee, the
- 6 -



Ministry of Natural Resources and Environmental Protection, and the PITF, in collaboration with the
Regional Government. The TORs for a Needs Assessment Study and a Local Capacity Survey were
prepared and the short lists of consultants were compiled. During the review of these documents the
Steering Conmmittee felt that the degree of Regional Government input was insufficient. Subsequently the
Regional government was requested to redraft the TOR to better reflect the Region's priorities and desires.
The Bank did not receive a request for assistance to help the Government in furthering agreements reached
during negotiations.
4.2.13       Environmental Monitoring System (US$850, 000; actual $0). Letters of Invitation were
issued, bids received and evaluated by a bid committee which was chaired by the PITF Secretariat and
included representatives from the Regional Government, the Environmental Protection Authority (EPA),
CGSC and the Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME). However, the Steering conmmittee decided, based on
the proposed privatization of CGSC, to shift responsibility for the component from the Regional
Government to the EPA. The EPA, a regulatory agency, declined to accept responsibility for this activity.
The agreement during negotiations was for the implementation of the Environmental component to be
supervised by a specific Steering Committee, comprised of the Ministry of Natural Resources Development
and Environmental Protection, the PITF, the Regional Government, and local representatives of
government institutions dealing at the regional level with health, education, environment, agriculture,
planning and energy. IDA proposed that the Government resolve the impasse, with IDA facilitating this
resolution. The Government did not respond and the component was not implemented.
Support Components
4.2.14       Poverty Alleviation (Women's Fuelwood Carriers Credit Scheme). The Dutch
Government declined to provide required financing for this component and hence, no progress was made.
This component was detached from the Calub Gas Project, and responsibility was transferred to the
Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs, for implementation under a separate project, not financed by IDA.
4.2.15       Project Implementation Taskforce (PITF) (US$300,000; actual 220,168). The PITF
secretariat is in place, and is staffed on a part time basis by MME personnel. All procurement was
completed including, office and scientific equipment and three vehicles - one for LPG studies personnel and
two for the PITF secretariat. Petroleum exploration promotion, LPG studies, and Petroleum pricing and
market structure and Calub Gas large scale (Phase II) development studies were completed.
4.2.16       Petroleum Exploration Promotion (US$1,000,000; actual $886,168). In March, 1997,
the Ministry of Mines and Energy signed a contract with BEICIP-FRANLAB of France to review and
evaluate the petroleum potential of the sedimentary basins of Ethiopia and to promote the available acreage
to investors. As part of this contract BEICP trained 23 geophysical and geological staff during November
1997.
4.2.17       The initial report on the petroleum potential exhibited a lack of depth in several areas of
evaluation and did not incorporate new ideas. BEICP, after discussions with MME and IDA produced a
final substantially improved report in September 1998.
4.2.19       Large Scale Gas Development Study (US$500,000; actual $408,164). In April 1997,
BEICIP (France) started this study to identify possible large scale gas utilization opportunities in Ethiopia
which would promote projects of sufficient magnitude and economic viability. The projects were limited to
urea production and electric generation. According to BEICP, urea production would lead to moderate
profitability while electric power generation from gas seemed more desirable. The Government of Ethiopia
- 7 -



had no long tenn national energy development strategy, and the implementation of the recommendations of
this study are not likely to be carried out in an effective way.
4.2.20       Petroleum Pricing and Market Structure Study (US$500,000; actual $368,910). The
final report of International Resources Group Ltd. (US) incorporating all comments proposed by PITF, the
Ministry of Trade and Industry, and the Ethiopia Petroleum Enterprise was widely distributed within the
Government and to the World Bank in 1998. There were delays in the implementation of the study due to
the privatization process.
4.2.21       Calub Regional Electrification Study (US$500,000; actual 0). This study was suspended
by the Steering Committee, PITF, on the grounds of the decision to privatize CGSC.
4.2.22       LPG Studies (US$350,000; actual $307,018). The objectives of these studies, carried out
by the consulting firm Strategy, Energy, Enviromnent, Development (SEED), were to: (i) introduce the
required safety and technological standards to Ethiopia; (ii) investigate the potential for manufacturing
appropriate cooking stoves locally in Ethiopia; (iii) promote LPG use; and (iv) make its use accessible to
the lower and middle classes.
4.2.23       The consulting firm proposed and recommended the adoption of standards of the National
Fire Protection Agency (NFPTA). On manufacturing the cooking stoves SEED conducted
efficiency/performance tests, and assessed local manufacturing capabilities. SEED designed a public
awareness campaign to promote large scale and efficient use of LPG, which involved conducting surveys in
three major towns (Dire Dawa, Harar and Addis Ababa). As a result a final report was prepared for the
Govemment in March 1999, consisting of data collected from the surveys, the methodologies used and
recommendations.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.5.1        The institutional development objective of the project was partially achieved. When the
project was designed, the design chosen was perhaps the only feasible one given Ethiopia's high political
risk conditions at the time. However, Ethiopia changed significantly over time making full privatization a
possibility. Also, at the time of project design, the MIME was the entity responsible for developing the
country's energy strategy, formulating and implementing the policies of mining, petroleum exploration and
product sharing agreements. The organization and distribution of operations within the Ministry of Mines
and Energy (MME) were cumbersome and responsibility too diffused. This Ministry consisted of six
operating agencies/state corporations: (i) The Ethiopian Petroleum Corporation (EPC); (ii) the Ethiopian
Electric Light and Power Authority (EELPA); (iii) the Ethiopian Mineral Resource Development
Corporation (EMRDC); (iv) the Ethiopian Institute of Geological Surveys (EIGS); (v) the Ethiopian
Energy Authority (EEA); and (vi) the Oil and Gas Exploration and Development Organization (OGEDO).
Of the six agencies, EPC, EELPA, EMRDC and EIGS are legally independent state corporations, with
varying levels of financial autonomy. The EEA and OGEDO are functionally autonomous but are
essentially offices within the MME. Additionally, technical assistance, was overseen by the Project
Implementation Task Force (PITF), which was responsible for coordinating, supervising and reporting on
the various project components.
-8 -



4.5.2        Over the years there have been institutional changes to the above organizational structure:
EPC, EEPCP, and EMRDC are now development enterprises under the Authority for Government owned
Development Enterprises. The new name of the EEA the Ethiopian Rural Energy Study and Research
Center (ERSRC). The Oil and Gas Exploration and Development Organization (OGEDO) no longer
exists.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1        Periodic devastating drought, and the impact of a long running civil conflict utilized
significant capital investment which was required to develop the country's modem energy resources.
5.1.2        The funding of the Community Development Fund by unidentified bilateral donors failed
to materialize, so the Govermment had to use its own resources to fund this activity.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1        The Government's efforts to privatize the Calub company were unsuccessful. The
Government expressed its intention to withdraw from the direct exploitation of the considerable reserves of
natural gas contained in the Calub field, while at the same time ensuring that gas production and utilization
advance the nation's economic development to the fullest. In order to select a technical partner to manage
field exploitation, the Govemment advertised intemationally its invitation to tender bids for the purchase of
the Calub company. The Government received four strong bids, concluded that the bidders were not
responsive and cancelled the process.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1        MME was fully committed to implementing the physical aspects of the project, but was
not particularly good at monitoring the project's specific issues; they also lacked the determination needed
to put in place implementation mechanisms to further the institutional development aspects of the project.
Some details of these issues are (i) lack of progress in the Harar-Shilabo road rehabilitation; (ii)
implementation issues with the Community Development Fund and the Environmental Monitoring System;
(iii) absence of funding in the Poverty Alleviation Program; and (iv) cessation of activity regarding the
Calub Rural Electrification Study.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
5.4.1        There was no significant cost changes in the project, neither was there a reallocation of
financial assets. The overall budget remained the same and to date only 18.35% of the credit has been
disbursed.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1.1        If the Calub gas field is correctly developed, it has the potential to bring significant
economic benefit to Ethiopia. A comprehensive strategy would define an approach for full private sector
participation in the development and operation of the gas field, facilitated by appropriate Government
policies.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.2        The Government of Ethiopia does not seem to have the potential for handling the
complexity of an operation such as the Calub Gas Development Project. It is important, however, that the
- 9-



Govermment follows through with the privatization process in order to access the benefits from the
expansion of employment opportunities; the expansion of LPG as a cooking fuel to avoid the use of more
valuable electricity and to avoid acceleration of the use of wood products; replacement of some imported
transportation fuels by indigenous products; and complementing the hydroelectric generation with some
gas-fired thernal generation; and the potential for industrial use of gas, including the production of
fertilizer for the local market.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
7.1.1         The performance of the Bank in the identification of quality at entry and preparation
assistance for the project was not satisfactory. The project was part of Government's strategy to improve
the performance of its infrastructure sector, and funding was available through a Project Preparation
Facility (PPF), IDA, and other sources of financing. However, it is clear now that the Regional
Development Component was unnecessary: only 31.5% of road rehabilitation was accomplished; funding
for contract review and supervision was reallocated to purchase equipment for road rehabilitation;
Government anticipated funding from bilateral donors for the Community Development Fund, but never
identified a donor; and the planned Environmental Monitoring System was not launched because of
Government's inability to assign this activity to one of its agencies. IDA proposed to aid in the resolution
of this impasse, but failed to take steps to ensure appropriate action.
7.1.2         Appraisal of the project was satisfactory. In retrospect the project design was complex,
but the Government gave strong indications that it was committed to improving the efficiency of the energy
sector, achieving energy sufficiency, and increasing the diversity of energy supply to foster economic
growth and reduce poverty. This meant diversifying the supply of household fuels, improving energy
efficiency and reducing the consumption of traditional fuels. These policies were expected to contribute to
the mitigation of deforestation, thereby improving soil productivity and farm output on which a large
segment of the population depended. Another important goal was the need to increase the supply of
modem energy in order to support the development of the country's industrial and transportation sectors.
7.2 Supervision:
7.2.1         Project supervision was less than satisfactory. The project was supervised regularly, on
average twice a year. A mid-term review was planned for September, 1998, and the Bank proposed
restructuring the project. The Government did not come to an agreement on restructuring, and thus lost the
opportunity of the setting of new objectives to reflect the reality of a changed environment, and set new
targets for the implementation of the project. It was at this point that the Bank should have considered
closing the Project. Bank supervision missions continued and were thorough and issue-oriented. There was
a remarkable continuity in supervision missions, and mission members did their best to help MME to
implement the project. Unfortunately, the ratings were often too optimistic, reflecting expectations rather
than reality.
7.2.2         In October 1998, the World Bank reaffirmed to the Ministries of Finance and Privatization
its strong backing of the Government's effort to find a suitable private partner to develop the Calub Field.
The Bank suggested that the results of the tender were in fact quite promising and that the advisable next
step would be to enter into negotiations with those bidders whose proposals were technically competent.
To facilitate this, the Bank suggested that the financial Terms of Reference be expanded to allow greater
scope for mutual economic benefits, in accordance with the Government's existing development plans.
Specifically, the Bank suggested that the development of the field be broadened to include power
generation, fertilizer manufacturing and the provision of natural gas to industrial users, in addition to the
- 10-



extraction of LPG and the fractionation of recovered natural gas liquids. The Bank also suggested that the
proposed timing of the repayment to the Government of sunk costs and share purchase be incorporated into
the project's overall cash flow projections (rather than the Government requiring that payment be made at
the outset). This would have allowed the Govermnent to receive repayment, while still allowing its partner
to realize an acceptable economic return on its investment. Lastly, the Bank indicated that the international
oil industry has a number of commonly used legal tools, such as Joint Operating Agreements, which are
available to ensure that project development could meet the Government's econornic development
objectives.
7.2.3         The Bank made clear its intention to continue to support the Government in its
privatization initiative, through the provision of all possible legal, economic, financial and business
advisory services before, during and following the negotiations. This commitment to assist the
privatization process extended to include the process of re-tendering the invitation to bid, if it was
necessary. At the same time, the Bank emphasized its belief that abandoning the privatization effort and
reverting to public development of the field would be counterproductive and would be hard to equate with
Government's expressed intention to withdraw from the management of businesses in which it had no
experience or comparative advantage.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
7.3.1         Overall, Bank performance was not satisfactory. As mentioned in para. 7.1.2 above, the
project design was complex and the Government of Ethiopia found it difficult to implement. The Bank
should have understood that within the centralized structure which prevailed within the Government at that
time, the private commercial aspect of the project would have been difficult to implement. Bank missions
established intensive communications with the Borrower, but did not establish a productive environment.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
7.4.1         The performance of the Government was satisfactory during project preparation.
Technical configuration of the project was completed, and the institutional aspects were scheduled to be
firmed up during appraisal.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
7.5.1         The Government did not live up to its commitments. When it became clear that, given the
initial response to the Project, it was necessary to divest the entire operation, the Government did not
pursue the sale aggressively. At this point its cooperation with the Bank to advance the project was
minimal.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
7.6.1         The performance of the Ministry was marginally satisfactory. Due to the complexity of
MME's organizational structure (six operating agencies/state corporations with varying levels of
autonomy), formulating and implementing policies, necessary to the success of the project could not be
easily coordinated.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
7.7.1        The performance of the Borrower was unsatisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
8.1.1        Experience has shown that Government has great difficulty refraining from interfering in
- 11 -



the management of their utilities. Politics bring on increased interference as Government finds it necessary
to replace managers of public enterprises, thus disrupting continuity.
8.1.2         Coordination and consultation with donors are vital to the success of a jointly financed
project and for the achievement of its objectives. The lack of coordination and a common approach led to
the cancellation of some components of the project.
8.1.3         Implementation targets should be reset as soon as it becomes clear that the Government
does not intend to put in place an efficient and structured set of policies to further project completion.
8.1.4         The delay in recognizing the disconnect between the objectives and the components of the
project has led to the unsatisfactory performance of the project.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Introduction
As a result of the petroleum exploration activities conducted by Tenneco of U.S.A. a substantial natural
gas and associated liquid deposit with a reserve of 2.7 TCF was discovered in 1973 at a locality called
Calub which is 24 km west of Shilabo.
The government of Ethiopia was interested to commercialize this fossil fuel resource of Calub Gas field
with World Bank financing as the deposit was found feasible by different studies to Ethiopia's economic
and social development.
Accordingly, a development credit agreement (Credit No. 2588 ET) was signed between Ethiopia and the
International Development Association on June 23, 1994. This was aimed at financing the Calub Gas
Development Project which is centered around the installation of an extraction and processing pilot plant at
Calub to process the condensate rich portion of the gas field.
The Calub Gas Development Project was designed to consist of components including the commercial
component, the regional development component and the support component. Thus it involved many
implementing agencies of different organizations. From project management point of view this arrangement
created difficulties.
The implementation of some of the sub-components of the commercial component and some studies have
been completed. The major task, i.e. the installation of an extraction and processing plant at the Calub site
and others from the regional development and support component could not be implemented due to the
privatization process. In effect the central objectives of the project have not been met. From this it can be
said that the report being submitted in connection with the closing date of the project reflects not the
completion of the project but the stage where the implementation of the project has reached.
The report consists of 1. Introduction 2. Objectives of the project 3. Implementation experience and results
4. Project cost, 5. Major factors affecting implementation outcome, 6. Assessment of outcome and 7. key
lessons learned.
- 12-



2. Objectives of the Project
1. Project Data
Name                       Calub Gas Development Project
Credit                     Number 2588 ET
Country                    Ethiopia
Sector / Subsector         Energy
Key dates
Board date                 March 29, 1994
Signing date               June 23, 1994
Effective date             31 Sept. 1995
Original Closing date      31 Dec. 2000
Revised closing date       None
2.1. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
The American Tenneco Oil Company drilled Calub-l well in 1973 and as a result the Calub gas condensate
field was discovered in the Ogaden Basin After an interruption in petroleum exploration activities for some
ten years the Soviet Petroleum Exploration Expedition (SPEE) carried out the drilling of exploratory and
development wells between 1982 and 1992 in and around the Calub field.
After this discovery and subsequent exploration and development activities, the Government of Ethiopia
with the intention of commercialization of the gas field undertook prefeasibility and feasibility studies on
the utilization of the natural gas. An American consulting firm, GDC of Chicago, made a prefeasibility
study for the large-scale utilization of the gas field in 1984. The different scenarios of the studies included:
Pipelines construction from Calub to Dire Dawa and Addis Ababa.
*      LPG production i.e. the extraction of propane and butane at Calub.
-      LNG production.
-      Methanol production
L      Fertilizer production (Urea and DAP)
*      Synthetic gasoline production and
*      Ethylene production
The same consultant, GDC, also performed a small -scale feasibility study in 1988. Gas processing plant of
liquid extraction by recycling lean gas was considered. In addition, ammonia-urea based fertilizer
production plants, and transportation of natural gas by pipeline were also included in the study.
The World Bank (IDA) consultants appraised the small-scale study and a gas processing plant of liquid
extraction followed by gas recycling was selected as the best scenario, since it was found to be technically
and economically feasible.
It was further recommended that the gas reserve be audited, sampled and tested. Accordingly a British
consultant, Scientific Software Intercom (SSI) did the reservoir simulation study while gas sampling and
testing was done by EXPRO, a UK firm, in 1992.
- 13 -



Technip Geo-production and BEICIP further did the feasibility study of the small scale Calub gas field
development which included the preliminary design of the gas plant. This study was appraised and Triton
Inc of USA also undertook a study on well completion.
All the studies conducted by the intemational as well as national consultants proved the viability of the
small scale Calub Gas field development project.
Benefits anticipated from the development of the gas condensate field include the expansion in supply of
modem fuels and a reduction in the dependence of urban areas on wood fuels. This is expected to support
growth in the productive sectors and generate employment and income and contribute to the mitigation of
periurban deforestation in an economically and environmentally sustainable manner.
Having assessed the various studies and existing data, The World Bank (IDA) approved a credit of USD
74.31 million for the Calub Gas Development Project, through the credit agreement signed between the
Ethiopian Govenmment and IDA on June 23, 1994. After fulfilling all the preconditions laid down by the
World Bank, the credit became effective on September 21, 1995 and implementation started soon after the
effective date The delay in effectiveness of the credit contributed negatively to the overall delay in the
implementation of the project.
2.2. Original Project Objective
The central objectives of the project as outlined in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) of February 18, 1994
were:
a) Improve the present unbalanced structures of energy supply in Ethiopia by increasing the availability
of modem fuels;
b) Support economic growth by expanding petroleum supply from indigenous resource;
c) Contribute to the mitigation of peri-urban deforestation by including the replacement of wood fuels
with LPG and kerosene in urban households;
d) Develop the country's technical capacity to commercialize its fossil fuel resources ,and
e) Contribute to poverty alleviation through direct measures, induced economic activity and through the
development of Ethiopia's remote southeastern region.
The project had a pilot dimension and was viewed as the starting point for a comprehensive, long term
development of the country's fossil fuel resources.
2.3. Original components
Original Project Components included:
A central commercial component, regional development and support components.
2.3.1. Commercial Operation at Calub
This component involves a commercial operation consisting of the production of natural gas, separation of
the associated liquids and re-injection of unused natural gas into the reservoir. The Government of Ethiopia
formed an independent share company called the Calub Gas Share Company (CGSC) with a total capital of
Birr 102,000,000 of which 95% is currently owned by government and the remaining 5% is by private.
After its establishment, CGSC organized itself to implement the Calub Gas Commercial Component. This
- 14 -



component includes the completion of gas production wells, the construction of the gas processing plant,
ancillary facilities, offices and residential buildings, a 24 km link road from Calub to the main Shilabo -
Harar road, and Technical Assistance to attract private equity, supervise plant construction and manage
initial plant operation.
23.2. The regional Development Component
This component consists of
* The Harar - Shilabo road rehabilitation (571 kIn). The objective of this component is to rehabilitate the
Harar - Shilabo road so as to facilitate the transportation of Calub gas products from the gas field to
other parts of the country as well as to enhance the economic activities and social development of the
region as influenced by the road;
*   The Environmental Monitoring System (EMS) whose objective was to set up a monitoring system so as
to monitor the impact of the development of the gas field on the local bio-physical and human
environment throughout the project life; and
*   Community Development Fund's (CDF) objective is to mitigate some of the possible negative effects of
the project to the inhabitants of the area and complement the economic opportunities offered by the
plant installation and road rehabilitation.
The EMS and CDF are important for environmental and economic sustainability of the project.
2.3.3. Support component
This component consists of
*   Technical assistance to support the Project Implementation Task Force (PITF) within the Ministry of
Mines and Energy (MME) and strengthen the MME's capacity to promote private and joint venture
participation in petroleum exploration and development in Ethiopia (Petroleum Exploration
Promotion);
*   The LPG Stoves Development and Market support study was designed and implemented as part of the
Calub Gas Development Project with the following objectives:
a. Public Awareness Campaign
The main objective of the public awareness campaign was to promote LPG use by household for cooking
and induce a switch from traditional fuels (such as fuelwood and charcoal). The major focus of the
campaign would be the organization and execution of promotional initiatives, to reach a broad range of
consumers, including low and middle income consumers.
b. Establishment of National Standards for LPG usage and devices
The main objective of this task was to establish national safety in use and handling of LPG and, develop
standards for LPG quality, road tankers, filling stations, storage, stove burners and pressure regulators.
Furthermore, the objective was also to design and institute an effective inspection regime.
- 15-



* Poverty Alleviation (Women's Fuel Wood Carriers Credit Scheme) which was aimed at supporting
diversification of income generation sources for urban fuel wood canisters through a fuelwood carrier
credit scheme; and
* Studies including:
- Petroleum Pricing and Market Structure Study which was designed to recommend changes in
Ethiopia's current system of petroleum pricing, taxation and marketing of petroleum products.
- Calub Area Electrification Study to evaluate the potential of supplying gas generated electricity
to           selected urban areas around the Calub Gas field, and
- Calub Gas Large Scale Utilization Study aimed at assessing the feasibility of a large scale
exploitation of the Calub Gas reserve. The study would analyze the market potential,
technical feasibility      and economic viability of the commercialization of the given resource.
3. Implementation Experience and Results
3.1 The Commercial component
The following major activities of the project have been completed:
* Calub Gas Share Company (CGSC) is organized with the required manpower and materials;
* Two intemational consultants, one for the well completion and the other for setting up the gas
processing plant were hired;
* The Site preparation with all the required facilities has been completed;
* The Parsons International Group of the UK were recruited to do the basic design and prepare bid
documents for Engineering, Procurement and Construction contractor for the detailed design and
construction of the Calub small-scale gas processing plant. The draft final basic engineering design and
the bid document for the Plant Turn-key was completed and was sent to the World Bank for
evaluation/approval.
* The Calub-Shilabo road design and bid documents for construction has been prepared by Pan-African
Consultant PLC, Ethiopia.
* Having completed an international competitive bidding evaluation an agreement was signed with the
winning company, Zhongyuan Petroleum Exploration Bureau (ZPEB), a Chinese firm, to undertake the
well completion. The company has completed, tested and has made ready the wells for gas production.
As it is seen from the above some important tasks like the well completion work have been implemented.
However, the commercial component failed to achieve its major objectives as the component is brought to a
standstill at the basic design stage of the gas plant since IDA No-objection for bid document for tendering
the Calub gas plant turnkey contract was on "hold" since July 1997 due to the start of the privatization
process. Hence it can be concluded that the outcome of the implementation of this component is
unsatisfactory.
- 16 -



3.1.1 Output by Sub-Components
3.1.1.1 Project Preparation
0.862 million USD was expended for pre-feasibility and feasibility studies. These activities were completed
before the credit became effective.
3.1.1.2 Privatization Promotion
In order to foster the economy, Ethiopia has embarked on the privatization of state-owned enterprise as an
integral part of the broader macro-economic reform program. To this effect the Ethiopian Government
decided to sell and transfer the shares it owns in the Calub Gas Share Company. Accordingly, a Sales
Prospectus was prepared to state clearly government's strategies and priority of obtaining a suitable foreign
investor.
Invitations for interested companies to submit bids for the partial or total acquisition of Govemment owned
shares in the Calub Gas Share Company were advertised in international medias. As a result, different
companies expressed interest to buy the shares. However, it was found out that the offer given by different
companies in response to the invitation No. 005/1197 - 1998 were not even to the minimum expectations of
the government, and hence the Government canceled the bid.
3.1.1.3 SIOM Contract - Technical Assistance
3.1.1.3.1 PMC- 1
In order to achieve the objective of the commercial component CGSC entered an agreement on 23 August
1995 with Alconsult International Ltd. for consultancy services op. Well Completion Project Management.
The implementation of this consultancy service was divided into three stages.
Stage 1. Review the existing documentation for each well, prepare scope of services, design and bidding
documents for selecting qualified and experienced contractor to complete each of the existing eight wells,
and test each for commercial production or injection, as required.
Stage 2. To advise CGSC on contractor's performance on well completion, testing, and sampling.
Stage 3. To advise CGSC on reservoir management program prepared by the contractor and review the
operating capability of CGSC staff and their training needs.
For these activities, the value of the contract was US$ 470,464. Stage I and 2 have been completed and
Stage 3 is halted due to the privatization process. Due to variation order, the total payment made to the
consultant was US$ 486,770.
3.1.1.3.2 PMC - 2
A contract for consultancy services for execution of basic plant design and Project Management contract
(PMC 2) was signed on 16 October 1995, with The Ralph M Parsons Company Limited & KBC. The
main objective of this contract was to review the feasibility report prepared by CGSC's consultants and
prepare modifications to the extent required, prepare project specification and tender documents for tumkey
contract, assist CGSC in inviting bidders, carry out bid evaluation and negotiations of a draft contract with
the selected bidder (Phase I) and conduct plant construction supervision and project management (Phase
11).
- 17 -



The draft final basic design and bid documents were prepared and sent to IDA on July 7, 1997 for
evaluation/approval. But IDA failed to give the No-objection. Hence, the task is halted at this stage. The
total contract price for phase I consultancy was 1,080,312 USD. The total payment made to date for tis
consultancy contract is 896,169 USD.
3.1.1.3.3 Operational Assistance (Phase III)
This phase is not performed due to the reasons described above under para 3.1.1.2
3.1.1.3.4 Training (TA)
So far, 14 staffs of the Calub Gas Share Company have been trained for short-term on project
management, financial management and gas wells management.
3.1.1.3.5 Well Completion
The well completion task as stated above was executed by a Chinese company, Zhongyuan Petroleum
Exploration Bureau (ZPEB). Well Completion and testing activities on production wells including #2, #3,
#4, #5, #6, #7, #8 and #9 of the gas field were fulfilled. The total cost of the contract was 5,631,869 USD.
This work was completed on October 13,2000 and Certificate of Completion has been issued to the
contractor.
3.1.1.3.6 Plant Turnkey
Under this sub- component it was planned to undertake a detailed design engineering for the gas processing
plant, liquids separation and treatment, recompression and re-injection of lean gas, power generation plant
and support service, storage facilities, control room, and housing and camp facilities to be implemented
under a turn-key contract. The draft final basic engineering design was completed. However, this major
activity of the project could not be implemented since IDA No-objection for draft final design and bid
document for Calub Gas plant Turnkey contract was on "hold" due to the privatization process.
3.1.1.3.7 Calub - Shilabo road
The design and bid documents for the construction of the road was prepared by Pan African Consult, an
Ethiopian firm. The road construction activity was not implemented due to the privatization process.
- 18-



The following table shows the summary of studies undertaken on Calub Gas Field
Name and Year of the Studies                       Recommendation Conclusion
No.           and Firms           Objective of the Study        of the Study
Defie the feasibility of   Confirmed the possibility of
the small scale Calub gas  producing annually 65,000
Small scale Calub gas field   field development, to  producmglannuallyt65,000
1.   June 1992, by Technicp      process S0MMSCFD of   products at Calub and
Geoproduction, France.    reservoir fluid, to produce  transporting the products by
LPG, gasoline, kerosene   trucks.
and diesel.
Review records, and    Provided an estimate for the
Calub Field Well Completion  design a work        total cost of well completion
2.    Program, June 1993, by     over/completion program   and developed detailed well
Triton Inc., USA.          for all wells including  completion program.
cost.
Results of Geo-technical       -out geotechni
.   .  .           ~~~~~~Carry-u goehcal
investigation of Calub Gas    investigation on Calub  Obtaned Geo-techncal data
3.    Development Plant area, Aug. Gas f                for construction of gas
1996, by Acquatech PLC                            processing plant at Calub.
(Ethiopia).               report.
Survey Work Report, Aug.    Carry-out topographic  Detail Topographic Survey
4.    1996, by Getachew Zewdie   survey of Calub Gas    was conducted and a map was
building and supervising   field.                 produced.
contractor, Ethiopia.
Prepare basic design and
EPC tender documents for    tender documents for  Basic design of the gas plant
small scaler dcaubens plant   lump sum, Turnkey EPC   with ancillary facilities
smallc scale Calubrsgas pat   (Engineering,          completed. Tender
ItDec. 1996, by Parsons    Procurement and        documents were ready to be
Construction) contract of  issued.
Calub gas plant.
Calub-Shilbo Feeder Road
construction design and    Assess the road        Basic design and tender
6.    preparation of bid document,  condition, prepare design  document is prepared, the
Sep. 1997, by Pan-African  and bid document.      road should be constructed.
consultants, Ethiopia.
3.2 The Regional Development Component
3.2.1 Harar - Shilabo Road Rehabilitation
3.2.1.1 Civil Works
The civil work of the project was started in 1995 by Ethiopian Road Authority's (ERA) Own Force
Construction Brigade. It was expected that the project would be completed in 1999. However, due to
shortage of construction equipment and delay occurred during the bid evaluation process for the purchase
of construction equipment the rehabilitation work could not be completed at the scheduled time. The total
physical accomplishment up to the end of December, 2000 is about 180 km against a programmed
accomplishment of 571 km. Thus only 31.5% of the road was rehabilitated.
- 19-



The evaluation of the completed part of Degehabour-Shilabo road reveals that in most sections the
embankment is so high that it is difficult to find easy crossings to and from either side of the road for the
inhabitants settling by the road side. At present, the Ethiopian Roads Authority intends the design
consultant, TCDE, to review the existing design by giving special emphasis to the problem areas where
people and animals cross the road and modify wherever necessary.
3.2.1.2 Status of Implementation of Equipment Procurement and Technical Assistance
The estimated cost to be financed by IDA under Cr. No. 2588 for the purchase of construction equipment
and technical assistance for Harar- Shilabo road project is USD 4.5 million. Up to December 31,2000 a
total of USD 2.536 million (Birr 15.317 million) was disbursed for procurement of construction equipment
and spare parts. The description, quantity and amount of equipment and spare parts purchased for the road
rehabilitation is shown below.
Goods Purchased Under Calub Gas Project
Item        Description             Quantity            Amount in Million USD
No.
1.    Bomag Vibrator Roller            4                         0.339
2.    Komatus Motor Grader              2                        0.247
3.    Cat Wheel Loader                  2                        0.226
4.    Komatsu Dozer                     2                        0.566
5.    Lommar Grease Unit               2                         0.044
6.    Lamnar Generators                 2                        0.031
7.    Nissan Fuel Truck                 1                        0.092
8.    Nissan Water Truck                1                        0.089
9.    Nissan Dump Trucks               1 0                       0.673
0.    Spare Parts for                                           0.019
Komatsu MG
1.    Spare Parts for                                          0.032
Komatsu Dozer
2.    Spare Parts Cat Wheel            -                        0.029
Loader (Lost at Assab)                          (payment was not effected)
3.    Spare Parts Nissan                                        0.099
Dump Trucks
4.    Frukawa Rock Drill             1 unit                     0.079
- 20 -



3.2.2 Environmental Monitoring system
The bid evaluation process to hire a consultant was nearing completion when the steering committee for the
privatization of the commercial component decided to transfer the responsibility of implementation of this
from the Somali National Regional State (SNRS) to the Environmental Protection Authority (EPA) which
declined to do so on the ground that the assignment is beyond its mandate.
Later on the steering committee, gave instruction to go ahead with the implementation of this and other
pending components as planned. Accordingly, we requested the IDA for their opinion regarding the
implementation of this component and others, but no response was obtained, Hence, this task could not be
implemented.
3.2.3 Community Development Fund
Initially it was planned that this task would be financed by bilateral donors but did not succeed. Thus the
government decided to cover the fund needed by itself.
The steering committee for the privatization of the commercial component decided to revitalize the TOR
according to priorities of the SNRS. Though the SNRS was requested to redraft the TOR no response was
obtained. Shortlist of consultants was made. It could not be implemented due to the above reason.
3.3 Support Components
3.3.1 Technical Assistance
3.3.1.1 PITF
The main task of the Project Implementation Task Force (PITF) which is part of a technical assistance was
to coordinate, monitor and report to pertinent bodies regarding the implementation of all components of the
project. The PITF secretariat was staffed by MME personnel who were working on a part time basis.
The major tasks fulfilled include
-  All procurement of office and scientific equipment and three vehicles for the PITF, Petroleum
exploration promotion, LPG stoves development and market support study, Petroleum Pricing and
Market Structure and Calub Gas large scale (phase II) development studies was completed.
*   A computerized monitoring system to enable the PITS secretariat and component managers to
follow-up the implementation of the whole project effectively was set up within the PITF secretariat by
a foreign consultant assigned by the World Bank.
* Short term training of four PITF members abroad on project management was conducted.
* Follow - up of the implementation of components of the project, together with the implementing
agencies, was conducted and reporting to pertinent bodies including the IDA was made.
3.3.1.2 Petroleum Exploration Promotion
The Ministry of Mines and Energy of the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia contracted
- 21 -



BEICIP-FRANLAB of France to review and evaluate the petroleum potential of the sedimentary basins of
Ethiopia and to promote the available acreage on March 17, 1997.
The basic services rendered during 1997 - 1998 were to assess all available data, analyze, interpret and
compile a comprehensive report, which could serve as a promotional document. A comprehensive
petroleum evaluation report has been prepared and submitted to the Ministry in September, 1998.
Training and Transfer of Technology
One of the objectives of the petroleum exploration promotion was to train Ethiopian staff in various
geoscience fields. The training was designed to be given both at home and abroad.
In-House Training
This training program was held for one month in the Petroleum Operation Department, Addis Ababa. The
courses included sedimentology, petroleum geology, basin analysis and modeling and seismic stratigraphy.
About twenty geoscientists from the ministry were trained
Short term training abroad
Short term training in the field of paleontology and computer science was held in France. The number of
trainees were four from POD. The duration of the training was two weeks.
In the mean time a long term training of one geologist for his MSc degree was conducted in the United
Kingdom.
Promotional Program
The result of the petroleum evaluation study has been presented to the intemational petroleum industry
through appropriate means such as wide dissemination of a published professional paper coauthored by
Ethiopian project participants in the Journal of Petroleum Geology (JPG), and mailing to selected IOCs
(140 companies), which were believed to be interested in investing in petroleum exploration activities in the
country.
However, the petroleum price crisis of 1998/1999 affected the promotional campaign negatively.
Results of the study
*   Fifteen copies of the main report including annexes, plates and enclosures were produced. The report is
currently serving as a promotional document. One has been already sold to an interested oil company.
*  MME personnel were trained in the fields of petroleum geosciences and computer science.
*   Recommendation for the development of petroleum database management system (DBMS) for the
Ministry of Mines and Energy has been made.
3.3.2. LPG Stoves Development and Market Support Study
As a result of the bidding evaluation conducted a French company called SEED was selected for the
consultancy work.
- 22 -



Having conducted the study on the national standards and regulations applied in different countries, the
consultant proposed the adoption of standard produced by the National Fire Protection Agency (NFPA).
The NFPA is said to be widely adopted and complete in its coverage. The consultant had also put forward
some recommendations of the adoption process.
Designing public awareness campaign to promote large scale and efficient use of LPG had involved survey
works in three major towns, Dire Dawa, Harar and Addis Ababa. As a result a report containing the type
and frequency of safety and awareness campaign to be conducted through mass media such as TV, radio
and grassroots demonstrations was prepared.
A study on development of LPG stoves and Bottles was also conducted. Finally the consultant submitted a
fmal report on March 1999 consisting of recommendations as well as data collected and methodologies
applied. In the mean time a short term training on LPG gas safety was given to an expert from the
Ethiopian Rural Energy Research and Study Center.
3.3.3 Poverty Alleviation Scheme
This was initially planned to be financed by the Dutch Government. The required amount of finance was
not made available and hence could not be implemented.
3.3.4 Studies
3.3A.1 Calub Gas Laree Scale Utilization Study
The Ministry of Mines and Energy of the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia contracted
BEICIP-FRANLAB of France to analyze and recommend the possibilities of large scale gas utilization of
the Calub Gas field.
In order to identify the most favorable gas use opportunities, several scenarios were considered in this
study.
The main options considered were the production of electricity generation from gas, production of nitrogen
based fertilizers (mainly, ammonia and urea) where gas is used as a feed stock and other gas utilization in
petrochemical industry The study also included the possibility of natural gas utilization for synthetic fuels
preparation. Direct export of natural gas either in gas form or as liquefied natural gas (LNG) depending on
the intemational market and the amount of reserve was also considered.
Other opportunities of gas utilization in local industries as a substitute for fuel oil or coal, in the household
for cooking or heating, in the transport sector as fuels, compressed natural gas (CNG) for vehicles were
also of interest.
BEICIP-FRANLAB has reviewed all the available data on Calub Gas development and assessed the most
feasible markets for the natural gas utilization including gas based power generation, ammonia - urea based
fertilizer plant establishment, the use of natural gas in synthetic fuel production, the use of compressed
natural gas (CNG) for vehicles, the use of natural gas in industries, methanol production and export, mixed
utilization such as urea-plant and power generation.
The consultant finally submitted a final report of ten copies.
- 23 -



Training
Short term training program under this study was planned and given to more than 20 professionals of
MME, CGSC, and other sectors of the economy in Addis Ababa.
The training included valuation systems of oil and gas production, measurement systems of oil and gas
production, gas contract provisions or types of gas production contract, reservoir monitoring system
including depletion monitoring, oil and gas production monitoring system, production regulatory system
and financial analysis and accounting systems of oil and gas production.
Conclusions
Possible large scale gas utilization opportunities in Ethiopia allowing to consider projects of sufficient
magnitude and economic viability seem so far to be limited to Urea production and electric power
generation. Other opportunities like the use of gas for vehicles as compressed natural gas may also be
considered but only as a possible marginal extra outlet for gas. According to BEICIP - FRANLAB, urea
production leads to moderate profitability while electric power generation from gas seems more attractive.
Electric energy production with combined cycle allows for the best gas vaporization and this is in line with
what is experienced in other gas utilization studies.
3.3A.2 Petroleum Pricing and Market Structure Study
Having accomplished the bid evaluation for the consultancy service contract was awarded to the US based
consulting firm, International Resources Group (IRG). The IRG started their work on April 17, 1997.
Report Compilation
As a result of the study conducted the consultant submitted a draft final report for review and comments.
This was distributed to pertinent organizations for review. Having assessed the comments made and the
international experience the consultant compiled and submitted the final report in January 1998. The report
came up with important recommendations on issues regarding petroleum pricing and market structure in the
country.
Training
Short term training abroad was given to three professionals from the Ministry of Trade and Industry in
petroleum products marketing and pricing as well as managing the project cycle: computer tools for project
analysis, implementation and monitoring.
3.3.4.3 Calub Area Electrification Study
Bid evaluation to hire a consultant was completed, but could not be implemented due to the start of the
privatization of the commercial component. Based on the instruction given it was decided that the
implementation of this study be considered in conjunction with the result of the privatization.
- 24 -



4. Project Cost
The expenditure made during the implementation of the project is presented as follows:
*   The total cost of the commercial component including interest during construction was estimated at
USD 85.96 million equivalent at appraisal. The IDA credit of USD 66.31 million was supposed to
finance about 77% of the total commercial component cost. When the credit was closed on December
31, 2000, the total amount expended from the IDA credit for the commercial component was about
USD 8.6 million.
*  To date a total of 2.536 million USD from the IDA credit was disbursed for the procurement of
construction equipment and spare parts for the Harar-Shilabo road rehabilitation.
* In addition to the above mentioned a total of 3.5 million USD was allocated from the IDA credit for the
Environmental Monitoring System of the Regional development component and the support component
including technical assistance for the support of PITF and petroleum exploration  promotion, LPG
stoves Development and Market support study and studies, i.e. Calub phase II Gas Development,
Calub Area electrification and the petroleum pricing and market structure studies.
The actual amount expended from the credit up to December 31,2000 for the irnplemented studies, training
and procurement of vehicles, office and scientific equipment according to PITF records is 2187891.78
USD. This takes in to consideration the USD 10913.01 and JPY 271266 refund made by LAPSO to the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York for Account No. " B" of Intemational Development Association (IDA).
This is the balance between the amount of money transferred to LAPSO through direct payment ( IDA) and
the final invoices of goods procured and delivered.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of Government or implementing agency
*   Some delays occurred in getting no objections for procurement of goods and machinery from IDA
partly caused delays in the implementation of some components.
* Frequent change of personnel.
* The remoteness of the Calub Gas Development site for transportation of equipment and materials took
a longer tirne and this has delayed scheduled works at Calub site.
*   Some tasks like the poverty alleviation scheme incorporated in the project could not be implemented
because the donors failed to provide the required financing as per their promise.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control
* Low Scale of Salary contributed to the frequent change of personnel of some components.
* The privatization process has affected the implementation of the commercial as well as other
components of the project. Interruptions occurred during the implementation of some components or
studies due to the privatization process caused delays in implementation.
- 25 -



*   The project was started without clear understanding and commitment of the government and IDA. This
affected the implementation of some components within the project.
*  No matching budget was allocated for PITF and other operations. This to some extent affected the
performance of the PITF secretariat and other implementing agencies.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
*   Some organizations involved in the project did not give their respective sub-components due attention,
and hence failed to implement them according to plan.
*   Different organizations were involved in the project. This made the overall coordination of the project
very difficult.
Bank Performance
Overall Bank performance was satisfactory during project identification, Preparation and appraisal. Project
objectives were fully consistent with the development issues identified. The design of the implementation
adequately reflected the thinking prevailed at the time of appraisal At the beginning of the project, the Bank
has shown the willingness and readiness to assist in every aspect of the project.
The Bank's performance became unsatisfactory after the privatization was started. The Bank stopped
playing the important role it used to play after the start of privatization process of the commercial
component.
Borrower's Performance
The Borrower's performance in project identification, preparation and appraisal is satisfactory. During
implementation, the Borrower has been flexible to respond to the various issues raised by the World Bank .
For instance, Privatization issue is the one that the Borrower gave immense priority, giving enough
information to the private shareholders on the Sale of shares; and regular audited accounts were submitted
to the Bank. However, at the beginning of the implementation of the project the borrower was not having
adequate personnel and understanding to implement some activities on time. In addition, the borrower was
not fully aware of the complexity of the project.
6. Assessment of Outcome
The envisaged outcome of the project was the starting point for the long term development of the
indigenous energy supply of Ethiopia. Though some of the important activities like the well completion
work and other activities of the commercial component were implemented the major one, i.e. the plant
turnkey contract for the design and installation of the processing plant, could not be implemented.
Some studies including the Petroleum Exploration Promotion, the LPG Stoves Development and Market
Support Study, Calub Gas large scale utilization study and petroleum pricing and Market Structure Study
were implemented. The necessary documents produced are of importance. The procurement and training
conducted helped to enhance the implementation capacity of implementing agencies involved in the project.
The part of the road rehabilitated contributed to some extent to the development of the region In the mean
time some of the components of the project were not implemented due to the start of the privatization
process of the commercial component and the insistence of the IDA since then to go on with the
- 26 -



restructuring of the project. Thus, it can be concluded that the project has not achieved the objective, hence
unsatisfactory.
7. Key lessons learned
*   The Calub Gas Development Project has three major components, which were carried out by different
institutions. Each organization was responsible for a specific component of the project. The overall
coordination of this project was found difficult and showed a delay in some of the activities. Hence,
following a decentralized approach along institutional specialization in implementing such a project can
minimize the risk of complexity and improve implementation.
* Bank should have been flexible and ready to review the impact of the privatization issue.
* The studies conducted came up with important conclusions and recommendations which are of
importance in solving problems connected with the respective fields of study.
* The involvement of local experts in the implementation of some studies carried out by international
consultants helped them gain experience in their respective fields.
*   The training and procurement of goods and machinery carried out enhanced the capacity of
organizations involved in the project to implement their respective activities in an enhanced manner.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
N/A
- 27 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
The Project was approved in March 1994, and effectiveness was delayed until September 1995.
The project objectives did not change, but the methodology of implementation was radically changed. The
commercial portion of the project, that of bringing the gas field and its associated surface installations and
facilities into production, was to be privatized rather than developed by the Government. The
noncommercial project components would be continued by the Government. As a result, nearly US$60
million of the original credit will be surplus to the original requirements.
- 28 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   ActuaULatest   Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             US$ million    US$ million
Civil Works                                          0.65           0.00             0
Equipment, Material and Vehicles                    48.34           3.45            7.1
Well Completion                                      6.00           5.61           93.5
Consultants' Services and Training                   8.91           3.70           41.5
Refunding of PPF                                     1.17           0.86           73.5
Total Baseline Cost                                 65.07          13.62
Physical Contingencies                              3.10
Price Contingencies                                 6.14
Total Project Costs            74.31           13.62
Total Financing Required             74.31          13.62
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)______
Expenditure Category     ICB        Procurement Method'          N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00          1.00         0.00         0.00         1.00
(0.00)       (0.65)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.65)
2. Goods                    109.40        0.00          0.00         0.00        109.40
(53.01)      (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (53.01)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00        14.83         0.00        14.83
(0.00)       (0.00)       (13.48)       (0.00)      (13.48)
4. Well Completion           7.00          0.00         0.00         27.00       34.00
(6.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (6.00)
5. PPF Refinancing           0.00         0.17          1.00         0.00         1.17
(0.00)       (0.17)       (1.00)       (0.00)        (1.17)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00          1.50         0.00         3.50         5.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                    116.40         2.67         15.83        30.50       165.40
(59.01)      (0.82)        (14.48)      (0.00)      (74.31)
- 29 -



Project Costs by Procurem t Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million eoquival n)
Procuremrent Method'
Expeoditure CatX0eot           ICB            N              Other          N.B.F.       Total Cost
1. Works                          0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00
(3.50)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (3.50)
3. Services                       0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)         (3.64)          (0.00)         (3.64)
4. Well Completion                0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00
(5.62)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (5.62)
5. PPF Refinancing                0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.86)         (0.00)         (0.86)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                          0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00
(9.12)         (0.00)          (4.50)         (0.00)         (13.62)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
- 30 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Due to the fact the project was not implemented as envisaged, there are no economic costs and
benefits available for comparison with the projections in the Staff Appraisal Report.
- 31 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count          Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
01/1991                    1   PPS                                S
Appraisal/Negotiation
10/1992                   10   PPE, PPS, C, POO                   S
12/1992                    2   POO                                S
Supervision
05/1994                     2   PPE, PPS                          S
10/1994                     4  FA, PPE, EE, HE                    S
02/1995                     1  HE                                 S
08/1995                     6   SPO, PPE, PPS, EE, OA, FA         S            S
03/1996                     7  SPO, PPS, PPE, HE, EE, OA, C       S            S
06/1996                     1  SPO                                S
12/1996                     6  SPO, PPS, EE, HE, OA, PE           U            U
09/1997                     6  SPO, PPS, EE, HE, OA, PE           S
03/1998                     2   LPE, PPS                          S            S
10/1998                    2   PPS, C                             S
06/1999                     2   LPE, FA                           U            U
11/1999                     2  LPE, FA                            U            U
ICR
PPS = Principal Petroleum Specialist, PPO = Principal Operations Officer, C = Consultant, PPE
Principal Petroleum Engineer, FA = Financial Analyst, EE = Energy Economist, HE = Highway Engineer,
SPO = Senior Project Officer, OA = Operations Analyst, PE = Privatization Expert, LPE = Lead Power
Engineer
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Stiff weeks             U S$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation             142.5                      396.1
Appraisal/Negotiation                  75.1                       206.7
Supervision                           169.8                      649.4
ICR                                    10.2                        49.5
Total                                 397.6                      1301.7
- 32 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
F Macro policies                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Li Sector Policies                         O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
OI Physicai                                O H  OSUOM   O N  O NA
O Financial                                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Institutional Development                0 H  O SU * M  O N  0 NA
OI Environmental                           O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
Social
LI Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
E] Gender                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Other (Please specify)           OH  OSUOM  ON  O NA
LI Private sector development              0 H  O SU * M  0 N  0 NA
Li Public sector management                0 H  0 SU * M  0 N  0 NA
L Other (Please specify)                   OH  OSUOM  ON  O NA
- 33 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                  Rating
O Lending                                             OHS*S Ou OHU
0 Supervision                                         OHS OS  *U  OHU
O Overall                                             OHS OS * U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                               Rating
O Preparation                                         OHS OS  O  U  O HU
O  Government implementation performance              O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                   OHS OS  *  u  O HU
O Overall                                             OHS OS * U O HU
- 34 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Memorandum of the President, Calub Gas Development Project, Report Number P-6007-ET,
February 18, 1994.
Staff Appraisal Report, Calub Gas Development Project, Report Number 1161 1-ET, February 18, 1994.
Environmental Assessment, Calub Gas Development Project Vol. 1, March 1, 1993.
Statement of mission objectives, back-to-office reports, supervision reports and aide-memoires 1993-2000.
- 35 -






MAP SECTION






IBRD 24070R
BI'le                        Co BoTor Gs0sr  Chih-                                                                                                                                                     4046
BikeA-    42>e            urgurOChinhove, 9                    g-h.ls  ososgcl    44                                                                        ETHIOPIA                                  48
AsDo                  os               yos B                                                                                CALUB GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
B~h
,Deder    CoGrers               >,,a ;Jwa                                   
Hirno0|                    Fedis    Bbi.                                                                                                              Region  5  (Somall)
Doremo d                                                                          Cs risrgooso                            TARGET AREAS FOR THE COMMUNITY                  ALL WEATHER GRAVEL ROADS:
DEVELOPMENT FUND                          -        SECONDARY AND FEEDER
tb                                                                                    H.p.
Meyumuluke   \   <      Ineguho ]       rgaisa                                                                     -      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RURAL
i , - S,\ X z ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DRY WEATHER ROADS:
.: ar X , - - -- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MOTORABLE TRACKS
8       T&ksl               1                 ,             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Derukai,                                T -  RAILS
/j                               W   fl X        lA e    _s oososTH.s-                                                                  o   SELECTED TOWNS AND VILLAGES
/                                                                                                                                        -qgeh3br   -~  ix   '-+ror   /  a  _   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
8'                     A~~         ~        ~        ~~~~~~Fik  NC\ ,~                                             ahmo                      YanDge  eb X\i.k,,     S- _.' o/8
~~~~~~~~~deB~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
Homers                                       t                                         4co            
Dih-s
Cs COo L,o                                                                                                                                                   Dub./
\ Rams                          Adodle/i
<    -,- -4  -Cmin                                                                _/                        
ToMe:olo                      ,        ~                                                                                                                    'e,~,    TIre Essedorias, colors, dasowisotioso sod soy other isforwotio-
Argede.b                                                                                                                                                  \h5- s          s  Ii mop do nt Cm p. so tthe port of The World Beak
pGuldimo                     !                                                                                                                                      Droop, s ''  k  'gi8JeTd  > Sh   '    '  doys t jdmar t occepthe  egaf suchos of soynr teostoGh  oa
,G-- L      ra{                                   4X                         idi*n-                                                                                               --pt /  t>      b-d  6-
6'                                                                                                                                                                                                       4 E
,Ark
Meda   El Kare
~~-o,  '.,         ,    |          /       \ '.   '                   './             '                                     \' Rerf '-     ~~~~       ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SAUDI ARABIA 
'  .. ..... .. V .......... \ ..... . .. / ... @ NATIoNALrbAplTAL )> Se \ /~~~~~~~~~~NTIONALCAPITA
NTERNATIOCALo
Hergale                                                                                                                                          50055065         RIT 
E  .            $         -:   < /                                                                                  )\    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~YEMEN - 
f  /                t                  SxtlStlawoBub-gurhMagadishu                                         SUDAN         g 4           SIBCIUTI  ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SDANAde
Toh']tz       SLtimaws Ct-_ F-uxMgdst{   ETHIOPIA                                                                                                                                                    \,"' 0roMa
To pilsc            ni ldi                                                                                                                                                                                       of /C|
\   k  ry   y                                                              \                                                E           %           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SOMtALIA/i
KENYA   ,'       ~INDIAN
Sadi --    -  .. DDes Ods                  KILOMETERS 0          50           100         150          200          250                                                               KE                        OCEAN
2^  MILES 0              50   44,             100                 IdO        \ 06                              RWAND        ND/4iN                                        9
JANUARY 1 994



