EanZ
aE0 /20
ETHIOPIA
CALUB GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Environmental Assessment
March 1993
Public and Pri-ate Enterprise Division
Eastern Africa Department



Preface
This Environmental Assessment was conducted as part of the preparation for the Calub Gas
Development Project in Ethiopia. The Project Team comprised: Luciano Borin (Team Leader),
Paul Ballard (Private Sector Development), Carine Du Marchie and Gerda Heyde (WID
consultants), Tom O'Connor (Gas Field Geology), Thuvara Nayar (Refinery Operations), Harry
Sasson (Privatization, consultant) Maurizia Tovo (Regional Development), Salman Zaheer
(Financial and Economic Analysis, consultant).
The project will be located in the part of Region 5 traditionally known as the Ogaden. In
view of the project implications vis-a-vis the fragility of the Ogaden's environment, both human
and natural, a special sub-team, coordinated by Maurizia Tovo, was established to prepare an
Environmental Assessment. The sub-team included the following consultants: Mohamoud Ayan
(Rangeland Ecologist), Richard Hogg (Anthropologist) and Marino Martin (Industrial Pollution
Specialist).
A number of visits to key areas and communities likely to be affected by the Calub Gas
Development Project took place between May and December 1992. Discussions were held with
government agencies, donors and NGO's working in the region, as well as with traditional
leaders, local authorities, women's groups and community members. The resulting report,
therefore, reflects the knowledge and wisdom of a large number of individuals thoroughly familiar
with the area under study.
The draft report was submitted to the Government for review and approval, and it
benefitted from the contributions of the Water Commission, the Ministry of Environmental
Protection and Natural Resource Development, the Ministry of Planning, and the Third Livestock
Project (Ministry of Agriculture). The Oil and Gas Exploration and Development Organization
(Ministry of Mines and Energy) provided invaluable assistance throughout. Government's
approval was given during Mr. Borin's visit to Ethiopia in February 1993.
The report outline follows closely the recommendations of the World Bank's Operational
Directive on Environmental Assessments -(OD 4.01). The Mitigation Plan described in Chapter
5, however, goes probably beyond what was intended in OD 4.01, in that it contains plans for the
establishment of a special Calub Community Development Fund. The purpose of the Fund will
be not only to provide compensation for any adverse environmental impact of the project, but to
build on its positive impacts so as to spread benefits to as many local residents as possible. The
Monitoring Plan presented in Chapter 6 and envisaged as an integral part of the Project, will pay
attention to changes in the biophysical and socioeconomic environment, and at the same time
represent an instrument of feed-back and evaluation for the Fund.
iii



Contents
Executive  Summary    ....................................... . vi
Chapter 1   Institutional Framework  ............................  i
Government            ...................... 1
Non-Governmental Organizations ....................... .             1
Chapter 2  Project Description ..................                                 3
Overview            .........................                        3
Components                            ..    5
Gas Field Exploitation ........................ .             5
Plant Construction and Operation  ...................         6
Technological Process  .................... .          6
Plant Description ........................ .           7
Townsite for Plant Employees ........................ .              9
Road Rehabilitation ................................   10
Chapter 3   Baseline Data         ......................... .                       11
Setting  ..11
Bio-Physical Environment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
Climate  . .13
Geology and Soils   ..14
Gas Field Geology   ..15
Natural Vegetation   ..15
Wildlife Resources   ..16
Land Use and Land Tenure   .            .16
Surface Water   ..17
Ground Water  .                   .17
Socio-Economic Environment   ..21
Demography   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
Economy    . .  . . .  . . . . .  . . . . . . . .  . . .  . .  . . . .  . . . . . .    21
Socio-Cultural Organization   ..23
Outside Interventions    ..24
Needs Expressed by the Population    .       .26
Infrastructure   ..27
Roads ..27
Industrial Facilities .28
Chapter 4   Environmental Impacts and Alternative Choices  .         .35
Gas Field Exploitation    ..35
Plant Construction and Operation .            .37
Alternatives for Water Supply to the Plant and Townsite  ........  39
Alternatives for Townsite Location ........ .  .  .  .  .  .. .  .  .  .  .  .   .  40
iv



Townsite for Plant Employees  .. ........................ 42
Road Rehabilitation. .  ..                                        43
Indirect Impacts: Socio-Economic Changes .. .                     44
Chapter 5 Mitigation Plan..  ..                                                47
Bio-Physical Environment . .. . .. . . . .. . ... ... .. .. .. ...  47
Gas Field Exploitation. .   ..                             47
Plant Operation and Construction..   ..                    48
Townsite for Plant Employees. .  ..                        49
Road Rehabilitation. .  ..                                 50
Socio-Economic Environment . . .... ..  . . . ..... ... ... ... 52
Employment Policies .52
Community Development .53
Chapter 6   Enviromnental Monitoring Plan ................... . . . 55
Monitoring System.. .......................  55
Natural Resources Component ........................  56
Socio-Economic Component ........................   57
Monitoring Unit.. . ....................  59
Duration. .  ......................  61
Budget. .                  ...................... 62
Annexes
1.  Geofogical Maps and Cross-Section .64
2.  Calub Community Development Fund .68
v



Summary
Project Description
1.    The Calub Gas Development Project will exploit the fossil fuel resources located
at Calub, in South-East Ethiopia (Region 5, commonly known as Ogaden). Natural gas
and associated liquid reserves have been estimated at 2.7 trillion cubic feet. The project
will extract and commercialize liquid petroleum products (LPG, gasoline, kerosene and
diesel), and re-inject dry gas into the reservoir for future gas use in a second phase. The
yearly output of liquid petroleum products from Calub is expected to be equivalent to
about 10 percent of current petroleum imports. In addition to contributing to import
substitution, the LPG and kerosene introduced into the market through the project are
expected to mitigate the current fuelwood consumption, thus easing the pressure on the
tree cover and possibly slowing down deforestation.
2.    For purposes of environmental assessment, the project can be divided into four
components as follows.
(a)   Gas Field Erploitation. The Calub field has major reserves of natural gas
in two reservoirs named Adigrat and Calub. The shallower Adigrat
reservoir is composed of two thick sandstone beds named Adigrat A and
Adigrat B (gas-in-place is estimated at 13.8 billion m3 and 6 billion m3
respectively). The plan is to produce the Adigrat A reserves, maintaining
the reservoir pressure by the addition of make-up gas from the deeper
Calub reservoir.
Initial gas production will be at a plateau rate of 1.4 million m3 per day
for fifteen years. Condensate recovery from this gas is estimated to start
at around 180 m3 per day, declining to 150 m3 after fifteen years; LPG
recovery is projected to be around 115 m3 per day, declining to 85 m3 per
day after fifteen years. Of the existing wells (drilled by the Soviets), four
are planned to be producing wells and three will serve as reinjection
wells; an additional production well will be drilled to obtain needed make-
up gas from the Calub reservoir.
(b)   Plant Construction and Operation. Although details of plant construction
and operation will be finalized by the contractor selected, the design of the
plant will have to follow certain specifications. To begin with, because
of the remote site and Ethiopia's lack of experience with this industrial
process, only field proven processes and equipment with low maintenance
requirements will be considered. And because of the arid climate, plant
design will depend on air cooling and pressure changes to effect most
temperature control, so as to minimize reliance on water for cooling
purposes. As a result, the plant is forecast to require no more than
50m3/day of industrial water.
vi



The gas collected from the Adigrat field reaches the separation plant at a
pressure of 166 atmospheres and 1580 C temperature. To obtain LPG,
the gas will be cooled to 200 C temperature, and condensed water
removed, using knockout drums initially, and a simplified Joule-Thompson
system and molecular sieves later. The gas is thereafter fractionated into
lean gas, LPG and condensate in a two-stage flushing column and a two-
stage fractionating column.  The condensate will be refined in a
conventional atmospheric distillation section, with production of gasoline,
kerosene and diesel oil.
(c)    Townsite for Plant Employees. About 100 employees will be needed for
day-to-day plant operation. Because housing conditions in the area are
very poor, it has been proposed to build a townsite for all permanent plant
employees, where they could live with their families. The townsite will
consist of about 100 single-family houses, plus a guest house. All houses
will have the same basic features, including water and electricity (the
latter, will be available at low cost from the plant). Some 500 people are
expected to take up residence in the townsite, at least initially. Their
water consumption has been calculated at about 70 m3/day.
(d)   Road Rehabilitation. The remote location of the gas reservoir implies that
a part of Calub products will have to shipped over long distances (Harar,
the closest main town, is 595 km to the north). At thie.moment, any
commercialization of petroleum products will have to rely on the Shilabo-
Harar-Dire Dawa road. But the existing road is in a bad state of repair.
Road rehabilitation is therefore essential. Under the project, the first 257
km (Harar-Degah Bur) will be restored to secondary road standards, 220
km (Degah Bur-Kebri Dehar) will be upgraded to secondary road
standards, 94 km (Kebri Dehar-Shilabo) will be upgraded to feeder road
standard, and the dedicated road between Calub and Shilabo will be
constructed to feeder road standards.
Baseline Data
3.    The Ogaden is a semi-arid plateau area inhabited by Somali pastoralists, stretching
from the Gennale river in the west to the Somali border in the east (175,000 km2). The
climate is arid to semi-arid with extreme rainfall variation. Average annual rainfall is
300-400 mm, following a bimodal pattern, but droughts of varying duration and
intensities occur frequently (the last one was 1990-91). Average annual temperature is
28.70 C.
4.    The only permanent river in the area is the Wabi Shebele, so the local populations
depend on water harvesting (birkeds) and, especially in the project area, on ground
water. Hydrological studies reveal two main sources of ground water: (a) "suspended"
aquifers 30-50 m deep, which produce fresh water but in relatively small quantities, and
(b) Cretacious Faf formation aquifers 180-200 m deep, which produce brackish water but
vii



with a sustainable flow of 3 1/sec. A number of deep water wells have already been
drilled in the vicinity of Calub and used for the exploration activities, without any
adverse effect on the environment.
5.    Water shortage limits the quantity and quality of natural vegetation, which is
generally a mixture of acacia and commiphora bush lands and shrub lands. Wildlife is
present in small numbers due to the climate and to intensive poaching in the past, and
no endangered species are recorded. On the other hand, cattle, camels, goats and sheep
are numerous and represent the economic mainstay of the region, occasionally
accompanied by opportunistic cropping (maiz, sorghum). Informal trade with Somalia
is the other main economic activity of the region, supported by strong clan relationships
and intensive traffic across the Somali-Ethiopian border.
6.    It is difficult to overestimate the damage to the Ogaden economy caused by the
collapse of Somalia. With the almost complete interruption of trade, prices have
increased, terms of trade have deteriorated and unemployment has shot up. The influx
of large numbers of destitutes (up to 400,000), often generously assisted by local
residents, has meant that fewer resources have to be shared by more people. Camps
have been established in Gode and Kelafo to provide emergency assistance to drought
victims, refugees and returnees, but the increased population is straining the
environment, which in some areas is already showing signs of stress. The only
development (as opposed to relief) activity in the region addresses the main problems of
rangeland management and veterinary care, but it can not address other concerns
expressed by local people, such as inadequate water supply, unemployment, and lack of
access to health and education.
Options
Water Supply to the Plant and Townsite
7.    Water requirements for the operation of the plant and townsite will be
approximately 150 m3/day. Given the scarcity of water in the region, the source of
water has to be chosen very carefully. Two basic alternatives are available: taking it
from the Wabi Shebele river or obtaining it from wells. In the former case, the water
could be piped or trucked to the plant. The cheapest alternative would be trucking it
(US$320,000 vs over US$1 million), but the road from Shilabo to the river would have
to be upgraded. The main problem with taking water from the Wabi Shebele, however,
is not the financial cost entailed, but the social and political cost. Although water
requirements for the plant and townsite are minimal with respect to the river flow, it is
certain that farmers who depend completely on the river's water would not like to see
their water taken away toward other territory, to the point that water tank vehicle traffic
or maintenance of the pipeline could be opposed. In addition, because the Wabi Shebele
flows further south into Somalia, interference with its water regime could create a dispute
over international riparian rights.
viii



8.    Ground water can be obtained from shallow wells alimented by alluvial aquifers
or deep wells alimented by formation water. Alluvial aquifers are presently utilized by
local residents and there is evidence that some of them are already under stress
(decreased flow or quality) or have dried up. In addition, as they are recharged by
surface sources, it is difficult to make long-term estimates of their reliable yield. Using
alluvial aquifers for industrial purposes, therefore, is not desirable. Formation water,
on the other hand, is available in large quantities either from the gas bearing reservoir
or from a cretaceous Faf formation, and depth has limited its exploitation. Although
water quality is such that a purification and desalinization system will be necessary to
bring water composition in line with plant and townsite requirements, deeper aquifers are
the recommended source of water.
Townsite Location
9.    Given the homogeneity of rangeland configuration and exploitation in this area,
problems of water provision and waste disposal, and their technical solution, are likely
to be similar at any point of the Calub area. Thus economic and social factors are
accorded priority in determining the best location for the townsite.  Two basic
alternatives are possible: building the townsite at the plant, much as it was done during
the exploration phase using workers coming from the outside, or building it close to an
existing settlement.
10.   Building the townsite in the proximity of the Calub pl-ant itself would probably
be the cheapest choice, as maintenance costs would be combined and transport costs
minimal. But the social costs would be high, as workers and their families would find
themselves isolated from a "natural" community and basic services (schools, shops)
would be 30 km away, and setting services up for the exclusive use of the townsite
would be both costly and politically unwise. In addition, it is important to keep a
balance in the distribution of resources between the two main clans of the area. The
Calub area is part of the clan territory of the Bah'Gerri. Shilabo, the nearest town and
district capital, is inhabited also by the Makhahil. Citing the township at Shilabo,
therefore would avoid inter-clan tensions and also accrue benefits to the town as a whole,
rather than only to plant employees. The specific location of the townsite should be
discussed with local leaders.
Environmental Impacts
11.   Potential environmental impacts have been divided into, two categories: direct and
indirect. The former focus on the four project components identified above, giving
special emphasis to water resources; the latter concentrate on socio-economic changes in
the project area, that is, within Shilabo district and along the main Shilabo-Harar road.
(a)    Gas Field Erploitation. Early in the life of the project, a detailed survey
of each well-site will be made and required environmental remedial work
undertaken, thus cleaning up any debris from the drilling and casing of
ix



wells which have not yet been absorbed by the landscape. The procedures
required to re-renter existing wells and install production equipment are
well-tested and should not present any major environmental risk.
Moreover, the requirement-for safety reasons-to maintain a clean work
place free of debris, serves to minimize any additional environmental
impact beyond that which has resulted from the initial drilling of the well.
The production of natural gas is inherently a clean operation due to the
chemical and physical properties of the gas and natural gas liquids in the
Calub field. Gas and entrained liquids used for testing (not a continuous
operation) are flowed through a burner designed to obtain as complete a
combustion process as possible, with very little carbon monoxide or un-
oxidized carbon (smoke) being produced. Therefore, the only outputs
besides considerable heat and vapor, are carbon dioxide and water vapor,
all of which are largely environmentally benign. The presence of highly
inflammable hydrocarbons near a source of heat represents an explosive
combination should unchecked leakages occur.
(b)   Plant Construction and Operation. As the Calub plant will be a simple
refinery without cracking facilities, chances of pollution on account of
phenolics are virtually nonexistent. By burning sulfur-free clean fuel gas
for all heating purposes, overall emission of partially burned hydrocarbons
will'be minimized, while evaporation will be minimized by limited bulk
storage of products. Oil spillage and leakages, on the other hand, have
the potential to cause considerable pollution.
Total liquid effluent leaving the plant is estimated at 10 m3/day. Failure
to treat oil-contaminated water and to dispose safely of oil could result in
soil pollution and possibly, in the long run, in pollution of shallower
aquifers.
(c)    Townsite for Plant Employees. Presently, no waste disposal systems exist
either at the campsite or at nearby settlements. The low standard of living
of local people produces mostly biodegradable waste, as high value-added
products (e.g., plastic containers) are intensively recycled. A sudden
population increase will produce higher volumes of waste which, without
proper sewage and garbage disposal systems, will result in health risks
associated with poor sanitary conditions, unpleasant odors and unsightly
views. In addition, abandoned refuse could attract wild animals in search
of food.
A larger concentration of people is also likely to imply a larger animal
population. If animals are left to wander freely, as it now happens, they
could damage crops and overgraze rangeland in the project area.
Increased concentration of both the. human and animal population could
strain existing water points, which rely mostly on the shallower aquifers.
x



Should wells dry out, and not be replaced by new wells, damage would
be considerable and forced migration would occur.
(d)   Road Rehabilitation. Road construction will cause te.mporary noise and
dust disturbance to people, animals and plants in close proximity to
construction activities. On the other hand, there will be no significant loss
of vegetation, which is sparse throughout the area, and no agrochemicals
will be needed. Road design should maintain as much as possible existing
crossflows and thus minimize their effect on the road structure.
About 150 people will be employed to work on each of the four stretches
in which the road will be subdivided for contract purposes. Construction
camp sites need to be established in a way that minimizes adverse
environmental effects (damage to cultivated land, excessive demand on
water points). To the extent the labor force can be drawn from local
sources, these impacts will be contained.
12.   The Ogaden has long suffered from isolation and neglect. In this sense, the
rehabilitation of the Shilabo-Harar road is expected to have a major positive impact.
Truckers will bring in grains and other goods, thus lowering their price on the local
market, while the local population will find it easier to market their products to larger
markets.  In addition, temporary and permanent jobs associated with project
implementation will offer much needed employment opportunities, and will spur the
creation of numerous ancillary activities.
13.   Improved communication and commerce, however, carry some risks. One is the
nsk of spreading AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases. More in general, there
is the risk of upsetting the indigenous social organization, by importing new ideas and
by creating a new wealth (and therefore power) which may clash with traditional values.
Given the history of insecurity in the area, this risk should not be taken lightly. In spite
of such caveats, most of the socio-economic changes brought by the Calub project are
expected to be positive, and the project has been hailed by donors and NGOs as a
historic opportunity for the Ogaden to start a long overdue development process.
Mitigation Plan
14.    Because the project will be implemented in a desertic, scarcely inhabited area and
it will rely on well tested technology, suggested measures to safeguard natural resources
are relatively straightforward. They are presented separately for each of the four
components considered thus far. Mitigative measures for potential damages to the human
environment, on the other hand, are seldom straightforward, because such damages are
more difficult to foresee-let alone quantify-and because there is always an element of
unpredictability in human behavior. The action plan presented here is something more
than just a mitigation plan, as it endeavors to take advantage of the unique opportunity
offered by the project.
xi



(a)   Gas Field Exploitation. Each of the wells will be equipped with sensitive
pressure recording devices and valves which will close automatically in
case of a sharp drop in pressure, thus limiting the risk of hydrocarbon
discharge into the atmosphere. Monitor and valves will be connected to
the main control center in the plant for continuous observation.
Should any new wells be drilled, the drilling fluid should be recycled to
the greatest extent possible not only for environmental protection but also
for operating efficiency. The drilling fluid is water based; it should
chemically treated to stabilize the water loss. As the chemicals utilized
in the process are largely naturally occurring, they do not represent
environmental hazards.
(b)   Plant Operation and Construction. The site (35 kin2, including gas wells
and the plant itself) will be surrounded by a double fence to facilitate
safety controls; straight wire rather than barbed wire should be used to
avoid hurting animals. Plant buildings should be as much as possible
horizontal, rather than vertical, so as to minimize visual disturbance and
to avoid possible risk for aircrafts flying in poor visibility. Buildings not
involving particular technical specifications should be designed to follow
the local topology (tukuls) and use locally available material to the extent
possible; this would contain costs and foster economic development in the
area. Soil irrigation will make it possible to grow trees in the compound,
thus masking the plant and providing shade.
By making plant design simple and compact (skid mounted modular
construction) chances for oil spills and leakages will be minimal. Areas
at risk should be paved with cement rather than asphalt, as asphalt is
easily damaged by petroleum  products; in addition, an open-ceiling
drainage system should be built to collect eventual liquid leakage into a
cement reservoir where it can be chemically treated. Proper maintenance
is crucial to environmental safety.  Therefore, technical assistance
provided under the project will have to emphasize both the "right" attitude
among staff and the appropriate competence. Speedy procedures for the
supply of spares and tools must also be established, requesting exceptions
to standard government regulations if necessary.
(c)   Townsite for Plant Employees. Because the creation of a township is
likely to encourage additional settlement, water provision for the township
should include water points for their use. As the water will come from
the deeper aquifers which can sustain exploitation at levels much higher
than those envisaged for plant and township needs, this should not be a
problem. The exact location of water points should be decided through
meetings with Shilabo's inhabitants, giving priority to the preference of
women, who are traditionally in charge of water.
xii



A number of options for waste disposal are available. Because the fresh
water table is only 15-20 m deep, septic tanks, underground cesspools,
and even open dumps for solid waste, should only be built after a
thorough analysis of soil permeability.   Should. their use not be
appropriate, sanitary landfills should be considered.
The quality of housing and the salaries of plant employees are likely to be
higher than those of most other local residents. To limit tensions, all
Shilabo inhabitants should be allowed to share some benefits with
township residents. Initial consultation with local authorities suggested a
number of community development actions, such as renovating/expanding
the school and opening plant health facilities to all.
(d)   Road Rehabilitation. Road rehabilitation will require some 500 m3/km of
water.  Contractual agreements with the implementing company will
specify that such need should be satisfied using only after consultation
with local residents. Should new water points be needed, care must be
taken not to make them an indirect cause of de-vegetation (by attracting
large numbers of animals and people) or of inter-clan disputes. Water
points should be distributed at regular intervals, and their citing closely
coordinated with SERPV, who have been mandated by the government to
ensure the sustainable use of natural resources in the south-east
rangelands.
Necessary restrictions on the use of borrow pits by contractors will be
written into the contract documents. Typical restrictions include respect
of agricultural land, citing away from the road embankment, and thorough
clean-up after excavation. Road rehabilitation will pay particular attention
to all aspects which may affect water availability or distribution, such as
the construction of appropriate side drains.
Any road accident involving truck transporting fuel can result in spills or
even explosions. Considering Ethiopia's very high rate of road accidents
per km driven, measures to contain such risk should be contemplated,
including lay-bys at fixed intervals to avoid obstructing the road in case
of vehicle breakdowns and incentives to truck drivers to drive safely.
15.   Expenrence with other operations in the region has shown that the active
involvement of the local population and an equitable distribution of benefits are essential
if the project is to succeed. The most immediate benefit from the project will be in the
form of employment, with 150 permanent positions (including service contracts) expected
at the plant, in addition to some 750 temporary jobs during the construction and road
rehabilitation phase. Given the inability of the rangeland to sustain more intensive
South East Rangelands Project of the Ministry of Agriculture.
xiii



exploitation and the recent massive arrival of people from Somalia, it is clear that new
employment opportunities will be the object of intense competition. It is recommended
that the project's labor requirements be satisfied primarily by employing people of Somali
ethnic origin, at all skill levels. Clan elders and traditional leaders should be able to
advise on personnel issues so as to avoid potentially disruptive disputes over the
allocation of jobs.
16.   Regardless of the efforts made to recruit personnel locally, in the end employment
will be for the lucky few.  Unless benefits are spread more widely, the overall
impression among the population will be that their wealth is making somebody else rich,
while local conditions remain dismally poor. Offering water, electricity, education and
health care to all to all Shilabo residents is an initial step. It is believed, however, that
it would be desirable to reach communities beyond Shilabo, and to offer a wider range
of development interventions. The Calub Community Development Fund (US$5.0
million) will therefore be established to ensure that people living in the project impact
zone (150 km radius of Calub and 25 km on either side of the Shilabo-Hara road) receive
some direct benefits as a tangible result of the project, and that any negative impact of
the project is minimized and compensated for. In addition, the Fund should enhance
local identification with the Calub plant, thus indirectly contributing to its smooth
operation.
17.   In addition to broad environmental and health issues of direct relevance to the
project, such as AIDS education, the Fund will finance three types of micro-projects:
light infrastructure (e.g., well rehabilitation), income generating activities, and basic
social services (e.g., community based health). Assistance will be available either
directly to local communities, or indirectly through NGOs and government agencies; in
any case, the approach will be participatory. A Coordinating Unit will be established to
manage the Fund under the guidance of a Regional Steering Committee comprising
representatives of the Regional Government and NGOs.
Environmental Monitoring System
18.   An essential component of the project mitigation plan is the establishment of a
comprehensive environmental monitoring system for the project impact zone. In light
of the potential environmental impacts identified and of the mitigation plan proposed, this
monitoring system should comprise a natural resources component and a socio-economic
component. The natural resources component will monitor changes in the local bio-
physical environment, including: vegetation composition/association (range condition),
devegetation, water availability and quality, livestock movements and numbers, and
roadside erosion/gullying. The socio-economic component will monitor changes in the
human environment, including: population density and distribution (including settlement
patterns), availability of grains and other goods in local markets, livestock-grain terms
of trade, economic activities (especially self-employment), health and education, traffic
along the road, fuel use patterns and prices, and local attitudes toward the project.
xiv



19.   Given the fragility of the environment, monitoring should be carried out not at
fixed intervals but on a continuous basis throughout the project life. The mandate of the
newly established Ministry of Natural Resources Development and Environmental
Protection makes it a logical candidate for the implementation of- the -system, but at
present it would be unrealistic to expect the Ministry to be able to take over
responsibility for monitoring activities, as neither its means nor its structure would enable
it to do it effectively. Once the Ministry becomes more firmly established, it will be
possible to identify areas in which it may need strengthening to assume overall
monitoring responsibilities. The National Environmental Plan now under preparation will
address such needs, and it is hoped that before project completion the Ministry will be
able to take an active role in the monitoring system.
20.   For the moment being, therefore, responsibility for the monitoring plan will be
as follows: a special Monitoring Unit will be established with responsibility for overall
coordination and for direct implementation of the socio-economic component, while
SERP will be sub-contracted for the natural resources component. SERP has already
started collecting some of the needed data and plans to carry out its own environmental
monitoring of the whole south-east rangelands. Contracting out to SERP the natural
resources component would save both time and money, since it would be possible to take
advantage of their expertise, organization and equipment. It would also give SERP the
means to carry out more intensive data collection in the project impact zone so as to
achieve the desired level of detail.
21.   The Monitoring Unit will be attached to the office of the Calub Community
Development Fund both for practical reasons (sharing office space) and for strategic
reasons (facilitate monitoring of the Fund's activities). The Monitoring Officer will be
administratively responsible to the Fund's Coordinator. Technical assistance will be
available to set up the system and for occasional trouble-shooting or specialized tasks;
in addition, because the Calub Company will be funded directly by the IDA, World Bank
supervision will monitor the plant compliance with safety regulations. Quarterly reports
will be submitted to the Regional Government and to the Ministry. The budget for the
monitoring system is estimated at US$850,000 for five years; it is recommended,
however, that the system is maintained beyond project completion and possibly as long
as the plant is operating.
xv



Chapter 1
Institutional Framework
Government
1.    The Transitional Government of Ethiopia (TGE) prepared a comprehensive review
of the country's environmental situation (including population factors) for the recent UNCED
conference (June '92). A high level steering Committee was mandated by the government
to formulate specific recommendations on the establishment of a national organization on the
environment, and a Ministry of Natural Resources Development and Environmental
Protection was created during the first week of October, 1992. Dr. Mesfin Abebe, former
Vice Minister of Agriculture, has been appointed Minister of the newly-established ministry.
Before October this year there was no particular governmental body in charge of the
protection of the environment and natural resources. Certain activities related to
environmental protection were undertaken by two different entities-the Ministry of
Agriculture and the Water Resources Commission. Officials of these two bodies working
on environmental issues have been transferred to the new Ministry. The Ministry is in charge
of overseeing environmental protection, meteorological services, natural resources, forestry,
water quality monitoring, water drilling and irrigation, and is also responsible for promoting
a policy that would encourage people to respect the environment.
2.    Because of its very recent establishment, the Ministry is still in the process of
defining its structure and its priorities. The reform program for 1992/93 published by the
Ministry of Planning indicates that most of its departments will be functional at the end of
January 1993.
3.    The national media-television, radio and press-have intensified their reporting on
environmental issues and a series of environmental videos from UNEP has lately been
screened on TV. Unfortunately, the majority of the population has very limited access to
mass media. In addition, an Environmental Education Project has been operating under the
Ministry of Education (with financial assistance from SIDA) since 1985 and is successfully
completing its pilot phase. The plan of operation for 1992-93 includes phasing out of pilot
research activities, promoting a national Environmental Education Program and initiating
curriculum auditing.
Non-Governmental Organizations
4.    Some 25 NGOs are engaged in conservation work, mostly through bunding and
afforestation, followed by general agriculture and livestock development. Relatively few,
1



however, are involved in agro-forestry or other innovative aspects of conservation'. Their
approach differs substantially from that used by the Ministry of Agriculture because they
tend to place more emphasis on community involvement in decision-making and they allow
a greater flexibility in activities. As a description of all environment related activities carried
out by NGOs goes beyond the purpose of this document, what follows is limited to the only
two NGOs in the country which focus exclusively on environment.
5.    The oldest environmental NGO in the country is the Ethiopian Wildlife and Natural
History Society, which was formed about 25 years ago. The overall goal of the Society is
to support research and the dissemination of information, and through these activities raise
public and individual awareness about wildlife and environmental matters. The organization
has recently initiated a substantial program of environmental and conservation education and
communication. The goals of the program are:
*     to develop a greater awareness and understanding of the interdependence
between the people of Ethiopia and their environment;
*     to highlight environmental and conservation problems and to identify and
promote their solution through lobbying;
*     to encourage positive changes in attitudes and behavior about the environment.
6.    Growing attention to environmental issues has lead to the establishment of LEM2,
the Environment and Development Society of Ethiopia. LEM intends to work with other
NGOs and grass-root organizations to bring about changes "that will promote conservation
and development of the natural resource base and the improvement of the living standards"3.
Its main objectives are to sensitize communities and individuals on the principles of
sustainable development, support an environmental education program, and provide a forum
for addressing issues related to environment and development. The first activity of LEM
was the organization of a Conference on Environment and Development between November
10-13, 1992.
More information can be found in Goran Bergman, 'An Environmental profile of Ethiopia',
unpublished draft, 1991.
2     Lem means green or fertile in Amharic.
From: CRDA News, vol 3, no.4, Addis Ababa, August/September 1992.
2



Chapter 2
Project Description
Overview
7.    The Government of Ethiopia is interested in commercializing fossil fuel resources
located at Calub, in South-East Ethiopia (Region 5, commonly known as Ogaden), under the
Calub Gas Development Project to be financed by the World Bank. Natural gas and
associated liquid reserves have been estimated at 2.7 trillion cubic feet, quantity comparable
with medium-size commercial deposits in other parts of the world. Additional reserves have
been identified, but not yet quantified, in the adjacent areas of Hilala and Shilabo, located
to the west and east of Calub respectively.
8.    The Calub gas field already has several appraisal wells which have been drilled under
the coordination of the Ministry of Mines and Energy. The proposed project is centered
around the installation of an extraction and processing plant at Calub to process the
condensate-rich portion of this deposit. At this stage the prospects for larger scale natural
gas commercialization are encouraging, but need to be confirmed by a detailed feasibility
study which will be financed under the Project. In the first phase, therefore, the scope of
the project will be limited to the extraction and commercialization of liquid petroleum
products from Calub, and re-injection of the dry gas into the reservoir. Based on the
composition of the deposit, the plant is expected to produce:
21,000 tons/year of LPG
16,000 tons/year of gasoline
15,000 tons/year of kerosene
13,000 tons/year of diesel.
9.    LPG and kerosene from Calub will be offered in urban centers as an economical
alternative to fuel-wood and charcoal. About 94 percent of Ethiopia's energy needs are
satisfied by bio-mass fuels of which fuel-wood, including that used to produce charcoal,
contributes about 80 percent of the total bio-mass energy supply. The Ethiopian Energy
Authority estimated total woody bio-mass energy consumption by households at 32 million
MT in 1990, with about 30 million MT consumed as primary energy and another 2 million
converted to charcoal. Of this consumption, 90 percent is rural and 10 percent urban.
10.   The household sector accounts for about 82 percent of total energy consumed in the
country, almost entirely from traditional sources, with electricity and petroleum products
together accounting for about one percent of household consumption. The population is
clearing the forests for agriculture, construction and domestic needs. Current forest cover
in Ethiopia is estimated at about three percent of total surface area, compared to about 40
percent at the beginning of the century. Deforestation is particularly acute in peri-urban
areas. While peri-urban forests are rapidly disappearing, fuel-wood costs represent an ever
3



increasing share of an urban dweller's budget. The amount of LPG and kerosene introduced
by this project are expected to replace some 20 percent of the current national fuel-wood
consumption. This represents an annual saving of some 20,000 ha. of forest.
11.   The yearly output of liquid petroleum products from  Calub is expected to be
equivalent to about 10 percent of current petroleum imports and has a CIF Assab value of
about US$ 16 million, at 1992 international petroleum prices. Based on import parity
valuation of products, the internal economic rate of return of the Calub Project is estimated
at 17 percent.
12.   To complement its commercial and regional development aspects, the project includes
a number of support elements aiming at creating an institutional and policy framework which
would facilitate project success. They are:
*     technical assistance to the Ministry of Mines and Energy, to promote private
participation in exploration and development, and to form the Calub
Company;
*     support for promotion and marketing of LPG in urban centers, including
assistance in efforts to provide appropriate technology, to develop and monitor
national safety standards, and to implement public awareness campaigns to
promote LPG usage and disseminate safety practices;
*     changes in the policy and regulatory environment, such as the implementation
of the announced liberalization of road transportation tariffs; the adoption of
a revised pricing formula for LPG reflecting the economic cost of production,
transportation and distribution; and the institution of mechanisms to allow
foreign participants in the Calub Company to repatriate dividends timely.
13.   For purposes of environmental assessment, the project can be divided into the
following four components (see next section):
(a)   exploitation of the Calub gas field,
(b)   construction and operation of a plant at the field site,
(c)   creation of a townsite for plant employees and their families,
(d)   rehabilitation of the Harar-Shilabo road.
4



Components
Gas FYeld Exploitation
14.   The Calub gas field was discovered by Tenneco, an American oil company, in 1973.
When it was clear that the discovery was dry gas, the Calub-1 well was abandoned utilizing
standard oil field practices, and the entire concession, including the Calub discovery, was
returned to the government the following year. In 1981, the Governments of Ethiopia and
the USSR entered into an agreement to develop the Calub field. As a consequence of this
accord, drilling operations have been underway in and around the Calub field for the last
decade, including the construction of a field camp and its occupation by between 50 and 100
personnel. Most of the drilling activity has been completed, and the Soviet expeditionary
team will be leaving Ethiopia in 1993.
15.   The field is located some 20 km east of the Wadi Fafen, approximately 150 km from
the Somali border, at an elevation of 470 meters above sea level. The Calub field has major
reserves of natural gas in two reservoirs named Adigrat and Calub. The shallower Adigrat
Reservoir is composed of two thick sandstone beds named Adigrat A and Adigrat B.
Original gas-in-place is estimated at 13.8 billion cubic meters for Adigrat A and 6 billion
cubic meters for Adigrat B. The project plan is to produce the Adigrat A reserves initially,
maintaining the reservoir pressure by the addition of makeup gas from the deeper Calub
reservoir until the LPG and natural gas liquids have been depleted. Once a market for the
gas has been developed, the remaining reserves of methane from both reservoirs will be
produced.
16.   The initial planned gas production is at a plateau rate of 1.4 million cubic meters per
day for fifteen years, at which point 56 percent of the Adigrat A reserves of gas will have
been produced. Condensate recovery from this gas is estimated to start at around 180 cubic
meters per day, declining to 130 cubic meters per day after fifteen years; LPG recovery is
projected to be around 115 cubic meters per day, declining to 85 cubic meters per day after
fifteen years. During this period, a total of 1.17 million cubic meters, or 50 percent of the
initial liquids in place, will have been produced.
17.   The deeper Calub reservoir (gas-in-place about 56.6 billion cubic meters) can
potentially produce 5-6 million cubic meters of gas per day, i.e., four times the rate of the
Adigrat reservoir. If this production were held constant for fourteen years, 53 percent of
the original gas-in-place would be recovered. At this production rate, the total reservoir life
is calculated to be 29 years; however, there will be an exponential production rate decline
of 8 percent after the plateau production period of fourteen years.
18.  In addition to the exploitation of the reserves of gas and natural gas liquids at Calub,
the processing plant to be constructed at Calub could serve as a central processing facility
for similar fields which have been discovered nearby, such as at Hilala and Shilabo. Should
delineation work on these discoveries demonstrate that they are capable of commercial
production, it may be expected that gas from these deposits will be transported to Calub for
5



processing. The Calub plant and townsite may thus serve as the center of a nascent
hydrocarbon extraction industry in the Ogaden area.
19.   Of the ten wells in the field, four are planned to be Adigrat producing wells, and
three will serve as reinjection wells. The latter are to be utilized to re-inject the unused
methane gas left over from the processing plant for purposes of both conservation and
reservoir pressure maintenance. To make up for the voidage lost to production from the
Adigrat, additional make-up gas will be produced from the deeper Calub reservoir and
injected into the shallower, lower pressure Adigrat reservoir. An additional production well
will be completed for this make-up gas production purpose.
Plant Construction and Operation
Technological Process
20.   The gas collected from the Adigrat field reaches the separation plant at a pressure of
166 atmospheres (166 Bar absolute) and 58 degree C temperature. In the separation plant,
the pressure and temperature will be reduced to 90 atmospheres and 40° C, respectively,
before routing the gas to a knockout drum to remove condensed water. The gas will be
further cooled to 200 C to remove some more water in a second knockout drum. Feed inlet
condition to LPG separation plant is 90 atmospheres pressure and 20° C temperature. The
cooling and dehydration thereafter are achieved by a simplified Joule-Thompson system4 and
molecular sieves.
21.   The gas is thereafter fractionated into lean gas, LPG and condensate in a two-stage
flashing column and a two-stage fractionating column. The lean gas is used as fuel and a
small quantity, limited to the bare minimum required as per safety control instrumentation,
will be sent to the flare for complete combustion instead of releasing it into the atmosphere.
The LPG product is routed to storage and the recovered condensate will be sent to further
fractionation. The gas from the Calub field, after separation of water in two stages using
knockout drums, is routed to the reinjection compressor without any separation for finished
products.
22.   The raw condensate is heated first in heat-exchangers and thereafter in a regular
furnace before flashing into a simple fractionator to produce fuel gas as an overhead product:
IBP-160° C gasoline from the over-head reflux drum, kerosene and diesel as separate side
streams, and 360° C plus residue as bottom product. The kerosene and diesel are steam
stripped in separate columns to control their flash points. The fuel gas is used for heating
purposes thereby avoiding the burning of residual fuel-oil for processing. The residue,
depending on its actual characteristics, will be blended into diesel failing which, it could be
used for power generation in diesel engines.
4     This system works on the principle that expansion of gases through a small opening causes cooling.
6



23.   The gasoline stream will be further fractionated into light gasoline (IBP-700 C) and
heavy gasoline (70-160° C). The heavy gasoline will be processed in a catalytic reformer
to improve its octane rating. About 19 percent of this naphtha would become fuel gas and
the remaining 81 percent, with about 90 octane number, will be blended with the light
gasoline to produce finished grade gasoline without adding lead.
24.   This process has been specifically chosen because of the extremely low reliance on
the use of water for cooling purposes. The plant design depends rather, on air cooling and
pressure changes to effect most temperature control. As a result, the plant is forecast to
require no more than 50m3/day of water for these and related purposes (e.g., steam for
cleaning purposes).
Plant Description
24.   The design of the Calub development plant has to take into account the following
considerations:
*     because of the remote site and the limited industrial development in the
country, only field proven processes and equipment with low maintenance
requirements will be selected;
*.    because the project financial viability depends on 'liqcuid hydrocarbon
production, the liquid recovery has to be as high as possible;
*     because of transport problems5, each component of the plant has to be
designed bearing in mind these limitations and also the fact that some parts
will need exceptional and periodic maintenance not always available on site,
and therefore might need to be re-shipped.
25.   A general plant layout is shown in Fig. 1 on the next page.
26.   The site, comprehensive of the gas wells and the plant itself, will be located on a
desert area of 7 x 5 Km (35 Km2).
Limitations of transport by air include the length and quality of the landing strip, and the maximum
space and weight allowed on the aircraft. Limitations of transport by road relate to the minimum
radius of the curves, the width of the road (especially when crossing towns and villages), the maximum
load admitted on bridges, and pavement conditions.
7



10
3~~~~~~~
lja~~~~~~~~~~~CI ,'!'                          W
Am~p                                                    (0
CD
FLIRE        ~~LOADING'STAONflN-  - 
7~~~~7-
(D
00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
*6
+1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
7



Townsite for Plant Employees
27.   For day-to-day plant operation, about one hundred employees will be needed, roughly
equally divided between unskilled and skilled or semi-skilled. In addition, some 75 semi-
skilled and skilled positions will be created to fill service-contract requirements.
28.   In light of the fact that housing conditions in the area are very poor, it has been
decided to build a townsite for all permanent plant employees, regardless of whether some
of them may presently reside within a reasonable distance from Calub. New houses should
be ready for occupancy by December 31, 1995, the date at which the plant should start
operating on a regular basis.
29.   The townsite will consist of about 100 single-family houses, plus a guest house for
20 persons. Calub personnel can be divided into four categories according to the job (senior
staff/management, supervisory staff, technical staff, and semi-slilled and skilled personnel).
The houses will be built in simple architectural style in line with local traditional housing
(e.g., tukuls, round constructions with cone-shaped roof, possibly connecting more than one
together to reach the desired living standard)6. All houses will have the same basic features,
including water and electricity. On the basis of the country average total fertility rate (7.5
births per woman), and assuming that some employees will come unaccompanied or with
only part of the family, about 500 people can be expected to live in the townsite. Estimates
of water use and waste production are based on such a figure.
30.   Water consumption for the township has been calculated at about 67.5 m3 per day7.
Hydrological studies indicate that locating a suitable source of ground water would not be
a problem8. The water will be extracted with a diesel pump (using diesel produced by the
Calub plant, which will be in large supply) and piped to a piezometric tank for subsequent
distribution.
6      An example of this type of construction is provided by the new offices of the Southeast Rangelands
Project in Code.
7      Estimates are as follows:
personal hygiene, kitchen, laundry & general cleaning
80 I/day/person     x 500                40 m3/day
drinking water
5 l/day/person       x 500               2.5 m3/day
toilet, miscellaneous
50 l/day/person      x 500               25 m3/day
For a discussion of hydrological resources see Chapter 3; specific recommendations on this matter are
presented in Chapter 5, after a discussion of the expected environmental impact of altemative choices.
9



Road Rehabilitation
31.   The remote location of the gas reservoir implies that a part of Calub products will
be shipped over long distances. The distance from Harar, the closest main urban center, is
595 kmn, including 24 km of dedicated road between the plant site and the junction of the
main road near the village of Shilabo. At the moment, any commercialization of petroleum
products will have to rely on the Shilabo-Harar-Dire Dawa road. But the existing road is
in a bad state of repair. Built in 1937 by the Italians as a service road, it has received very
little maintenance and truckers are reluctant to use it because they fear damaging their
vehicles.
32.   Road rehabilitation is therefore an essential component of the project. The existing
road may be divided into four sections: (1) Harar-Jijiga (101 km), (2) Jijiga-Degah Bur (156
km), (3) Degah Bur-Kebri Dehar (220 km), and (4) Kebri Dehar-Shilabo (94 km). The first
two segments are classified as secondary roads, while the last two are considered to be
feeder and rural roads. However, the road is so badly deteriorated that its whole length is
functionally a feeder road. Relatively high traffic volumes and vehicle overloading are
primarily responsible for this deterioration, compounded by the lack of adequate
maintenance. Under the project, the road from Harar to Degah Bur will be restored to
secondary road standards (6 m gravel road with 1 m shoulders), Degah Bur-Kebri Dehar,
which carries comparable levels of traffic, will be upgraded to secondary road standards, and
Kebri Dehar-Shilabo will be upgraded to feeder road standards (6- m gravel without
shoulders)9. Shilabo-Calub will be constructed to feeder road standards. Detailed designs
for the road works are not yet available.
33.   It is difficult to quantify the economic benefits to be derived from the rehabilitation
of the Shilabo-Harar road. Savings on the delivery of humanitarian aid provide a partial
estimate. In 1991, UN agencies and international NGOs spent US$ 5.8 million to airlift
14,582 MT of relief supplies to Gode, Mustahil, Kebri Dehar and Shilabo10. Had the road
been in good conditions, and relatively safe, the price of moving those 14,582 MT of
supplies by truck (equivalent to about five trucks per day on the road) would have been about
half as much. As it is reasonable to expect relief operations to continue, albeit on a smaller
scale, for some years to come, it appears that the savings on the cost of delivering
humanitarian assistance would be enough to justify the investment. In addition, even with
the present poor conditions, substantial commercial traffic on the road (nearly 200 vehicles
a day in the Jijiga-Degah Bur stretch), so rehabilitation is likely to bring a much larger
volume of traffic. The economic analysis of road rehabilitation is contained in the Staff
Appraisal Report for the project.
9     Source: BACTEC, Feasibility Study on Harar-Calub Road Rehabilitation, Addis Ababa, 1992.
10    Computer print out provided by UN/EPPG 'Sumxnary Statistics as of 25/01/92'.
10



Chapter 3
Baseline Data
34.   Following a general overview of the Ogaden, environmental baseline data are divided
into two categories -bio-physical and socio-economic. Given the arid nature of the region
and the scope of the Calub project, the analysis of bio-physical conditions places emphasis
on water resources, especially ground water resources. Socio-economic aspects are also
treated in some detail in light of the problems historically faced by the Ogaden residents in
securing a safe and healthy life, and the potential disruption of their traditional way of life
represented by the project. The ongoing tragedy of Somalia has added a new strain to the
environment, both human and natural, and is therefore taken into consideration.
Setting
35.   The Ogaden is a semi-arid plateau area inhabited by Somali pastoralists in the remote
south-eastern part of Ethiopia. It covers approximately 175,000 km2 stretching from the
Gennale river in the west to the border with Somalia in the east. It is bisected by the Wabi
Shebele river which divides the area into roughly two parts: the former El Kere area of the
southern Bale Region to the west of the river and the Ogaden proper to the east. Both areas
formed part of the Ogaden Autonomous Region which was established in 1990 but which is
now incorporated into the Somali Region 5, including the lowlands of Eastern Hararghe. The
Somali Region 5 covers approximately 240,000 km2.
36.   The Ogaden is both the name of an area and the name of a people. The Ogadeni are
comprised of several related clan groups who trace their descent from an apical ancestor,
Ogaden. They are part of the Darod family of Somali clans. The dominant Ogadeni clans in
the area are: Reer Ali, Reer Haroun, Makhahil, Reer Amadin, Reer Ogus Koshin, Reer
Warfar, Reer Ogus Nur, Ba'Gerri, Aulihan and Adain Ker. Within the immediate vicinity
of the Calub Gas Field the two dominant clans are: Makhahil and Ba'Gerri (see Figure 2 on
next page).
37.   The project impact area is confined to a much smaller area than the Ogaden as a
whole. While extensive livestock movements do take place in time of drought, most Somali
pastoralists move within a more restricted area delimited largely by their own and
neighboring clan territories. The communities likely to experience the majority of the
benefits and any possible negative effects of the Project are confined largely to within
Shilabo district and along the main Shilabo-Harar road. Within Shilabo district the main
communities are Debewein, Shilabo itself, Harat, Jirole, Lasole, and Dawa-el. Other than
Shilabo, which has a population of about 5,000, these other communities represent small
villages and hamlets often near to water points. In addition to this more or less settled
population, there is a fluctuating population of nomads who move into and out of the area
depending on the season and local availability of grazing.
11



Figure 2
Map of Somali Clans Present in the Region
3  * z   . ~-, N 'O_ R, T  H
x  --S T_\-  
, IAERR 
-E -A        HA;ShiIN-.
BE. Ak-L,, ~ ~ ~ ~ H 
o                               DS~~~~~~CR ~~~YUNNIS
dSI/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i S  J        A
``REER         EE~j; ARCO
,~~IHUN           4MAHHL
<-GAR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MK R II E'->E
REER  '          GS 
,AMAIDIN    -E 
-S-                     >\ l.t@=.WAIFATE
;AITflj    ADAIN'            8  U  
* >NER
O ENN--  BA'GERRI
I~~~~
'GARRIRE
N  -  QI             ~~REER      I~   Q
0so      lo00
12



38.   Along the main road to Harar there are additional and much larger settled
communities. These include, from north to south, the following (the northern limit is taken
as the boundary of the Somali Region 5): Babile ( 5,000 inhabitants), Fafan, Jijiga (25, 000
inhabitants), Kebri Beyah (3,000 inhabitants), Guyo, Gilo, Ararso, Obole, Higloley, Degah
Bur (15,000 inhabitants), Garawe, Sasamane, Birkot, Sheikosh, Wichi-Wache, Galadid,
Kebri Dehar (10,000 inhabitants), Lasole, and Shilabo (5,000 inhabitants). Note that the
population of the major towns is a rough estimate; the other centers are very small, often
only one or two permanent houses. Also, the towns of Jijiga, Kebri Beyah, Degah Bur and
Kebri Dehar have significant returnee populations, which are not included in these estimates.
39.   To date there has been little extensive research or data collection carried out in the
Ogaden. What data is available tends to be extremely patchy and to relate to particular sub-
sectors of the economy, e.g., data collected by different missions and survey teams sent to
the area, often with very specific and limited terms of reference. Much of this data is out
of date and has been overtaken by recent events in the area, in particular the influx of
hundreds of thousands of Somali refugees/returnees over the last few years. The planning
base is therefore wholly inadequate even by normal African standards. For example, there
is no accurate information on livestock or even human population nor distribution of water
points throughout the area. Any agency intending to work in the area must take this into
account when planning interventions.
Bio-Physical Environment
Climate
40.   The climate of the area is classified as arid to semiarid with extreme rainfall
variations from season to season and from year to year. The isohyets closely follow the
contour lines of the driest areas which may receive as little as 200 mm of rain a year, while
average annual rainfall varies between 300 and 400 mm. The rainfall pattern is bi-modal,
with the first "Gu" rains occurring in March, April and May providing 50 percent of the
annual total; the second rains "Dayr" fall in October and November (see Figure 3).
Droughts of varying duration and intensities occur frequently. Records kept since 1918
identify eight main drought periods: 1918-1919, 1928-29, 1933-39., 1943-45, 1958-59, 1970-
73, 1975-76, 1983-86 and 1990-91. Localized droughts, however, may occur with greater
frequency.
41.   Temperature variations are not highly pronounced. In Gode, with an average annual
temperature of 28.70 C, the hottest month is March with a temperature of 30.2°C while the
coldest month is November with a temperature of 27.7°C. High temperatures which are
characteristic of the area reduce the effectiveness of the rainfall regime since considerable
amounts of water evaporate before being used by plants. The prevailing wind is from the
north-east between October and April, and from the south-west between May and September.
13



Figure 3: Ogaden Precipitation
mm
120
100                    r 
60 
40                                                          _       ;
Jan  Feb  Mar  Apr May  Jun  Jul  Aug  Sep  Oct  Nov  Dec
E   KorahelKD over 3 yrs              Gode over 13 yrs
e  Gode 1990                     @  Gode 1991
source: The Nomadic Areas of Ethiopia
UNDP/RRC, 1984
and field reports 1991
Geology and Soils
42.   The dominant topographic feature of the area is a south-ward inclining, gently
undulating plateau with occasional outcropping of rocky hills, and alluvial out-washes in the
north-western borders. Some signs of soil erosion are present".
43.   The geology of the area consists of deposits from the cenozoic era in which invasion
of sea water brought in sandstones, mud-stones, gypsum, anhydrides and conglomerates. The
presence of numerous salty deposits which influence water quality is therefore a result of the
parent material.
44.    Soils of the area are largely xersols with a poorly developed top soil horizon, and at
times overlain with laterites. Calcium and gypsum are present to varying degrees and
significantly reduce the agricultural potential of the area. In areas where alluvial deposition
of material has taken place such as in river banks and wadis, the presence of a shallow
argillic horizon in combination with silt allows the cultivation of certain food crops, such as
sorghum anid maize.
African Development Bank, South-East Ranzelands Proiect, Staff Appraisal Report, 1989.
14



Gas FYeld Geology
45.   The field is a large, gently folded, domal shaped anticline, with a down to the
northeast fault along its northeast margin (see Annex 1 for geological map and cross-section).
The shallower and younger Adigrat reservoir is Early to Middle Jurassic in age, and is
comprised of two thick sandstone beds, the shallower Adigrat A and the deeper Adigrat B
sands, with an eight-meter thick shale which serves to separate the two reservoirs into
independent, unconnected reservoir chambers. The highest well in the field, Calub-3, is at
the top of the Adigrat A reservoir at a sub-sea depth of 2253 m, with a gas/water contact at -
2307 m, and an aerial extent of approximately 49.4 km2. The reservoir contains gas
originally in place of approximately 15.2 billion m3, at a temperature of 96.20 Celsius and
a pressure of 297 bars.
46.   Similar figures are present in the Adigrat B sand, with the top being located at -2298
m, the gas/water contact at -2328 m, an aerial extent of 33.7 km2, and an original volume
of gas in place of 6 billion in3. The water saturation of both reservoirs' gas columns
averages 21 percent, with the salinity of the formation water being approximately 200,000
ppm NaCl equivalent concentration.
47.   The Adigrat reserves of gas are nearly sulphur-free, and contain 2.98 percent of
propane and heavier gases plus small volumes of natural gasoline.
48.   The deeper, Permian age Calub reservoir is encountered at 312i m below sea level,
with the gas/water contact at -3219 m, an aerial extent of 66.5 kin3, and an original volume
of gas in place of 58.9 billion m3. The gas is much leaner than that of the overlying Adigrat
reservoirs, and contains very little of anything other than methane. The small amount of
natural gasoline which is present is considerably more paraffinic than that of the Adigrat
reservoir. Neither are asphaltic, and when distilled above 3500 Celsius, there is little more
than solid paraffine left behind.
Natural Vegetation
49.   The vegetation of the area is influenced by several factors including rainfall, soils,
and intensity of land use. Water shortage limits the quantity and quality of natural vegetation
and gives rise to a flora which has high tolerance to water stress. The range cover includes
bare ground, grass clusters and browse, with occasional areas of shrub land where soil
moisture is greater. The most common vegetation type is a mixture of acacia and
commiphora bush lands and shrub lands-Acacia Nilotica, Acacia Senegal, Acacia Hormida,
and Acacia Melifera are most common. Other important species include: Commiphora spp,
Terminalia spp., Balanites Aegyptic, and Ziziphus Mauritania. The nut producing species
locally known as "yiib" (cordexia edilus) grows in the eastern parts of the area. The "yiib"
tree has both economic and environmental values, since it is an endangered species, produces
edible nuts and foliage highly valued as browse for camels in the dry season. Grass species
which are most abundant in the area include Aristida spp, Chryspogon spp and Dactelectinian
spp.
15



50.   Range condition varies from place to place depending on the degree of use and
natural characteristics. Around most water points, the original vegetation has disappeared as
a result of continuous use by livestock. Fuelwood collection around most settlements is also
another major contributor to de-vegetation and soil disturbance.
Wildlife Resources
51.   The number of wildlife species in the project area is small and none of the 27
endangered species listed for Ethiopia is present'2. Intensive poaching in the past has
reduced the numbers of wildlife, and has almost eliminated certain endemic species. The
most common species found today are the Hyena, Gerenuk and Dik-Dik. In the past,
elephants and lions were found in the upper catchments of the Fafan river; however, all the
elephants have been eliminated in the last few decades, and only a few lions remain.
Crocodiles are found in the Shebele river.
Land Use and Land Tenure
52.   Because of the arid nature of the environment, the most important land use is
extensive pastoralism, at times combined with opportunistic cropping. Nomadic pastoralists
with herds of cattle, camels, sheep and goats migrate through the area in a pattern largely
determined by the availability of water and pasture. The system is conducive to rangeland
stability since it gives periodic rest to the vegetation to enable it to regenerate and/or
recover. Opportunistic crop production is practiced by agro-pastoralists as a supplement to
livestock production. This is done mainly on areas of better edaphic and climatic conditions.
Valley bottoms, flood plains and runoff channels are used to grow food crops whenever
conditions permit.
53.   Traditionally, while livestock is owned individually, grazing is owned communally.
However, land tenure is undergoing rapid change in parts of the region as areas of grazing
are enclosed by extended families. This has led already in some areas to individualized and
privatized land holdings, e.g., in the north of the region in Jijiga and Kebri Beyah areas.
Even in the more arid areas, wherever cultivation is possible, land is increasingly privatized
by individual pastoralists enclosing grazing areas. This has recently lead in the Harshin area,
to the east of Jijiga, to inter-clan conflict.
54.   In the far south of the region in Shilabo district cultivation has made few in-roads into
the traditional pastoral land use system. While wells tend to be owned individually or by
localized sub-clan groups, access to grazing is still generally open to everyone. Nevertheless,
every clan has a general notion of a roughly delimited clan grazing area. While other clans
will not be excluded in times of plenty, when grazing becomes scarce tensions between clans
tend to increase.
12    Wold Conservation Monitoring Center, "Biodiversity Guide to Ethiopia," Cambridge, UK 1991.
16



55.   Water development has played a significant role in the modification of the traditional
land use system, as it has opened up areas which were little used in the past for lack of
permanent water. Boreholes, shallow hand-dug wells, and surface water storage systems
have all been developed in different parts of the region. While in some areas this has had
a generally beneficial effect, for example, in opening up hitherto under-exploited wet season
grazing areas, in other areas it has lead to the growth of permanent settlements and a
deterioration in forage quality and quantity.
Surface Water
56.   The most prominent surface water feature within the project area, and the only
permanent river in the region, is the Wabi Shebele river which flows in a valley on the
western boundary of the project area some 85 km from Calub. In its natural state it has been
determined that the river can irrigate about 10,000 ha. With the construction of storage and
regulation dams, however, its capacity is expected to increase considerably. At present,
there is a dam under construction at Melka Wakana, upstream from Gode, to supply
irrigation water for the newly constructed state farms on the flat uplands above the river
valley. The Government is keen on starting a new irrigation scheme at Mustahil, over 120
km from the project area.
57.   The water discharge rate varies from 7-8 m3/sec during the dry season, to over 300
m3/sec during the wet season. Mineralization varies from 0.3 g/l to 0.65 g/l depending upon
the flow rate (salinity increases as the flow decreases), which is comparable to treated city
water. Suspended particles range from l g/m3 at low water to 71,000 g/m3 during flood.
58.   Other streams and rivers, such as the Fafan and Jerer rivers, which originate in the
highlands north of Jijiga and drain the southem lowland areas, are highly seasonal but
important sources of sub-surface water (shallow wells) in the dry season. The Fafan flows
16 km west of the Calub camp, and seasonally inundates the Korahe floodplain south of
Kebri Dehar in good rainfall years. Surface runoff during the wet season can reach 5
m3/sec; at other times the river is dry.
59.   The major development in surface water supply in the region is the construction of
cement lined cisterns or birkeds. This technology was imported from Aden in the 1950s, and
has opened up large areas of the region to all year round exploitation and settlement. This
is particularly true of that area, between Harshin and Misrak Gashamo along the eastern
border of the region, which has in the last 20 years or so experienced an explosion in the
number of birkeds excavated for water storage. Larger birkeds can hold up to about 1000
m3. In the Shilabo area, however, there has been little development of cisterns.
Ground Water
60.   Studies conducted by the Soviet company "Technoexport" in 1984 in the area of
Shilabo and Kelafo report the following hydro-geological stratifications and sequences:
(a)   quaternary alluvial sediments with water-bearing horizons,
17



(b)   quaternary proluvial sediments with water-bearing horizons,
(c)   local water confining stratum of pleistocene upper Neogene sediments,
(d)   water bearing horizons of Tertiary Jesomma sediments,
(e)   Faf carbonate deposits water-bearing complex.
61.   Two main sources of ground water can be identified. The first one (about 30-50 m
deep) are a number of "suspended" aquifers tables, originated by the alluvial, proluvial and
pleistocene deposits (a, b and c above). These aquifers produce fresh water. Their reserves
of fresh water are difficult to calculate because they depend upon annual surface recharge
and other climatic conditions.  However, it appears that intensive exploitation of these
aquifers pose two risks. In some cases, as the level of the water table decreases, fresh water
would mix with brackish to saline water present below the clay floor on which the alluvial
sands rest. In extreme cases, the aquifer would dry out. Anecdotal evidence suggests that
both cases have already occurred. For example, an old man in Shilabo remembered a well
which used to have enough fresh water "to wash yourself in it," but then the water decreased
to be only enough "to fill your hand and drink," and finally the water became undrinkable.
62.   The second source of ground water are Cretaceous Faf formation aquifers originated
from the tertiary Jesomma limestone sediment (d above). They are located 180-200 m below
surface and have an average productive rate of 30 m3 per day per well. The water obtained'
from them is brackish to saline, with an average salt content of 13 grams per liter. Lack of
dynamic level data on existing wells prevents a more accurate evaluation of the flow. But
taking into consideration the structure and the regional origin of the aquifers, it seems safe
to conclude that all wells located in the Calub area which are more than 160 m deep, use the
same large aquifer. Therefore, it could be possible to obtain flows of up to 3 liters per
second without impoverishing the aquifer, in so much as the volumes of water which are to
be produced are very small in comparison to the total volume of water contained within these
aquifers in the Ogaden Basin area. A number of wells alimented by the Cretaceous Faf
formation aquifer(s) have been drilled in the project area. Their characteristics are described
below. '3
*     Lasole. This well was drilled by EWWCA to a depth of 137 m, and produces
fresh water at the rate of 86.4 m3/day of fresh water, which is the present
source of drinking for the Calub camp. Analyses of the water are not yet
available.
*     Dawa-el,42G. The well is located 35 km east of Calub, and 5 km from
Lasole. It was drilled by SPEE to a depth of 295 m. The static water level
is 115 m below the ground level, and the well is capable of producing at a
sustained rate of 345 m3/day. Analysis of water quality has not yet been
received, but it is brackish and will need treatment. Well logs indicate that
three potential aquifers are present in the limy clay intervals of this limestone
13    OGEDO, Calub Gas Field Development: Hydro-geological and Meteorological Data,' Addis Ababa,
November 1992. Additional data was obtained from the Ethiopian Water Works Construction
Authority (EWWCA) and from Technoexport.
18



formation. It is likely that the shallower aquifers will be less saline, and
should therefore be tested prior to final decisions on the use of the well.
0     Kebri-Dehar, wells 31G and 32G. These wells were drilled by SPEE 130 km
from Calub, to depths of 70 and 60 m, respectively. Both encountered water-
bearing zones in the Cretaceous carbonate formations, but the productive
horizons were not common to both wells. Static water level is at 28 m in
both wells, with sustainable production rates of 320 and 370 m3/day being
encountered, respectively. Mineral content in the produced water of 31 G is
3.1 g/l which, although disagreeable, is potable.  The water has a high
magnesium content.
*     Calub camp area, wells 12G, 33G-38G. These seven wells were drilled in
close proximity to the Calub camp for use during the drilling operations. All
productive wells were in the depth range of 200-220 m, and were productive
from the Cretaceous limestones. The 33G well, drilled to 136 m, was dry.
Static water level is in the range of 70-90 m below ground level, and their
productive capacity ranges from 21 to 28 m3/day. Mineral content is 13 g/l,
which is more than a third that of seawater. The water is non-potable, and
hence presumably was used for drilling purposes only.
19



I_  T _            LOCATI I ON      _ __ TH   W ATF If R    'ATI I (         y     _
0  (1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(1 
S .N-      Dii. N-              (Cr id )          ( M)    STNUC(K   WATER  l.lV El. . (11 t Is;  *)                      Wl ll  :;I A  Itl:
~~~________                    _____ _                     (M ) )     _(HM)
60 1 3 00"N        2140      87            9. 30                             A I t er aril t II  Gyp  1 t    ;I        V
Debeweir            14425' 00"E                                                                  '; Iri e,  Not  I-irI jui  I
.   Bli. N-.2           ,425Ma . s I
Debewein            60  23 '48"N         37       114             3                 )            Al IIuV )a I Se di mrerIt, Ali,iridorned  il;,-  t o
2      SW. N-. D- I          0  13* 00 "E                                                                Ili ghi  Sai nIII t y
& D-2               1 5Ma Ha. I          27       14             13                 3
3  OliN2-. N-I  6  30' 140"N      202       18        Flowing                              Alterirating  Gyp-nlll M.t rl &  [,rtou  Ston
3      Bfl. N-D.N-I 1  
43 29 '47"E                            Well                                  Beds, Abandoned  due  to  Iligh  Sal inity .
_42SMa. s . I                            ( Art isian)
O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0o3O,O'N         30       18            18              Both    boit   N2-.  1 For Cattle use,Saline
C)         ~~~4  Denan  SW.N-                                                   0 
t43  29  47 "E                                               1               N-.  2 Could  Be for Domestic  use,
I and  N-. 2        425Ma .s .1         27        18           18                                         less  Sa1line.
Jirale  SW.N-   6  16'24"N               42       13           12                 6              N-.  I Abandoeried  duLe  to  liighI  Salinity
5      I and  N-. 2                                                                                       0
5 1and -. 2  4 22 1' 1"E                                                             N-. 2  Productive,  Good  Walter .
425Ma. s .1         24        13           12                 6             __                        __               _______
6 05'22"N          133       97         61.30                1.20             I.ess  Salirie jroductive  [or  lluman
6      S hilIa bo           110
644 45141"E                                                                   Consumption.
______ ________  __4__4- )Ma .sl. s__ _ __                                                                      __
7      LasolI               1o6 .-  No         137                                     AL)About  I        Lr                 Pr o .   ti     l 'or  dltil rin .
(0)  ';Si labo                                                I=               ConsumDt lon    ____ i or-
REMAfKS. -   Dri I I ing  Shial low  We lls  Along  P`31 am  bed,  especiall y arkound  J i rile, is re Coinlurilndil e.
-   Deep  Penetration  Of  Shallow  We)lls  Will  Resuilt 1111,5. i               inty.
-   Recharge  Of Ground  Water  Along  Fafam   Valley  i:s Ili!,hl  &  FluLsh  tile  :Sallility (II  t h-  W.ater
-   I'he  Y I e, l d  OI  Sh ll :: I I o w  .1 I N- . 2 a t  J i ra l e  I:; li g, II . I  I Fre  sh  .



Socio-Economic Environment
Demography
63.   The Ogaden is one of the least developed regions of Ethiopia. Gode is the capital of
the former Ogaden Autonomous Region. Other main towns are Kebri Dehar (the historic
capital), Warder and Kelafo.  Official statistics estimate the region's population at 1.3
million (1989)'4 and Gode's population at 7,158 (1990)'5.  But census figures may be
grossly inaccurate owing to the nomadic nature of many of the region's inhabitants. A
survey conducted in 1991 produced population estimates about one third lower than the
official figures, putting the Ogaden population at less than one million'6. It should be
noted, however, that the steady influx of refugees and returnees from Somalia makes any
population estimate rapidly obsolete. For example, the Project mission to Gode in February
1992 was informed that the resident population amounted to some 10,000 inhabitants in
addition to which there were about 100,000 refugees and returnees from Somalia; by
December 1992 the population in the two refugee camps of Gode town was estimated to be
about 35,000.
64.   Wars between Ethiopia and Somalia in 1963/4 and 1977/8 for control of the Ogaden
resulted in large out-flows of Somali from the area, while the ongoing civil strife in Somalia
has reversed the movement toward Ethiopia. At least 400,000 people are estimated to have
found their way to the Ogaden in the past two years. About two thirds of them are believed
to be returnees, that is, Ethiopian nationals who had fled to Somalia, mostly during the
Ethiopia-Somali wars, and are now forced to come back. In the rural areas, about one third
of the population are returnees who have come to stay with relatives and share with them
their often meager resources'7. However, it is difficult to distinguish between refugees,
returnees and local 'drought affected' victims-certainly, no distinctions are made in the
three relief camps in the project area (Gode 1, Gode 2 and Kelafo).
Economy
65.   The region's economy is essentially  based on extensive livestock production.
Although the rangeland is not ecologically homogeneous, in the south of the region it is more
appropriate for camels than for cattle. True wealth in the pastoral communities is measured
in number of camels, and disputes and marriages are settled through their exchange.
However, substantial numbers of cattle have been accumulated, especially during good
14    CSA, Statistical Abstract 1988, CSA: Addis Ababa.
15    Results of municipal census as reported in 'Demographic Features and Profile or Urban Services in
Gode Town' by Workshet Lamenew, National Urban Planning Institute, Addis, January 1991
(mimeograph).
16    Save the Children, An End to Isolation, Save the Children: London, October 1991.
17    Save the Children, op. cit.
21



rainfall years. Goats and sheep constitute about half of the total livestock (estimated at 5
million heads in 1982)'" and are one of the most important sources of foreign exchange for
the region, especially "blackhead" sheep which are highly prized by Gulf countries. There
is a large scale 'unofficial' trade in livestock (especially small stock) with the Gulf via
Somalia.
66.   Camels, sheep and goats, and cattle are normally herded separately in order to utilize
associations of browse, grazing and water on the range. All species are brought within the
vicinity of permanent water in the dry seasons, but move to other areas when water becomes
available in the wet seasons. Camels are normally herded in the driest places (they may be
watered at a maximum of every fourteen days).
67.   Crop farming is negligible owing to the lack of rainfall and inadequate water supply
from wells and the Wabi Shebele river which, for much of its course, is deeply incised in
its bed. Nevertheless, settled farmers can be found along the Wabi Shebele, particularly
where it is possible to exploit seasonally inundated areas, for example at Imi, Kelafo, and
Mustahil or where pump irrigation has been introduced (e.g., state farms near Gode and
Kelafo). According to Save the Children, settled farmers could be as many as 80,000 (i.e.,
almost 8 percent of the population), while agro-pastoralists are about one third of the rural
population'9. Crop failure in purely rain-fed agriculture is very common (successful crops
do not seem to occur more than once in three years), while the severe sfiortage of fuel, for
supplying power and operating pumps, has made it impossible to obtain sufficient water for
irrigated agriculture on a reliable basis20. The two main crops are maize and, to a lesser
extent, sorghum; the only cash crop, cotton, is limited to Gode State Farms.
68.   Water development is crucial if the region is to become independent of food
assistance.  A  reliable supply of water could dramatically alleviate the shortage of
agricultural products and stabilize herd sizes, but any intervention to improve water
availability needs to be studied with extreme care because the rangeland is highly susceptible
to environmental damage and because interventions to benefit one community may have
disastrous effects on communities downstream.
69.   Both the economic and social life of the region are inextricably linked to Somalia.
The main non-pastoral activity is informal trade with Somalia, to the point that the Somali
shilling is the preferred currency. For more than a decade, the pnncipal source of grain and
IS    Bekele Teklu, wSome Economic Factors for the  Preparation of Gode Development Plan',
mimeograph, National Urban Planning Institute, Addis, November 1991.
19    Save the Children, op.cit., p.32-34.
20    Presently, fuel has to be trucked from Assab, a distance of over 1,500 km, making power supply in
the region one of the most expensive for the Ethiopia Electric Power Authority. As a result of diesel
shortage, state farms around Gode and Kelafo could not be irrigated last year, and many settled
farmers became dependent on relief.



of most other basic commodities has been Somalia, from whose ports Ogadeni livestock has
been exported to the Gulf countries. Many pastoralists in the Ogaden use water points in
Somalia, and it is not uncommon for wealthy residents to have studied and own property in
Somalia. Strong economic and clan relationships have meant a constant traffic of people
across the Ethiopia-Somalia border.
70.   It is difficult to overestimate the damage to the Ogaden economy caused by the
collapse of Somalia. With the almost complete interruption of trade, prices have gone up,
terms of trade have deteriorated and unemployment has shot up. The influx of large
numbers of destitutes, often generously assisted by local residents, has meant that fewer
resources have to be shared by more people. Should Somalia gain peace and stability, it will
take it a long time to re-build the economy sufficiently to absorb those who fled, so a
significant percentage of refugees/returnees are likely to remain in the area. But the
increased population is straining the environment, which in some areas is already showing
signs of stress. In a land where recurrent droughts have given ample warning of the inability
of the ecosystem to sustain current stocking levels, it is difficult to imagine how self-
sufficiency can be achieved without a massive development effort to diversify and strengthen
the economic base.
Socio-Cultural Organization
71.   While Islam provides an important point of reference and Sharia law at least
theoretically a basis for regulating Somali society, the key to an understanding of Somali
social organization and ideas of community is clanship. Patrilineal descent provides every
Somali with a way of dividing his/her society into a hierarchy of increasingly inclusive
kinship groups. In the Somali clan system every ancestor who has sons is at the same time
a point of segmentation into kinship groups and a point of unity in himself. Within Region
5 there are representatives of four major clan-families: Hawiye, Pre-Hawiye, Dir and Darod.
The dominant clan-family in the Shilabo area is Darod.
72.   Most of the time, Somalis only operate at the lower levels of the segmentary system.
Clan-families are too large and unwieldy to act as corporate entities. As a result, most
individuals relate to smaller groups with a shallower time depth. The important levels of
segmentation are:
Clan-Family
Clan
Sub-Clan
Jufo Group
73.   The Somali terms for clan and sub-clan have no fixed definitions but are largely
situationally defined. At the lower levels of the segmentary tree are that group of closely
23



related kinsmen, called Jufo, who are primarily responsible for receiving and paying blood
money.
74.   Clanship expresses all that is strong and binding in Somali society. While clans do
not strictly define particular clan territories, most Somali have a concept of a home area, in
which their clan or sub-clan normally lives and moves. Generally this area will be dominated
by one particular clan. In Shilabo the town is divided into two parts: the northern part is
dominated by Makhahil and the southern part by Bah'Gerri. Outside the town both clans
have their own particular areas although there is, in practice, considerable intermingling on
the ground. Calub is generally identified as the home of one sub-clan of Bah'Gerri, called
Reer Adain Issak.
Outside Interventions
75.   Apart from defence and security operations, by far the greatest official expenditure
on the region has been for humanitarian relief. This has varied in intensity during the past
two decades, but hardly a year has gone by without some emergency action to bring in food
and medical care. With the ongoing armed conflict in Somalia the situation has reached new
depths of misery. In October 1992, an estimated 350,000 people were in urgent need of
food, and death and malnutrition rates rivaled those of Somalia2" (see Figure 4). UN relief
agencies active in the region have divided their responsibilities geographically, with the
Emergency Preparedness and Prevention Group of the United Nations Development Program
(EPPG/UN) organizing aid deliveries in close collaboration with the World Food Program
(WFP) in the area south of Degah Bur, i.e., the Ogaden proper, and the UN High
Commission for Refugees (UNHCR) focusing on the area north of Degah Bur (the old
administrative region of Eastern Hararghe).
21    The situation was so bad, that it caught the attention of the mass media. See, for example: Jennifer
Parmelee, 'Hom of Africa's Overlooked Crisis', The Washington Post, 28 October 1992.
24



Figure 4: UN Airlift Deliveries to Ogaden. 1992
MT assorted relief commodities
2,500
2,034
2,000 _                                                   -            1,828
1,634
1,500          1,348
1,168
1,000                           85
663
566
Eoo
22
0-I
Feb    Mar    Apr    May    Jun         Jul    Aug    Sep    Oct
Barre    z  Gode    z  Kebri Dehar     = Kelafo    m  Shilabo
Ogaden includes Barre, Gode, Kebri Dehar
Kelafo and Shilabo
76.   The emergency food supply to the region carried out by international relief agencies
is one of the most expensive operations in the world because poor infrastructure and
insecurity make it necessary to rely almost exclusively on airlifts. Last year, almost 6
million US dollars were spent by international donors and NGOs to supply food to returnees,
refugees and drought victims.  Unfortunately, there is little hope of an immediate
improvement of the situation. As a relief official put it, "the average duration of a refugee
camp is seven years, and we do not expect this to be an exception."
77.   Only two international NGOs are active in the Ogaden. Medecins Sans Frontieres
(Belgium) operates feeding centers in Gode and provides limited emergency health care.
Concern (Ireland) is based in Kelafo and has recently started operating in Gode. Their
activity is relief oriented, but they are in the process of finalizing agreements for
rehabilitating an irrigation project near Kelafo which was originally started by UNHCR and
the World Lutheran Federation. In addition, there is a newly established local NGO,
Guardian, presently looking for funding for a food-for-work road rehabilitation project (the
Dire Dawa-Dambal-Jijiga road) and a small integrated rural development project for
returnees in Kelafo district.
78.   The only exception to two decades of assistance in the form of relief is the South East
Rangelands Project (SERP) financed by the African Development Bank under the Third
Livestock Project: SERP was launched in 1990 as a six-year project for the south-east
rangelands covering most of the present Region 5. Its most important component is
25



veterinary care, but it covers also rangeland management, dry-land agronomy, livestock
marketing, "light" infrastructure (e.g., small rural access roads, shallow wells, cisterns),
extension, and community and institutional development. Its overall objective is to improve
livestock production and food security while ensuring the sustainability of the natural
resource base.
79.   UNDP is in the process of preparing a comprehensive plan for the economic and
social development of the region with contributions from the African Development Bank,
FAO, UNICEF and UNHCR. The plan is to be comprised of initiatives to develop
agriculture and cottage industries, and upgrade the infrastructure and quality of social
services in the region. Ready availability of energy is an essential support element of the
intended development initiatives. This plan, however, is several months away from being
completed. The UNDP mission in Addis Ababa has given its unequivocal support to the
Calub Energy Development Project and the development impact the project is expected to
have in the region.
Needs Expressed by the Population
80.   A needs assessment conducted by two multi-agency teams in October 19921 points
out that the problems in the Ogaden appear to be similar throughout the region. The field
experience of the Environmental Assessment Team confirms this impression. Meetings with
local authorities (both traditional and elected), women's groups and assorted individuals in
the main towns (Gode, Kebri Dehar, Kelafo) as well as in the villages close to the Calub gas
field, produced more or less the same list of needs-and grievances. Below are the three
most common.
(a)   Access to water is generally the priority. The problem may be quantity,
quality, or both. People in Harat (19 km west of Calub) complain about
having to walk 6 km to the closest well in Jirale, but water from the Jirale
well is abundant and of good quality. People in Shilabo (30 km east of
Calub) have access to water at the edge of the village, but it is brackish water
only palatable to camels; another well with apparently good quality water was
drilled by the Ethiopian Water Works Construction Authority (EWWCA)
three years ago, but the necessary pump was never installed and the well has
been capped. In Lasole (16 km north of Shilabo) there is a well providing
good water, but diesel necessary to operate the pump is not available on a
reliable basis. None of the larger towns has access to enough water, and
rationing is the rule rather than the exception.
This situation resulted in requests for new wells to be drilled, pumps to be
repaired or installed, and enough diesel to operate the pumps as needed. It
22    United Nations Emergency Prevention and Preparedness Group in Ethiopia (with the Relief and
Rehabilitation Commission), 'Joint Iniformal Needs Assessment of the Ogaden Autonomous Region.'
draft, Addis Ababa, November 1992.
26



would appear that solar or wind-operated pumps are not known, nor is there
an awareness that water can be desalinized.
(b)   Lack of employment opportunities is rapidly becoming a major concern, with
refugees/returnees coming to swell the lines of the unemployed. Several
times it was pointed out that highlanders are routinely preferred to Somali for
jobs in the civil service, even when qualified local residents are available or
when the ability to speak Somali is an important part of the jobs. In Kebri
Dehar, for example, not a single Ogadeni was reported to be on the
permanent government payroll.
Different solutions were envisaged by different groups, including the
availability of credit schemes for micro and small enterprises, some form of
affirmative action to increase the number of Somali speakers in government
jobs, and creation of jobs in the private sector.
(c)   Lack of access to health and education services was lamented by all. Only
three hospitals are located in the Ogaden: in Gode, in Kebri Dehar, and in
Kelafo;. they are all under-staffed and under-funded. Even when a nurse may
be available, such as in Shilabo, medicines are impossible to find. UNICEF
has been supplying medicines through the Ministry of Health, but their
distribution appears to be hampered by bureaucracy and lack of experience.
Women in particular expressed their concern at the lack of pre-and post-natal
care, and reported high maternal and infant mortality rates.
Infrastructure
Roads
81.   The existing road from Calub to Shilabo is a dirt road recently opened by the Oil and
Gas Exploration and Development Office (OGEDO) without reference to any road design
standards. It passes through arid, flat to rolling terrain with very sparse vegetation. The
sub-grade material is mostly fine sand and the gravel used for road construction is not strong
enough to support heavy traffic. Side ditches and drainage structures are nonexistent, so that
with heavy rain the road becomes impassable. This road requires complete reconstruction
to feeder road standards in order to support the expected traffic levels of 50 to 100 vehicles
per day.
82.   From Shilabo to Kebri Dehar, the road passes through a semi-desert area of thom
bushes and acacia trees. The terrain is mostly flat with a few rolling stretches. The road
passes through an area of historic significance (Korahe Meda, site of a famous battle against
the Italians). Subbase materials (varying from sandy clay to gravel) are of poor quality,
resulting in widespread corrugation of the road surface. Drainage problems on this segment
are minor.
27



83.   The Kebri Dehar-Degah Bur section passes through a hilly area with slightly more
vegetation, crossing a small swamp near the village of Sheikosh. The rosad alignment could
be improved and the road surface is deformed due to prevalent sub-grade and subbase
failures. Masonry culverts and waterways are generally not in bad shape, but a few need
to be replaced; side ditches have silted up due to lack of maintenance. Road width should
be made uniforrm throughout this section.
84.   From Degah Bur to Jijiga, the road again passes through a relatively flat terrain with
a few rolling stretches. Starting at km 400 (from Calub), the road rises gently to reach the
town of Kebri Beyah. From Kebri Beyah to Jijiga the area is undulating. Surface materials
are naturally occurring materials nearby, varying from weak gravel to silty sand. This
section of the road is more deteriorated due to the heavier volumes of traffic and the high
axle loads it supports (nearly 200 vehicles per day, largely associated with serving the needs
of the nearby refugee camps). As a result, the road shows extensive base failure. Some
drainage improvements are also needed.
85.   The road from Jijiga to Harar rises through flat and rolling terrain to the Karamara
mountain pass.  On the other side of the pass, the terrain is predominantly hilly and
mountainous. This part experiences traffic volumes of 250-350 vehicles per day, resulting
in extensive pavement failure. Drainage structures and side ditches need to be de-silted and
repaired, or in a few cases replaced. Realignment of the road will be needed on some
sections to reduce steep gradients and hillside cuts.
Industrial Facilities
86.   There are no industrial facilities existing in the project area. The only facilities are
those supplied by the (then) Soviet Union more than ten years ago for their exploration
activities. The Soviet compound at Calub is some 1.5 Km away from the landing strip built
for the drilling activities, along the road from Shilabo to the villages of Harat and Jirale.
Both the landing strip and the access road are not paved, have not been maintained recently
and for these reasons are very sensitive to weather conditions. Although precipitation in the
area barely reaches 350 mm per year, rain may be very heavy at times. Due to the
impermeability of the soil, the road is easily transformed into a muddy river, making driving
almost impossible. The landing strip presents neither overnight landing facilities nor a radio
communication system.
87.   The camp is a square of 200 x 200 m surrounded by a barbed-wire fence that needs
urgent maintenance. Four water wells (called 34G, 35G, 36G and 37G), drilled around the
perimeter, provide water to the camp and the drilling sites. Each well is 200 meters deep
and was supposed to supply 21 m3 of water per day. At present, only the 35G well is used
and supplies 80 m3 of water per day. The water contains 13 g of salt per liter, but it is used
also as drinking water.
Facilities in the camp include (see figure 5 for a map):
*     a radio station (no telephone facilities are available in the area);
28



*     a mechanical workshop for maintenance of equipment and trucks;
*     a small yard equipped with a bridge crane;
*     an incomplete one-story building meant for the accommodation of workers
(only peripheral walls are in place);
*     some twenty prefabricated mobile houses, generally in bad condition (e.g.,
leaking roofs, missing windows, cracked walls and floors), used to house
workers and, recently, EPRDF soldiers protecting the camp; four trailers have
air conditioners and two are set up as shower rooms;
*     a covered storage area for drilling materials and consumables;
*     a fuel (diesel) depot with five 10,000 liters tanks in reasonably good
conditions, but well below acceptable security standards;
*     a power station with four diesel generators, of which at least one out of order;
*     a recreation room and a small theater, plus a canteen.
*     two latrines with very rudimentary, and unsanitary, septic pits at the edges of
the compound; a previous septic pit, now full and covered, is nearby.
In addition, the compound is full of trucks and equipment, mostly out of order.
88.   The camp and the drilling sites have been built and operated without any concern for
the environment. The water has been taken in the quantities needed wherever available,
without consideration to the possible effect on the water table and on the life of people and
animals living in the area. No sumps have been excavated for the safe disposal of industrial
waste. With the exception of the latrines, all other waste material-both organic and
inorganic-is simply abandoned wherever it is generated. As a result, the area is sparsely
littered with metal scraps, plastic containers, cans, food waste, broken equipment and parts,
oil and diesel spills, tires, etc. There are no contingency plans for spills of hydrocarbons
and hazardous mnaterials, but it appears that no major spills have occurred so far.
89.   Fortunately, because of the nature of the area and the type of work done so far
(drilling and casing), this carelessness does not appear to have caused any permanent damage
to the environment.
29



Figure 5: Existing Calub Camp Site
I     I 
o w- e-r 1    MAIN GATE              fuel
workshop         statlonfe
vehicles                          deposit
deposit
bridge
crane
D
r R7   D 
L                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
El = new buildings [never completed)
C = canteen
D = dormitory
L =)atrne
M  meeting point
R = radio
S = shower
T=theatre
W = water tank
30



lF 
}0
L
iR:X .
--- - 4|X" - ,
- = - g =Y w -:* f
., i.Z__ ' .@
_ - | '. - . ',
k ,_ .
fi
,               v    .      _  .   '  _  .
' ' . ' - . '_ ' ' '
. . ..
*__
w       v              * e ;*' 
_'   -    ',#
_                           __    _
Ca lub we l l



- - -
- - -
--E-
n
-
The main street in Shi labo (30 km west of Calub)
_ _ .
El#S'L@L; ;§St'zq _
d
__
,11 1 | . I 1._
_
_ _ I
The main welL in Shilabo



The road between ShiLabo and CaLub (after exceptionaLLy heavy rain)
The piezometric tank at LasoLe weLL, the present suppLy of water for Calub



Harat viLLage (19 km east of CaLub)
4
PLanning for a coLorfuL future: The HaLgan women's group in Kebri
Dehar (HaLgan=StruggLe in SomaLi)



Chapter 4
Environmental Impacts and Alternative Choices
90.   Potential environmental impacts have been divided into two categories, direct and
indirect. Impacts which can be expected to derive directly from implementing the project
as presently planned are examined first and in greater detail, focusing primarily on four
possible sources of environmental disruption: the exploitation of the Calub gas field, the
construction and operation of the plant at the field site, the creation of a townsite for plant
employees and their families, and the rehabilitation of the Shilabo-Harar road. Special
attention is devoted to the impact of the project on water resources and to alternative sources
of water supply for plant and townsite consumption.
91.   Regardless of how much direct disruption is caused to the environment, the indirect
impact of the project on local people will be considerable, primarily because of the relative
isolation in which the Ogaden has thus far lived. Therefore, potential socio-economic
changes in the project area, and possibly in the whole region, will be considered.
Gas Field Exploitation
92.   The impact of having several thousands tons of supplies and equipment in place,
semi-permanent field quarters established, the construction of roads and an air strip have
already been absorbed by the environment. It is not likely that work undertaken during the
course of the project will have any but a beneficial impact on the environment of the area.
93.   Reservoir andfield reserves. The three reservoirs of the field (Adigrat A and B, and
Calub) have been in their present state in excess of one hundred million years, and are thus
in a state of equilibrium. The pre-project and project activities involve removing a portion
of the contents of the reservoirs, interchanging some of the contents between reservoirs, and
changing the chemical composition of the reserves through extraction, processing and re-
injection. These are common oil field activities and pose no special problems at Calub.
94. Disposal of produced formation water. The pore-volume voidage resulting from the
ultimate depletion of the reserves of methane through production is replaced by saline
formation water which migrates into the pressure sink created by the withdrawal of the gas
reserves. The portion of the formation water which co-exists in the pore spaces with the gas
can be expected to be produced along with the gas. This, and its replacement by migrating
formation water from outside the confines of the field, is a natural response to subsurface
pressure disequilibrium which results from displacement of hydrocarbons through production,
and to a large extent it is reversible.
95.   The saline formation water which will be entrained with the gas during production,
will be separated and recovered at the onset of the processing operations at the surface. This
35



recovered formation water, with its high salinity of approximately five times that of sea
water, presents disposal problems in a semi-arid climate. Potential solutions are examined
below.
(a)   Pumping the recovered water into a lined evaporation pit adjacent to the plant is one
of the most economical solutions. Unfortunately, there is no practical use for the
resulting salts, although they could conceivably be processed as a cottage industry for
local consumption.
(b)   Pumping the recovered formation water into waste disposal wells which reach
aquifers below those which provide potable water, adjacent to the plant. Care must
be taken not to contaminate the potable ground water, and this can be difficult, but
is commonly done when surface evaporation is not suitable. This is the most
economic and practical solution at Calub.
(c)   Desalinization, in which the resulting recovered fresh water can be recycled and used
to meet process requirements, fire fighting, and utility purposes. As in (a) above,
there is no practical use for the resulting salts, although they could conceivably be
processed in a cottage industry fashion for local consumption.
(d)   Reinjection of the recovered formation water back into the fonnation from which it
was produced. This is the ultimate ecological solution, but also expensive in as much
as it requires a dedicated well, and a piping and pumping system for the water
disposal separate from that dedicated to gas reinjection. It is possible that the Calub-
10 well, which for geological reasons cannot be used for either production or
injection at the Adigrat level, can be utilized for this process.
96.   Of the options presented above, the last one (reinjection of the recovered formation
water back into the formation from which it was produced) is recommended. The Calub
company will therefore be requested to carry out detailed studies for its implementation.
Should this solution result unpractical or unfeasible, option (b) should be chosen.
94.   Drillingfluid and debris disposal. In as much as the bulk of the drilling has been
completed, only a minor amount of this type of activity is contemplated during the life of
the project, and hence little impact is foreseen. The existing wells have had their cuttings,
used mud and other debris dumped next to the individual well gites, and over the intervening
years, these debris have been absorbed by the landscape.
97.   Existing wells. Early in the life of the project, a detailed survey of each of the well-
sites will need to be made, and the required environmental remedial work undertaken. This
is good oil-field practice, in as much as these wells represent the product warehouse for the
processing plant, and therefore will need to be routinely inspected, serviced, worked over
and generally treated as valuable equipment. In the course of this, a concrete cellar will be
constructed around the well head, a cement work pad will be built adjacent to the well head
to support the required equipment, a high pressure well head valve set installed, and
protective cages and security fences installed. The practical side effect of this required work
36



will likely be the environmental cleanup of debris which may have remained from the
drilling and casing of these wells by the Soviet Expedition.
96.   Completion of all wells. The equipment required to re-enter the existing wells, clean
them out, run a suite of diagnostic evaluation surveys, undertake the indicated remedial
work, perforate and flow test the gas reservoir, and install and test the required production
equipment, is the same as that required originally to drill the wells. The procedures
involved, therefore, are similar to those utilized in the drilling of the wells described above.
Moreover, the requirement-for safety reasons-to maintain a clean work place free of
debris, serves to minimize any additional environmental impact beyond that which has
resulted from the initial drilling of the well.
98.   The production of natural gas is inherently a clean operation due to the chemical and
physical properties of the gas and natural gas liquids with which the project is dealing.
Furthermore, the liquids are paraffinic rather than asphaltic in composition. The well
documented smoke plumes from the oil field fires of Kuwait, for example, were the result
of the burning of asphaltic crude oil; for the reasons given, this is not likely to occur at
Calub.
96.   Testing and production of wells. The productive capability of each well needs to be
known for efficient field operation; each well must therefore be extensively flow tested over
a range of pressures and flow rates in order to determine its capacity to produce under
various conditions of demand, and flow-line back-pressures. To do this requires that each
well be flowed to the atmosphere through a choke of variable size, while the well head
pressure and flow rates are measured under stabilized flowing conditions. The gas and the
entrained liquids which are produced as a result of this testing procedure are measured,
sampled, analyzed and then flowed through a burner. The design of the burner is such that
as complete a combustion process as possible occurs, with very little carbon monoxide or
un-oxidized carbon (smoke) being produced. With complete combustion, the only outputs
besides considerable heat and light, are carbon dioxide and water vapor, all of which are
largely environmentally benign.
99.   With the completion of the testing of each well, the wells are connected to individual
flow lines which deliver the production to a manifold system where the pressure is dropped
to that required for the process plant, and processing begins. For practical reasons, and for
reasons of safety as well, this process must be as leak-free as possible. The presence of
highly inflammable hydrocarbons, mixed with atmospheric oxygen under conditions of high
temperature and pressure, in close proximity to sources of heat is an explosive combination
of catastrophic proportions.
Plant Construction and Operation
100. The area in the immediate vicinity of Calub is basically uninhabited, with only
pastoralists coming through from time to time with their animals in search of forage. There
do not appear to be traditional paths used by herders, nor seasonal camp sites or sites with
37



a special cultural/religious meaning. The landscape is quite barren: only shrubs grow on the
dry soil, with no permanent sources of water providing reliable 'relief against recurrent
droughts, let alone the possibility of cultivating the land. In terms of land use, therefore, the
location of the plant (and the township) does not appear to pose problems.
101.  As the Calub plant will be a simple refinery without cracking facilities, chances for
pollution on account of phenolicks are virtually nonexistent.  Similarly, emission of
particulate matters through catalyst fines will also be virtually nonexistent. By burning
sulfur-free clean fuel gas for all heating purposes, emission of oxides of sulfur, hydrogen
sulfide, and overall emission of partially burned hydrocarbons will be minimized. The
emission of hydrocarbons through evaporation will be minimized by limiting bulk storage
of products to only seven days.
102. Even though atmospheric pollution will be limited to negligible levels, as explained
above, there is the potential for pollution of the environment through oil spillage and leaks.
By making the design simple and compact (i.e., skid mounted modular construction to the
maximum extent possible) and by installing closed recovery loops for spillages, however,
the chances for such incidents will be minimal. Providing suitable training and monitoring
procedures will enable plant staff to take prompt remedial measures for cleanup in the case
of any accidental oil spills.
103. Regarding the liquid effluent leaving the refinery, all modern international industry
practices appropriate to the specific Calub environment will be employed in the design,
construction, maintenance and operation to minimize oil content, biological and chemical
oxygen demand, and total suspended matter in the water discharging from the refinery. For
this purpose, internationally accepted standards (e.g., EPA or equivalent) will be adopted as
the basis for comparison. In particular, dumping of any oil wastes, construction wastes or
any other harmful materials will be avoided (see next chapter). The use of process water
in the refinery will be minimized by using maximum air cooling and recirculation. A
discussion of alternative sources of water for the plant and townsite is presented in a separate
section.
104.  The total liquid effluent leaving the refinery will be known only after the design is
completed. Water that is not contaminated with oil will be segregated and recycled. All oil-
contaminated water will be treated to remove oil, reduce suspended matters, and control the
chemical and biological oxygen demand to produce an effluent that will meet internationally
accepted standards (e.g., EPA or equivalent). A rough estimate of such effluent water is
about 10 m3 per day; depending on its actual composition, it will be recycled for the cooling
system or routed to guard-ponds.
105.  Regarding gases, release of unburned hydrocarbons will be minimized: all the purge
and relief gases will be collected and either used in the refinery furnaces or burned in the
flare as per normal petroleum industry safety standards. Being virtually sulfur free gases,
pollution on account of hydrogen sulfide or oxides of sulfur is not anticipated.
38



Alternatives for Water Supply to the Plant and Townsite
106.  Water requirements for the operation of the plant and the townsite will be
approximately 150 m3/day (see Chapter 2 for details). Given the scarcity of water in the
region, the source of water has to be chosen very carefully. Two basic alternatives are
available: taking it from the Wabi Shebele river or obtaining it from wells. In the former
case, water can be piped or trucked to the plant. In the latter case, water can be obtained
from shallower alluvial aquifers or deeper formation water. Each alternative is examined
in turn.
107. The Calub plant will be at 85 km from the Wabi Shebele. Estimates of the cost of
building a water pipeline between the plant and the river are US$ 1.1 million for a 3"
unburied pipe line, and US$ 1.7 million for a 4" unburied pipeline. Trucking the water will
entail three or four round trips a day, for an estimated US$ 320,000 a year, but it is likely
that the road will need to be upgraded and therefore that cost added.'
108. The main problem with taking water from the Wabi Shebele is not the financial cost
entailed, but the social and political cost. People living along the river depend completely
on the river's water because they are settled farmers. Although water requirements for the
plant and townsite are minimal with respect to the river flow, it is certain that they would
not like to see their water taken away toward other territory, to the peint that it would be
difficult to guarantee the safety of vehicles or the maintenance of the pipeline. In addition,
much of the economic life of southern Somalia depends water from the Wabi Shebele for
irrigated agriculture. Any flow decrease could threaten the livelihood of thousands of people
and possibly create a dispute over international riparian rights with the Somali population
who live along the river further south. For these reasons, any interference with the water
regimen of the Wabi Shebele should be avoided.
109. The second alternative available is to obtain water from wells-shallow wells for
alluvial aquifers and deep wells for formation water. Alluvial aquifers, being easy to access
without expensive equipment, are utilized by local people. These aquifers tend to contain
potable water through recharge by surface sources, which also accounts for the low mineral
content of the water. Unfortunately, available data do not permit a precise estimate of the
maximum amount of water which could be extracted from these shallow aquifers on a
sustainable basis. In any case, exploitable reserves would be difficult to calculate and change
over time, because these aquifers depend on surface recharge, i.e., on rainfall for
replacement through down-slope movement, evaporation, seepage and human utilization.
For these reasons, using alluvial aquifers for industrial purposes is likely to be in conflict
with local usage during the economic life of the project.
110.  Formation water is theoretically available from two sources: the cretaceous Faf
formation and the gas bearing reservoir. Both the Adigrat and Calub reservoir contain
highly saline connate water which may be expected to be produced as a by-product of
23    Estimates by GeoTechnip, Project Feasibility Study, October 1992.



commercial gas. This produced water offers the possibility of desalinization, but its mineral
content, in excess of 200 g/l (i.e., five times that of sea water), makes desalinization an
expensive process. In addition, there remains the problem of residual salt disposal.
111.  The most widely developed, near-surface aquifers are the limy-clays and marl
interbeds of the Faf limestone formation of cretaceous age. The mineral content of the
formation water from these aquifers is in the 10-15 g/l range, but in topographically low-
lying areas where infiltration of surface water is possible, the mineral content is commonly
diluted to the 3-5 g/1 range. Whether diluted with surface water or not, the formation water
is characterized by high calcium, magnesium, sulphate and bicarbonate ions, in addition to
the more common sodium and chlorine ions which are associated with surface water.
112. Residents in the Calub/Shilabo area have reported instances in which shallow wells
have dried up or their water has become undrinkable, thus it appears that the upper aquifers
are already under stress. The continuous influx of people coming from Somalia is expected
to further strain the capacity of the existing fresh water wells fed by the upper aquifers. The
deeper aquifers, on the other hand, have a much larger capacity and their depth has limited
their exploitation to date. Relying on these aquifers for plant and township water supply,
therefore, represents the most viable choice, provided a water depuration and desalinization
system are installed to bring water composition in line with plant requirements.
Recommendations for the necessary steps are provided in the following chapter.
Alternatives for Townsite Location
113.  Given the homogeneity of rangeland configuration and exploitation in this area,
problems of water provision and waste disposal, and their technical solution, are likely to
be similar at any point in the Calub area. Thus, economic and social factors are accorded
priority in determining the best location for the townsite. There are two options possible
according to the chosen form of work organization:
(a)    Workers would remain a specaied period at the plant (say, one or two
months) and then would spend a peniod away from the plant. In this case, the
families would not follow them and only sleeping quarters with limited
services (e.g., a canteen) will need to be built within the campsite, much as
it was done during the exploration work. Plant workers would live inside a
small and insulated area and would not actively interact with the surrounding
social context. The improvement brought by the plant to living conditions in
the area would be minimal.
(b)   A regular employment scheme would be adopted, with eight-hour shifts and
weekly rest days throughout the year. In this case, workers would live with
their families and a proper townsite would need to be built. Potential benefits
to the indigenous population are far greater with this option. Because Harat,
the closest settlement to the future Calub plant site, is quite primitive and on
a road which would not tolerate increased traffic (and is not scheduled for
40



upgrading), two basic choices are considered: near the Calub plant or at
Shilabo town24. They are discussed below.
114.  Building the townsite in the proximity of the Calub plant itself would probably be a
better economic choice.   Proximity to the work place would minimize delays and
absenteeism; township maintenance would be combined with plant maintenance and therefore
be cheaper; transport costs of workers to the plant would be nil. But the social costs would
be higher. Workers and their families would find themselves isolated from a "natural"
community; for those coming from other areas, integration with the indigenous society would
be very difficult, if not impossible; basic services such as a school and shops would be
located 30 km away (no services area available in Harat or Jirale), and setting them up for
the exclusive use of the township would be both expensive and politically inappropriate.
115.  In addition, it is important to keep a balance in the distribution of resources between
the two main clans of the area. The Calub area is part of the clan territory of the Reer
Adain Issak, a sub-clan of the Bah'Gerri. It would be unwise to concentrate resources only
within the territory of this one sub-clan without allowing for a wider spread of the benefits
brought by the townsite. Because Shilabo is inhabited by both main clans, and it is the
district capital, its choice as a location for the townsite would be more acceptable. There
seem to be no major constrains in the location of the townsite within the village as there is
no town master plan. Discussion between the company and local leaders' will best identify
the proper site.
116.  Another argument in favor of locating the townsite near Shilabo rather than near
Calub are the benefits that could accrue to the village as a whole, regardless of whether a
member of the family is employed by the plant. As it will become clearer reading the
following sections, these benefits are just as important for social/humanitarian purposes as
they are for political, and ultimately strategic, considerations. It would be unacceptable for
Shilabo's residents to see resources flowing in and out of the Calub plant, leaving the village
to be a passive spectator of the wealth accruing to others. Shilabo's residents understand that
exploiting natural gas ("their" natural gas) will generate profits, and expect something in
return. Although some unrealistic expectations are bound to persist in spite of careful
explanations, it is important that not all expectations go disappointed. Specific actions to
take are discussed in the next chapter.
24     The town was built several decades ago when the Italians set up a fort in the area and drilled a water
well; following the defeat of the Italians, the Ethiopians used the fort as a defense against Somalis.
Today the EPRDF troops are still using the fort for security reasons.
25     Elders, members of the Peace and Stability Committee and elected members of the Regional and Local
government, when the results of the elections will be endorsed by the Central government.
41



Townsite for Plant Employees
117.  Because the Ogaden population tends to have a low standard of living and few
"modern" goods are available on the local markets, most of the waste presently produced is
naturally biodegradable. High value-added products which are not biodegradable --such as
plastic bags, cans and bottles-- are reused and recycled to the extent possible, so that very
little solid waste is actually generated.  Neither in Shilabo nor in the other smaller
settlements is there any waste disposal system, and whatever solid waste is produced, is
simply abandoned without any regard for sanitation, aestethics or odors. The establishment
of a townsite, however, will make waste disposal more problematic.
118. To begin with, the construction and furnishing of the townsite will create an unusual
volume of solid waste; some of it may not be easily recyclable, and other may be too heavy
or bulky to be disposed of without specialized equipment. The main problem, though, will
be the daily production of waste once the townsite is completed and houses are occupied.
While lack of any waste disposal system does not seem to have caused concern among local
residents until now, it will be neither desirable nor sustainable with a sudden population
increase. Without appropriate sewage and garbage disposal systems, environmental pollution
will result in a higher risk of diseases associated with poor sanitary conditions (e.g.,
diarrhea, cholera), unpleasant odors and unsightly views. In addition, abandoned refuse
could attract wild animals in search of food.
119.  At least during the initial period, the increase of both the town's population and its
income could raise the number of cows, goats, sheep and camels, because ownership of such
domestic animals represents the only "banking, saving and investment" system known by
most of the local population. If these animals are left to wander freely in the town, as is
currently the case, they might encroach on the cultivated land, eating and destroying crops.
In the worst case, they would reduce the Shilabo's surroundings to a virtual desert, as it has
already happened in areas around permanent water sources. Solutions could include building
pens to contain the animals, and building protective fences for cultivated areas or for areas
where heavy animal traffic is expected. Dung produced by the animals should be considered
an advantage rather than an environmental hazard, because it can be easily collected
(especially if animals are enclosed) and used or sold as natural fertilizer.
120.  Ethiopia is  a country with endemic diseases, concentrated in different areas.
Fortunately, in many cases local populations have acquired natural immunization against
those diseases most prevalent in the areas where they live. With the establishment of a new
settlement of migrants, however, diseases characteristic of other areas are likely to spread
to local residents, while migrants will find themselves easily infected by locally endemic
diseases. Risks of contagion will be higher in the absence of proper sanitation both for
townsite residents and for Shilabo's inhabitants, especially in situations where close
proximity between individuals is likely, such as in classrooms.
42



Road Rehabilitation
121.  Road construction will cause temporary noise and dust disturbance to people, animals
and plants in close proximity to construction activities. Significant amounts of subgrade and
subbase material may need to be excavated and dumped along some sections. Good
construction material must be identified, quarried, and transported to the site. Quarry sites
will be identified after materials survey during the design stage and are likely to be located
on rocky outcrops. Quarrying will be carried out by excavation with wheeled loader if
naturally occurring gravel of the correct goaching is identified. Otherwise, face material will
be excavated by sipping or blasting, then crushed and blended to give the right proportions.
Such quarries are likely to be relatively isolated from otherwise useful land and specific
reclamation will probably not be necessary.
122.  Road realignments and the placement and design of drainage structures will be
designed so that as far as possible they maintain existing crossflows and thus minimize their
effect on the road structure. The small wetland near Shekotch should be given special
attention during design and construction. Design and construction of the Harar-Jijiga section
through more mountainous terrain will have to pay special attention to erosion and landslide
risks. Care must be taken to ensure that road construction materials and blasting debris, if
any, are not dumped on farmers' fields.
123.  The road rehabilitation will not incur significant losses of vegetation nor will it
,directly affect any existing structures in the impact zone. Due to the sparse vegetation there
will be no need to use agrochemicals in road construction or maintenance. With the
exclusion of a "restricted hunting area" close to Harar, there are no protected areas in the
immediate vicinity of the road and construction activity will not require any resettlement.
124.  Construction water requirements is roughly estimated to be of the order of 500 m3/km
Present information indicates that this amount of water would be fairly readily available from
natural sources which would not be excessively depleted (see also next chapter). Runoff
should be minimal since the objective is to keep the water within the road construction in
order to raise its moisture content.
125.  The construction technology to be employed for the rehabilitation would use a mix
of heavy and light equipment, skilled and local labor. About 150 people will be employed
to work on each of the four stretches in which the road will be subdivided for contract
purposes. One third of the positions will be for drivers and tradesmen (e.g., masons,
carpenters), while the other two thirds will be unskilled or semi-skilled workers.  In
addition, camp support activities, such as cooking, will require some fifty workers.
Construction camp sites need to be determined and the environmental and social impacts of
these camps examined. To the extent the labor force can be drawn from local sources, these
impacts will be minimized.
126.  Restoration of the road to motorable, all-weather standards will provide an important
stimulus to traffic and development activity in the surrounding communities. The directly
project-related traffic increases (petroleum products transport) is estimated at about 25
43



vehicles per day over the length of the road. This represents a relatiyely minor share (about
15%) of the present traffic on the northern part of the road, but about 50% of the present
level of traffic on the southern part (south of Kebri Dehar). No attempt has been made to
estimate the traffic increase that may be induced by the vehicle cost savings resulting from
road improvements. It appears likely that this traffic will increase, and the associated
increase in economic activity in the affected communities, could be very substantial.
Indirect Impacts: Socio-Economic Changes
127.  The title of the only recent published work on the Ogaden, "An End to Isolation",
was aptly chosen26. For isolation is arguably the most important characteristic of the
region-it explains its present situation and indicates the way to development. It is against
a backdrop of geographic and political isolation from the rest of the country, therefore, that
the expected impact of the Calub project has to be understood.
128.  The relative isolation in which local people have been living has fostered a self-reliant
attitude which has manifested itself in both positive and negative ways. On the positive side
is the fact that communities have not been waiting for the intervention of the central
government to solve their problems; rather, they have relied on their strong traditions to sort
out local government issues and provide assistance to their less fortunate members. In 1991
it was found that the majority of recent returnees from Somalia (some 210,000) were not
registered by relief agencies and were living in the countryside with their relatives-some
times very distant relatives. The fact that the nutritional status of the children of these
returnees was similar to that of local rural children testifies to the generosity and the self-
reliance of the people of Ogaden.
129.  But the near absence of a central government authority has had its downsides. Inter-
clan, and even intra-clan, fighting over grazing and water is common, and in the past it has
proven difficult to control. Last year conflict between Rer Barre and Ogadeni in the Kelafo
area has allegedly produced conditions of absolute destitution when villages were burned to
the ground. The general state of insecurity in the region has certainly deterred many
truckers and traders from coming, thus raising the prices demanded by those who dared
venturing in the depth of Ogaden. The presence of large military contingents sent by the
central government has been resented by many. However, it is undeniable that the military
and the local Peace and Stability Committees have made largely successful efforts to stamp
out any signs of banditry or inter-clan conflict.
130. The rehabilitation of the road from Calub/Shilabo to Harar is expected to have a
major impact on regional development, because it will help end Ogaden's isolation. The
benefits derived from improved communication with Ethiopia's central regions can hardly
be overemphasized, as the encouraging remarks made by all donors and local residents made
clear. Road construction will bring temporary employment and income benefits to local
26    Save the Children, op.cit.
44



people, probably mostly men, but with a multiplier effect on the welfare of women and
children. In addition, there may be opportunities for women to provide ancillary services
to road construction crews, such as meal and drink preparation.
131.  Private truckers, often reluctant to use the road in view of the inevitable damage to
their vehicles and the uncertain security situation, will bring in grains and other goods, thus
lowering prices on the local market. In addition to the direct benefits represented by the
temporary jobs created during the road upgrading phase, increased traffic will spur a number
of service activities along the road, such as restaurants and hotels. At the same time, it will
become easier for the local population to market their products to larger markets. For
instance, it will reduce time to export livestock from Ogaden through the ports of Zeila and
Berbera. The net result should be an improvement in the terms of trade for local people.
132.  While there is no doubt that easier access to the region is an essential condition for
development, it should be remembered that it may also have negative aspects. For example,
one of the most popular products sold by local residents at the road side is charcoal for urban
markets. The small number of vehicles on the road thus far has limited such commerce, but
heavier traffic can be expected to result in larger quantities of charcoal for sale, with
predictably bad consequences for the environment. Epidemiological studies show that
heavier road traffic is also likely to contribute to the spread of AIDS and other sexually
transmitted diseases, brought in by travelers and propagated by prostitutes.27
133.  As a result of road rehabilitation and, to a minor extent, of plant construction and
operation, there will be a considerable number of "foreigners" (that is, of people not of
Somali origin) coming into the region. Inevitably, some aspects of "foreign" cultures will
be adopted by indigenous people, either replacing the local culture or coexisting with it. In
this regard, the recent massive influx of refugees from Somalia may ease the process. In
fact, a considerable number of them have rather sophisticated urban backgrounds and
experience in working abroad-many have travelled widely and worked in the Middle East.
To the extent to which these refugees are being absorbed into the local communities, as it
appears to be the case, they represent both an initial opening of the local communities to the
outside world and a potentially dynamic force which will encourage further opening".
134.  Ironically, it is the present influx of refugees from Somalia which may also pose the
risk to damage the human environment, for the sudden availability of large numbers of
qualified local people offers a challenge and a danger. The challenge is that their energies
can be harnessed to develop the Ogaden economy, the danger is that they will grow
disaffected because the opportunities for employment will not materialize. The Calub
project, therefore, is likely to find itself in a difficult position, whereby new arrivals compete
27    Economic hardship and crowded refugee camps are likely to further exacerbate this problem.
28    For a more detailed analysis on the impact of refugees in the region see: Richard Hogg, 'Changing
Mandates in the Ogaden: The Impact of Somali Refugees/Returnees on the UNHCR", paper presented
at the Symposium for the Horn of Africa on the Social and Economic Aspects of Mass Voluntary
Return Movements of Refugees, Addis Ababa, 15-17 September 1992.
45



with long-time residents for what will inevitably be too few jobs. Avoiding the dilemma by
employing non-Somali would clearly not be an acceptable solution, so a compromise has to
be carefully crafted and maintained (see following chapter).
135.  Induced development activities are likely to transform the socioeconomic situation of
the local people, including settled farmers, nomadic pastoralists and temporary residents
(refugees).  For instance, opening to the outside world means paving the way to
innovations-new technologies will be imported and new businesses will be opened. A likely
effect of economic diversification and development will be that some people will be able to
accumulate profits, and economic inequality will probably increase. Moreover, new wealth
may not necessarily be distributed in a way that reflects traditional power structures, thus
creating a new aristocracy (or rather, plutocracy). How society will adjust to this change
is difficult to predict. On the one hand, the strong hierarchical organization of clans means
that homogeneity among clan members is not expected, and therefore the indigenous culture
can tolerate considerable differences in socio-economic status. On the other hand, the fact
that power will go to some people who do not have a traditional right to it may cause
tension, including outright boycotts or violence29. One way or another, it should be
remembered that, within close clan relationships, who has resources is bound to help the
destitute, as exemplified by the assistance given to refugees.
136.  In spite of the above caveats, most of the socio-economic changes brought by the
Calub project are expected to be positive. The project has been.hailed by donors and NGOs
as a historic opportunity for the Ogaden to start a long overdue development process. As
mentioned earlier, better infrastructure will boost commerce and trade, reliable availability
of fuel will make it possible to adopt improved technologies and to provide better quality
social services, and new jobs will bring relative prosperity to many households. The
approach detailed in the following chapter should ensure that all these benefits will be reaped
with very little costs.
29    In this sense, events in Somalia offer an important lesson. The uneven distribution of wealth
accumulated through links with Siad Barre's regime has been an important factor is alienating the
loyalty of northern clans.
46



Chapter 5
Mitigation Plan
137.  The purpose of a mitigation plan is to identify possible and cost-effective measures
that may reduce or eliminate potentially significant negative environmental impacts. These
measures flow directly from the discussion on environmental impacts and alternatives
presented earlier. The organization of this chapter, therefore, closely mirrors that of Chapter
4. The proposed mitigation plan consists of two sets of actions: those meant to avoid or
limit damage to the bio-physical environment and those addressing the socio-economic
dimensions of project impact. Because the project will be implemented in a desertic,
scarcely inhabited area and it will rely on well tested technology, suggested measures to
safeguard natural resources are relatively straightforward. They are presented separately for
each of the four project components - gas field exploitation, plant construction and operation,
townsite for plant employees and their families, and road rehabilitation. Mitigative measures
for potential damages to the human environment, on the other hand, are seldom
straightforward, because such damages are more difficult to foresee-let alone quantify-and'
because there is always an element of unpredictability in human behavior. The action plan
presented here is something more than just a mitigation plan, as it endeavors to take
advantage of the historic opportunity represented by the Calub project to.spur development
in this long forgotten region.
Bio-Physical Environment
Gas Field Exploitation
138.  Every precaution will be taken to eliminate hydrocarbon discharge to the atmosphere
throughout the field. Each of the wells will be equipped with sensitive pressure recording
devices, as well as down-hole pressure sensitive valves which immediately close should a
sharp drop in pressure be detected. Both the monitors and valves are connected to the main
control center in the plant where they may be continuously observed.
139.  It is possible that for production purposes some new wells will have to be drilled
within the Calub compound. For reasons of operating efficiency, economy and conservation
of expensive resources, as well as environmental protection, the drilling fluid should be
recycled to the greatest extent possible after treatment of the fluid's chemical properties, and
the separation and removal of the drill cuttings. The latter, along with other drilling debris
should be buried nearby, covered with soil and reseeded with native grass. It is essential
that drill cuttings be buried only after having ensured that no irreversible damage will be
done to ground water reserves in the area.
140.  The drilling fluid is water based, rather than oil based, and therefore poses no
fundamental environmental problem. It should be chemically treated to stabilize the water
47



loss. As the chemicals utilized in the processes are largely naturally. occurring, they do not
represent environmental hazards.
141.  Bearing in mind all the precautions that should be taken for debris disposal and
drilling fluid depuration, it is not possible to identify any specific mitigation plan in addition
to what is suggested for the compound as a whole (see below).
Plant Operation and Construction
142.  The site, comprehensive of the gas wells and the plant itself, will be located in a
desert area of 7 x 5 km (35 km2) surrounded by a double fence. To avoid hurting animals
(both wildlife and domestic) straight wire rather than barbed wire should be used as fencing
material. The total surface occupied by the plant (production units, distribution area, offices,
warehouse, ancillary buildings, etc.) is about 13,000 m2, comprehensive of the space for
future expansions.
143.  It is difficult to establish any architectural style or technological solution for an
industrial plant that could match the local constructions and that would not disturb the
environment. Because the proposed project offers different technical solutions, it would be
preferable to select solutions that allow horizontal instead of vertical constructions, so as to
limit visual disturbance. In addition, because of the proximity of an air strip, vertical
construction would require the installation of warning lights for aircraft flying in poor
visibility and would represent an unnecessary risk.
144.  All the buildings not involving particular technical specifications (such as maintenance
and service area, offices and canteen) should be designed as much as possible following the
local topology (e.g., tukuls, round constructions with cone-shaped roofs). Given the remote
location of the plant and the desirability of fostering economic development in the area, it
is suggested that the basic construction element be cement blocks, which can be produced
locally. This way, only iron bars and cement (the latter produced in the country) would have
to arrive from outside the region, while sand and stones (almost 60 % of the content of
cement blocks) suitable for the purpose can be obtained locally.
145.  Because the soil is potentially fertile, it is suggested that the compound be irrigated.
This would make it possible to grow trees and local flora, thus masking the plant and
improving the living conditions of the people working there, especially by providing shade
and mitigating the strong sun light during the day. It is even possible that after a short
period of time, birds would get used to the noise of the plant (produced by the flare,
generators and others) and populate the trees inside the compound.
146. While atmospheric pollution will be negligible (as explained in the previous chapter),
there is potential for environmental pollution through oil spills or leaks. By making plant
design simple and compact (skid mounted modular construction to the maximum extent
possible), and by installing closed recovery loops for spillages, the chances for such leakages
will be minimal. The areas where minor or major leakage might occur should be paved with
cement rather than asphalt, as asphalt might be easily damaged by petroleum products. The
48



design of the pavement should insure that there is no dispersion of fluids into the soil in
order to reduce ground pollution.  The general layout should take into account the
construction of an adequate open-ceiling drainage system to collect the eventual liquid
leakage into a cement reservoir where it can be chemically treated. For workers' safety the
drainage system should be covered by a grill. Moreover, providing suitable training and
establishing rigorous monitoring procedures will enable plant staff to take prompt remedial
measures for cleanup in the case of any accidental oil spills.
147.  Very often poor maintenance is due to lack of currency for the purchase of the proper
spare part or tool and/or to attitude problems among the work force. In the case of the
Calub Project, improper maintenance or lack of periodic replacement of the equipment may
cause serious accidents (such as localized fires or explosions) and, in extreme cases, severe
environmental damages (such as large fuel or gas spills). Therefore, technical assistance
provided under the project should devote particular attention not only to teaching needed
technical skills, but also to sensitize local staff. At the same time, speedy procedures for the
supply of spares and tools must be established, requesting exceptions to standard government
regulations if necessary.
148.  Within the plant, detection equipment should be included in the basic plant design,
such as careful atmospheric monitoring systems, as well as sophisticated fire suppression
equipment. Regrettably, through human, or other sorts of error, fire and explosions do
occur despite such precautions from time to time. The plant therefore should be equipped
with state of the art fire fighting equipment. A detailed and rigorous training program in its
use to deal with such failures should be built into the project design, together with periodic
fire drills.
149.  As the existing landing strip will be retained, the new plant should be located in a
way that reduces as much as possible the air traffic above it. In fact, any airplane accident
involving the plant could easily have disastrous consequences.
Townsite for Plant Employees
150. Alternative sources of water for the townsite were discussed in the previous chapter,
concluding that the most viable option was obtaining water from the deeper aquifers which
will also serve the plant. Because these aquifers can sustain exploitation at levels much
higher than envisaged for plant and township needs, the project may also bring piped water
to key locations in the village, so as to ensure that all Shilabo residents, and not just plant
employees.and their families, have easy access to water for their household needs. This is
especially important because the creation of the township is likely to encourage additional
settlement, whose water needs could not be satisfied by water sources currently used by
Shilabo residents.  Specific sites for the installation of fountains and faucets should be
decided through meetings with Shilabo inhabitants, giving priority to the preference of
women, who are traditionally in charge of water supply. As the main well of Shilabo is
presently being used also as a garbage dump, it is recommended that much emphasis be put
on training area residents in the proper operation and maintenance of water sources.
49



151.  Traditionally, waste is dumped into nearby areas. Without sewerage system, waste
can often be stored in underground cesspools, which leach liquids into the soil but retain
solids, or in simple sewage tanks, e.g., septic tanks30, in which organic matter
disintegrates. Raw sewage could be treated before being discharged as effluent, usually by
reducing solid components to a semiliquid sludge. Sludge may be processed, e.g., as
fertilizer. Most solid waste, such as townsite refuse, can be deposited in open dumps. More
sophisticated methods of disposal include the sanitary landfill, where waste is spread thin and
separated by layers of tamped earth. Because the fresh water table is only 15-20 m deep,
it is necessary to examine thoroughly the soil permeability before choosing a waste disposal
method among those mentioned above.
152.  The quality of housing offered to plant employees and their families will be superior
to that of other area residents. This, and the likelihood that the incomes of plant employees
will be higher than most, could easily generate tensions (see also following section). It is
therefore suggested that, in addition to providing easy access to water, other measures are
taken to enable Shilabo inhabitants to share benefits with township residents.  Initial
consultation with local traditional authorities suggested the following community development
actions: the present school should be renovated, refurbished and possibly expanded
(presently, there are double shifts); and the local mosque should be renovated, and possibly
expanded31. Health services for plant employees should also be made available to their
families and area residents.
Road Rehabilitation
153.  Quarries and borrow pits, as well as the dumping of excavated material from the
existing road, will need to be managed to reduce safety hazards and minimize the loss of
productive land and topsoil. The project's water requirements also need to be estimated and
compared to available water sources. Care will be taken to ensure that surface water sources
and groundwater are not polluted by construction activities or by road runoff during the
operating period.
154.  Any necessary restrictions on the use of borrow pits by the contractor will be written
into the contract documents and borrow pit operations should be conducted to the approval
of the supervising engineer. Typical such restrictions would include:
*  borrow pits should not be sited on agricultural or otherwise useful land (unlikely any
way, because the soil would be unsuitable for embarkment construction);
*  borrow pits should not be sited too near the road embarkment, so as to create
unstable slopes;
30    A sewage-disposal tank in which a continuous flow of waste material is decomposed by anaerobic
bacteria.
31    It was suggested to renovate the old mosque rather to build a new one because of the cultural and
sentimental value of the present structure.
50



*  borrow pits should be left tidy after all excavation, with access slopes not exceeding
100;
*  any excavated material run to tip should be located and spread to the
approval of the Supervising Engineer.
155.  Given the importance of proper water management in the area and the uneven
distribution of rainfall, particular attention should be paid to all aspects of road construction
which may affect water availability or distribution. Where longitudinal gradient is flat or
near flat, side drains should have off-shoots constructed at maximum intervals of 200 m.
Where longitudinal gradient exceeds 1 in 20 and water volumes or velocities may lead to
scouring, check dams should be constructed in the side drains at the following intervals:
Gradient (%)             Interval (meters)
| Masonry Check    Timber Check
4               15                 12
6               10                  9
8                8                  7
I  10                6                  5
156.  Paved fords of durable stone over the full width of the running surface shall be
constructed flush with the creek channel gradient, 0.5 meters deep with 1 meter deep cut-off
walls on the upstream and downstream edges.
157.  In areas where the contractor has to develop new water points for road construction,
care must be taken not to make water development an indirect cause of de-vegetation, by
attracting large numbers of animals and people. This risk can be minimized by distributing
water points at regular intervals. In addition, it is recommended that siting of boreholes for
road construction be closely coordinated with SERP, who have been mandated by the
government to ensure the sustainable use of natural resources in the south-eastern rangelands.
It is also essential that area residents be consulted before any water development takes place,
so as not to interfere with traditional inter-clan relationships. As this is the approach adopted
by SERP through its District Extension Officers, close coordination with this project should
ensure effective community participation in the selection of sites for water points. It has
already been agreed that the above recommendations will be part of the contractual
requirements for the company implementing this component of the project.
158.  Considering that Ethiopia's rate of road accidents per km driven is reported to be
twice the African average32, and that the Harar-Shilabo road has long straight stretches and
relatively light traffic, there is a real risk of accidents caused by excessive speed. Needless
32    World Bank, wEthiopia Road Rehabilitation Project', Staff Appraisal Report, October 29, 1992.
51



to say, accidents involving trucks transporting fuel can result in spills that would have
disastrous consequences for the environment. A number of measures to contain such risk
should therefore be contemplated, and their feasibility explored. They include:
*     establishing lay-bys at set intervals to avoid obstructing the road in case of
vehicle breakdowns or stops;
*     building physical speed control barriers;
*     requiring fuel transporting trucks to be equipped with speed limiting devices.
*     giving incentives to truck drivers to limit speed and drive safely, e.g., through
penalties for road accidents or prizes for safe driving.
Socio-Economic Enviroument
Employment Policies
159.  While there is no doubt that development efforts are desperately needed in the
Ogaden, the complex cultural traditions of the area call for extra care in attempting any
intervention, especially an intervention of the size of the Calub project. Experience with
other operations in the region has shown that the active involvement of the local population
and an equitable distribution of benefits are essential if the project is to succeed. As it was
pointed out to the Mission by- several knowledgeable sources, "unless the people are with
you, they will be against you, and the project will fail". From the point of view of local
residents, the Calub plant will operate on their land, exploit their resource, and use their
road. So it is logical that they will want to participate in the project and, especially, that
they will expect to benefit directly from it.
160. The most immediate benefit from the project will be in the form of employment, with
up to 175 permanent positions (including service contracts) expected at the plant, in addition
to some 750 temporary jobs during the construction and road rehabilitation phase.
Temporary jobs are expected to be as follows:
600 for road rehabilitation,
50 for plant construction,
100 for townsite construction.
161.  Given the inability of the rangeland to sustain more intense exploitation and the recent
massive arrival of people from Somalia, it is clear that new employment opportunities are
likely to be the object of intense competition. The introduction of workers who are not from
local ethnic groups, therefore, could present a variety of social problems.
162.  It is recommended that the project's labor requirements (including road rehabilitation)
be satisfied primarily by employing people of Somali ethnic origin, for both temporary and



permanent positions, and at all skill levels. The influx of large numbers of returnees should
make it possible to find local people suitably qualified even for specialized positions, so only
a few positions might have to be given to non-Somali. Clan elders and traditional leaders
(sultans, ugas, garad, etc.) should be able to advise on personnel issues, so as to avoid
potentially disruptive disputes between residents and non-residents, and among clans, over
the allocation of jobs.
Community Development
163.  Regardless of the efforts made to recruit personnel locally, in the end employment
with the Calub plant will only be for the lucky few. Unless benefits are spread more widely,
the overall impression among the population will be that their wealth is making somebody
else rich, while local conditions remain dismally poor. To begin with, worker housing and
feeding arrangements should be carefully planned to maximize benefits to local communities
without putting undue demands on local resources, especially water and fuel. The intention
of providing access to water, electricity, education and health care to all Shilabo's residents
rather than to plant employees alone (as mentioned above) is an example of this type of
planning.
164.  It is believed, however, that it would be desirable to reach communities beyond
Shilabo, and to offer a wider range of development interventions. It is therefore proposed
to establish a pilot Community Development Fund of US$ 4.8 million. The main purpose
of the fund will be to ensure that the people living in the project impact zone receive some
'direct benefits as a tangible result of the project, and that any negative impact of the project
is minimized and compensated for. In addition, the fund should enhance local support and
identification with the Calub Plant, thus indirectly contributing to its smooth operation. The
fund should be initially set up with a grant, but later financed, at least in part, by the
regional government through tax revenues from the Calub Plant itself.
165.  A detailed description of the fund is attached in Annex 2. Its key features are
summarized below:
*     all people living within 150 km radius of the Calub Plant and 25 km on either
side of the Shilabo-Harar road will have access to the fund, but a special
effort will be made to facilitate access to women and other disadvantaged
groups;
*     the mode of operation of the Fund will be explained to all those concerned
and its management style will be transparent;
*     micro-projects to be financed will fall into three categories: (a) light
infrastructure, such as the rehabilitation of wells and schools, (b) income
generating activities (mostly through revolving funds), and (c) basic social
services, such as community based health;
53



e     the fund will also be available to address broad environmental and health
issues of direct relevance to the project (e.g., an educational campaign on
AIDS to mitigate the possible spread of the disease as a result of road
rehabilitation);
*     a participatory approach will be adopted, with groups of beneficiaries
themselves identifying micro-projects for funding and actively participating in
implementation;
*     beneficiaries will be required to provide labor and other in-kind contributions,
while the Fund will provide technical assistance (e.g., environmental
assessments, training, technical design), imported and manufactured materials;
*     assistance will be available either directly to local communities, or indirectly
through NGOs and government agencies or projects (e.g., SERP) which will
act as implementing agencies.
166.  The Fund will be managed by a Coordinating Unit to be located, at least initially, in
Kebri Dehar, the closest town to Shilabo with banking facilities and the historic capital of
the Ogaden. The Coordinating Unit will be guided by a Regional Steering Committee, but
will have considerable autonomy in the day-to-day operation of the fund., Given the multi-
sectoral nature of the activities to be financed, it is recommended that the Coordinating Unit
be institutionally linked to the Regional Government's Office of Planning33.
167.  It is hoped that the Calub project in general, and this Fund in particular, will act as
a catalyzer for other development initiatives. In this regard, it is encouraging to note that
U-NDP has already offered to establish a credit scheme to assist local entrepreneurs in setting
up networks for the distribution of petroleum products to local residents (e.g., gas stations).
It is envisaged that additional development opportunities will be identified through the work
of the Fund, and be brought to the attention of donors.
33    Because regional administrative elections have only recently been completed in Region 5, the.
composition and organization of the regional government have not yet been defined. It was therefore
impossible to discuss this suggestion with the regional authorities concerned.
54



Chapter 6
Environmental Monitoring Plan
Monitoring System
168.  There are several agencies which are concerned with the collection and analysis of
environmentally relevant data. At present, however, the quantity of data and knowledge of
trends in the environmental situation is rather limited. While detailed data collection on a
large scale is a luxury which Ethiopia probably can not afford, there is a need for some basic
monitoring and analysis of data on key parameters concerning the environment, especially
in situations where signs of environmental stress are evident or, as in this case, where
significant interventions are planned. Therefore, an essential component of the Project
mitigation plan is the establishment of a comprehensive environmental monitoring system for
the project impact zone (i.e., 150 km of Calub and 25 km on either side of the road). In
light of the potential environmental impacts identified and of the mitigation plan proposed,
this monitoring system should comprise a natural resources component and a socio-economic
component.
169.  The natural resources component should monitor the impact of the Project on the
local bio-physical environment, in particular on the following indicators:
*     vegetation composition/association (range condition)
*     devegetation
*     water availability and quality
*     livestock movements and numbers
*     roadside erosion/gullying
170.  The socio-economic component is intended to monitor the impact of the Project on
the human environment, in particular on the following indicators:
*     population density and distribution (including settlement patterns)
*     availability of grain and other goods in local markets
*     livestock-grain terms of trade
*     economic activities, especially employment and self-employment
*     health and education, including availability of basic services
55



*     traffic along the road
*     fuel use patterns and prices
*     local attitudes toward the Project
Natural Resources Component
171.  Monitoring the natural environment in the context of the Project relates to (a) the
measurement and interpretation of changes in those vegetation and soil characteristics which
are likely to influence the long-term productivity of the range, (b) the measurement of
livestock movement and concentration, and (c) the measurement of water quality and
quantity.
172.  It is anticipated that the overall effects of the Project will be beneficial. However, the
creation of an industrial complex and of a townsite may lead to a greater concentration of
livestock and people, thus upsetting the delicate balance between water and grazing
availability in the Shilabo area and possibly along the main road. For example, the project
is likely to come under intense pressure to drill new wells, but any such initiative should be
taken only after careful study of rangeland conditions and land use in the area, lest the
provision of a permanent water source results in massive overgrazing and eventually in
devegetation around the well.
173. Rangeland monitoring requires information on the natural environment at different
time intervals. Space, aerial and ground techniques (i.e., establishment of monitoring sites)
should be used to monitor the rangeland vegetation both in the Calub area and at selected
locations along the main road. Satellite imagery will be required initially to give broad
distinction to the vegetation. Aerial reconnaissance should follow to obtain more precise
information on vegetation types and herd size; given the high cost of aerial surveys, it is
suggested that they take place only within the Calub area. The information collected in this
way will indicate the status and dynamics of local range condition and trends. The
establishment of monitoring sites in key points (e.g., near water points) will make it possible
to analyze environmental indicators in greater detail, and therefore to detect any changes at
an early stage.
174.  Some of the information needed for monitoring the range and water resource is
already available in scattered locations in various government departments. The initial
activity will therefore be to collect this information and organize it into an adequate data
base. Once the data base is developed, gaps in the information available will be identified
and a detailed monitoring system designed to fill the gaps. The information needed for
monitoring and the parameters to be measured include:
Soils soil type
soil depth
56



soil movement
erosion features
Natural Vegetation  species composition
vegetation cover
vegetation density
prevalence of palatable species
plant vigor
Livestock    livestock numbers
livestock types
migration patterns
livestock diseases
livestock marketing (prices etc.)
herd composition
Water Resources    location and number of water points
types of water point
water table depth
water quality
Farming Activities   number and location of farms and enclosures
size of farms
crops grown
crop yields
Climate     rainfall
temperature
wind speed and direction
Socio-Economic Component
175.  The major socio-economic parameters in the Ogaden are undergoing constant change,
so it would be difficult to identify what changes are likely to be directly related to the Calub
Project. Nevertheless, it is important that an attempt be made to quantify the major trends
which might be attributable, at least in part, to the Project. These effects may be either
direct or indirect. A direct effect might be the impact of petroleum production, once it
comes on stream, on local woodfuel consumption. An indirect effect might be the knock-on
effect of the rehabilitated Harar-Shilabo road on food prices and availability in the area.
176.  Given the ripple effect of socio-economic changes, the area to be kept under study
will have to be limited somewhat arbitrarily. It is suggested that data collection concentrate
on the same area covered by the Community Development Fund, so that the monitoring
system will also provide an ongoing evaluation of the effectiveness of the Fund. The study
therefore should gather information within 150 km radius of the Calub plant --which will
57



include the main centers of Shilabo, Kebri Dehar, Gode, Kelafo and Warder-- and at
specified locations along the main road.
177.  While it would be desirable to use a combination of both quantitative and qualitative
techniques, it is advisable to rely primarily on indicators which lend themselves to
quantification. This would make it possible to standardize and simplify data collection, and
would facilitate comparisons between locations and over time. The close link between the
economic life of most indigenous people and the conditions of the natural environment mean
that a degree of overlap with the data collection requirements for the bio-physical component
may be desirable if not necessary. Also, findings from the two components should be
compared and discussed at regular intervals. Key parameters to be measured for socio-
economic monitoring would include the following:
Population
population increase, especially near the plant and along the road
population distribution in the project area
migratory movements, both temporary and permanent
Markets
local grain prices
local prices of other basic consumables
availability of basic goods
availability of "new" goods and services
volumes and goods traded, both locally and long distance
Terms of Trade
livestock-grain terms of trade
livestock prices and terms of exchange
Economic Activities
number of small businesses, especially near the plant/townsite and along the road
new types of businesses (manufacturing, trade and services)
turnover rates of small businesses
growth rates of small businesses
unemployment rates (by gender, age, education, ethnicity)
employment structure (by gender, age, education, ethnicity)
employment opportunities (by gender, age, education, ethnicity)
Road Traffic
number and type of vehicles
number and seriousness of accidents
Social Sectors
primary school enrollment and attendance (by gender and ethnicity)
teacher/pupil ratios
infant, maternal and child mortality
58



morbidity patterns
availability of medical personnel and medicines
access to safe water
Fuel
fuel use patterns, especially productive uses
fuel prices (biomass, kerosene, LPG, diesel, gasoline)
availability of fuel (kerosene, LPG, diesel, gasoline)
interfuel substitution
Local Attitudes
attitudes toward the Project in general
attitudes toward the Calub Company
attitudes toward the Community Development Fund
Monitoring Unit
178.  The monitoring plan outlined in this chapter should be an ongoing activity for the
duration of the project and it will require the attention of specialized personnel stationed in
the field. The mandate of the newly established Ministry of Natural Resources Development
and Environmental Protection makes it a logical candidate for the implementation of the
plan, but at present it would be unrealistic to expect the Ministry to be ible to take over
responsibility for monitoring activities, as neither its means nor its structure would enable
it to do it effectively. The Ministry of Mines and Energy would not be an acceptable
implementing agency for the monitoring plan because of conflict of interests. The NGOs
involved in environmental activities do not appear to have the needed expertise, or the
interest, to carry out the monitoring. It is therefore suggested that responsibility for the
monitoring plan be allocated as follows: a special Monitoring Unit should be established with
responsibility for overall coordination and for the direct implementation of the socio-
economic component, while SERP3 would be sub-contracted for the natural resources
component.
179.  SERP has already started collecting some of the needed data over the south-east
rangelands as a whole and has plans to carry out its own environmental monitoring for the
whole region. SERP offices have been opened in a number of locations in Region 5,
specialized personnel is already in the field, and arrangements for the use of sophisticated
equipment (e.g., for satellite imagery) have been made. Contracting out to SERP the natural
resources component would save both time and money, since it would be possible to take
advantage of their expertise, organization and equipment. It would also give SERP the
means to carry out more intensive data collection in the Calub Project area (i.e., 150 km
radius around Calub and 25 km on each side of the Harar-Shilabo road), so as to achieve the
34    It will be recalled that SERP is the South-East Rangelands Project operated under the Ministry of
Agriculture (see Chapter 3).
59



desired level of detail. As a close collaboration with SERP would in any case be desirable,
this arrangement would ensure such collaboration.
180.  The Monitoring Unit would be attached to the office of the Calub Community
Development Fund (see previous chapter). This would be desirable for practical reasons,
such as sharing office space and equipment, and for strategic reasons, to facilitate the
monitoring of the Community Development Fund activities and to have easy access to the
Adviser who will assist both the Fund and the Monitoring Unit. The Unit would comprise
a full-time Monitoring Officer, secretary and driver. The Monitoring Officer will receive
support from the Technical Assistance Adviser to the Community Development Fund for a
total of ten months. This means that the monitoring budget will cover the costs of ten of the
33 months of technical assistance to be provided by the Adviser to the Community
Development Fund (see Annex 2). The Monitoring Officer, who would ideally be qualified
to post-graduate degree standard in a social science, would have access to a small budget to
hire local school leavers to act as data collectors/enumerators.
181. The Monitoring Officer would be administratively responsible, in the first instance,
to the Manager of the Calub Community Development Fund. The accountant of the Fund
would be responsible for keeping the local accounts of the Monitoring Unit, which would
have a separate bank account in Kebri Dehar. Disbursement and procurement would be
carried out by the Coordinating Unit of the Community Development Fund on behalf of the
Monitoring Unit. Contracts for services above US$5,000 per contract would need the
approval of the regional government's Planning Office who would be ultimately responsible
for disbursement of funds and for the work of the Monitoring Unit in general. The
Monitoring Officer would have authority to sign checks for up to US$5,000 per service
contract.
182. The Monitoring Officer would be expected to prepare quarterly reports discussing
monitoring results, progress, problems encountered and so on. He/she would also be
responsible for following up work to be carried out by SERP for the natural resources
component, so as to ensure that the two systems are directed towards the same overall
objective: to understand, document and quantify as much as possible the overall impact of
the Project on the local human and natural environment.
183.  The diagram below shows the institutional setting of the Monitoring Unit.
Regional Planning Office
Monitoring Unit ;              Coordinating Unit of
Calub Community Development Fund
SERP
60



Responsibilities of the Technical Adviser would be to:
o  collaborate with the Monitoring Officer in the design of the socio-economic
monitoring system;
o  train the Monitoring Officer, and eventually other data collectors, in the use of the
system as needed;
o  modify the system in the light of field experience;
o  support the smooth running of the system through regular field visits during project
lifetime.
Responsibilities of the Monitoring Officer would be to:
o  prepare detailed work programs;
o  supervise Monitoring Unit staff;
o  recruit short-term and/or part-time local data collectors a's needed, and coordinate and
supervise their work;
o  collect necessary field data and analyze them;
o  prepare quarterly reports to be sent to the Planning Office of the Regional
Government and to the Ministry of Natural Resources Development and
Environmental Protection;
o  collaborate with the Calub Community Development Fund;
o  coordinate and follow up work to be carried by SERP;
o  liaise with the Calub Company and other concerned agencies as appropriate.
Duration
184.  Monitoring activities should start as soon as the IDA credit becomes effective with
the collection of detailed baseline data. To do this, it will be necessary to formalize
arrangements for sub-contracting the natural resources component to SERP (this possibility
was already discussed during the Environmental Assessment Mission) and to design a data
collection system for the socio-economic component. It should be noted that, although funds
for the monitoring plan will be made available through the Calub Project only five years,
monitoring should take place for at least ten years and ideally for as long as natural gas
reservoirs in the area will continue to be exploited. Should monitoring stop with the end of
the project, it will be difficult to detect any longer term trends. Because changes in the bio-
61



physical environment may take several years to manifest themselves, it is essential that
agreements are reached to fund monitoring activities for a minimum of five years after
project completion, possibly in the form of a grant from environmentally-minded donors.
Budget
185.  The budget (in US$) is divided into two parts reflecting the different set up proposed
for the natural resources component and the socio-economic component. The budget for the
natural resources component covers the estimated additional cost to SERP to carry out the
required monitoring over the Calub Project lifetime.
Natural Resources Component
Aerial Survey (150km radius of Calub)     US$200,000
Satellite Imagery                              30,000
Report Preparation                              3,000
Fuel and Maintenance                           20,000
Local Staff                                    25,000
Technical Assistance (6 months)                90,000
Sub-Total               US$368,000
Socio-Economic Component
Unit
Capital Costs                       Cost        Total
Housing
Office Building (2 rooms)-1 unit   15,000      15,000
Residence (tukul) - 1 unit         16,000      16,000
Household Furniture - 1 set         7,000       7,000
Office Equipment
Computer desk-top                   7,000       7,000
Printer                             1,000       1,000
Unbreakable Power Supply            3,000       3,000
Computer Software                   1,000       1,000
Furniture                           2,500       2,500
Air Conditioner                     1,500       1,500
Camping Equipment (1 set)           1,000       1,000
Vehicles
4WD Station Wagon                  40,000      40,000
Fund to Hire Local Staff             7,000      35,000
62



Recurrent Costs
Staff Salaries                 Monthly     12 Months   60 Months
Monitoring Officer (1)         400          4,800      24,000
Secretary (1)                  200          2,400      12,000
Driver (1)                     150          1,800        9,000
Per Diems
Monitoring Officer (o $7/day)    140        1,680        8,400
Driver (@ $4/day)              80            960         4,800
Vehicle Operation and Maintenance           10,000       50,000
Office Consumables                           2,000       10,000
Technical Assistance
Socio-Economic Adviser (10 mo. total)     15,000       150,000
Sub-Total                        US$398,200
Total                   766,200
10% contingency           76,620
Grand Total          US$842,820
63



Annex 1
Geological Maps and Cross-Section
2  42f-t   4dv
- .320 
-       -      -2t
Top Adigrat Fonmation structure map, Calub Gas Field
LEGEND
(          _  ,      _ _
-         -       - 2
Top Calub Formation structure map, Calub Gas Field
64



A4A20/           425l            4430'
HYDRO(
Jtrale
I S0  -H- '
s ' 5 i       2595    \    _v__           . ______-- ]~~~A 11  . 
-6-i@--~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ /  ',  
44020'          44-25'            303 0
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



To 4Ken ie'.-
AQUIFER CLASSIFICATION
ETHIO PIA                                                                                                                                       I EXTENSIVE A0iFERS WIT,  f TERGRANU,
IUNCON5OLIDA7ED SED:,MEN75!
)LOGY OF CALUB AREA                                                    't                                                                              MODERATE
1) ,AN\                    -    -_                                 2 EXTENSIVE AQUIFERS W'TH FRACT,,RE AN, 3FP tARS'
PERMEABILITY iCCNSO.IDATED SEDIMELNTS)
\    -- /    \  .'   ,o  _ /  l  [ MODERATE PRODUCT'VIT'
N                       -         , ,  '       r      5   LOW PlODUCTIV:¾"
- j'   ,                  WATER QUALITY.
/           ."Z"~ ,- _(TOTAL DISSOLVED SOLIDS IN GROUND WATERF
7 !_ _  / ;      11.5300 TO 3,000 pp.
GREATER THAN 3.000 pp,
/' z  {s             WATER-BEARING HORIZONS CONFINEMENT.
Q|ol   WATER-BEARING HORIZON OF OUATERNARY ALLUVIAt DEPO
6'15' |           WATER-REARING HORIZON OF TERTIARY DEPOSITS OF
JESOMMA FORMATION
N               0 o                                           rv  m WATER-REARING COMPLEX OF CRETACEOUS DEPOSITS
\     34                                                              A FORMATION
"                                                                  WATER POINTS:
/    1                                         109-~~~~~~~~~~~I gK~  HYDROGROLOGICALWELATHEOlWLLNMRADI
\                                                                      Of WATER-BEARING HORIZON. TO THE LEFT: IN NUMERATOR
-4904 I YIEL.D IN CUBIC METERS PER DAYI IN DENOMiNATOR, DECREA
. I METERS TO THE RIGHT: IN NUM RATOR, DEPTH OF STATIC LE
xf                                           1~~~~~~~~~~~~~9 4  . METERS. IN DENOMINATOR, WATER MINERALISATION, GRAM
4 p    PIT AT THE TOP: PIT NUMBER AND INDEX OF WATER-REARINC
A5[12 6 HORIZON. TO THE LEFT DEPTH UP TO THE MATER LEVEL, IN
/                                                                          mETERS. TO THE RIGHT WATER MINERALISATION, GRAMS/LIT
I t             e@<ll   °4|f                                                CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF GROUND WATERS
XI            ea4,pf                                                     E HYDROCARBONATE
USULFATE
.//  '                     'wt 3CHLORIDE
k }  6-l0'       OTHERS-
GROUND ROADS
RIVER WITH TEMPORARY FLOW
t.K4   2A4pI                                              RIVER WITH PERMANENT FLOW
Il-°fif    4.STl|2.6                      --   OUTCROPS OF TERTIARY DEPOSITS
B   4532.6                                             EXPLORATORY WELLS FOR OI: AND GAS
3 5 -          *D -    SAUDI ARABIA  
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.,Z
\15'                                    REP OF YEMEN
SUDANI
302    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~/DJIBOUITI
\Addi Abob*
SOMA LIA
TN, ,.op ho. b...r popod by Th. Wodd 9o.4' P.1 eIsiusy  to,                                                            UGANDA
th.  -.oi.oo0 of r.d- .d is for t. ihe    - of Td . WoaId                                                                               K  ENYA
Bo.  Groop  Th. d--oion, .d .od hb. bo-odo.6. .on 0- ItEo
,,pp do ,ot i,piy, on ?. pOr  f Th. Vd So  Goop, ony jleo                                                    \        0'                                                 in,Ynot;0n
on lIT. I0noI 0t011 of any t rTro,y 0, aony Sor*OT.lT or occeTCO of                                                                                  I           _._
eurh b-dor\.1                                                                                                                                                            Bou,doIes
"4I4O                                       44°45'                      To Musthi!            A,"'4
M,'AR I



Annex 2
Calub Community Development Fund
Introduction
1.       The Calub Gas Development Project is intended to develop the Calub Gas Field
in the Shilabo District of the Ogaden. The main components of the Project are:
o     establishment of a plant in Calub, some 30 km east of Shilabo town, for the
commercial extraction of petroleum products;
o     establishment of the necessary associated infrastructure, in particular rehabilitation
of the Shilabo-Harar road for the improved transport of petroleum products
towards and beyond Dire Dawa, and the building of a townsite for plant
employees and their families;
o     establishment of a Community Development Fund so the benefits of the Projects
are more widely spread throughout the local population;
o     establishment of a monitoring system to monitor the impact of the Project on the
human and natural environment during the lifetime of the Project.
Background
2.        The Ogaden is a remote and isolated area of Ethiopia, inhabited largely by Somali
nomads herding cattle, camels, sheep and goats. There are several small towns and
administrative centers in the area, such as Gode (pop. 15,000) the former administrative
capital of the area, Kebri Dehar (pop. 10,000), Shilabo (pop. 5,000)', Warder (pop. 4,000)
and Kelafo (pop. 5,000). Over 90 percent of the population live outside these towns in rural
areas.
3.        Because of the constant traffic in people across the border with Somalia estimating
the population of the Ogaden has always been fraught with difficulties. In a recent series
of over-flights of the area carried out by Save the Children Fund in 1991, it was estimated
that the total rural population of the Ogaden, including the lowlands of the former Eastern
Hararghe administrative region, but excluding the refugee/returnee camps, was about one
million.
The population of these small towns is estimated from information collected from town elders and field
observation. All of the towns mentioned, but especially Gode and Kelafo, have' recently seen their
population increase as a result of an influx of retumees/refugees from Somalia.
66



4.       Since 1989 the area has also become home to over 400,000 refugees and returnees
escaping the civil conflict in neighboring Somalia. The bulk of these have been absorbed
within the local rural population but some 70,000-80,000 live in relief camps along the Wabi
Shebele river, at Gode and Kelafo, and south of Jijiga. Others have drifted to the local
towns, where they eke out a living engaged in informal trade and small businesses (e.g.,
running tea shops) and generally swelling the numbers of urban unemployed.
5.       The mainstay of the economy is nomadic pastoralism. In addition, there is a
lively two-way trade in livestock and relief food (grain and rice) with Somalia.
6.       Historically, the Ogaden is a neglected area. Infrastructure is poorly developed
and the population ill-served by basic social services, such as schools, clinics and hospitals.
While recently the area has been the focus of a large scale humanitarian relief effort, there
has been little in the way of longer term development projects in the area. The South-East
Rangelands Project (SERP), financed by the African Development Bank, is the only
development project presently being implemented throughout the area. This project is
intended to raise rural living standards through sustainable livestock, range and dry land
agricultural interventions, but it appears to be handicapped by lack of resources and the poor
infrastructure of the project area.
7.       Under the new  political dispensation in Ethiopia since the Transitional
Government came to power in May, 1991 the former Ogaden Autonomous Region and the
lowlands of Eastern Hararghe Region are now consolidated together to form the new Somali
Region V. It is expected that the new regional government will be formally established in
the early part of 1993.
Justification
8.       The Ogaden has a fragile dry land ecology and economy. In the last three years
the population of the area has suffered from localized drought, which has been exacerbated
by the influx of large numbers of refugees/returnees from Somalia. Many depend, either
directly or indirectly, on food relief. Local people perceive themselves to have been
neglected by successive Addis Ababa governments. The new emphasis on local regional
autonomy, however, has encouraged Somali to believe that they too will soon be able to
enjoy the benefits of longer term development, in particular greater employment
opportunities and improved infrastructure and social services. Any development of the Calub
natural gas field cannot be divorced from this new economic, social and political context.
9.       Area residents as well as politicians expect to see tangible local benefits from the
exploitation of what they consider their natural resources. Without local support for the
Project it is difficult to see how the Project could be implemented in what has historically
and geographically been such a remote and politically unstable area of Ethiopia.
67



10.      While it is likely that at least some local residents will be employed by the
Company, and the rehabilitation of the Shilabo-Harar road will provide additional temporary
jobs to others, as well as eventually a boost to the Ogaden economy in general, it is
considered important that local communities in the Calub area and along the main road, be
offered a wider range of development interventions. The establishment of a Community
Development Fund will ensure that people living in the project impact zone receive some
direct benefits as a tangible result of the project. The fund will be available to finance and
support a range of locally identified, and community based and managed, micro-projects, and
it will be identified with the Calub Gas Development Project.
Objectives
11.      In addition to the general goal of bringing benefits and spurring development in
the project area, the Calub Community Development Fund will have two objectives. One
will be to enhance local support and identification with the Calub Gas Development Project,
thus indirectly contributing to its successful implementation. The other will be to mitigate
some of the possible negative effects of the Project, such as the use of up to 50 sq km of
seasonal grazing land for the site of the gas plant and associated pipelines to the wells. The
purposes of the fund will be achieved by:
o     supporting  community-based  micro-projects designed  to- respond  to  the
rehabilitation and development needs of the target population;
o     promoting and using a participatory approach to the design and planning of local
development projects;
o     assisting and encouraging the organization of local self-help groups, with
particular emphasis on women's groups.
Project Area
12.      The Calub Community Development Fund will be available to finance micro-
projects within 150 km of the Calub Plant and 25 km either side of the Shilabo-Harar road.
Defined in this way, the project area will include all the main population centers and towns
of the region (see Map). The main districts (awraja) included in the project area will be:
Shilabo, Kebri Dehar, Gode, Warder, Sheikosh, Degah Bur, Kebri Beyah, Jijiga and
Babile/Gursum.
13.      Special emphasis will be given to communities living in the immediate vicinity
of the gas field and along the main road, particularly south of Degah Bur, where, because
of resource constraints, SERP is least operationalised and other agencies virtually absent.
It is these groups, in fact, who stand to be most affected by the Project through loss of
68



grazing land, increased use of their local water supplies, and a heavier traffic along the road.
Scope
14.      The Fund will be available to support three kinds of project:
(a)   small infrastructural projects, such as rehabilitation or construction of wells,
schools and health clinics, including supply of simple technology, such as
generators or water pumps, which serve the community as a whole;
(b)   social projects, for the provision of essential social services, such as community
health and nutrition programs, training in adult literacy (especially for women)
and AIDS prevention, vocational training, and veterinary services;
(c)   income generating projects, including provision of credit and/or small grants for
small-scale and micro-enterprises, preferably run by community-based groups.
15.      Such a spread of project portfolios would neatly plug the gaps in existing
programs in the area. In any case, care should be taken to avoid overlapping with ongoing
projects and to build on their achievements (more on this later). Where agencies may be
interested in starting up new programs, such as Medecins Sans Frontiers (Belgium) or
UNICEF in the community health field, the Fund would represent a potential source of
finance.
16.      Depending on the category of micro-project, the Fund would work with a range
of implementing partners. Infrastructural projects would generally be implemented either
by NGOs or existing government agencies, such as SERP; social projects would be
implemented by NGOS, government agencies or even the local district administration; and
income generating projects would involve providing seed capital either to NGOs acting as
intermediaries/technical assistants or directly to local self-help groups and individuals. The
kind of implementing partner used would depend a good deal on the nature of the project.
However, no hard and fast rules would apply; for example, there would be no reason why
in principle an infrastructural project could not also be implemented directly by the
community.
Approach
17.      Projects should be participatory and sustainable. The Fund is intended to support
as large a number of beneficiaries as possible, so priority will be given to supporting groups
rather than individuals. Because the traditional women's role makes it more difficult for
them to take advantage of social and economic opportunities, a special effort should be made
to ensure that they benefit from the Fund. Beneficiaries will be expected to contribute to
69



projects and to take ownership of them, so as to provide proper management and
maintenance after initial implementation. Depending on the type of project, the initial
contribution could be in different ways. For infrastructural projects it could be in terms of
finance, labor or raw materials; for social projects it could be in terms of future management
arrangements and possibly partial cost recovery; for income generating projects it would be
in the form of loan repayment, including a reasonable interest rate. SERP experience already
indicates that local communities are familiar with this type of approach.
18.      It is envisaged that the Fund will be available to support micro-projects to be
implemented either directly by the local community or indirectly by other agencies, such as
NGOS, district administration or indeed other government agencies and projects which will
act as the implementing agency for the community. Whoever/whatever the implementing
agency, the standard criteria to be adopted in assessing project requests will be the same, in
particular that the implementing agency uses a participatory approach, and the project is
sustainable. Implementing agencies will be given no more than 10 percent of the total
micro-project cost to cover their own expenses.
Institutional Framework
19.      The Calub Community Development Fund will be managed by a small
Coordinating Unit (CU) established and staffed for that specific purpose. The CU will be
institutionally linked to the Regional Government and will be responsible to a Steering
Committee made-up of the Head of the Regional Government or his/her representative, and
local representatives of government institutions dealing at the regional level with health,
education, environment, agriculture, planning, and energy; the Steering Committee should
also include local representatives of the Relief and Rehabilitation Committee, and of relevant
NGOS, donors and government projects, such as SERP2. The Steering Committee will meet
quarterly to oversee the workings of the Fund, approve project requests over the CU
approved financial authority for projects, and review work programs. The Committee will
a point, with the agreement of the major donors, an independent auditor for the audit of the
Fund.
20.      Project accountability is extremely important. Larger scale projects involving a
number of beneficiaries and sums in excess of $500 will be expected to have their own Local
Project Committees established to oversee the implementation of the project and the proper
use of funds. These Committees might typically comprise the local administration,
community elders, representatives of the beneficiary group, and the responsible implementing
agency. The Local Project Committee will mainly be responsible to make sure that
contractual commitments were adhered to and that project funds were properly utilized. On
2  Because regional governments are still in the process of being established, it is not clear yet what will be
the structure of the government of Region 5. It is hoped that by the time negotiations take place, it will
be sufficiently well defined to allow us to determine more precisely membership in the Steering Committee.
70



satisfactory completion of the project, it will sign a project completion certificate. The
precise membership of Local Project Committees will be decided by the local communities
themselves. Generally, it is expected that there will be a standing core committee, made
up of recognized local authorities (both formal and informal), to which additional members
would be co-opted depending on the identity of the project being discussed or under-review
on any given day.
21.      Smaller projects, involving sums of less than $500, and probably fewer
beneficiaries, will not be required to have a Local Project Committee organized. Usually,
these projects would be small income generating projects to local self-help groups or
individuals. However, some degree of accountability to the wider community will be
required as a condition of project funding. Otherwise, it is difficult to see what local
pressure can be brought to bear against loan defaulters or to stop local 'conmen' applying
to the Fund. It is therefore proposed that applications for projects worth less than $500 will
need to be accompanied by a formal letter from the local administration and/or recognized
community elders from that area certifying that applicants are bone fide local residents, of
good character.
22.      The proposed institutional framework for the operation of the Fund is set out in
the following diagram.
Regional Government
STEERING COMMITTvEE
COORDINATING UNIT
(FIELD OFFICES)
LOCAL PROJECT COMMITTEES
'I
BENEFICIARIES
Coordinating Unit
23.      The professional staff of the CU will consist of:
o     a Unit Manager, with preferably a postgraduate degree in the social sciences or
range and at least 5 years experience in a managerial position;
o     a Range Ecologist or Social Scientist, with the same qualifications and experience
71



as above;
o     a Women's Affairs Officer, with at least a first degree in an applied social science
(e.g., community development, social work) or other relevant discipline (e.g.,
agricultural extension, community health) and 2 years experience;
o     an Accountant, with appropriate accountancy qualifications and experience;
o     a Procurement-cum-Liaison Officer, with at least Diploma level education and
extensive experience in government and private sector procurement;
o     a Secretary, with appropriate typing and word processing skills.
24.       In addition, the Unit will be provided technical assistance from a Socio-Economic
Advisor and a Procurement Expert. The Socio-Economic Advisor will have a background
in the social sciences and a proven record of success in designing and managing this type of
project3. He/she will assist in setting up the Fund for the initial 13 months of project
implementation; a further eight months of consultancy inputs over the following three years
will be available for short-term follow up visits. His/her presence in the field, however, will
be more prolonged, because he/she will also be responsible for the socioeconomic component
of the proposed environmental monitoring plan (see para 32)4. As experience has showed
that procurement and disbursement procedures often determine the success or failure of
social funds, the Project will make available the services of an experienced Procurement
Expert for a total of two months to ensure that such procedures are set up in the most
flexible and simple way possible.
25.       Because of the large size of the area covered by the Fund and the limited presence
of experienced intermediary organizations, the Unit will need to employ five field officers
to be based in Jijiga, Degah Bur, Gode, Warder and Shilabo. These field officers will be
Diploma graduates with suitable backgrounds in community extension work, and will be
responsible for following up Fund activities in their area of operation. Each officer will be
provided with a motorcycle.
26.       The Unit should initially be based in Kebri Dehar town which is the historical
center of the Ogaden and some 110 km from Shilabo. The town is the only center in the
Ogaden with a Commercial Bank of Ethiopia branch capable of holding cash reserves up to
2 million Birr. In addition, there is piped water in the town and electricity for five hours
at night. Because much of the work of the Unit will take place outside Kebri Dehar,
provision will be made in the budget to rent a local house to provide office space in Shilabo,
3 The Socio-Economic Advisor could be recruited nationally or internationally.
4 Of the total 31 working months for the Advisor, 10 months will be devoted to the socio-economic
component of the proposed environmental monitoring plan, and therefore will be paid out of that budget.
72



Jijiga, Degah Bur, Warder and Gode.
27.       The CU will have the following responsibilities:
o     Preparation of a detailed operational manual which will describe the types of
projects that can be supported, the criteria to be used in assessing applications,
the kinds of organizations which can apply to the Fund, the different stages of
micro-project assessment and monitoring, and disbursement and procurement
procedures.
O     Promotion and advertising of the Fund through: meetings with district officials
and local community elders, women's groups, cooperatives, government agencies
and non-governmental organizations; preparation of appropriate promotional
material; and design and distribution of project request forms.
O     Assessment and appraisal of project requests, including the technical, social and
economic feasibility of the project, preparation of an implementation program,
and review of the budget.
O     Disbursement offunds according to agreed procedures. Disbursement will be in
trenches up to a set and agreed limit. Occasionally, the Unit will be expected to
procure items for local community groups.
O     Monitoring of micro-projects, in particular utilization of funds according to the
agreed program and objectives identified together with the beneficiaries.
O     Preparation of quarterly reports for the Steering Committee detailing the micro-
projects supported, and any progress achieved and problems encountered.
Relationship with other Organizations
28.       The CU will be formally linked to the Regional Government, but it will be
responsible to its own Steering Committee. Although its relationship with other social funds
in the country, such as the Ethiopian Social Rehabilitation Fund5, will be informal, it is
considered important that regular communication be maintained and possibilities of
collaboration explored when appropriate. At the district level the CU will work with its
collaborating partners, which may be the district administration, non-governmental
organizations, local community groups, and government agencies, such as SERP or mainline
ministries.  It is these partners that will be directly responsible for micro-project
5 This fund is part of the Emergency Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Project (ERRP) and it is intended
to start on a pilot basis in Shoa and Tigray, but later expanded to other regions.
73



implementation on the basis of project requests submitted to and approved by the CU. In
addition, the CU would liaise with the various Local Project Committees organized to
supervise micro-projects in the different project locations.  As discussed above, these
committees would generally need to be organized as a condition of project approval and their
composition would need to be approved by the CU.
Micro-Project Cycle
29.      Projects will pass through a typical project cycle. This cycle will consist of a
number of progressive stages:
(a)   Project request. The project cycle starts once a project request form has been
received by the CU. This request is assigned a file and classified according to
category and geographical location. The basic details will be entered into a
computer database.
(b)   Project assessment.  The project will then be assessed according to agreed
criteria, such as sustainability, poverty alleviation, number of beneficiaries,
impact on women, and kind of group involved. (These criteria will be established
in detail in the Operational Manual and explained in promotional literature).
Field visits will probably need to be made during this stage. If the CU feels it
necessary, it may call in a specialist consultant to technically assess the project.
(c)   Project approval.  If the assessment is positive, a project document will be
prepared.  This document will detail the project objectives, beneficiaries,
implementing agency and procedures, budget and implementation time table.
Because of the different scales of cost involved in the different types of project
to be supported by the Fund (e.g., an infrastructural project involving the
building of a health clinic is likely to cost a lot more than a project providing
seed capital for a women's group), the CU will operate different financial
thresholds according to 'type' of project funded:
for infrastructural projects, which are likely to be the most expensive, the
CU will have authority to commit up to $20,000 per contract;
for social projects, the CU's authority will be up to $10,000 per contract;
for income generating projects, which for the most part will be very
small, the CU's authority will be up to $3,000 per contract.
The Steering Committee will meet quarterly to approve projects with estimated
financial costs above these thresholds. Because the intention of the Fund is to
spread benefits as widely as possible, it will be necessary to establish absolute
74



financial ceilings for different types of project and maximum district allocations.
These limits will be initially defined in the Operational Manual, but could be
revised periodically.
(c)   Project monitoring. During the implementation phase, micro-projects will be
monitored against agreed indicators. On completion of the micro-project (e.g.,
when construction is finished or the loan is repaid), a completion report will be
prepared and the project file closed.
Monitoring and Evaluation
30.      The participatory approach to be adopted by the Calub Community Development
Fund-the process of consultation, the use of implementing agencies with strong credibility
at the grassroots, and of micro-project committees representing the beneficiaries-will provide
the foundation for a participatory monitoring and evaluation system based on regular
follow-up visits (at least once a month) and progress reports (monthly and quarterly).
31.      The monitoring of Fund micro-projects will be built in to the overall
environmental monitoring of the impact of the Calub Gas Project, primarily (but not
exclusively) in its socioeconomic component. Information obtained by .the4CU as part of its
regular follow up of micro-projects will form part of this wider monitoring system.
32.      Given the location of the CU in Kebri Dehar and its particular responsibility to
monitor the micro-projects it supports in the project area, it makes sense to locate in Kebri
Dehar as well the Environmental Monitoring Unit which will be responsible for the more
general socioeconomic component of the Monitoring Plan proposed in the Environmental
Assessment. The Environmental Monitoring Unit would be attached to the CU, and share
its facilities and the services of the Advisor. In particular, of the total of 33 working months
proposed for the Technical Assistance Advisor, 10 months would be paid for out of the
environmental monitoring budget. Such a set up should ensure that the activities of the Fund
are carefully monitored, even after micro-projects are officially completed, and that lessons
from the successes and failures of micro-projects are kept in mind when implementing new
micro-projects. [For more details on the proposed environmental monitoring plan, including
total budget, refer to the Environmental Assessment Report].
Financial Arrangements
Disbursement and Procurement
33.      The CU will have its own local currency account in Kebri Dehar which will be
regularly replenished by the Regional Government. This account will be used to fund the
bulk of micro-projects. The Project Manager will be signatory to the account. In addition,
75



the Regional Government will have a Special Deposit Account in US$ with the National
Bank of Ethiopia; this account will be used to replenish the MU's account in Kebri Dehar
and to purchase goods requiring payment in foreign exchange.
34.      Disbursement and procurement procedures will depend on the type of community
assisted, that is, on the capacity of the intended beneficiaries to procure needed goods and
services and to draw from a bank account. Three cases can be distinguished as follows:
(a) the beneficiary does not have the capacity to establish/operate an account, either for
legal or practical reasons: in this case beneficiaries will not be expected to open an
account to receive disbursements from the CU, and the CU will be responsible for
procuring materials and entering into contracts with contractors on behalf of the
community;
(b)      the beneficiary does not have the capacity to establish/operate an account, but an
NGO or government agency sponsors the micro-project: in this case, the CU
would disburse funds on the account of the sponsor, who will be responsible for
procurement and for entering into contract for needed services;
(c) the beneficiary has the capacity to establish/operate an account: in this case, a.
Micro-Project Committee is created, who will open an account to receive disbursements
from the CU and will be responsible for procuring needed material and entering into
contracts for needed services, according to the Fund procurement regulations (see
below).
35.      Where the implementation agency is a local community group itself, that is, no
sponsoring agency is involved, the CU will have to determine whether it is reasonable to
expect beneficiaries to open and operate an account for their micro-project. While the
Operational Manual will provide detailed guidelines in this sense, it is anticipated that
decisions will be based on considerations such as the amount of money involved, the
intended use for the money, the educational background of the beneficiaries, and difficulties
in reaching a bank.
36.      As a rule (cases b and c above), disbursements will take place in trenches, and
the first tranche will not exceed 30 percent of the total. Possible exceptions will be cases
in which the micro-project centers around the provision of an important piece of equipment,
such as a pump or a generator; in these instances, disbursement may require a very large
initial installment. Trenches will normally only be paid against receipts or statements of
expenditure. It will be the responsibility of the micro-project holder to keep proper accounts
acceptable to the CU. The CU accountant will be responsible for checking these accounts
to ensure proper use of funds.
37.      The Calub Community Development Fund will have independent procurement
procedures outside the normal Regional Government procedures, similarly to what has
76



already been agreed by the Government for the operation of the Ethiopian Social
Rehabilitation Fund financed by the World Bank. The CU may import items for its own
use, such as vehicles and computers, or in support of micro-projects, such as building
supplies and water pumps.
38.      Procurement regulations will be as follows:
local shopping for civil works, goods and services up to US$30,000;
local competitive bidding for civil works, goods and services between US$30,000
and 200,000;
international competitive bidding for goods over US$200,000.
Credit
39.      Income generating micro-projects will involve a credit component. As a number
of successful grass-root credit projects have been documented worldwide (e.g., the Grameen
Bank in Bangladesh and ACCION in Latin America), income generating microprojects
should be set up taking into consideration such experiences. For example, interest rates
should be at commercial levels, banking procedures should be simple and quick,
requirements for collaterals should be "soft" and possibly replaced by group guarantees, and
credit liability should be shared by group members. Most importantly, field staff should be
responsive to the needs and interests of its clientele, and carry out pre- and post-credit
supervision with extreme diligence. These tasks are normally eased by the borrowers
themselves being organized into groups.
40.      The beneficiaries of the Fund's credit component are likely to comprise returnees
from Somalia living in the small towns and settlements in the project area (as defined in
para. 12). In fact, while permanent residents of the area tend to be nomadic or seminomadic
pastoralists with little interest and no experience in micro-enterprises, many returnees have
experience and skills in various trades, such as leather working, which they have brought
with them from Somalia. They do not have, however, the means to start up small
businesses.
41.      The account of the revolving credit fund will be kept distinct and separate from
the Fund general account. An initial sum of $ 500,000 will be paid into the account to start
the fund, and the sums of money loaned will be small-less than $3,000 per loan. The credit
fund will be regularly audited.
42.      The CU will be responsible, through its field staff, for advertising the credit
scheme, explaining its functioning to all those interested, and following up on loans. A
simple manual on credit operations will be prepared to be used by field staff and group
leaders. Where either individuals or groups in a locality consistently default on the loans the
77



local community elders will be informed, and no new loans to the conimunity in the area
initiated.
43.      The revolving credit fund should be operated on a trial basis in the first year. As
experience in the operation of the fund is gained, appropriate modifications to the design of
the scheme will be carried out. Details on how the credit will operate, including who and
what kinds of activities will be eligible, will be explained in a specific section of the
operational manual of the Fund to be prepared by the Adviser within the first three months
of project implementation. The manual will need to be approved by the Steering Committee
at the Regional Government headquarters before becoming effective.
Budget
44.      The bulk of funds allocated to the Calub Community Development Fund will be
used to fund micro-projects. However, there will inevitably be some administrative costs
involved in managing the Fund and operating the CU in Kebri Dehar. Because of the
remoteness of the area and difficult work conditions, it will be necessary to pay national staff
above normal official salary levels. Otherwise, it is unlikely that the right calibre of staff
will be attracted to the Unit. It is also important to establish from the start the principle that
priority in making appointments to the Unit will be given to Somali speaking Ethiopian
nationals living in Region 5. It is suggested, however, that professional staff be selected in
such a way as to minimize their vulnerability to clan pressure.
45.      Although the approach to be adopted by the CU will be to ensure an element of
cost sharing through local communities' contribution to micro-projects in either cash or kind,
it is difficult to know at this stage the proportion of recovered funds to total funds which this
approach will generate. Hence, it is difficult to determine the extent to which the Fund will
be replenished during the time of operation of the Calub Gas Development Project.
46.      The initial budget for the Fund will be on a grant basis for the first five years.
Thereafter, it is anticipated that the Regional Government will contribute to the maintenance
of the Fund out of tax revenues generated by the Calub Gas Company. In addition, other
donors may be attracted to invest in the Fund. It is important that in principle the Regional
Government agree to contribute a proportion of the tax revenues generated by Calub to
support the Fund in future before the initial grant establishing the Fund is made. The total
sum allocated to the Fund for the support of micro-projects, excluding the costs of the CU,
will be US $ 3,500,000 over five years.
Conclusions
47.      The above is intended to delineate the basic principles and mode of operation of
the Calub Community Development Fund. It must be realized that a detailed operational
78



manual needs to be prepared spelling out the details of Fund procedures. In particular, the
institutional framework of the Fund will have to be determined more precisely once the
Regional Government for Region 5 is in place. When this happens, presumably in the early
part of 1993, the formal institutional details of the Fund will need to be worked out with
Regional Government representatives as well as regional representatives of the mainline
ministries.
48.      Before the Fund is finalized, certain basic principles need to be discussed and
agreed on:
o     that the Fund's procurement and disbursement procedures will be as free from
bureaucratic restrictions as it is compatible with sound accounting practices;
o     that the major part of the Fund will be used for micro-projects, e.g.,
infrastructural projects worth less than $10,000, so as to avoid the temptation to
regional authorities of using the Fund for large infrastructural programs;
O     that the Fund will be clearly identified in the minds of project beneficiaries with
the Calub Gas Project, otherwise a major rationale for the fund will be removed
and confusion may arise with national programs such as the Ethiopian Social
-Rehabilitation Fund;
o     that the tax revenues from the Calub Gas Company or petroleum product sales
in Region 5 will be partly re-invested in the Fund;
o     that the staff employed in the CU will be Somali speakers with a thorough
knowledge of the local culture;
o     that CU staff will be paid salaries adequate to attract and retain expert staff;
o     that the people of Calub itself and the immediate surrounding area, within Shilabo
District, will be given priority in the disbursement of funds.
79



BUDGET FOR COMMUNITY FUTND
Us $
A. Capta Costs                                                 Unit                    Total
Cost
Office Building (4 rooms) - 1 unit                          30,000                    30,000
Residences (tukuls)- 4 units                                16,000                    64,000
Household Furniture- 4 sets                                  7,000                    28,000
ffice Equipment
Computer desktop                                             7,000                     7,000
Printer                                                      1,000                     2,000
Ups (unbreakable power supply)                               3,000                     3,000
Computer software                                            2,000                     2,000
Furniture                                                    5,000                     5,000
Typewriter                                                    1,000                    1,000
Radio & modem                                                8,000                     8,000
Laptop                                                       2,000                     2,000
Generator 12 KVA                                             15,000                   15,000
Air conditioner                                               1,500                    1,500
Ceiling Fans                                                   200                      600
Photocopier                                                  8,000                     8,000
Camping Equipment (2 sets)                                   1,000                     2,000
Vehicles
4 WD Station Wagon                                          40,000                    80,000
4 WD Pick-up                                                30,000                    30,000
5 Motorcycles (125cc)                                         5,000                  25,000
Technical Assistance Fund                                             Annual 5 years
Fund to hire local technical assistance                                10,000  50,000
Sub-Total (Capital Costs)... 364,000
B. Recurrent Costs                                                                           us $
Staff                                               Monthly Salary      12 Months           60 Months
Project Manager (1)                                        500           6,000               30,000
Range Ecologist (1)                                        400           4,800               24,000
Woman's Affair Officer (1)                                 400           4,800               24,000
Accountant (1)                                             300           3,600               18,000
Procurement Liaison Officer (1)                            250           3,000               15,000
Field Officer (5)                                          250           15,000              75,000
Secretary (1)                                              200           2,400               12,000
Guard (5)                                                  100           6,000               30,000
Driver (3)                                                 150           5,400               27,000
Cleaner (2)                                                80            1,920                9,600
80



Perdiems                                             Daily Rafe           DaysIMonth          60 Months
Project Manager (1)                                           7              15.                6,300
Range Ecologist (1)                                           7              15                 6,300
Women's Affairs Officer (1)                                   7               15                6,300
Accountant (1)                                                6               7                 2,520
Procurement Officer (1)                                       6               7                 2,520
Field Officer (5)                                             6              10                 18,000
Driver (3)                                                    4              15                 10,800
Rent for                                             Monthly Cost/Unit                        60 Months
Field Offices (5)                                           800                                48,000
Annual Cost/Unit                        60 months
Vehicle Operation & Maintenance                          10,000                               150,000
Motorcycle Operation & Maintenance                       2,500                                 62,500
Office consumables                                       4,000                                 20,000
Technical Assistance
Socio Economic Adviser (@a15,000/mo)                   315,000
Procurement Adviser (@15,000/mo)                        30,000
Sub Total (Recurrent Costs)    942,840
Total (Capital and Recurrent Costs) 1,306,840
15% Contingency                196,026
Grand Total                      1,502,866
Community Micro-Projects Fund                       3,500,000
Project Total                    5,002,866
81
FNF)



