Page  1
                                                            CONFORMED COPY
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2588 ET
                       Development Credit Agreement
                      (Calub Gas Development Project)
                                  between
                                 ETHIOPIA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                            Dated June 23, 1994
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2258 ET
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 23, 1994, between Ethiopia (the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the
Project;
      (B)   the Association has received a letter dated January 18, 1994
from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies
designed to achieve reform of the Borrower's energy sector (the Program) and
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program;
      (C)   the Borrower intends to obtain from the African Development Bank
(AfDB) a loan (the AfDB Loan) in an amount equivalent to $20,350,000 to
assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the AfDB Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower
and AfDB;
      (D)   the Borrower intends to obtain from the Minister for Development
Cooperation of the Netherlands (the Minister) a grant (the Dutch Grant) in
an amount equivalent to $4,000,000 to assist in financing the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the Dutch Grant Agreement)
Page  2
to be entered into between the Borrower and the Minister;
      (E)   the Borrower intends to obtain from other donors loans or grants
in an amount equivalent to $5,000,000 to assist in the financing of Part B.3
of the Project;
      (F)   Part A of the Project will be carried out by Calub Gas Share
Company (Calub Company), a company established and operating under the laws
of the Borrower, with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to Calub Company a portion of
the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia of the
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in a Project Agreement of even
date herewith between the Association and Calub Company;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence
of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part
of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project pre- paration
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange
of letters dated August 28, 1989 and January 25, 1991 between the Borrower
and the Association;
      (b)   "Special Account" means Special Account A or Special Account B
referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (c)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and Calub Company pursuant to Section 3.01 (a) of
this agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
      (d)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Association and Calub Company, of even date herewith, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
      (e)   "Calub Company" means the Calub Gas Share Company, a company
established and operating under the laws of the Borrower and registered on
December 3, 1993 under the Commercial Code, 1960 of the Borrower;
      (f)   "PITF" means the Project Implementation Task Force referred to
in Section 3.04 (c) of this Agreement;
      (g)   "Steering Committee" means the Steering Committee referred to
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
      (h)   "WACD" means the Women's Affairs Coordination Department
referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
      (i)   "MME" means the Ministry of Mines and Energy of the Borrower;
      (j)   "ERA" means the Ethiopian Roads Authority;
      (k)   "EEA" means the Ethiopian Energy Authority;
      (l) "Memorandum of Association" means the Memorandum of Association
Page  3
of Calub Company dated November 24, 1993;
      (m)   "LPG" means liquified petroleum gas;
      (n)   "Donors" means the cofinanciers of the Project; and
      (o)   "Region Five" means Region Five of the Borrower.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty-three million
seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 53,700,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars two special deposit accounts, namely: (i) a special
deposit account (Special Account A) in the National Bank of Ethiopia (NBE);
and (ii) a special deposit account (Special Account B) in the Commercial
Bank of Ethiopia (CBE), on terms and condition satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, Special Account A or Special
Account B shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself
the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation
Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid
charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2,000 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from
time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each
year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates
on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account
or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately
preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time
to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June
30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time
to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Page  4
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual
installments payable on each February 1 and August 1 commencing August 1,
2004 and ending February 1, 2034. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on February 1, 2014 shall be one percent (1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita,
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985
dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the
Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to
the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of
each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may
revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase
in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic
condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so
requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform
to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
      Section 2.09. Calub Company is designated as representative of the
Borrower in respect of Part A of the Project for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and,
to this end:
            (i)   shall carry out Parts B, C, D, E and F of the Project
                  with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
                  appropriate administrative and financial practices, and
                  shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
                  services and other resources required for the Project;
                  and
           (ii)   without limitation or restriction upon any of its other
                  obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, shall
                  cause Calub Company to perform all its obligations set
                  forth in the Project Agreement, shall take or cause to be
                  taken all action, including the provision of funds,
                  facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
                  appropriate to enable Calub Company to perform such
                  obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
                  action which would prevent or interfere with such
                  performance.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out Parts B, C, D, E and F of the Project
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to
Page  5
this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend to Calub Company the
proceeds of the Credit allocated to Categories (1), (2) (a), (3) and (4) (a)
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement under a subsidiary loan agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and Calub Company, under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Association which shall
include provisions requiring: (i) interest at the rate of fourteen percent
per annum, (ii) repayment of principal in ten years, including a three years
grace period, and (iii) the bearing by Calub Company of the cost of
fluctuation in currencies relent to it.
      (b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for Parts
B, C, D, E and F of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
      (a)   not later than April 30, 1996, take necessary regulatory
measures to implement a revised LPG pricing policy which would include
regulation of wholesale and retail prices based on import parity prices,
taxes and economic cost of transportation and whole and retail distribution;
      (b)   not later than 18 months from the Effective Date, establish
national LPG standards, including safety standards;
      (c)   ensure that the Project Implementation Task Force, the
Coordinating Unit of the Calub Community Development Fund and the monitoring
unit in charge of the environmental monitoring system shall all have
adequate numbers of qualified and experienced staff; and
      (d)   ensure that ERA establishes and maintains institutional,
organizational and budgetary arrangements, acceptable to the Borrower and
the Association, for the rehabilitation and maintenance of the Harar-Shilabo
road.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03 through 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and
schedule, records, and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of Part A of the Project shall be carried out by
Calub Company pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Project.
      (b)   Prior to each of such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association, for its review and comments, a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Project, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
      Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall not later than December 31, 1996
carry out, and cause Calub Company to carry out, jointly with the
Association and the Donors, a midterm review of the Project. Such review
shall include an assessment of: (i) the progress achieved in the
implementation of the Project; and (ii) satisfactory compliance with the
performance indicators in paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (b)   At least two months prior to such review, the Borrower shall
cause PITF to prepare and furnish to the Association a report, in such
detail as the Association may reasonably request, including a review of the
progress achieved in carrying out the Project and an assessment of such
progress based on the evaluation of the performance indicators.
Page  6
      (c)   Promptly after the completion of the midterm review, the
Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken, all necessary actions to
implement recommendations emanating from the review.
      Section 3.08. The Borrower shall obtain the loans or grants referred
to in Recital E of this Agreement not later than June 30, 1995.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of Parts B, C, D, E and F of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any
part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                  (a) of this Section, including those for the Special
                  Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end of each
                  such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Association shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof
                  as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expen- ditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Association has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                  the last withdrawal from the Credit Account or payment
                  out of a Special Account was made, all records
                  (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                  documents) evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                  and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. (a) Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
            (i)   a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
Page  7
                  that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be
                  carried out;
           (ii)   Calub Company shall have failed to perform any of its
                  obligations under the Project Agreement;
          (iii)   as a result of events which have occurred after the date
                  of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary
                  situation shall have arisen which shall make it
                  improbable that Calub Company, will be able to perform
                  its obligations under the Project agreement;
           (iv)   The Memorandum of Association shall have been amended,
                  suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
                  materially and adversely the ability of Calub Company to
                  perform any of its obligations under the Project
                  Agreement;
            (v)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
                  shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
                  disestablishment of Calub Company or for the suspension
                  of its operations; and
           (vi)   subject to paragraph (b) of this Section:
                  (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
                        of any loan, credit or grant made to the Borrower
                        for the financing of the Project shall have been
                        suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in
                        part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement
                        providing therefor, or
                  (B)   any such loan shall have become due and payable
                        prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
      (b)   Paragraph (a) (vi) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (i) such
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under such
agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   any event specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower; and
      (b)   the events specified in paragraphs (a) (iv), (a) (v) and (a)
(vi) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur subject in the case of
the event specified in paragraph (a) (vi) of that Section to the proviso of
paragraph (b) thereof.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the
Borrower and Calub Company;
      (b)   Calub Company has appointed external auditors acceptable to the
Association, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association;
      (c)   the Borrower has provided to the Association, evidence
satisfactory to the Association of the availability of the financing of Part
Page  8
B.1 of the Project;
      (d)   the Borrower has furnished to the Association terms of
reference, acceptable to the Association, for the study on the second phase
exploitation of the Calub gas deposit to be carried out under Part F.3 of
the Project; and
      (e)   the operation and management contract referred to in Section
3.03 of the Project Agreement has been signed.
      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
      (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by Calub Company, and is legally binding upon Calub Company in accordance
with its terms; and
      (b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Borrower and Calub Company and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and Calub Company in accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Minister of Finance
            P.O. Box 1905
            Addis Ababa
            Ethiopia
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  MINFIN                     21147
                  Addis Ababa
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                        ETHIOPIA
Page  9
                        By /s/ Berhane Gebre-Christos
                                                Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit
to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                             Credit Allocated      % of
                               (Expressed in    Expenditures
  Category                    SDR Equivalent)  to be Financed
(1)   Civil works under         470,000         90%
      Part A of the
      Project
(2)   Equipment,                                100% of foreign
      materials and                             expenditures
      vehicles:
      (a) Calub Company      30,450,000
      (b) ERA                 1,800,000
      (c) Region Five            75,000
      (d) MME                   220,000
(3)   Well Completion         4,340,000         100% of foreign
      under Part A.1                            expenditures
      of the
      Project
(4)   Consultants' Services                     100%
      and Training:
      (a) Calub Company       6,050,000
      (b) ERA                 1,450,000
      (c) Region Five           550,000
      (d) MME                 1,700,000
(5)   Refunding of              895,000         Amount due pur-
      Project Prepara-                          suant to Section
      tion Advance                              2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement
(6)   Unallocated             5,700,000
                             __________
Page  10
          TOTAL              53,700,000
                             ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expenditures"
means expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the
Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to: (i) improve the structure of
energy supply by increasing the availability of modern fuels, (ii) support
economic growth by expanding petroleum supply from indigenous resources,
(iii) contribute to the mitigation of peri-urban deforestation by inducing
the replacement of woodfuels by LPG and kerosene in the urban households,
(iv) develop the Borrower's technical capacity to commercialize its fossil
fuel resources, (v) contribute to poverty alleviation, (vi) stimulate and
facilitate private sector participation in the energy sector, and (vii)
enhance MME's ability to promote petroleum exploration and development.
      The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Development of Calub Field
1.    Completion of the existing nine wells on the Calub gas field,
including installation and testing of production and injection equipment.
2.    Construction of a processing plant and ancillary facilities.
3.    Training and technical assistance to Calub Company to attract private
equity investment, and to supervise plant construction and operations.
4.    Construction of the Calub-Shilabo link road.
Part B:   Regional Development of the Southeastern Region
1.    Rehabilitation of the Shilabo-Harar road and equipment for two flying
crews for the maintenance of critical road segments.
2.    Setting up an environmental monitoring system, and its operation by
a team comprising primarily social scientists and rangeland ecologists, to:
(a) provide base-line information on the living conditions of the local
population and on the state of the natural resource base, (b) facilitate
project implementation by documenting social and environmental changes
caused by the Project, anticipating problems caused by such changes, and
identifying appropriate solutions, and (c) support the operation of the
Community Development Fund to address general environmental, social and
economic concerns of the communities in the Project area.
3.    Assistance for the establishment and operation of a Community
Development Fund to finance and support locally identified and community
based and managed micro-projects, including: (a) small infrastructure
projects such as rehabilitation or construction of wells, schools, and
health clinics, (b) social projects for the provision of essential social
services such as community health and nutritional programs, and training in
adult literacy, and (c) income generating projects, including the provision
of credit and/or small grants for small-scale enterprises.
Part C:   Assistance to MME
1.    Technical assistance for the establishment of the Calub Company and
its promotion to private investors.
2.    Support for the establishment and operation of the Project
Implementation Task Force within the MME.
Page  11
3.    Strengthening of MME's capacity to promote private sector
participation in petroleum exploration and development, including assistance
to update and market the existing petroleum data base, and training in
seismic data interpretation and exploration promotion.
Part D:   Support for LPG Marketing and Interfuel Substitution
      Technical assistance to EEA to: (a) implement LPG public awareness
campaigns, (b) establish national LPG standards, and (c) study and promote
technology adaption for local production of LPG stoves.
Part E:   Fuelwood Carriers Credit Scheme (FCCS)
      Establishment and operation of the FCCS to provide collateral-free
soft loans and training to women fuelwood carriers organized in small
community groups.
Part F:   Studies
1.    Study of petroleum pricing and market structure, to assist the
Borrower in formulating pricing policies for petroleum products and defining
cost-effective procurement and distribution policies.
2.    Study of the electrification of selected urban centers around Calub,
to evaluate the potential of supplying electricity from Calub to the
district of Gode and other urban centers.
3.    Study of the second phase exploitation of Calub deposit to analyze:
(i) the market potential and the technical feasibility and economic
viability of a large scale exploitation of Calub's gas resources, and (ii)
the policy and regulatory framework for gas commercialization.
                            *       *        *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
      (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Association, one to be applied to all
foreign currency components and the other to the local currency component
of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the
bid evaluation.
      (b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this
Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Association shall
have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no
relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the
Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other internationally
recognized standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.    Goods procured under this Part A, shall be exempted from pre-shipment
inspection by a third party inspection firm.
3.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into
bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more.
Page  12
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Ethiopia may be granted
a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions
of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000
or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent
of $750,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
2.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000
or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent of $400,000, may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three sources eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for works and goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of a Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to paragraph
2 (d) of said Appendix shall be furnished to the Association prior to the
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of a Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply
to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
3.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out of the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
2.     For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other
standard forms agreed with the Association.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section the
provision of the Consultants Guidelines requiring prior review or approval
Page  13
by the Association of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters
of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply
to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each. However,
this exception to such prior review or approval requirements shall not apply
to the terms of reference for such contracts nor to the employment of
individuals, to single-source hiring of firms, to assignments of a critical
nature as reasonably determined by the Association and to amendments of
contracts raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                          Implementation Program
1.    The Project Implementation Task Force (PITF) established within MME
will be responsible for Project coordination, monitoring and reporting.
Under the overall supervision of PITF: (a) Calub Company will implement Part
A of the Project; (b) ERA will be responsible for the implementation of Part
B.1 of the Project; (c) the Steering Committee established by the Borrower
will be in charge of the implementation of Parts B.2 and B.3 of the Project;
(d) MME will be responsible for the implementation of Parts C.3 and D of the
Project; and (e) WACD will implement Part E of the Project. PITF will
implement directly Part F of the Project.
2.    Calub Company, MME, the Steering Committee, WACD and ERA will furnish
to PITF quarterly reports on the implementation of their respective Parts
of the Project.
3.    The environmental monitoring system under Part B.2 of the Project will
be managed by a small monitoring unit to be established under the Steering
Committee.
4.    The Calub Community Development Fund will be managed by a Coordinating
Unit (CU) which will directly report to the Steering Committee. CU will have
the following responsibilities: (i) preparation of a detailed operational
manual which will describe, inter alia, the types of eligible projects, the
criteria to be used for assessing applications, the different stages of
project assess- ment and monitoring, the disbursement and procurement
procedures, (ii) promotion and advertising of the Fund, (iii) assessment and
appraisal of projects, (iv) disbursement of funds for the imple- mentation
of Projects, and (v) monitoring of the community development projects
Implementation. For projects involving a large number of beneficiaries
and/or funds in excess of $500 equivalent, local project committees will be
established to oversee the implementation of the projects and the proper use
of funds.
5.    The performance indicators for monitoring project imple- mentation are
as follows:
A.    Calub Company
1.    (a)   The key performance indicators include: (i) percentage private
equity and contribution to the performance of Calub Company; (ii) plant
construction costs and timeliness; (iii) ability of the firm or firms to be
appointed under Section 3.03 of the Project Agreement to meet performance
obligations of the contract referred to in said Section; and (iv) after
plant start up, capacity utilization, sales volume, and financial
performance as required under Sections 4.02 and 4.03 of the Project
Agreement.
      (b)   The following should be the implementation status at the time
of the midterm review referred to in Section 3.07 of this Agreement: (i)
well completion work should be underway under the supervision of the
consultant employed for phase II of the Project activities described in
Section 3.03 of the Project Agreement; (ii) plant detailed design (by the
turnkey contractor) should have been completed, long lead items ordered, and
general mobilization underway; and (iii) construction of the Calub-Shilabo
link road should be underway.
B.    Road Rehabilitation.
      Key performance indicators include:
Page  14
            (i)   ability of flying crews to maintain the Shilabo-Harar
                  road during rehabilitation;
           (ii)   rehabilitation costs and timeliness; and
          (iii)   re-graveling and routine road maintenance after
                  rehabilitation should conform to the schedule in
                  consultant study agreed with the Association. The
                  following should be the implementation status at the time
                  of the midterm review: (aa) equipment for initial road
                  maintenance ordered and the establishment of maintenance
                  units underway; and (bb) mobilization of road                  
rehabilitation contractors underway.
C.    Environmental Monitoring System.
      Key performance indicators center around monitoring natural resources
and socio-economic patterns as agreed with the Association. The following
should be the implementation status at the time of the midterm review: (i)
design and terms of reference of the socio-economic and natural resource
monitoring system finalized; (ii) training of data collectors completed; and
(iii) initial baseline data collection completed.
D.    Community Development Fund.
      Key performance indicators center around the type and number of micro-
projects funded and their sustainability, as defined in the operational
manual which shall be satisfactory to the Association. The following should
be the implementation status at the time of the midterm review: (i)
operational manual prepared; (ii) field officers in place after having been
trained; and (iii) micro-project identi- fication underway.
E.    Technical Assistance to MME.
      Performance of this component will be indicated by: (i) for the PITF,
the quality, frequency and regularity in reporting, and performance of its
implementing, monitoring and coordinating functions; and (ii) for the MME,
by the interest generated in oil and gas exploration in Ethiopia and the
number of exploration contracts signed. The following should be the
implementation status at the time of the MTR: (aa) PITF should have
submitted at least ten aggregated quarterly project reports by December
1996; and (bb) exploration promotion work schedule and staffing requirements
finalized.
F.    LPG Market Support.
      Performance of this component will be measured by the cost-
effectiveness of locally manufactured LPG stoves, safety record of LPG use,
and the speed at which the market is able to consume Calub LPG production.
The following should be the implementation status at the time of the MTR:
(i) LPG stove development program finalized and work underway; and (ii)
national LPG standards established. Pros- pects for the import or local
manufacture of LPG stoves, cylinders and related infrastructure would also
be assessed.
G.    Studies.
      Timely and appropriate recommendations and their imple- mentation will
be performance indicators of the studies. The following should be the
implementation status at the time of the midterm review: (i) Petroleum
Pricing and Market Structure Study recommendations (as agreed by the
Borrower and the Association) should have been implemented and incorporated
into Government sectoral policy; and (ii) recommendations of the Regional
Electrification Study ready for review.
H.    Fuelwood Carriers Credit Scheme.
      Key performance indicators are reflected in the component description
agreed with the Association. The Project unit should be in place and the
selection of the initial target groups completed by the time of the midterm
review.
I.    Policy Reforms.
Page  15
      Key performance indicators are: (i) increased private invest- ment in
the petroleum exploration, production and processing, transportation and
distribution; (ii) reduced transaction costs for petroleum procurement and
distribution (reflected in retail prices); and (iii) a reduction in
unsatisfied demand for petroleum products.  The midterm review should: (i)
review the impact of freight tariff liberalization on investment in trucks
and tankers; (ii) the impact of on-going LPG pricing policy reform on
downstream investment; and (iii) the impact of general economic policies on
industrial growth should be incorporated into the TORs of the Second Phase
Calub Gas Exploitation Study.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                             Special Accounts
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means with respect to: (i)
Special Account A, Categories (2) (b), (2) (c), (2) (d), (4) (b), (4) (c)
and (4) (d) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, and (ii) Special Account B, Categories (1), (2) (a), (3) and (4)
(a) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of said Schedule 1;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time
to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means: (i) with respect to
Special Account A, an amount equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the
Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account A, and (ii) with
respect to Special Account B, an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 to be
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account B,
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of a Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that
a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall
be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of a Special Account, the Borrower
                  shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits
                  into the Special Account at such intervals as the
                  Association shall specify.
           (ii)   Prior to, or at the time of, each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
                  this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of
                  which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
                  such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the
                  Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
                  into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said
                  documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the
                  Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.
Page  16
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into a Special
Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of a Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an
amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was
not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit
or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding
amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
