CREDIT NUMBER 2588 ET
Project Agreement
(Calub Gas Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
CALUB GAS SHARE COMPANY
Dated       MAe -                  , 1994


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2588 ET
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     jLLAC- a2               , 1994, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and CALUB
GAS SHARE COMPANY    (Calub Company), a company established and
operating under the laws of the Borrower.
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Ethiopia (the Borrower) and the Association, the
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount
in various currencies equivalent to fifty three million seven
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 53,700,000) on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement,
but only on condition that Calub Company agrees to kidertake such
obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this
Agreement;
(B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and Calub Company, a portion of the proceeds of
the credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will
be relent to Calub Company on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS Calub Company in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, wherever
used in this Agreement, the several terms defined in the Development
Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set
forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Calub Company declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Part


﻿-2-
A of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and
commercial practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for Part A of the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. Calub Company shall carry out the obligations
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement
and Part A of the Project.
Section 2.04. Calub Company shall duly perform all its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, Calub Company shall not take or
concur in action which would have the effect of amending, abrogat-
ing, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) Calub Company shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of Part A of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, arv'other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   Calub company shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of Part A of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Calub Company of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of Calub Company
Section 3.01. Calub Company shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial,  commercial  and  environmental practices    under  the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. Calub Company shall: (a) ensure that its
production facilities are designed, constructed, operated and
maintained in accordance with internationally accepted managerial,
operational, safety and environmental practices, (b) implement the
recommendations of the Steering Committee based on the findings of
the environmental monitoring system to be set up under Part B.2 of
the Project, and (c) at all times operate and maintain its plant,
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof,
all in accordance with sound engineering and financial practices.
Section 3.03. Calub Company shall appoint, under a supervision
of implementation and operational management contract or contracts
acceptable to the Association, internationally reputable firm or
firms acceptable to the Association to, inter alia: (a) supervise
the completion of basic plant design, the preparation of bidding
documents, the evaluation of bids and the selection of contractors
for well completion and plant construction, (b) supervise well
completion and plant construction, and (c) operate the plant during
the first three years, beginning the latest three months before
plant commissioning.
Section 3.04. Calub Company shall keep its senior management
positions filled, at all times, by persons having experience and
qualifications acceptable to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.05. Calub Company shall, by the end of each year,
furnish to the Association and the Borrower for approval its annual
training plan for the next following year.
Section 3.06. Calub Company shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.


﻿-4
Section 3.07. Calub Company shall, not later than six months
after the Effective Date, issue invitations to bid for well
completion and plant construction.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) Calub Company shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)   Calub Company shall:
i     have  its   records,  accounts   and   financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal year (including those for Special Account
B) audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent   auditors    acceptable   to    the
Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, Calub Company shall maintain (i) a debt to equity ratio of
less than 2.5, (ii) for each of its fiscal years after its third
fiscal year of operation a ratio of current assets to current
liabilities of not less than 1.5, and (iii) its accounts receivable
below 90 days of its sales.


﻿- 5 -
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "current assets" means cash, all assets
which could in the ordinary course of business be
converted into cash within twelve months,
including   accounts   receivable,   marketable
securities, inventories and prepaid expenses
properly chargeable to operating expenses within
the next year.
(ii)   The  term   "current  liabilities"  means   all
liabilities which will become due and payable or
could under circumstances then existing be called
upon for payment within twelve months, including
accounts  payable,   customer   advances,  debt
services requirements, taxes and payments in lieu
of taxes, and dividends.
(iii)   The term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amounts or repayments (including fund
payments, if any) of, and interest and other
charges on, debt.
(iv)   Whenever for the purpose of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency
of the Borrower, debt payable in another
currency, such valuation shall be made on the
basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange
at which such other currency is, at the time of
such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such
rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange
acceptable to the Association.
(v)   The term "debt" means any indebtedness of Calub
Company maturing by its terms more than one year
after the date on which it is originally
incurred.
(vi)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
loan contract or agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt or for the modification
of its terms of payment on the date of such
contract, agreement, or instrument; and (B) under
a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement


﻿-6-
providing for such guarantee has been entered
into.
(vii)   The term "equity" means the sum of the total un-
impaired paid-up capital, retained earnings and
reserves of Calub Company not allocated to cover
specific liabilities.
Section 4.03. Until the completion of the Project, Calub
Company's annual capital expenditures in excess of the equivalent of
5% of its total assets, shall require the prior consent of the
Association.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of Calub Company thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms; or
(ii)   the date   20 years   after  the date of this
Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify Calub
Company of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                   197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)
For Calub Company
P.O. Box 402
Addis Abab.
Ethiopia
Telex:
21132 OIL ET
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Calub Company or by Calub Company on behalf
of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken
or executed by the General Manager or such other person or persons


﻿-8-
as the General Manager shall designate in writing, and Calub Company
shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By           ~f.t~cyo
Regional Vice President
Africa
CALUB COMPANY
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I: Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
2.    (a)   For fixed price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency
components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
(b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part
A, Calub Company shall use the relevant standard bidding documents
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Association shall have agreed to be necessary for purposes of the
Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, Calub Company shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Association.
3.    Goods to be procured under this Part A, shall be exempted from
preshipment price inspection by a third party inspection firm.
4.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and work shall
be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$500,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Ethiopia may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,


﻿- 10 -
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
Items, or groups of items, estimated to cost the equivalent of
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $750,000 may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to -each contract for goods and works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of
a Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to
the Association pursuant to paragraph 2 (d) of said Appendix shall
be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to paragraph 3 of said
Appendix shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.


﻿- 11 -
Section II: Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist Calub Company in carrying out the Project,
Calub Company shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultants Guidelines).
2.    For complex, time-based assignments, Calub Company shall
employ such consultants under contracts using the standard form of
contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association. Where no
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank,
Calub Company shall use other standard forms agreed with the
Association.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section
the provision of the Consultants Guidelines requiring prior review
or approval by the Association of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than
$100,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to such prior
review or approval requirements shall not apply to the terms of
reference for such contracts nor to the employment of individuals,
to single-source hiring of firms, to assignments of a critical
nature as reasonably determined by the Association and to amendments
of contracts raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or
above.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the
International Development Association.
F    SECRETARY


