c+- iL,?-'
FILE COPY
RESTRICTED
Report No. PTR-28a
This report was prepored for use within the Sonk ond its affiliated orgonizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accurocy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor moy it be quoted os reprosenting their viows.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF A
HIGHWAY PROJECT
MOROCCO
September 23, 1969
Transportation Projects Department



Currency Equivalents:
Currency Unit              _   Dirham (DH)
DH 5.06                    =   US$1. 00
DH 1                       =   US$0. 1974
DH1, 000, 000              =   US$197,400
DH4, 060, 000              =   US$1,000,000
Fiscal Year:
AJanuary 1 to December 31
Units of Weights and Measures: Metric
Metric: British/US Equivalents
1 kilometer (km)          =   0. 62 miles (mi)
1 meter                   =   3. 28 feet (ft)
1 square kilometer (km2)  =   0. 386 square miles (sq mi)
i liter (1)               =   0. 22 imp. gallons
=   0. 26 gallons (US)
1 metric ton (m ton)      =   2, 204 pounds (lbs)
List of Abbreviations Used in this Report
BCEOM  - Bureau Central pour les equipements d'Outre-Mer
MPW    - Ministry of Public Works and Communications
ONCF   - Office National des Chemins de Fer
ONT    - Office National des Transports
RAM     - Royal Air Maroc
REI    - Regie des Exploitations Industrielles
IGR     - Inspectorate General of Roads



MOROCCO
APPRAISAL OF A HIGHWAY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page
SUMMARY AND CÔNCL{SINS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            i
1.  INTRODUCTION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2.  BACKGROUND  .*...  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . .
A.  Economic Setting  .                             . . . . . . . .       1
B.  The Transport System  . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . .   . .          2
C.  Transport Policy and Coordination . . . . . . . . . . . . .           4
3.  THE HIGHWAY SECTOR  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            5
A.  The Highway Network . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           5
B.  Characteri8tices and Grovth of Road Traffic  .    . . . . . . .       5
C.  Administration ..  .  .  . .              . . . . . . . . .   .       6
DI. Maintenance               .. . . . . . . . . . .  7
E.  Highway Plan  ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..  8
F. Financing                       .. ... .  8
G.  Construction  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           8
4.  THE PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            9
A.  Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           9
B.  Agadir-Marrakech Road .   . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . .            9
C.  Three-Year Highvay Improvement Program  . . . . . . .                10
D.  Bridge Construction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                10
E.  New Maintenance Equipment .                     . . . . . . . .      10
F.  Transport Survey  .. . ........ ....... ...                          1il
G.  Cost Estimate and Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    il
H.  Execution   . . ....  .        .  .  .    ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    12
5.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION ..................... .    13
A.  General   .  .   .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .   .  .  .  13
B.  Agadir-Marrakech Road . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    14
C.  Highway Improvement .............  ....                         .    14
D.  Bridge Construction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . 15
E.  Reneval of Maintenance Equipment  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    16
F.  Transport Study . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    16
G.  Conclusion  ................                         . . . ...       16
6.  RECOMMENDATIONS.       .    .  .  .  .     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    16
This report was prepared by Messrs. Ludvig (Engineer) and Venkatesvaran and
Pouliquen (Economists), and vas edited by Miss J. Murphy.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Tables:
1. Highvay Classification - Average Density of Roada
2. Vehicle Fleet Grovth (1960 - 1967)
3. Motor Vehicle Fuel Consumption
4.  Road Transport Vehicles Composition of Capacity
5. Volume of Freight Hauled by Public Carriers
6. Maintenance Expenditures
7. Highway Investment Plans (1961 - 1972)
8. Revenue Raised from Road Users
9. Cost Estimate of Construction and Improvement on Agadir-Marrakech Road
10. Cost Estimate of Highway Improvement and Bridge Construction
11. Cost Estimate of New Equipment
12. Project Cost Estimate
13. Economic Evaluation of Agadir-Marrakech Road
14. Economic Evaluation of Highvay Improvement and Bridge Construction
15. Economic Evaluation of Maintenance Equipment Reneval
Chart 1: Organization Of the Ministry of Public Works and Communications
Chart 2:  Organization of the Inspectora;e General of Roads
Map: Transport Network



MOFOCCO
APPRAISAL OF A HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Morocco s economy is largely dependent on the export of minerals
and agricultural production, and relies heavily on its transport system for
this purpose. Mineral exports are carried to port by rail but transport of
agricultural products depends almost completely upon the road eys em.  He-
liable farm-to-market roads and an efficient trunk road network to facili-
tate communication between the centers of production, ccansumpt?on, and ex-
port are required to support and promote agricultural development. The de-
velopment of tourism vill partly depend upon effective roads to the in-
terior of the country.
ii.       The highway network is rvelveiy well developed.  The density of
the primary and secondary road system is adequate to serve the heavily popu-
lated rural and urban areas, while an extensive tertiary road network reaches
into the remote and sparsely populated areas.  However, the highvay system
has deteriorated over recent years because the funds allocated for mainte-
nance have not been sufficient. Routine maintenance has been hampered by
the existiag obsolete and overage maintenance equipment. While the bulk of
the network is still in acceptable condition, certain sections of the trunk
roads carrying high traffic volumes are in need of selected improvemefât, and
some of the secondary roads are on the verge of rapid deterioration.
iii.      Future investment in the transport system, consisting primarily of
improvements in the existing infrastructure, needs to be made wïthin an over-
all developmental framevork, and to be concentrated in the Atlantic coastal
zone which is the transport hub of Morocco. The future requirements of over-
all transport policy, pricing, licensing and taxation also need to be stuidied
in the context of transport planning.
iv.       The objective of the proposèd project is to ensure that economic
development is not hindered by the deterioration of the primary and secondary
road systema thus leading to rising transport costs. The project vill (a)
provide a new and more efficient road link between Agadir and Marrakech
through the construction of about 106 km and the improvement of about 72 km
of road; (b) increase the capacity of the trunXk road system through a three-
year program providing for the improvement of 348 km of primary road sections;
(c) provide shorter route alternatives and replace a temporary crossing by
the construction of four bridges; (d) improve the efficiency of road main-
tenance through the purchase of equipment and spare parts; and (e) identify
a future progran of high priority investment projects in the Atlantic coastal
zone through a transport survey, and concurrently identify future directions
of transport policy. Engineering for the construction and improvement works
has been substantially completed by the Ministry of Public Works and Commu-
nications.
v.        Execution of the project vill be the responsibility of the Inspec-
torate General of Roads, which is capable of daing so. All of the civil



- ii -
vorks and equipment purchases under the project vill be carried out on the
basis of international coepetitive bidding. The transport survey vill be
made by consultants acceptable to and according to terms of reference pre-
pared by Bank/IDA.
vi.       The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$21.2
million of which Bank/IDA vill finance the foreign exchange cost of US$14.6
million including contingencies, or about 70%. The remaining capital expendi-
tures vill be met by the Government. This investment is of high priority
and economically sound, vith rates of return ranging from 12% to 28%.
vii.      The project is suitable for a Bank Loan and an IDA Credit, each
amounting to US$7.3 million. The loan would be made for a 20 year term,
including a four-year grace period. This term is related to the economic
life of various elements qt the project.



MOROCCO
APPRAISAL 0- A HIGHWAY PROJEe?
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In September 1968, the Government of Morocco submitted a request
to Bank/IDA for financing an improvement program for about 348 km of primary
road sections, including the construction of four bridges, and a highway main-
tenance project consisting of the rurchase of mainteniance equ4pman.t and spare
parts.  In addition, the appraisal mission identified and appraised the con-
struction of a road between Agadir and Marrakech.  During the appraisal the
Government decided to broaden the scope of an intended port investment study
for the major ports of Morocco to a transport study of the Atlantic coastal
region between Agadir and Tangier. This study vill include feasibility studies
for major routes in this region and a cr;ical examination of overall transport
policy.
1.02      The proposed credit will be the first lending operation by the
Bank or IDA in the transport sector in Morocco. Of the proposed loan/credit
amount of US$14.6 million, US$14.2 million vill be allocated to the construc-
tion and improvement project and US$o.4 million to the proposed transport
study.
1.03      The present project, based on information supplied by the Inspec-
torate General of Roada (I13R), vas appraised by the authors of this report,
Messrs. Ludvig - Engineer, and Venkateswaran and Pouliquen - Economists, vho
visited Morocco in March 1969. The report was edited by Miss J. Murphy.
2. BACKGROUND
A. Economic Setting
2.01      Morocco is situated in the northwest corner of Africa vith its
northern-most point only 29 km south of Gibraltar, and is bounded by the
Mediterranean Sea on the north, Algeria on the east and southeast, Spanish
Sahara on the south, and the Atlantic Ocean on the west and northwest. It
has an area of about 444,ooo km , about four fifths the size of France.
2.02      The country is divided into three natural regions: (1) the fertile
coastal plain along the Mediterranean, which contains the Rif mountain chain
varying in elevation up to 2,700 m; (2) the rich plateaus and lovlands lying
between the rugged Atlas mountains, which extend in three parallel chains
from the Atlantic Coast in the southwest to Algeria and the Mediterranean in
the northeast; and (3) the semi-arid area in southern and eastern Morocco
which merges into the Sahara.
2.03      Excluding the mountains and the desert regions, the climate of
Morocco is quite temperate and year-round temperatures are conducive to agri-
culture and tourism. Although rainfall is adequate (over 400 mm) for agri-
culture only in the northern plains, vater storage in the mountains provides



-2-
for year-round irrigation in the southern plains and plateaus, and in the
extreme northeast. The distribution of the population follows the areas of
greatest agricultural possibilities, and except for scattered settlements,
the semi-arid region and the mountains are very sparsely populated.
2.04      The population of Morocco vas estimated at 14 million in 1967 and
has been growing at the rapid rate of about 3.3% per annue in recent years.
The average nationvide density is about 32 persons per km , although the
areas of agricultural activity have very much higher densities. The urban
centers have been experiencing a growth of about 5% per annum as a result of
migration from rural areas. Nevertheless, nearly 70% of the population is
rural and Morocco is predominantly an agricultural society. Casablanca, the
largest city, has a population close to 1 million and is the economic and
commercial center of the country, while Rabat vith about 250,000 inhabitants
is the political capital.
2.05      Agriculture contributes close to 30% to the gross domestic product
(GDP) and provides about 50% of Morocco's foreign exchange earnings from visible
exports. Cereals and pulses are the main crops, although the cultivation of
citrus, sugarbeet and vegetables is widespread and of considerable importance.
Livestock makes the largest single contribution to value added in agriculture.
Industry (processed foodstuffs, textiles) accounts for about 12%-14% of GDP,
while mining (mainly phosphates) adds another 5%, and has represented nearly
140% of the visible exports since'1962. In recent years income from tourism
has assumed a groving importance' and accounts for some 11% of all foreign
exchange earnings.
2.06      The growth of the economy has been modest in recent years, of
the order or 2% per annum between 1963 and 1967, but has shown signs of
accelerating in 1968 end 1969. GDP per capita is less than $200 per year.
Economic growth has been held back by a shortage of qualified manpower brought
about by the departure of most of the indigenous European population since in-
dependence. The high population growth rate presses hard on available resources.
This has necessitated greater attention to population control and welfare ob-
jectives in the development plans. Partly to offset increasing migration from
rural to urban areas, the main thrust of development efforts in Morocco is in
rural development. The emphasis in the five-year plan (1968-1972) is on the
improvement or agricultural production and better utilization of the resources
in the rural areas.
B. The Transport System
2.07      Moroccols economy is largely dependent on the export of minerals
and agricultural production and relies heavily on its trans-
port system. Mineral exports are carried to port by rail. The transport of
agricultural products depends on an extensive road network.  Reliable farm-
to-market roads and an efficient trunk roa4 network to facilitate communi-
cation betveen the centers of production, consumption and export are required
to support and promote agricultural development. The development of tourism
cglls for effective roads to the interior of the country



- 3-
HighwyMs and Road Transor~t
2.08      The highway network c+nsists of about 51,000 km of classified
roads, of which about 20,000 km are paved.  The density of the primary and
secondary road system is adequate to serve the heavily populated rural and
urban areas, while an extensive tertiary road network reaches into the re-
mote and sparsely populated areas. Maintenance expenditures have recently
failed to keep pace with requirements, and, while the bu.lk of the network
is ætill in acceptable condition, certain sections of the trwik roads carry-
ing high traffic volumes are in need of selected improvement works and some
of the Becondary roada are on the verge of rapid deterioration.  This is
especially true in the northern pazt of the country where the rainfall is
heavy and the subeoil conditions are poor. If this situation is not cor-
rected, the resulant rising cost of transport vill slow down the economic
development of the country.
2.09      Road transport is provided by a group of public freight and pas-
senger carriers.  The autonomous Office National des Transports (ONT), under
the control of the Ministry of Public Works and Communications (MPW), acts
as a public freight forvarder and dispatcher and controls the operations of
all public freight carriers. However, some 60,000 private operators (so-
called "clandestins") own and operate the ubiquitous 5.5 ton truck, which
is outside the ONT's control, and do an estimated total volume of business
that is at least as high as that carried by the ONT-controlled operators:
over 5 million tons in 1968 (see paras. 2.14 and 3.07). In addition, some
private enterprises and farmers transport their own freight, but are regu-
lated under a licensing scheme administered by the Ministry of Public Works
and Communications.
Rai!ways
2.10      The Moroccan railroads are under control of the Office National
des Chemins de Fer (ONCF). Total tonnage of goods carried (16.7 million
tons in 1967) has increased only slightly since 1963, despite a substantial
increase in the haulage of phosphates and other minerals for export (azount-
ing to 61% of total tonnage) due to a decline in the volume of other com-
modities carried.  The profits from the haulage of phosphates on the western
lines (which makes up nearly 60% of ONCF revenues) cover the deficits in-
curred on other lines resulting from Ïoy freight volumes and poor returns on
passenger traffic.
2.11      The railroads complement the highway netvork by transporting bulk
export goods. Future investments in the railroads vill depend to a large
extent upon considerations of inter-modal competition, particularly on the
north-south road and rail axis in the Atlantic coastal region. The coordi-
nation of investments in the different modes of transport is a primary ob-
jective of the proposed transport study (see para. 2.15).



Ports
2.12      Morocco has six major ports of varying importance, and six minor
ports handling a negligible volume of trafffe.  In 1967, the ports handled
a total of 15.6 million tons of cargo, of which 71% vent through Casablanca,
13% through Safi and 8% through Mohammedia. The principal exports through
Casablanca and Safi vere phosphates (8 million and 1.5 million tons respec-
tively). Mohammedia is the only major petroleum port occupied primarily
vith importing, handling about 1 million tons in 1967. About 65% of the
total general cargo imports of 4.9 million tons entered through Casablanca.
Tourist slhips arrive at the pàrts of Tangier and Casablanca; the total mari-
time passenger traffic in these two ports in 1967 vas 550,000 and 125,000
respectively.
Aviation
2.13      Morocco has seven commercial airports vith regular flight schedules.
The major traffic is international, accounting for 91.5% of the total in 1966.
Since 1964, passenger traffic has steadily increased at an average of 11.5%
per annum.  Almost half of this traffic is to and from France.  The Moroccan
airline, Royal Air Maroc (RAM), carries 40% of all traffic. In an effort to
encourage tourism and move avay from its early protectionist attitude toward
airline traffic, the Government recently signed 22 air reciprocity sigreements
and is considering others.  Future infrastructure developments in aviation
are closely linked to the development of tourism, and the impact of the tour-
ist traffic on the other transport modes in Morocco will be specifically
examined in the proposed transport study (see para. 2.15).
C.  2ransport Policy and Coordination
2.14      In principle, transport in Morocco is completely regulated: all
rates are fixed by the Government, and entry into the road transport industry
is controlled through licensing of private and public carriers and discrimi-
natory taxation of the former. In practice, however, vith vehicles of more
than 5.5 tons freight handling capacity alone being subject to a licensing
scheme, a disproportionate number of the trucks serving the road transport
industry are in the exempt category (5.5 tons and below). The Government
proposes to arrest this unlimited expansion of the small truck sector of the
industry' through more regulation and licensing. While such a step vould
cure sobe of the undesirable side effects of present policy, it is highly
questionable vhether a policy involving such a high degree of regulation and
discriminating against private carriers is economically appropriatp. A pol-
icy involving greater freedom of operation for the transport industry and
greater selectivity for the cons'imers would help point out future directions
for infrastructure investments based on market demand and economic efficiency
and vould benefit the country as a whole. While the transition to a more
liberal scheme vould doubtless be difficult, there exist no major institu-
tional features (such as vide Government ownership) in the transport industry
that would preclude any needed changes in transport policy.



-5
2.15      Although the transport system is extensive, directions for future
transport planning should be defined vithin the overall developmental frame-
work. The Atlantic Coastal area between Agadir in the south and Tangier in
the north vill continue to be the most important transport zone in the coun-
try. Improvements in transport in this region will have far-reaching con-
sequences on the entire Moroccan economy and vill be felt at every stage of
production and consumption. A study of the future transport requirements of
this coastal area has been included in the proposed project to define highest
priorities in a coordinated investment program in the transport inrrastructure
vith the specific aim of strengthening the efficiency of the transport systef
in this region.
2.16      Finally, in view of the problems of transport policy raised in
para. 2.14 above, the study will also critically examine overall transport
policy, pricing, licensing and taxation in Morocco, and recommend needed
changes in them. During negotiation , assurances were obtained that the
Government vould, in consultation with the Bank and the Association, examine
its transport policy in the light of the conclusions of the consultants and
undertake the measures for change that are deemed necessary. The Government
also confirmed that it intends to keep the Bank/IDA informed of any important
changes in transport policies which might be made pending the outcome of the
consultants' study and to give the Bank/IDA an opportunity to comment thereon.
3. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR
A. The Eighway Network
3.01      The present highway network is classified in three categories
which distinguish roade of national (primary), regional (secondary) or local
(tertiary> significance (Table 1). The road network is vell developed, con-
sisting of some 51,000 km of roadways of which 20,000 km are paved and a
further 4,000 km are constructed earthroads of good serviceability.
3.02      On tbe paved roads the pavement varies from surface treatment on
the secondary and tertiary roads to asphaltic concrete for all the primary
roads and a large part of the secondary roads. The condition of the primary
road netvork is still acceptable but has deteriorated over recent years due
to inefficient maintenance and delayed improvement works. These factors
have not yet seriously affected vehicle operating costs but there is a strong
likelihood that this vill occur if the situation deteriorates much further.
3.03      The average density of the road system (Table 1) is about 116 km
per 1,000 km2 or 3.8 km per 1,000 inhabitants which is high by North African
standards. The paved highway system is the second largest in Africa, South
Africa having the largest.
B.  Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic
3.o4      The growth of road traffic has averaged in recent years around 5%
on the primary and secondary network. Traffic on most secondary roads is far



- 6 -
below capacity.  Except in urban areas and betveen Casablanca and Rabat,
traffic does not exceed 2,000 vehicles a day. On the other main trunk roads
in the Atlantic coastal region, traffic volumes range from 750 to 1,800
vehicles a day. On the rest of the network traffic is substantially lover,
with many paved roads having traffie of less than 100 vehicles a day.
3.05      Road traffic statistics are voluminous but of limited value, since
the permanent traffic counting stations have been set up too close to towns
and cities to afford any real measure of trunk road traffic. Data on traffic
composition are scant. Nevertheless, on the basis of existing traffic in-
formation, statistics on vehicle registrations and fuel consumption data,
traffic growth in recent years is estimated at 5% per annum in rural and
substantially higher in urban areas.
3.o6      The vehicle fleet has grown at about 5.2% per annum in recent
years, with the diesel trucking fleet registering a growth of 16.5% per an-
num over the 1960-67 period (Table 2). Fuel consumption data over the ten-
year period, 1957-67, (Table 3) indicate a modest grovth of about 2.3% per
annum for gasoline, and a 16.5% per annum growth rate for diesel fuel con-
sumption. In this regard, the Government's policy of holding the price of
diesel fuel low, while at the same time raising the taxes on gasoline, has
been effective and has contributed in no small measure to the rapid growth
in consumption of the former.
3.07      Although detailed statistics on the evolution of the trucking
fleet by size of vehicles are not available, the present composition (Table
4) indicates that the 5.5 ton truck constitutete nearly 75% of the fleet, of
both private and public carriers. The reasons for this lopsided situation
lie in regulatory practices which are discussed in paragraph 2.14. It is
evident that this large fleet of "clandestins" has been carrying on a lucra-
tive business in the transport of inter-urban freight. Although the volume
of this transport cannot be accurately determined, ONT estimates that it
accounts for at least 50% of the total volume of freight on the roads in
Morocco. Since 1959, freight hauled by licensed ONT carriers has increased
at the average rate of 18.4% per annum in terms of tonnage, and 12.3% per
annum in terms of ton-km (Table 5).
C. Administration
3.08      The Inspectorate General of Roads (IGR) in the Ministry of Public
Works and Communications (MPW) (Chart 1) is responsible for the construction
and maintenance of the primary and secondary highway network.  Its organiza-
tion is given in Chart 2. The construction and maintenance of tertiary
roads are the responsibility of the local authorities; however, the IGR,
through its divisions and sub-divisions in the field, renders technical as-
sistance.
3.09      The IGR acts through two regional officçs, one for the northern
region at Rabat and one for the southern region at Casablanca; each is
headed by a Chief Engineer. They supervise between them nine divisions aed
two autonomous sub-divisions; at the vorking level there are 33 sub-divisions
plus the two autonomous sub-divisions vhich are headéd by engineers supported



-7-
by technical assistants.  The engineers in charge are competent; for the most
part they are Moroccàns who have trained and studied abroad, mainly in France.
Several French expatriate engineers occupy positions within the IGR and con-
tribute to an efficient operation.
3.10      The sub-division engineers supervise t4e construction and mainte-
nance worke carried out in their sub-division. They al8o prepare small pro-
jects. The more important projects are prepared by the divisions; the dNî-
sion chief is responsible for administrative and,technical supervision of
these larger projects. The Chief Engineers of the regions approve and sign
contracts up to DH 200,000 (Us$40,o00 equivalent). The Inspector General of
the IGR prepares contracts above this ceiling, bU%t h2 delegatet their super-
vision to the regional offices.
D. Maintenance
3.11      Periodic maintenance is normally carried out by contractors under
so-called "marches generaux." This contract type is for any type of repair
work and material supply vithin a certain area for a period of three years.
The contract is based on unit prices and approximate quantities, but vithout
fixing in advance the site of works. It is avarded on the basis of competi-
tive bidding. The unit prices are estimated by the IGR and the contractor
is asked to bid in the form of a percentage of the unit prices. The bid can
be below or above the IGR prices, but bids above 10% or below 30% of IGR's
estimate are discarded. The size of these contracts is on the average of
DH 2.5 million (US$O.5 million equivalent).
3.12      Routine maintenance for the primary and secondary road system is
carried out by the sub-divisions with their own forces except for resealing
works on bituminous pavements which are awarded to contractors. All equip-
ment is purchased and administered by the public enterprise Regie des Exploi-
tations Industrielles (REI) which is attached to the Ministry of Public Works
and Communications. It operates on a pool basis for the entire Ministry.
It carries out major repairs and overhauls; routine maintenance is done by
the mechanics of the sub-divisions which keep light equipment on hand.
Heavier equipment, if needed, can also be rented from REI. The
financial transactions are supervised by the Third Technical Office
attached to the Secretary General of the Ministry (see Chart 1).
3.13      While routine road maintenance techniques are satisfactory, the
maintenance equipment is in poor condition. The sub-divisions have a limited
pool of light equipment, most of which is obsolete and overage, consisting
of vehicles for transport of materials and personnel, some graders, rollers and
loaders. Equipment renewal on a continuous basis has not been done over
recent years and the sub-divisions are seriously hampered in carrying out
their maintenance tasks.
3.14      Maintenance expenditures ha-ve decreased over recent years from
about DH 47.0 million in 1964 to DH 41.5 million in 1968 (see Table 6), even
though the network increased by some 700 km over the same period. Thus, the
average expenditures per km on the primary and secondary network decreasSd
from about US$800 in 1964 to US$680 in 1968. Maintenance is unsatisfactory



- 8 -
and urgently needed improvements to some major trunk roads have been delayed.
During negotiations, the Governnent confirmed that it intends to increase the
average maintenance expenditures on primary and secondary roads to a suffi-
cient yearly level (indicated as US$800 equivalent per kilometer) by 1972.
E.  Highway Plan
3.15      The 1968-72 five-year plan for highvays (Table 7) calls for
public investments of DH 173 million (US$34.6 million). A major portion of
this plan (i.e. DH 112 million or US$22.4 million) is devoted to tourist
roads (DH 10 million), tertiary roads (DR 50 million) and agricultural feeder
roads in specific project areas (DH 52 million). of the DR 61 million allo-
cated to the primary and secondary system, nearly 65% (or DH 4o million)
represents improvement works.
3.16      Highway investments in the primary and secondary network have
fallen from the pre-1964 highs of DH 28 million a year (us$5.6 million) to
the present level of about DH 13 million (US$2.6 million).  At the same time,
investments in the tertiary network, in agricultural feeder road projects
and in tourist roade have risen from about DR 13 million to about DH 20 mil-
lion (uS$4.o million).
3.17      Among the major projects, the construction of the Tangier-Ceuta
road, at a cost of about DH 20 million (uS$4.o million equivalent), is the
most important. This project is expected to be completed by 1970. Most of
the allocations for the plan period are for the reconstruction and improve-
ment of sinall sections of the primary and secondary highvay network, some
tertiary and feeder roada in the sugarbeet area and improvement of tourist
roads.
F. Financing
3.18      All highway expenditures are financed out of budgetary allocations.
Highway user charges have yielded on the average DR 200-250 million a year
(us$40-50 million) over the past fev years, but the funds are pooled into
the general budget, and no special road fund existai.  Total revenues from
road user charges are indicated in Table 8, which 4hows that receipts from
fuel taxes alone account for about tvo-thirds of the total, and more than
cover total highway expenditures during the same period.
G. Construction
3.19      The IGR does not, as a matter of policy, undertake departmental
construction of roads. All major new construction is carried out by con-
tractors. Hovever, due to the high degree of specialization among local con-
tractors, contracts are let on a horizontal basis: works are divided in con-
tracts for earthworks, culverts, sub-base, base, and surfac<ng.  Bidding is
open to all contractors and the contractors are prequalified on the presen-
tation of their bids.  This is not an effi ient method of letting contracts
and the Governnent has already agreed that contracts for works under this



-9-
project viil be let on a vertical basis. This vas confirmed during negotia-
tions. If this system proves satisfactory to the Government, it might serve
as a model for other contracts.
3.20      There are about 20 local contractors, six of which have the equip-
ment and technical personnel to carry out large-scale contracts. Most of
the contractors are affiliated with foreign, mainly French, enterprises.
4. THE PROJECT
A.  Description
4.o0      The project consists of:
(i) the construction of a 106 km section and the
improvement of tvo sections totalling'72 km on
the Agadir-Marrakech road;
(ii) a three-year highway improvement program 'providing
for selected strengthening, reconstruction and
improvement of sections totalling 348 km on about
4,000 km of primary roads;
(iii) the construction of four bridges;
(iv) the purchase of maiTtenance equipment and spare
parts to improve the efficiency of routine mainte-
nance; and
(V) a transport survey of the Atlantic coastal zone
from Agadir to Tangier to identify a coordinated
investment program for high priority transport
infrastructure projects, inclading a critical
examination of overall transport policy in Morocco.
B.   Agadir-Marrakech Road
4.02      The present Agadir-Marrakech road (RP 501) via Taroudannt (303 km)
crosses the High Atlas ranges at an altitude of over 2,000 m; snowfall stops
traffic for about a month each year. Its tortuous alignment presents various
driving hazards, and truck traffic therefore does not use this road. Goods
between Agadir and Marrakech, the two most important urban centers in south-
ern Morocco, are transported over the coastal road (RP 8) to Essaouira and
then via Chichaoua to Marrakech (RP 10), a total of 330 km.
4.03      The proposed alignment for the new road (RP 511) follows a valley
through the High Atlas in a north-south direction from Chichaoua on RP 32 to
Agadir; its length is about 178 km. The northern branch of about 40 km be-
tween Chichaoua and Imi n'Tanoute and the southern branch from Agadir north,



- 10 -
about 32 km long, are already constructed vith a 6.00 m vide asphalted pave-
ment. Improvement vorks on these two sections are included in the project.
The middle section of about 106 km vill be new construction. Detailed engi-
neering has been carried out by the consultant Inter-Etudes-Maroc and is es-
sentially completed. But soil surveys and minor changes in the proposed
alignment vill be carried out by IGR prior to preparation of bidding documents.
Improvement and construction of these sections vill shorten the link between
the cities of Agadir and Marrakech by 65 km and the distance between Agadir
and Casablanca by 15 km. Furthermore, the new road vill open up an area with
a promising tourist potential. In the past two years the Government has car-
ried out improvement vorks on RP 501; since a decision has nov been taken to
construct RP 511, future vorks on RP 501 vill be limited to maintenance. This
vas contirmed during negotiations.
C.  Three-Year Highvay Improvement Program
4.o4      As shown in Table 10 and indicated on the Map, sections totalling
348 km on 12 primary roads (total length about 4,000 km) have been selected
for a three-year highway improvement program. As a result of inadequate
maintenance, a large number of sections, ranging in length from about 5 km
to 30 km and totalling 294 km, have deteriorated seriously and require re-
habilitation. Complete reconstruction is required on sections totalling
26 km where land slides have occurred after heavy rains due to bad soil con-
ditions.  Realignment is needed on sections totalling 10 km and widening of
over 18 km on two sections to accommodate the groving traffic. Engineering
for these road sections vill be completed by IYR.
D.   Bridge Construction
4.05      The construction of four bridges on tvo primary roads and two
secondary roads is included in the project. The Mechra-Saf-Saf bridge over
the Moulouya river is over 40 years old and, being structurally veak, is not
able to carry heavy traffic. The bridge over the Korifla river on the pri-
mary road from Rabat to the Tadla agricultural region has been washed avay
in recent flooding; and, over the Bou Reg Reg river, traffic has been using
a temporary "Bailey" bridge since the old bridge vas destroyed by a flood.
The bridge on the Nekor river vas damaged by floods in 1963 and 1968. This
bridge is related to the construction of a new road along the Mediterranean
coast, to be undertaken by the Governmient to encourage tourism. Preliminary
engineering for all the bridges has been carried out by IGR; bidding docu-
ments, including detailed engineering design, vill be drawn up by IGR.
E.   New Maintenance Equipmert
4.o6      The present maintenance equipment is overaged.  Only about 20% of
it is less than seven years old; 30% is between sçven and ten years old, and
50% is over ten years of age.  The proposed project includes the reneval of
about half of the equipment over seven years or age (Table 11). During ne-
gotiations, agreement vas reached vith the Government that a suitable system
of depreciation accounting vill be established for maintenance equipment to



- il -
provide the basis for evaluating equipment requirements. An initial stock
of spare parts, amounting to about 10% of the value of maintenancja equ4,pment
is included in the project.  Future purchase of spare parts will be ma&ie
through local agents.
F.   Transport Survey
4.07      The French consulting firm BCEOM has npred master plnti' for ..c
ports of Casablanca aid Agadir, and has recently carfied oui,; a study for the
port of Safi. Based on these studies, the Government feels that a coordi-
nated investment plan for the years to come for the major Moroccan ports ls
urgently required and vaË therefore neé,otiating a contract vlth the Consutt-
ants to review port organization and tc> analyze the economic justification
of the various investment proposals. The Government agreed to broaden the
scope of this intended study to include teasibility studie3 for major trais-
port routes in the Atlantic coastal area between the ports oO Agadir in t'he
south and of Tangier in the north. Tle Government indicated its desire to
entrust BCEOM with this broadened study and is presently negotiating a con-
trac:t vith the firm, In particular, the study vill investigate the need lor
a four-lane divided highvay between Casablanca and Rabat and a new highway
between Kenitra aid Larache. The consultants selected for these feasibility
studies vill review the already available detailed engineering for these
proposed roads. Also, in view of the problems of transport policy raised in
para. 2.14, the consultants vill critlcally examine overall transport pricing,
licensing and taxation in Morocco, and recommend needed policy changes.
G.  Cost Estimate and Financing
4.o8      The estimated capital cost 0f the project is given in Table 12 and
la summarized below.  Bank/IDA will finance the foreign exchange component;
the local expenditures vill be borne by the Government.
C o s t E a t i m a t e
(DH Million)                 (uS$ Million)
Local  Fo ei n  Total        Local  Foreign  'rotal
Highway Construction         11.5    21.5    33.0         2.3       4.3     6.6
Highvay Improvement Program 10.6    19.9    30.5          2.1       4.o     6.1
Bridge Construction           2.3     4.3      6.6        0.5       0.8     1.3
Maintenance equipment
& spares                    3.0*   14.6    17.6         o.6*      2.9     3.5
Consultants' services         0.5     2.0      2.5        0.1       0.4     0.5
Contingencies                 5.1    10.6    15.7         1.0       2.2     3.2
33.0    72.9   105.9         6.6     i14.6    21.2
* The DR 3.0 million (US$0.6 million) local costs for equipment and epare
parts represent import duties and taxes.



- 12 -
4.09      The detailed co0t estimates for the construction and improvement of
the Agadir-Marrakech road, the highway improvement program and the bridge
construction are given in Tables 9 and 10.  Contingency allovances of about
10% to cover price escalation during the four-year program period and 10%
to cover changes in physical quantities have been included. It is assumed
that domestic contractor participation in the road construction and improve-
ment programs and bridge construction vill account for about one half of the
total; the foreign exchange component has been assessed at 65% reflecting, the
blend between the foreign exchange components for domestic contractors (about
60%) and foreign contractors (about 70%).
4.10      The coet estimate for new maintenance equipment and spare parts is
based on recent CIF costs of equipment. As shown in Table 11, a contingency
allowance of about 10% has been included in the equipment cost for price
escalation over the two-year supply period. Taxes and duties on equipment
and spare parts average 20% and constitute the local costs for equipment and
spares shown in Table 12.
4.11      The cost for the transport survey ij  estimated st about US$0.5 mil-
lion of which Bank/IDA vill finance the foreign exchange component, estimated
at about 80% of the total cost.
4.12      Assuming that the credit vill be signed in the second half ol' 1969,
Bank/IDA disbursements (in US$ million) vill be as follows:
FY1970   FY1971   FY1972    FY1973    Total
Amounts        2.0      6.0       4.0       2.6       14.6
During negotiations, the Government confirmed that it vill meet the local
costs of the project.
H.   Execution
4.13      The IGR will be responsible for the projeet.  Bidding documents
for road construction, improyement vorks and bridfe construction vill be
dravn up by the IGR. The contracts for construction and improvement vorks
vill include several lots or road sections in a given area; contractors may
bid for one or more lots but a single lot contract will not be le8s than
US$500,000. Bidding procedures vill be in accordance vith the Bank/IDA
Guidelines and contracts 411 be awarded on the lovest evaluated bid. Bid-
ding documents vill be submitted to Bank/IDA for review to assure that they
conform vith Bank Group procèdures. If necessary, bids for bridge construc-
tion will be reviewed by a consultant firm agreeable to Bank/IDA and the Gov-
ernment. These procedures vere confirmed with the Government during negotia-
tions.
4.14      The transport survey vill be carried out by BCEOM according to
terme of reference prepared by Bank/IDA. After the coordinated,investment
program has been derined by the Consultants and submitted in their preliminary
report, the Government shall choose, in consultation vwth the Bank and the
Association, the projecte for whieh the Consultants shall proceed to review



- 13 -
or complete detailed engineering and tD prepare bidding documents. This
arrangement vas confirmed during negotiations. It is possible that this
survey could lead to further Bank Group lending of about US$12-15 million for
road construction in 1971 or 1972.
4.15      Equipment vill be procured on the basis of international competi-
tive bidding in accordance with the Bank/IDA Guidelines through separate
contracts for each type or each group of similar +t-re of equîpment- The
contracts vill provide for delivery of about two-thirds of the equipment in
1970 and the remainder in 1971. Equipment suppliers vill be required to
provide an adequate servicing irganization ineluding a supply of spare parts,
and the periodic inspection of equipment operating in the field. Bidding
documents vill be prepared by the IGR and vill be submitted to Bank/IDA for re-
viev to assure that they conform vith the 13ank and Association's procedures.
A number of local assembly plants for cers and trucks are expected to compete
for the vehicle orders to be financea under the proposed project.  The existing
effective rate of customs and related duties on the foreign component of the
locally assembled vehieles amounts to about 15%, against a high tariff cf 52%
on the import of vehicles assembled abroad. During negotiations, agreement
vas reached vith the Government that in the comparison of competing foreign
and domestic bids for vehicles and equipment, the CIF prices of foreign bids
vould be raised by the Bank Group's normal 15% preference margin (in lieu of
the existing duties), and applicable freight and insurance charges to the
place of delivery to be specified in the bidding documents vould be added to
both the foreigu and domestic bid prices.
4.16      Disbursement vill be made on the basis eof (i) 65% of the expendi-
tures for road construction, improvement works and construction of bridges,
(ii) the CIF cost of imported equipment, (iii) 65% of ex-factory prices of
locally assembled equipment ineluding taxes, and (iv) the actual foreign costs
of the consultants' services. Any savings in the funds provided by the credit
vould be cancelled.
5. ECONOMIC hVALUATION
A. General
5.01      The objective of the proposed project is to ensure that economic
development is not hindered by deterioration of the primary and secondary
road systems and rising transport costs. This objective vill be accomplished
through selective improvement and strengthening of roads and the purchase of
maintenance equipment, vhieh vill reduce the cost and improve the quality of
road maintenance.  The project also provides for the construction of a ner
and more economic road link between Agadir and Marrakech vhich is expected
to form part of a more efficient route betveen Agadir and Casablanca. Final-
ly, the project provides for a transport study which vill recommend a coor-
dinated program of high priority transport investment in the Atlantic Coastal
area, as vell as investigate problems of transport policy, pricing, licensing
and taxation as they affect the country as a whole.



- 14 -
B.   Agadir-Marrakech Road
5.02      At present there are two routes between Agadir and Marrakech:  a
tortuous, unfinished mountain road via Taroudannt (303 km) and a longer west-
ern route consisting of a vinding coastal road from Agadir to Essaouira (162
km) and a 168 km road inland from Essaouira via Chichaoua to Marrakech.  The
western route is the preferred link betveen these two important urban centers
of southern Morocco. The coastal road between Agadir and Essaouira carries
traffie volumes close to 1,000 vehicles per day. About 20% Of this is local
traffie. The rest is either Agadir - Marrakech traffic (20%) or Agadir -
Casablanca traffic (60%). Traffic is made up of about 50% light vehicles,
35% light trucks (up to 5.5 tons) and 15% heavy goods vehicles and buses.
Traffic on the mountain road is limited to about 50% vehicles a day, mainly
light tourist vehicles.
5.03      The proposed new road between Agadir and Chichaoua (178 km) vill
(a) shorten the total distance between Agadir and Marrakech by 65 km (compared
to the coastal route); (b) shorten the total distance between Agadir and Cesa-
blanca by 15 km; and (c) improve vehicle operating conditions.
5.04      In April 1969 traffic studies vere conducted on the principal routes
between Agadir and Marrakech. Based on these studies, it is estimated that
traffic volume on the new road will reach 650 vehicles per day in the first
year after construction, vith approximately the same composition as traffic
presently travelling the coastal road. Traffic is expected to grov at an
average of 6.5% per annum for light vehicles reflecting increased tourist
traffie, and at about 5% per annum for the heavier vehicles. The opening or
the nev road is expected to foster tourist traffic to nev ski resorts pre-
viously inaccessible by road.
5.05      As shown in Table 13, the primary benefits from the road construc-
tion vill be in the form or savings in vehicle operating costs, due to im-
proved alignment and grading and to the shortened distance. These benefits
yield an internal rate or return or about 15% based on a 20-year economic
life of the road. A sensitivity analysis of traffic projections indicates
that vith even the lovest traffic estimate, the project vould yield a rate
of return of 12% and vith the most optimistic estimate, a return of 18%
could be expected.
C.   Highway Improvement
5.o6      The vorks selected for improvement in the proposed project (see
para. 4.04 and Table 10) are vital links in the transport network of the most
commercially active areas of Morocco. The works fall into two categories:
roads which require substantial improvement such as alignment correction,
videning or complete reconstruction (54 km); and roads on vhich surfaces are
deteriorating rapidly and,require strengthening (294 km).
5.07      Those roads on vhich operating conditions vill be substantially
bettered by selective improvement s are part of the important north-south
axis in the northern part of the country, and include sections totalling
54 km on the folloving links: Tangier - Tetouan, Meknes - Rissani, Meknes -



15 -
Ceuta, Chechaoune - Melilla, Casablanca - Marrakech, Kenitra - Pes, and
Agadir - Ouarzazate - Figuig.  Traffic volumes on these important commercial
and tourist routes are high. The principal benetits of the improvements will
be in the form of savings in vehicle operating costs over the entire length
of the roads affected by the improvement vorks due to better operating con-
ditions, as well as savings in road maintenance dostà. Costly emergency
maintenance operations are currently being undertaken on some sections to
prevent total disruption of traffic. On the first four roads mentioned
above, the improvements &re expected to lover vehiclè operating costs by
about 20%-25%, while improvements on the other three roads vill lover the
vehicle operating costs by some 10%-15%. The rates of return on this invest-
ment, calculated on the above savings, range fron 12% to 27% (see Table 14).
5.08      The 294 km of deterioratine roads in the second category are those
radiating from Casablanca and Rabat, the c-rmercial and administrative capi-
tals of the country. Traffic on the-. dxes ranges from 750 to over 2,000
vehicles per day, reflecting the heavy trade between the coastal area and
the interior of the country as vell as the importance of these roads to
Morocco's agricultural areas, 3hich they also serve.  If no improvements are
carried out, vehicle operating costs on these important roads vill rise rap-
idly. Basing the economic analysis of appropriate improvements on savings
in vehicle operating costs, as Ln the case of the first category above, vould
yield very high economic rates of return, but vould not reflect the economic
options open to the Government. Rather, the analysis of this group of roads
has been directed to an evaluation of the costs and timing of two alternative
improvement schemes designed to avoid the uneconomie increase in vehicle
operating costs that vould otherwise occur If no improvements vere carried
out. The proposed strengthening program is one alternative, while complete
reconstruction of the road pavement vithin an average of four years is the
other. The principal benefits of strengthening the roads now, arise from
avoidine the higher reconstruction castS in the future.  On the above basis,
this portion of the project vill yield rates of return between 13% and 22%,
over the economic life of the strengthening vorks which varies from 5-11
years depending upon traffic and sub-soil conditions (see Table 14).
D.   Bridge Construction
5.09      The construction of four bridges on important trunk roads has
been included in the project. These bridges replace four structures, which
either are unable to support the heavy goods traffic, or have collapsed al-
together and need to be replaced.
5.10      Two of the four bridges included in the project are located on
trunk roads in the vieinity of Rabat, the third is near AI Hoceima on the
Mediterranean coast, and the fourth is in the northeast of the country halfway
between Melilla and Oujda. The economic justification for their replacement
is based on savings in vehicle operating costs primarily as a result of im-
portant distance savings once these adequate river crossings are operational.
Rates of return for the four bridges are 12%, 19%, 27% and 28% (see Table 14).
In addition, due to the large unit savings involved, a significant amount of
traffie should be generated by the reconstruction of these bridges.



- 16 -
E.   Reneval of Maintenance Equipment
5.11      The present maintenance equiplent is obsolete and inadequate for
providing the necessary repairs to a quickly deteriorating road system.  The
purchase of new equipment is economically justified through savings in the
costs of operating and maintaining the road maintenance fleet. MPW statis-
tics show that repair and maintenance costs for vehicles over 7 years of age
constitute about 10% of the purchase value of a nev vehicle. Fuel costs are
nearly 50% higher for the older vehicles. These savings alone will yield an
internal rate of return of 25% over an assumed economic life of 7 years (see
Table 15). Additional benefits vill be derived from the greater serviceabil-
ity and reliability of new vehicles.
5.12      If the maintenance fleet is not reneved and augmented vith new
types of equipment, roada vill continue to deteriorate and road maintenance
and vehicle operating costs vill rise steadily. A simplified cost/benefit
analysis comparing the costs of road maintenance vith the vehicle operating
costs and eventual costs of road reconstruction that vould be incurred if
the roads vere alloved to deteriorate to earth road standard, shows that
continued maintenance of even the least travelled roads yields rates of re-
turn of up to 50%.
F.   Transport Study
5.13      The transport study foeuses on transport in the Atlantic coastal
area, and vill give particular attention to the two routes: Casablanca-
Rabat and Kenitra - Larache, which are among the most important,links of
the trunk road system. A preliminary economic analysis indicates that some
reconstruction of the Casablanca - Rabat highway is justified; however, the
type of road which should be built requires further study. The justification
of the construction of a shorter road between Kenitra and Larache is closely
tied to the investment priorities that vill be identified in the study and
vill depend upon its conclusions concerning road/rail competition on the
Casablanca - Tangier transport axis.
G.   Conclusion
5.14      The various eleMente of the project, by substantially improving
the trunk road system, by improving road maintenance at less cost, and by
establishing priorities for future investment, vill yield substantial bene-
fits to the Moroccan economy. With projected rates of return ranging from
12% to 28%, the proposed project appears economically sound and of high pri-
ority.
6. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations agreement vas reached vith the Government on
the folloving major points:



- 17 -
(a) iipon completion of the study, the Government uill, in
consultation vith the Bank and Association, examine its
transport policy in light of the consultants' conclusions
and undertake the measures for change deeméd necessary
(para. 2.16);
(b)  the Government intends to give the Bank and Association
an opportunity to comment upon any ch        ines <n transport
policy which may be considered, pending concluaion of
the transport study (para. 2.16);
(c) the Government intends to increase thelaverage maintenance
expenditures on primary and secondary roads to a sufficient
level by 1972 (indicated as US$WOI equivalent per kilometer
(para. 3.14);
(d)  a suitable system of depreciation accounting will be
established for maintenance equipment to provide the
basis for evaluating equipment requirements (para. 4.06);
(e)  bidding procedures will be in accordance with Bank/IDA
guidelines (para. 4.13);
(f) the transport survey will be carried out by BCEOM
according to terms of reference prepared by the Bank/IDA
and the Government shall choose, in consultation with the
Bank and Association, the projects emerging from the study
for which the consultants should prepare detailed engineering
and bidding documents (para. 4.14); and
(g) for bid comparison purposes in equipment bids where both
foreign and domestic suppliers are expected to bid, the
C.I.F. prices of foreign bids will be raised by a 15%
preference margin (para. 4.15).
6.02      The project is suitable for a Bank Loan and an IDA Credit to the
Moroccan Government, each amounting to US$7.3 million. The loan would be
made for a 20 year term, including a four-year grace period.
September 23, 1969






Table 1
12OROCCO
HIGXI AY PROJECT
lighuay Classification
(January 1, 1969)
(in nk)
Total
Paved      Unpaved      Tracks      Classified
Primary Roads        6,945         375          305          7,625
Secondary Roads      5,46o          718       1,086          7,264
Tertiary Roads       7,582       3,194       25,713         36,489
19,987       4,287      27,104          51,378
Source:  Iiinistry of Public 1Uorks and Communications statistics
Average Density of Roads
(by Area alnd Population)
., Roads  er         IK1 Roads per
le000 kI           1,000 Inhabitants
Ilorocco           116                    3.8
Tunisia             91                   3.3
France           1,100                   14.3
June 25, 1969



MOROCCO
HI.GiF`TAY PruOJECT
Vehicle Fleet Grouth
(1960-1967)
1960     1961      1962      1963      1964      1965      1966      1967
Private cars                 124,863   136,621   142,833   150,452   157,866   163,201   168,602   178,388
Vans (2 tons or less)         21,255    22,760   23,993    26,008    28,459    30.597    32,544    33,713
TIucks (over 2 tons)
Gasoline                   15,905   16,307    16,246    16,346    16,379    16,227    16,009   1,842
Diesel                      4,901     6,401     7,192     8,678    10,184    11,419    12,723    14,226
T?actors                        2,016    2,123     2,201     25315     2,412     2,459     2,712     2,945
T ankers                          266      269       267       265       271       266       270       280
-usses                          2,334    2,732     2,818     2,971     3,117     3,195     3,324     3,453
!Iiscellaneousl/                  360      387       401       415       425       435       445      L453
Total                   171,900   187,600  195,951   207,L,50  219,113   227,799   236,629   21!9,300
1/ Ambulances, etc.
S ource: Central Statistical Services in the Ministry of Planning
June 25, 1969



Table 3
HiOROC CO
HIGhWY PRONJCT
Ilotor Vehicle Fuel ConsumDtion
(in m))
Year      Gasoline     Index            Diesel      Index
1956      342,O98       126             59,885       100
1957      272,524       100             59,830       100
1958       276,996      102             74,891       125
1959      279,470       103             38,382       148
1960      279,017       102            105,506       176
1961      285,o25       105            135,550       227
1962      288,175       106            160,233       268
1963      296,601       109            175,351       293
1904      297,083       109            198,598       332
1965      289,614       106            193,600       324
1966      291,381       '07            268,465       449
1967      298,230       109            313,699       524
1968       330,536      121            323,098       540
Source: ILni. stry o'L Public 14orks and Cormmaunications
June 25, 1969



Table 4
i-;ROCCO
HIGHW.AY PROJECT
Road Transport Vehicles
Composition of Capacity
Passenger Transport:
Companies      Buses       Seats Offered
1,031        1,797          78,140
Freight Transport:
A.  Public Carriers (controlled by ONT)
Lm29                   Companies      Trucks       Capacity
1.  Inter urban              1,077        1,850        17,866 tons
2.  Urban                      239           440        2,836 tons
3. H7oving vans                 21           49         1,399 rin
B. Private Operators
T=pe                                  Truclks      Capacity
1. Private operators i ith perriits
(over 5.5 tons)
Agricultural                   730        4,940
Industrial                   2,499       22,311
Commercial                   1,521       12,195
Total       4,750        39,446 tons
2, Private operators
uithout permits
(5.5 tolns or less)                65,231      170,577 tons
Total iPrivate    69 981      210 023 tons
Source:  >inistry of Public Works ?- Commaunications
June 25, 1969



Table 5
MOROCCO
HIGHWAY FROJECT
Volume of Freight Hauled by Public Carriers*
(i-n 00's)
Year  Noo. of Trucks        Tonnage   Index          Ton-km   Index
1956       133              1,644      136           279,071    135
1957       105              1,353      112           237,625    115
1953       100              1,293      107           226,642    109
1959        98              1,275      100           207,204   100
1960       118              1,416      118           247,145   119
1)o1       156              2,376      197           338,079    163
1962       150              2,733      22-'          355,628    172
1963       150              2,752      228           352,246    170
1964       268              2,772      230           355,652    172
1965       355              3,788      314           362,330    175
1966       ,68              4,902      407           465,866    225
1967        540             5,046      419           493,839    238
1963        433             5,495      456           588,059    284
* Controlled by the 0}TT
Source, Vlinistry of Public Wlorlks and Comriunications
Tune 25, 1969



Table 6
1rMROCCO
¶lGHEWAY PROJECT
Maintenance Expenditures
Primary and Secondary Roads
(19b1-1968
1961    1962    1963    1964    1965    1966    1967    1968
Budget           43.0    43.6    44.0    46.9    43.7   44.0   35.7   41.5
(in M1illion Dirham)
Neti,rk
ilaintained       11,047  11,293  11,473  11,591  11,749  11,939  12,180  12,330
(in km)
Average
expenditure        3,892   3,860   3,842   4,047   3,718   3,686   2,927   3,365
(in DH/km)
Tertiaxr and Tourist Roads
(in IMillion Dirhamj
(IîrW Participation only)
1964     1965     1966     1967     1968
Tertiary Roads       9.3      8.4      6.5       6.5      6.5
Tourist Roads        0.25     0.26     0.26      0.26     0.26
Source:  I-inistry of Public `orks and Conmunications
June 25, 1969



MOROCCO
nIHYi. PrTùX'?T,T
Highway Investment Plans 1961 - 1972
(In Million Dirham)
3-Year Plan 65/67         5-Year Plan 1968-1972
1961  1962  1963  1964       1965  1966  1967      196d  1969  1970  l971  19_7
Primary and Secondary Roads         26.0  28.0  28.0  31.0        20.0  12.0  13.0      11.5  12.3  11.9  11.8  13.1
Tourist Roads                          -     -     -     -         8.9   7.1   3.3       3.7   2.5   2.0   2.0   -
Tertiary Roads                      12.7  13.0  23.0  16.0        13.2  11.6  11.0       5.9   6.6  12°5  13.2  11.9
"Polygone Betteravier' t/             -      -    5.5   3.8        5.0   5.0   4.9       4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0
Special Projects                       -     -     -      -         -     -      -       9.7   4.0   5.7   5.5   7.0
Totals                         38.7  41.0  56.5  50.8        47.1  35.7  32.2      34.8  29.4  36.1 3C.-5  "(.0
1/ Feeder roads in sugarbeet development area.
Source: Ministry of Public 1,!Torks and Communications.
Septeraber 23, 1969



Table 8
-I 010CCC
Revenue Raised from Road Users
(In I;illion Dirhams)
1965     1966     1967     1968
Fuel Taxes:                    147.0   157.2   165.5   180.3
Gasoline                    122.9   123.8   126.5   140.2
Diesel                       24.1    33.4    39.0       40.1
Ainnual License Fees            46.7    48.1    50.0    54.9
Cars                         10.8    10.1       9.6    10.1
Vans, trucks °`! buses*      35.9    38.0    40.4    44.8
Registration Fees*               2.2      2.3      2.5      2.4
Sales taxes on freiXht and
passenger movements           10.5    12.1    12.9    12.6
ONT freight                   2.5      2.7      3.4      2.7
Other freight a passenger*    8.0      9.4      9.5      9.9
Total              206.4   219.7   230.9   250.2
Inmort duties on vehicles
and parts *                   23.3     27.7    28.0    28.4
Grand Total          229.7   247.4   258.9   278.6
* Estimated by mission
Source: Iïàinistry of Finance and îiission Estimnates
June 25, 1969



Table 9
MOROCCO
HIGIJAY PROJECT
Cost Estimate of Construction and Iitprovement on Agadir - Marrakech Road
DH million          US$ million
equivalent
a)  Construction of 106 km of new road:
i)  Earthworks                       16.0
ii)  Carriageway                      10.0
Total a)                       26.0           (5.2)
b) Improvement of 72 km of
existing road:
i)  Strengthening of carriageway    4.0
ii)  Alignnent correction              o.6
iii)  Pavement                          2.4
Total b)                        7.0           (1.h)
Total a) + b)                33.0           (6.6)
Contingencies (about 20%)               7.0           (1.4)
Total                       h0.0            (8.0)
Source: Ministry of Public Works and Communications
and Mission estimate.
September 23, 1969



MOROCCO
HIGHWAY PROJECT
Cost Estimate of HiRhwaY Improvement and Bridge Construction
(In 1,000 Dirham)
Total   Length to  Strengthen- Reconstrue-  Realign-  Widen-
Road                                           Length  be treated    ing            tion         ment     ing    Total
No.  (a) Roads                                  km       km
RP 1      Casablanca-Rabat-Meknes-
Fes - Algerian border                  648      46          1,700          -             -        -     1,700
RP 2      Rabat - Tangier                        270      32          1,410          -             -        -      1,410
RP 3      Kenitra-Fes                            149      36          1,250          -             -       486    1,736
RP 7      Casablanca-Marrakech                   236      86          4,565          -           1,113       -     5,678
RP 8      Casablanca-Agadir                      514       29         1,652          -             -         -     1,652
RF 9      El-Jadida - Marrakech                  147       19           h56          -             -         -       456
RP 21     Meklnes - Ksar-es-Souk - Rissani       422      10            -          1,220           -         -     1,220
RP 28     Meknes-Tetouan-Ceuta                   271      42          2,410        4,030           -         -     6,440
RP 32     Agadir-Ouarzazate-Figuig             1,048      17            431           -            -       600    1,031
RP 36     Casablanca-Rabat                        73       6            240           -            -         -       240
RP 38     Tetouan-Tangier                         53       6             -         2,000         1,150      -      3,150
RP 39     Chechaouen-Melilla                     375      19          1,675        h.h             __              5.815
Subtotal (a)        -       -          15,789      11,390         2,263   1,086   30,528
(km)         (4,206)   (348)          (294)       (26)           (10)    (18)
(b) Bridges
RP 22     Over Oued Korifla (40km from Rabat)  -             -          -          1,200           -       -       1,200
RP 27      " Oued Moulouya at Mechraa-Saf-Saf  -             -          -          3,000           -        -      3,000
RS204      " Oued Bou Reg Reg at Oul ad Jaber  -             -          -          1,200           -        -      1,200
RS604      "Oued Nekor near Ai Hoceima           -           -          -          1,200           -       -       1.200
Subtotal (b)                                        6,600                           6.600 z
Total:                                                                        37,128 S
Contingencies (about 20%)                                                                       1,372 1
Note: RP - Route Principale (?rimary Road)
RS - Route Secondaire (Secondary Road)                                    September23, 1969
Source:    Ministry of Public Works and Communications



Table 11
M'OROCCO
Cost Estimate of New Lquipment
(Dirham)
(lNumber of      Unit -   Total
Items                   Vehicles)        Cost     Cost
Replacenent
Light vehicles (less than 5 HP)       51           6,160     314,160
Vehicles (betwfeen 5 and 15 HP)       55          10,150     558,250
Pickups ("Landrover" type)            60          15,200     912,000
Tipper trucks, 2.5 ton                87          26,400   2,296,800
Tipper trucks, 7-8 ton                74          40,000   2,960,000
.Pdditional
Snowi removal units                   18          40,000     720,000
Asphalt units                         37          18,000     666,000
Vibration rollers                     36          20,700     745?200
Graders, 120 HP                       10         141,300   1,413,000
Caravans                             12           16,000     192,000
Loaders ("Traxcavatorit type)         20          80,000   1,600,000
compressors, (40 HP)                 16           25,000     400,000
Hotor purips                          35           2,250      78,750
T.éelding units                       13          21,250     276,250
Lane striping units                  il           11,250     123,750
13,256,160
Initial stock of spare p2xts (10,O)                        l,343,840
1h~,600,000
Contingencies for price escalation (about 10,')           1,400,000
16,000,000
(US$ equivalent 3.2 million)
1/  Custoris and import duties excluded
Source:  iîinistry of Public Wobrks and Communications  statistics and
ITission estimates
September 23, 1969



Table 12
MOROCCO
HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Cost Estinate
1000 Dirham --U-----S--   -  U$million
1969/70  1970/71  1971/72  1972/73  Total  equivalent
(a) Foreien Comonent
(Bank/IDA Participation)
Highway Construction        1,000    7,000    7,200    6,300   21,500
Highway Improvement         1,600    7,500    7,800    3,000   19,900
Bridge Construction                   1,300    1,800    1,200    4,300
New Equipment               5,000    9,600        --       --    14,600
Consultants' Services       1,200       800       --       --      2,000
Contingencie s              1,000    4,000    3,000    2,600   10 60C1/
Subtotal (a)           9,800   30,200   19,800   13,100   72,900    (14.6)
(b) Local Component
Highway Construction          600    3,800    3,800    3,300   11,500
Highway Improvement           900    4,000    4,200    1,500   10,600
Bridge Construction           --        700    1,000       600    2,300
New Equipment               1,000    2,000        --       --      3,000à/
Consultants' Service          300       200       --       --        500
Contingencies                 300    2,000    1,500    1,300    5,100
Subtotal (b)           3,100   12,700   10,500    6,700   33,000   (6.6)
TOTAL              12,900   42,900   30,300   19,800  105,900   (21.2)
I/  Includes 10% for price escalation on new equipment and spare parts and
20% for highway improvement and construction and bridges.
2/  Transfer payment, not an economic cost, may be waived by Government.
September 23, 1969



Table 13
MOROCCO
HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of Agadir - Marrakech Road
Light       Medium      Heavy
A. Traffic Forecastd-         Vehicles    Vehicles    Vehicles    Total
Initial Traffie
(vpd)
Lowest estimate           250          160         112        522
Most likely estimate      310          200         138         648
Highest estimate          420          270         200         890
Growth of Traffic
(%/annum)                 6.5         4.5          5.o
B. Vehicle Operating Costs
(US7/mile)
i. Actual on existing
roads                10.3         20.1        33.4
ii. Expected on new
road                  9.5        19.0         30.2
Savings (USo/mile)          0.8          1.1         3.2
c. Distribution of Construction Costs2/
1970             1971            1972
20%              60%              20%
D. Distance Savings over Existing Roads
i.  Agadir - Casablanca       Existing(RP8)    New(RP511&RP7)    Savings
510 km           495 km           15 km
ii.  Agadir - Marrakech      Existing(RP8&RP10) New(RP511&RP10)   Savings
330 km           265 km           65 km
E. Rate of Return based on 20-year economic life          Traffic Forecasts
11.9%    -        Lowest
15.2%    -        Most likely
1B.3%    -        Highest
1/   Traffic distribution:  35% - to and frcm C, sablanca;
15% - to and from Marrakech
2/   Calendar year.
September 23, 1969



KDROCCO
-H1aL&! FÈO£gtT
Economic Evaluation of Maintenance Equipmont Renewal
Vehicles in Service
10 years        Total            Total          To be
Below 7 vears    7-10 vears       and over    (Al1 vehicles) (7 yrs. & over)   Replaced         Percent
Vehicles (below. 5 HP)                54              92             70             216              162              51            31.5
Vehicles (5-15 HP)                    20              65              79            164              144              55            38.2
Landraoers, Jeeps                     49              49             93             191              142              60            42.3
Tipper Trucks 2.5 To                   4              19             59              82               78              87          111.5
Tipper Trucks 7-8 To                  41             55             149             245              204              74            36.3
Total                     168             280             450             898             730             327            44.8
Percent of Total            18.7           31.2            50.1           100.0            81.3
Economic Evaluation
---(Vehicles 7 years and over)---    -----(New Vehicles)--------------- Capital Coet                         Savings in
Maintenance   Anxmal       Fuel       Maintenance  Annual          Fuel        of a new        Total         Maint enance   Savinga in
Co8t/Yr.   Nileage  Con5umtion        Coet/Yr.  Milgaze    Consum tlon    vehicle         Capital Costa       Cosats        el C
(DH/veh)     (km)  (Liters/100 km)   (DH/veh)Z/  (km)    (Liters/100 km)    (DH)             (DH) (DH()M>
Vehicles (below 5 HP)      1000       25,000    9                 500       30,000      6                6,160          314,160         247,500       84,540
Vehicles (5 - 15 HP)       1600       25,000   16                 900       40,000     12               10,150          558,250         323,300       96,720
Landrovers, Jeeps          2000       25,000   18                1000       40,000     12               15,200          912,000         347,000      108,810
Tipper Trucks 2.5 To       2700       35,000   25                1200       45,000     20               26,400        2,296,800          81,000      (31,000)
Tipper Trucks 7 - 8 To    4000        35,000   30(Diesel)        2000       45,000     25 (Diesel)      40,000        2.960.000       1.058.000      31Li.280
7,041,210      2,056,800      573,350
__ All cos ts net of Taxes                                          Internal Rate of Retun' over 7-year economic life - 27%
2/ Ail costs net of Taxes 
2/ Based on average over the fi rst 5 years of lif e for vehicle
3/ Costs:                                                                                           -_-_-_-_---_ -------__
Gasoline - .31 DH/liter                                                                      Source:  Ministry of Public Works and Conumnicatiows
Diesel   - .24 DH/liter                                                                                and Mission Estimates
September 23, 1969



MOROCCO: HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND COMMUNICATIONS
MINISTER
SECRETARY GENERAL
ADMINISTRATION                                                          TECHNICAL OFFICES
Ist OFFICE        2nd OFFICE         3rd OFFICE
OFFICE FOR
GENERAL                                                                General            Plan               Control of Public       PROFESSIONAL
ADMINISTRATION      PERSONNEL          ACCOUNTING                           Documentation    Budget               Enterprises              TRAINING
Price Control     Mercantile Marine
Road Traffic       Ports
Traffic Statistlcs    Fuel Depots
Urbon Development
Municipal Works
DIRECTORATE                   DIVISION                                                  INSPECTORATE                DIRECTORATE 0F                   DIVISION
FOR THE PORTS 0F                0F URBAN                 DIRECTORATE 0F                      GENERAL 0F                   MERCANTILE                    0F ROAD
CASABLANCA AND                DEVELOPMENT                CIVIL AVIATIONRODMAIENDTNSRS
MOHAMMEDIA                                                                                  RDSFISHERY                                            TASOT
|PUBLIC ENTERPRISES ATTACHED TO THE MINIS TRY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND COMMUNICATIONS|
NATIONAL OFFICE             NATIONAL OFFICE             NAIONAL OFFICE                       REGIE DES              CARGO ADMINISTRATION             ROYALE AIR
OF TRANSPORTS                OF RAILWAYS                OF ELECTRICITY                       ITATIONS                 OF THE PORT OF                   MAROC
(O.N.T.)                  ( O.N.C.F. )(O.N.E. )(INDUSTRIELLES                                                      CASABLANCA                      R.A.M.)
SOURCE: Inspectorate General of Roods.
August 1969                                                                                                                                                            (2R)IBRD-4453  _



P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ C
MOROCCO: HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE INSPECTORATE GENERAL OF ROADS
INSPECTORATE GENERAL
OF
ROADS
REGION NORTH                                                                                              REGION SOUTH
DIVISION          DIVISION         AUTONOMOUS                    DIVISIOON                    DIVISION             DIVISION        AUTONOMOUS            DIVISION           D                 DIVISION
TETUAN             OUJDA           SUBDIVISION            FEZ              MEKNES             RABAT             CASABLANCA          SUBDIVISION        MARRAKECH             SAFI              AGADIR
TAZA                                                                                            TADLA
SUBDIVISIONS.     SUBDIVISIONS:                         SUBDIVISIONS:      SUBDIVISIONS:     SUBDIVISIONS:         SUBDIVISIONS:                         SUBDIVISIONS:      SUBDIVISIONS:     SUBDIVISIONS:
Tangier           Nodor                                 Fez North          Meknes            Ouezzone              Ben Slimane                           Marrakech          Sofi              Souss
Larache           Berkane                               Fez South          Azrou             Souk el-Arba          Caosablnca                              North            Essaouiro         Anti-Atlas
Tetouon           Oujda North                                              Khenifra          Sidi Kocem            Settat                                Morrokech
AI Hoceima        Oujdo South                                              Midelt            Kenitre               Oued Zem                               South
Ksar es-Souk      Rabot R.D             El-Jodida                             Ouarzazote
Robot R G.
NOTES: RGbat R.D.= Robot Rive Droit (Rabat Right Benk).
Robot R.G.= Robot Rive Gauche (Robot Left Bank).
SOURCE: Inspectorate Generol of Roods
August 1969                                                                                                                                                                                               (2R)IBRD-4454  N



T45 FR                                             & E D9  TER RA N  E A M                                  P
MO ROC CO                                                                                                                                                                       UJD
HIGHWAY PROJECT
CASBAN.»                                                                     
AZEMMOLR<~~~~E B/-L                                                                                                                                    L  OlLsAR; sooJes
oG~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ E                                                                              LJoo/i, e d    rsL 0u2o0                                     OuA\
> AmBE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N .eLE
PRIMARY AND SFECNDARY ROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                                -à
TERTIARY ROADS
- - - ---- -   IRACKS, IRREGUIARILY MAINTAIED1
'-'~      RAILWAYS
ROADO  INCLUDED IN  HE PROIFCT <0
FOR  A10IOILITY STUDIE
FRIDGES INCLUDED IN THE f ROJECT
_ 1)R CONSTRUCTION                                   |
ROAD SECTON TO BE CONSTRUCTED
-----            0 ROAD SECTIONS TO BE IMPROVED
5          OU0        15N0      2E 00                                                                                                C     0                                -                  `
'hn H    El Aloun du DrofN   /t0\$$t   )                           <      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ~~  ~ T                                    A ~~F /F  C A 
/   \ Messeid                       )                 NOTE:ONILY rilE G0RDERS ~~~~~~~~~~WHICII HFRt THE                                   
UE SUBJCT 0F AN INTtRNATIONAL TREATY
URS  IrDl1A0ED. TNE B0R0ER RETWESO
.1 TF G AND TI NDOUF  (FARALLEL 27°40') /
P4AG S  L FL   27  g40'                                          h'.A IM                                                    ,                                                                    IRDGObR
SPANISH     SAHARA                                                                             S01)I____ ______
AUGUST 1969                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IBRO)-26CbR2



