RESTRICTED
FILE  COPY                   Report No. P-742
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
AND A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR A HIGxHWAY PROJECT
September 23, 1969






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT AND A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO FOR A HIGHiAY PROJECT
1. *I submit the following report and recommendation on a
proposed credit and a proposed loan, each in an amount in various
currencies equivalent to US$ 7.3 million, making a total of US $14.6
million, to the Kingdom of Morocco.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        This would be the first Bank and IDA operation in the--
transport sector in Mforocco. The project was identified in Sep-
tember 1968 and an appraisal mission visited the country in March-
April 1969. Appraisal of the project was completed in July 1969.
3.        Negotiations for the credit and the loan took place in
lWashington on August 11-15, 1969. The Goverment of M4orocco was
represented by Mr. El-Mdaghri, Director of the Office of the
Budget, Mr. Ghissassi, Secretary General of the Ministry of Public
Works, Mr. Fassi-Fahri, Chief of the Investment Budget Office and
MIr. Bennis, Member of the Cabinet of the Minister of Finance.
L.        The proposed credit, the second for Morocco, would in-
crease the Association's total lending to Morocco to US $18.3 million;
the proposed loan, the sixtbh for Morocco, would increase the Bank's
total lending to this country to US $82.1 million. The following
is a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits to Morocco
as of August 31, 1969:



-2-
Loan or
Credit                                                (Amount in US $ Million)
Number   Year   Borrower               Purpose       Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
329     1962   Banque Nationale pour  Dev.          15.0    -
le DWveloppement        Finance
Economique             Co.
389     1964   Kingdom of Morocco      Agriculture  17.5             5.5
79     1965   Kingdom of Morocco      Education             11.0    9.9
433     1965   Caisse Nationale de:- Agriculture   9.8               0.3
Credit Agricole
447     1966   Banque Nationale pour  Dev.          17.5             3.3
le Developpement       Finance
Economique             Co.
571     1968   Banque Nationale pour  Dev.          15.0            12.6
le D6veloppement       Finance
Economique             Co.
Total (less cancellations)                            74.8
of which has been repaid to Bank                    8.6
Total now outstanding                                 66.2
Amount sold                               1.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA                        65.1     11.0
Total undisbursed                                     21.7      9.9   31.6
5.           The IFC has made two investments in Morocco, one in
the Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Bconomiqi4eX(BNDE)y. amounting
to about US $1.5 million equivalent and the other one in a vegetable
canning factory, the Compagnie Industrielle du Lulus (CIL) (about
US $l.4 million equivalent).



- 3 -
6.           During 1967, the problems encountered in carrying
out the two agricultural projects caused concern. In the case
of the agricultural credit loan (MOR-389), the difficulties were
so serious that the Bank felt obliged to suspend disbursements
in February 1968. Subsequently, the steps taken by the Moroccan
authorities to overcome the problems in agricultural administration
in general and in carrying out the agricultural credit project in
particular, made it possible to lift the suspension in September
1968 and to consider new agricultural projects.
7.           A US $46 million Bank loan for the development of the
Rharb-Sebou irrigation project is being negotiated and the Bank
has completed appraisals for a fourth loan to BNDE as well as for
a loan to the Cr6dit Immobilier et H6telier (CIH), a corporation
established to finance hotel construction.
8.           Progress under present loans and credits is generally
satisfactory, though disbursements under the education project
(MOR-79) are behind schedule. This project had a slow start mainly
due to poor preparatory work, including inadequate school designs.
Since 1967, school construction has proceeded satisfactorily but
there have been delays in the preparation and handling of accounts
submitted to the Association for reimbursement.
9.           A Consultative Group for Morocco was organized in 1967
and met in April of that year. A second meeting is scheduled for
October of this year.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT AND LOAN
10.    IDA CREDIT
Borrower:         Kingdom of Morocco
Amount:           The equivalent in various currencies
of US $7.3 million.
Purpose:          Together with the loan, to finance the
foreign exchange costs of a three-year
highway improvement program, the cons-
truction of a road and four bridges, the
purchase of maintenance equipment and
spare parts and a transport survey of
Morocco's coastal zone.



14
IDA CREDIT (cont'd)
Amortization:        In fifty years, including a ten-year
period of grace, through semi-annual
installments of one half of one percent
from March 15, 1980 to September 15,
1989 and of one and a half percent
from March 15, 1990 through September
15, 20l9.
Service Charge:      Three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount
of the Credit withdrawn and outstand-
ing from time to time.
Economic Rate        Ranging from 11 percent to 28 percent
of Return:         for the various parts of the project.
BANK LOAN
Borrower:            Kingdom of Morocco
Amount:              The equivalent in various currencies
of US $7.3 million.
Purpose:             Same as for the Credit.
Amortization:        In twenty years, including a four-year
period of grace, through semi-annual
payments beginning March 15, 1974 and
ending September 15, 1989.
Interest Rate:       Seven percent (7%)
Commitment Charge: Three-fourths of 1 percent per annum
(3/b of 1%)
Economic Rate of    Same as for the Credit.
Return:



-5-
PART III - THE PROJECT
12.       A report entitled "Appraisal of a Highway Project -
Morocco" (PTR-28a), dated September 23, 1969, on the proposed
project is attached.
13.       Moroccols economy is largely dependent on agricultural
production, the transport of which relies almost exclusively on
the country's road system. Reliable farm-to-market roads and
an efficient trunk road network which connects centers of product-
ion, consumption and export are required to support and promote
agricultural development. Also, development of tourism, one of
the priority objectives in Morocco's Five-Year Plan, will require
improvements in the road system. Although the highway network
is well developed, certain sections of the trunk road system
are in need of selective improvement and some secondary roads
are beginning to deteriorate because of inadequate maintenance.
14.       The proposed project consists of: (a) the construction
of about 106 km. and the improvement of about 72 km. of road
between Agadir and Marrakech; (b) a three-year highway improve-
ment program providing for selective strengthening, reconstruction
and improvement of sections affecting a total of about 4,000 km.
of primary roads; (c) the construction of four bridges; (d) the
purchase of maintenance equipment and related spare parts; and
(e) a transport survey of the coastal zone to provide the basis
for a coordinated investment program for this region and to
make recommendations on transport regulation policies and pricing
in the country.
15.       By improving the trunk road system, and by improving
road maintenance at less cost, the various elements of the project
will yield substantial benefits to the Moroccan economy. The
estimated economic rates of return for the various parts of the
project (other than the transport survey) range from I percent to
28 percent.



- 6 -
16.          Total cost of the project amounts to US $21.2 million,
and it includes US $6.6 million for the Agadir-Marrakech road
construction, US $6.1 million for the highway improvement program,
US $1.3 million for bridge construction, US $3.5 million for the
purchase of maintenance equipment, and US $J.5 million for the
transport survey of the Atlantic coast region; US $3.2 million
has been allowed for contingencies. The proposed loan and credit
would finance the foreign exchange component of the above costs,
and the Government of Plorocco would finance out of budgetary
allocations the local costs of the project.
17.          The Inspectorate General of Roads will be responsible
for execution of the project. It will award contracts for the
improvement and construction works on the basis of international
competitive bidding under the Association's and the Bank's usual
procedures; the work will be divided into contracts of a size
attractive to foreign contractors. Similarly, equipment will be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines. There are Moroccan manufac-
turers of some of the types of equipment to be financed under the
proposed IDA credit and Bank loan; they will be accorded a 15
percent margin of preference in bid comparisons, and disbursements
under the credit and the loan will cover the estimated foreign
exchange component (65%) of any local procurement.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
18.          The draft Development Credit Agreement between the
Kingdom of Morocco and the Association, the draft Loan Agreement
between the Kingdom of Morocco and the Bank, the Recommendation
of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Association, the Report of the Com-
mittee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Bank's
Articles of Agreement, the text of a Resolution approving the
proposed Development Credit and the text of a Resolution approving
the proposed Loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
19.          The provisions of the Development Credit and Loan
Agreements generally conform to the pattern of Association and
Bank highway projects. It should be noted, however, that the



- 7 -
proceeds of the Loan will not be disbursed until the amount of
the Development Credit has been fully disbursed or committed
(Section 2.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
PART V - THE ECONOMY
20.       An economic report entitled 'Recent Economic
Developments in Morocco"l (No. EMA-1h, dated August 29, 1969)
was distributed to the Executive Directors on September 17, 1969.
21.      Moroccots economic performance in the late 1960's
improved considerably as compared with the early and mid-1960's
when there had been little change in per capita incomes. In
1967, despite poor rainfall, total output rose by 7 percent while
in 1968 a record cereals crop accounted for two-thirds of the
12 percent gain in the gross domestic product. Investment ex-
penditures, which had been averaging some 11-12 percent of GDP
earlier in the decade, rose to a rate of 13-14 percent in the
last years, all of the rise being attributable to public sector
outlays. Thus, the 1968-1972 Plan has had a good start, with
expenditures close to targets, a-nd progress in other areas point-
ing to good prospect that most of the major goals of the Plan,
with its emphasis on agriculture, tourism and training, may be
achieved. Various administrative and organizational improvements
have recently been made, including in the planning process itself,
and in mid-1969 an important step towards institutional reform
was represented by the enactment of an agricultural investment
code. Other auspicious recent developments have included the
maintenance of internal price stability, a decline in private
capital outflows, the conclusion of an accord of association
with the European Economic Community and significant gains in
tax revenues.
22.      Problems of major concern include the very rapid rate
of population growth, mounting unemployment in the cities and
underemployment on the land, serious shortages of skilled manpower
and continuing hesitancy in the private sector. The debt-service
burden is still fairly low relative to foreign exchange earnings
and to government revenues. The debt-service ratio is expected
to be below 10 percent in 1969, but it will rise steadily even
if projected substantial gains in exports are achieved. The
increased debt-service and a growing investment program are
contributing to a rising need for external capital. The recent
performance and current outlook indicate that Morocco is credit-



8
worthy for additional borrowing on conventional terms; how-
ever, particularly in light of continuing vulnerability in its
balance of payments and in view of the rising debt burden,
there is a good case for making available some assistance on
concessionary terms.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH THE ARTICLES OF AGREEKEOT
23.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit and loan
would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association
and the Bank respectively.
PART VII - RECOMNDATION
24.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed credit and loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments



