Docrmant of
The World Bank
FOR OmCAL USE ONLY
RePOrt No. 13628
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(LOAN 2748-IND)
OCTOBER 25, 1994
r~  . -  - M  :l  :t--
Ty 1,,-:r7
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Units = Rupiah (Rp)
June 1986 US$1 = Rp 1,100
June 1993 US$1 = Rp 2,074
Annual Average Exchange Rates of Rupiah to US$1
1987     1988      1989       1990      1991      1992
1,644    1,686      1,770     1,843     2,020     2,020
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAETE/AAET  - Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and Extension, renamed
in 1990 Agency for Agricultural Education and Training
AARD           - Agency for Agricultural Research and Development
AHP            - Animal Health Post
AIC            - Agricultural Information Center
AISTC          - Agricultural In-Service Training Center
APBN           - Amggaran Pendapatan dan Belanja Negara (National Income and
Expenditure Budget)
ATP            - Agricultural Training Project
BAPPENAS    - National Development Planning Agency in the Ministry of Finance
BIMAS          - Bimbingan Massal Swa Sembada Bahan Makanan, "Mass Guidance for
Self-Sufficiency in Foodstuffs" - a farm production, input, and credit
program
BKPI           - Balai Keterampilan Penangkapan Ikan (Fisheries Training Center)
BLPP           - Balai Latihan Pegawai Pertanian (Agricultural In-Service Training
Center)
BPLP           - Balai Penataran dan Latihan Pertanian (In-Service Training Center)
DGFCA          - Directorate General of Food Crops Agriculture
DGs            - Directorates General (within MOA)
DIKLATLUH   - Pendidikan, Latihar dan Penyuluhan  (Education, Training  and
Extension)
DINAS          - Provincial/District Services of Directorates
DIP            - Daftar Isian Proyek (Budget Proposal for a Project)
DITVA          - Direktorat  Tata  Usaha  Amggaran  (Directorate  of  Budget
Administration)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DJA            - Direktorat Jenderal Amggaram (Directorate General of Budget)
FKPP           - Forum for Agricultural Extension Coordination
FTF            - Field Training Facilities
GOI            - Government of Indonesia
ICB            - International Competitive Bidding
IPM            - Integrated Pest Management
KPKN           - Kantor Perbendahasaan Kas Negara (Office of the State Treasury and
Cash)
KPP            - Kordinasi Penyuluhan Pertamian Tingkat Kabupaten (Agricultural
Extension Coordination at District Level)
KPPN           - Kanisi Penyuluihan Pertanian Nasional (National Commission for
Agricultural Extension)
KINA           - Kontak Tani Nelayan Andalan (Master Farmer)
KUD            - Koperasi Unit Desa (Village Unit Cooperation)
LAKU           - Latihan dan Kunjungan (Training and Visit)
MOA            - Ministry of Agriculture (Departmen Pertanian)
NAEP II        - Second National Agricultural Extension Project (Credit 996-IND)
NAEP III       - Third National Agricultural Extension Project (Loan 2748-IND)
NFCEP          - National Food Crops Extension Project (Loan 1267-IND)
NTB            - Nusa Tenggara Barat
NTT            - Nusa Tenggara Timur
P3H            - Penugahan dan Pemberantasan Penyakit Hewan (Animal Disease
Prevention and Education)
P4K            - Proyek Peningkatan Pendapatan Petani Kecil (Small-Scale Farmers
Generating Income Project)
PB BIMAS       - Badan Pengendali BIMAS (Executing Board for Mass Guidance)
PHP            - Pengamat Hamat Penyakit (Pest and Disease Observer)
PIMBAGPRO   - Pimpinan Bagian Proyek (Provincial Project Leader)
PIU            - Project Implementation Unit
PO             - Petumjuk Operasional (Operational Guidelines)
PPL            - Penyuluh Pertanian Lapangan - field extension worker
PPM/PPUP       - Penyuluh Pertanian Urusan Programma - extension supervisors
PPS            - Penyuluh Pertanian Spesialis - extension subject matter specialist
REC            - Rural Extension Center
REPELITA       - Rencana Pemhanguanan Lima Tahun (Five-Year Development Policy)
ROP            - Rencana Operasional Proyek (Project Operational Plan)
RSI            - World Bank Resident Staff Indonesia
SAR            - Staff Appraisal Report
SL-PHT         - Sekolah Lapangan - Pengendalian Hama Penyakit (Farmer Field School
on Agribusiness)
SL-UBA         - Sekolah Lapangan - Usaha Tani Beronientasi Agribisnis (Farmer Field
School on Agribusiness)
SPM            - Surat Pemtah Membayan (Authorized Payment Instruction)
SPP            - Surat Permintaam Pembayaan (Authorized Application Withdrawal)
TA             - Technical Assistance
T&V            - Training and Visit
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICLL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Off. if Dfr..tiGmr
O~.tadgm Evakiadga                                                October 25, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
Subject: Project Completion Report on Indonesia
Third National Agricultural Extension Proiect (Loan 2748-IND)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Indonesia-Third National Agricultural
Extension Project (Loan 2748-IND). Parts I and m wre prepared by the East Asia and Pacific
Regional Office. Part II was prepared by the Borrower.
The project aimed to strengthen and expand subject coverage of the training and visit
extension system in all provinces. The project could not be implemented as approved in 1986 and
was reformulated in 1988 with reduced scope and a simplified management structure.
The revised project achieved construction, recruitment and training targets, but failed to
establish the planned unified extension service for a range of commodities. The incomplete new
management system caused confusion and uncertainty, extension coordination and research-
extension linkages were weak, participation by farmers' groups was limited, there were vehicle
procurement problems, and technical assistance staff were not recruited. Reallocation of some
unused project funds to an integrated pest management program was beneficial and led to a
follow-up project.
The monitoring and evaluation component was abandoned such that the project's impact
on production is uncertain. The expanded extension service is seriously under-funded, of
decreasing effectiveness, and faces an uncertain future following reorganization of the Ministry of
Agriculture.
The PCR gives a fair account of the project experience. It highlights familiar lessons on
extension service design, including the importance of strong research-extension linkages (with
farmer participation), and the need for more cost-effective extension approaches.
The project outcome is rated as unsatisfactory (quality at entry was poor), and even the
reduced project design is unlikely to be sustainable. Conversely, institutional development is rated
as marginal, despite the fact that large numbers of extension staff were appointed.
No audit is planned at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL
EXTENSION PROJECT
(LOAN 2748-IND)
Table of Contents
Preface.. .. 
Evaluation Summary  . . .. . .. . ... . .. . .. .. . .. . .. .. . . . .. .. . ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity  .......................    1
Background  .......................    1
Project Objectives and Description  .....................                  2
Project Design and Organization  ......................                    3
Implementation Experience ..........................   4
Project Results .................................   5
Sustainability ...........  7
Bank Performance ........................   8
Borrower's Performance  .........             ..................    9
Project Relationships ..............................  10
Consulting Services  ............           ..................   11
Lessons Learned  ..........            ......................   12
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Introduction  ..................................                         .   14
Project Objectives and Description  ......... .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .. .    .   15
Project Design and Organization   .........  .       ..  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .    .   15
Project Implementation  ..............  ..  ...  ..  ..  ...  .          .   16
Details of Planned and Actual Implementation  ...... .       .  .  .  .  .  .    .   16
Factors Affecting the Project Implementation ...... .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   18
Project Results  .........................  .....  ..                    .   18
Project Sustainability  ...............  ...  ...  ...  ...  .           .   20
Bank Performance  ...................  ....  ...  ....                    .   21
Borrower's Performance  .............  ..  ..  ..  ...  ..  ..            .   22
Main Lessons from Experiences Relevant to the Future  ..... .         .    .   24
Consulting Services  .................  ....  ...  ...  ..                .  26
Project Relationships .. . .. . .. . .. . . . .. . . . .. .. ... . ...  26



PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans/Credits .     .......................   28
2. Project Timetable ..............................   28
3. Loan Disbursements  ...    ........................   28
4. Project Implementation - Key Indicators .....        ...........   29
5. Project Cost and Financing  .    .......................   30
6. Project Results  ..............................    31
7. Status of Loan Covenants . .........................   31
8. Use of Bank Resources  . .........................   32
9. Status of Bank Group Operations  .......         .............   34
ANNEXES
1. List of Reports and Studies .    .......................   37
MAP: IBRD No. 25812



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
TMIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL
EXTENSION PROJECT
(LOAN 2748-IND)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Third National
Agricultural Extension Project (NAEP III) in Indonesia, for which a Bank Loan (2748-
IND) of US$70 million was approved on July 29, 1986. The Loan was reduced to US$55
million following project revision in 1988, and closed one and a half years behind schedule
on June 30, 1993. An amount of US$5.3 million out of the loan proceeds was provided
for bridging financing of the Integrated Pest Management (IPM) Program. As of June 30,
1993, actual disbursement for both NAEP III and IPM activities amounted to US$53.19
million representing 97 percent of the revised loan amount.
The PCR, prepared by Bank staff which carried out the last supervision of
the NAEP III project in June 1993, is based on the initial and revised Staff Appraisal
report, Supervision Reports, and other relevant documents, discussions with key
Government officials responsible for project implementation and field visits, particularly
to East Java and Bali.






- 11 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL
EXTENSION PROJECT
(LOAN 2748-IND)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
i.           Bank assistance to GOI in agricultural extension in Indonesia began in the
late 1960s when a version of training and visit (T&V) system was incorporated as a
component of a number of irrigation projects. These were followed by several agricultural
extension projects.  NAEP III followed the National Food Crop Extension Project
(NFCEP, 1976) and NAEP 11 (1980). NFCEP introduced, in 13 provinces, the training
and visit system (T&V) of extension in food crops, and constructed Rural Extension
Centers (REC) staffed by extension programmers (PPUP) supervising field extension
workers (PPL), with technical support from subject matter specialist (PPS), at provincial
and district levels. NAEP II extended the program to the remaining provinces, including
transmigration areas, and incorporated smallholder estate crops, animal husbandry and fish
culture into the basic extension program, creating a unified extension service at field level,
with AAET as the main coordinating agency. NAEP III was appraised in 1985 but
because of deteriorating economic conditions, with consequent budgetary constraints, the
project was revised and scaled down about 14 months after it became effective in October
1986. In addition and complementary to the agricultural extension projects the Bank, since
1972, also supported agricultural education and training in a series of training projects.
Under the Second Education Project (Cr. 288-IND) 14 existing senior secondary
agricultural schools were upgraded (one marine fisheries secondary school was upgraded
with FAO assistance) and curriculum development undertaken. Under a second Bank
project-the Second Agricultural Training Project (Ln. 1692-IND, 1979)-quality and
numbers of agricultural technicians were augmented through the expansion or rehabilitation
of 42 existing pre-service (SPP) and in-service (ISTC) institutions; establishment of five
new SPPs, seven ISTCs and eleven AICs and the provision of technical assistance for the
SPPs, ISTSCs and AAETE to strengthen planning and management and to undertake
studies. The third phase of capacity building was continued under the Third Agricultural
Training Project (Ln. 23431-IND, 1983), which supported government's long-term
strategy of improving and expanding pre-service and in-service agriculture sector training.
Objectives
ii.          The major objective of both the originally appraised and revised projects
was to strengthen the extension services covering estate crops, livestock and fisheries, in



- ill -
addition to food and horticultural crops, in all provinces, under a unified extension service
coordinated by AAET. The objective was achieved by expanding the existing services and
strengthening the RECs to become the focal points for localized extension planning and
implementation in all subsectors by a unified extension service. The project focused
particularly on the key issues of funding, a clear line of command and improved
coordination between implementing agencies. Institutional coordination covered national
level support of AAET, the DGs and BIMAS; provincial and district level guidance and
support; and improved research-extension linkages based on clear lines of authority and
communication. Project inputs included increased staff; additional buildings, facilities,
equipment and materials; training of staff and farmers; improved staff mobility; and
technical assistance.
Implementation Experience
iii.          Although the project became effective in October 1986, it was not fully
implemented until 1988. It was concluded in 1993, one and a half years behind schedule.
The reason for the delayed implementation was the severe budgetary constraints
experienced by GOI in funding the existing extension services, due to deteriorating
economic conditions associated with a fall in oil prices which apparently were not foreseen
at appraisal, and remaining organizational problems at field level. Soon after project
effectiveness GOI and the Bank agreed to reformulate the project and, in early 1988,
agreement was reached on a considerably reduced project which, however, addressed the
same objectives as the original project. While the project quickly gained momentum in
achieving its targets in construction, staff recruitment and training, no significant progress
was made in the procurement of technical assistance and vehicles and in setting up an
effective monitoring and evaluation system.
iv.           This situation prevailed for most of the duration of the project and affected
project implementation. The Bank came close to declaring misprocurement of the vehicles
but finally accepted GOI's provision of the required vehicles from its own sources. TA
in extension, rural sociology and monitoring and evaluation was never acquired as agreed
and, with Bank concurrence, funds provided for this were eventually used for a
consultancy to evaluate the project, and, based on this evaluation, to formulate a follow-up
project combining training and extension. An effective M&E system for major extension
programs was never developed making an evaluation of the various extension activities and
of the impact of the project difficult.
v.            Other features which were to receive special attention during the revised
project, such as special assistance to resource poor farmers, development of stronger
research-extension linkages, more effective demonstrations and verification trials, and
better coordination between various programs, projects and agencies never gained strong
momentum. Provincial sub-PIUs, established to provide stronger and more decentralized
program planning and administration and the efficient flow of funds, were slow in
improving the situation. Delayed operational funds remained a problem throughout the
project.



- iv -
vi.           Thus, although physical targets were reached or exceeded, vital gaps in
implementation prevented the project objectives from being fully attained. In particular,
the project's impact in developing an integrated, cost-effective extension service for a
range of commodities, although considerable, fell short of expectations. Thus, the main
emphasis was still on rice, although significant inroads were also made on crops such as
maize and soybeans, and in other subsectors. Financial support given to IPM in the last
year of the project, though not foreseen at appraisal, not only contributed to a successful
program, but resulted in a broader rethinking of extension methodology which is likely to
have significant impact. Because of reorganization within MOA, the project finished
amidst considerable uncertainty as to how to continue to serve the requirements of a
rapidly changing sector.
Project Results
vii.          The project was the latest in a series that helped establish a large
agricultural extension force with supporting infrastructure, giving fairly complete coverage
countrywide, although the majority of its activities were still concentrated in the rice
growing areas. Extension staff now number some 36,000, and an extensive network of
about 2,000 RECs, the focal point of extension activities at field level, is now in operation.
Staff are better trained and supervised, have better access to information and specialist
back-up, work in a more disciplined and structural environment, and generally have gained
more respect from farmers and are consequently more self-confident. Extension practices
have moved largely from a "campaign" approach (e.g., BIMAS program for rice), to a
systematic and structured service provided by MOA. Gradually, extension for subsectors
other than rice, and for other agro-ecologies, e.g., uplands, are being expanded and
strengthened and there is an emerging shift to a more integrated or farming systems
approach. Technology transfer for crops other than rice, including conservation techniques
for upland and marginal areas, is becoming increasingly more effective over wider areas.
The overall result has been, in addition to increased productivity, an increased awareness
of farmers towards the environment and enhanced farmer skills in protecting the
environment and conserving resources. Small-farmer groups have been rapidly increasing,
particularly in relation to poverty eradication programs such as P4K and farrm women
groups increased at a yearly rate of almost 6 percent during the project.
viii.         Apart from building the necessary infrastructure by the expansion in staff,
facilities, training and so on, there are few accurate data, however, to demonstrate the
extent to which the project improved the institutional efficiency, or the quality, relevance
and cost effectiveness of training and extension activities, in part since it failed in setting
up a monitoring and evaluation system as projected. Failure to engage the technical
assistance as foreseen and to procure vehicles in a timely manner to provide crucial staff
mobility are, on the other hand, evidence that important actions included in the project to
improve those aspects were not implemented and therefore these objectives were not met
as intended.
ix.           While physical targets have been reached, more effort should have gone
into improving the quality of training and the relevance of extension services. Research-
extension linkages have only marginally improved, with the result that a lot of available



v 
technology is not being applied because the formulation and approval of recommendations
for location-specific conditions is a long and arduous process. Decentralizing of extension
services initiated independently by GOI, started during the latter part of the project and
placing greater responsibility at provincial and local levels, has had mixed results because
little was done to prepare provincial and local staff, and, in any case, the funds still have
to come from the center.
x.           Probably the most significant impact of the project, apart from creating a
critical mass in staff and infrastructure, was the establishment of the REC as the focal
point for extension planning and providing an integrated, unified extension service by a
multi-disciplinary group of PPL under the direction of a PPUP. While such unification
and effective coordination was not achieved at national, provincial and district level, it was
taking hold at the REC level. However, with the decentralization of extension services,
the management of RECs reverted to individual agricultural services of local government
supported by different DGs leaving the future use and operation and management of the
RECs somewhat unclear.
Sustainability
xi.          Overall, there is no doubt that the project-supported objectives are
sustainable, although some activities which were time-bound will not sustain, and there
may be a temporary setback while, in the present MOA reorganization, questions of
responsibility, ownership, O&M and operational funding are being ironed out. The critical
mass in staff and infrastructure build-up during NAEP III and preceding projects will be
sustained, however, as the basis of a reoriented and reformed extension system which a
committed MOA is in the process of thinking through and implementing. NAEP III was
an appropriate phase in a long-term program of evolution of a suitable agricultural
extension structure for Indonesia, and GOI will need further support in the next phase to
modify and strengthen it to respond to the needs of a rapidly changing sector at a crucial
stage in the country's development.
xii.         The sustainability of the nationwide extension service will depend on GOI's
willingness and ability to fund the operation and maintenance of the considerable assets
build up and to divest some of this responsibility to the private sector, and to upgrade and
restructure its staff and introduce new methodologies to meet changing requirements as
farmers become more sophisticated and commercial oriented, and as access to improved
mass communications becomes more widely available.
xiii.        The extension service has been set up entirely in the public sector and will
be costly and a substantial strain on GOI's budget. Shortage of timely operational funds
and deteriorating facilities through lack of O&M have been, and are likely to be, recurring
problems, and it is extremely doubtful that the extension system, in its present form, can
be sustained without major changes in structure and GOI policy and strategy. Questions
can be raised whether the service should be sustained in its present form. A national
system based on central oversight and, more or less, on a single approach (T&V), while
effective and appropriate up until now, will have to be replaced by a more diverse and
flexible system attuned to location-specific conditions and problems. GOI will need to



- vi -
invest more funds to upgrade present staff and to introduce new extension methodologies
in order to make extension more efficient and cost-effective and to extend the coverage of
extension services to all major commodities and agro-climatic regions.
xiv.          Future extension efforts can only be sustained by being more decentralized,
by greater farmer involvement and reliance on private sector participation, and by
gradually introducing feasible cost recovery systems to ensure the level of funding that
GOI cannot provide in the long run. Future efforts would be directed at better educated
farmers looking for specific information, making greater use of modem communication
techniques and needing fewer but more highly qualified extension staff supported by fewer
but better equipped facilities and readily available funds.
Lessons
xv.           The main lessons of experience from the project are:
(a)    Building up and strengthening a large, dispersed national organization,
involving many agencies and points of decision-making at different levels,
requires adequate time to effect the necessary changes, and needs to be
phased realistically in accordance with the institutional capacity to absorb
those changes. If support is provided in a series of projects, clear project
by project indicators of success are needed and inputs clearly defined in
line with a long range institutional objective.
(b)    Even though changes are introduced through a national project, there is a
continuous evolution of concepts and approaches within GOI outside the
confines of the project. If the project is not fully integrated in this process
it losses effectiveness. If the Borrower does not make full use of resources
that can be provided under the project there is a danger that the
sustainability of project elements may be effected.
(c)    When creating a unified national extension service, it must be accepted that
decentralized and dispersed decision-making is necessary because of
location specificity of conditions to be addressed.
(d)    Research-extension linkages must be established at local level rather than
through HQ organization, with direct connection between field level staff
to ensure relevance and speed in technology transfer.  Local farmer
communities must be directly involved in the process of problem
identification and solution.
(e)    It is unlikely that in a country as large and diverse as Indonesia the public
sector can continue to completely support an adequate and efficient
extension service as currently constituted. More cost-effective methods and
approaches, and greater private sector involvement, responsibility and
initiatives on the part of farmer communities themselves will be required
to spread the cost.






- 1 -
INDONESIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL
EXTENSION PROJECT
(LOAN 2748-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Project Name     Third National Agricultural Extension Project
Loan Number    2748-IND
RVP Unit         East Asia and Pacific Region
Country          Republic of Indonesia
Subsector        Agricultural Extension
2.    Background
2.1          Bank assistance to GOI in agricultural extension began in the late 1960s
when a version of the T&V system was incorporated as a component of a number of
irrigation projects. Subsequently, an effort was made to improve the training of extension
workers by providing assistance to agricultural high schools and regional training centers
under an education project (Cr. 288), approved in 1972. This was followed by the
Agricultural Research and Extension Project (Ln. 1179) in 1975, that established 11
provincial AICs and a national center at Ciawi; and the National Food Crops Extension
Project (NFCEP) (Ln. 1267) in 1976, that concentrated on developing the extension
activities of the Directorate General for Food Crops Agriculture (DGFCA) in 12
provinces. The key elements of NFCEP were the national introduction of the T&V
system, based on Rural Extension Centers (RECs), each staffed with two field extension
supervisors (PPMs) and which acted as a training and resource base for 10-12 PPLs with
associated PPSs.
2.2          The second National Agricultural Extension Project (NAEP II), which
became operational in 1980, extended the activities of NFCEP to a further 13 provinces,
established an integrated service for the transmigration areas, and expanded the areas of
activity covered to include smallholder estate crops, livestock, and inland fisheries. It
developed partially, a unified extension service based on the common use of the REC by
all Directorates General, placed coordination of all extension activities eventually under
AAETE, and created coordinating forums at government and district level which never
became very effective.



- 2 -
2.3         The subsequent third National Agricultural Extension Project (NAEP III)
was to continue to strengthening of those areas of extension not well developed under
NFCEP and NAEP II, including food and estate crops, and livestock and inland fisheries,
based on an integrated T&V system, and also complete the unification of the extension
services started under NAEP II. A unified extension service had been the aim of the GOI
and the Bank since the 1970s and to this end GOI came out with a number of decrees,
particularly in late 1983 and early 1984, to prepare for the necessary institutional shifts.
NAEP III was prepared by staff of AAETE and the four Directorates of Extension, in
accordance with the objectives of Repelita IV, in a climate which was judged arnendable
to introducing a completely unified national agricultural extension service. The project
was revised and scaled down about 14 months after it became effective.
2.4         In addition and complementary to the agricultural extension projects the
Bank, since 1972, also supported agricultural education and training in a series of training
projects. Under the Second Education Project (Cr. 288-IND) 14 existing senior secondary
agricultural schools were upgraded (one marine fisheries secondary school was upgraded
with FAO assistance) and curriculum development undertaken. Under a second Bank
project-the Second Agricultural Training Project (Ln. 1692-IND, 1979)-quality and
numbers of agricultural technicians were augmented through the expansion or rehabilitation
of 42 existing pre-service (SPP) and in-service (ISTC) institutions; establishment of five
new SPPs, seven ISTCs and eleven AICs and the provision of technical assistance for the
SPPs, ISTSCs and AAETE to strengthen planning and management and to undertake
studies. The third phase of capacity building was continued under the Third Agricultural
Training Project (Ln. 23431-IND, 1983), which supported government's long-term
strategy of improving and expanding pre-service and in-service agriculture sector training.
3.    Project Objectives and Description
3.1         The major objective of both the originally appraised and revised projects was
to strengthen the extension services covering estate crops, livestock and fisheries, in
addition to food and horticultural crops, in all provinces under a unified extension service
coordinated by AAETE. The objective was achieved through the following components
(the figures in brackets represent the revised project):
(a)   an increase in extension staff by about 6,000 (3,450) PPLs, 3,000 (1,150)
PPMs (later PPUPs), 1,000 (600) PPSs and 200 animal health officers;
(b)   construction of 400 (230) new RECs, 210 houses for PPLs, 200 animal
health posts and expansion of about 1,400 (490) existing RECs;
(c)   procurement of furniture, equipment and materials, 3,206 (3,828) motor
cycles, 124 (64) four-wheel drive vehicles, 45 animal health mobile units,
and 11 (16) audiovisual mobile units;
(d)   training of staff and key farmers through a limited number of overseas
courses and fellowships, and a large number of local training courses;



- 3 -
provision of related facilities and establishment of verification trials and
demonstrations;
(e)    6 (4) person-years of long-term consulting services in extension training,
rural sociology, monitoring and evaluation; about 4 person-years short-term
consultancies for reviewing and revising extension recommendations and
local consultancy services for engineering design and supervision of project
civil works in the original project were reduced to 15 person-months of
specialist services in the revised project; and
(f)    monitoring, evaluation and studies.
3.2          The revised project placed relatively greater emphasis on institutional and
operational efficiency. Total project cost was initially estimated at US$136.2 million
financed by a Bank loan of US$70.0 million (60 percent of project cost excluding vehicles
and taxes and duties) and GOI budgetary funding of US$66.2 million (40 percent). An
ADAB grant of US$2.15 million did not eventuate. Total project cost was later revised
downward to US$100 million, as explained below, financed by a Bank loan of US$55
million (55 percent including vehicles and taxes and duties) and the rest by GOI.
4.    Project Design and Organization
4.1          The project was basically designed to continue and consolidate activities
started under NAEP II and preceding projects. Project design supported the continued
expansion of a public sector extension service in an overall development program which
reflected GOI policy and objectives for Repelita IV with investments in civil works,
additional staff, vehicles, equipment, materials and training. Project implementation was
facilitated by a PM at central level and in the reformulated project by sub PM's at
provincial level.
4.2          Institutionally, the design reflected the organizational changes decreed by
GOI in 1983 and 1984 in order to prepare for the creation of a unified service,
implementation of which had already been started under NAEP II. Thus AAETE, in
addition to its training function, was responsible for coordinating all extension activities
with technical support of the DGs, and administrative support from BIMAS, and general
oversight by the Agricultural Extension Commission at national level and by an extension
coordinating forum at both provincial and district levels. This organization had been
evolving during the previous projects and was considered able to provide the proper
climate for a unified service. In fact, there was little improvement in agency coordination
at all levels, and lines of responsibility were still too diffuse for the implementation of well
focused integrated extension activities, particularly because there was no clear responsible
entity for implementing the coordinating forums' decisions and recommendations.
4.3          Project reformulation addressed this issue which resulted in the creation in
the revised project of a single line of command through the Head of AAETE at provincial
level and the Secretary of BIMAS at district level. However, this was not immediately
followed by revised job descriptions and clear instructions, and, in the resulting confusion



- 4 -
and uncertainty, was not effective during the project. The issuance of a decree in 1990
by GOI placing the technical responsibility for coordinating and implementing extension
activities in the agriculture Kanwil's office at provincial level and with the Chief of one
of the agriculture services (designated by the Bupati) at district level, while at the same
time devolving administrative control of field extension staff and facilities to provincial and
local government, added to prevailing uncertainties and further delayed quick adoption of
a simpler more direct chain of command. As indicated elsewhere (see para. 7.5) the new
emphasis on decentralization also tended to reverse some of the gains made in
coordination, particularly at REC level.
4.4         It is clear that at project design phase, in particular during the project
reformulation, the organizational issues were adequately identified and project inputs were
deliberately designed to overcome identified institutional weaknesses.  These inputs
continued to receive attention during supervision.  The time needed to effectively
implement the required organizational reforms in a complex institutional envirorunent was,
however, very much underestimated while certain events in GOI's other initiatives in
reorganization and their effect on the project could not have been foreseen. It can thus be
concluded that major issues were correctly identified during project formulation and
addressed in project design. It was, however, not possible to foresee at the time of
appraisal the budget constraints that were experienced later. To get parties fully involved
was more difficult which was reflected in the delays in effectively implementing the agreed
changes. Equally it was unrealistic to expect that, in a large and dispersed organization
with parties at differently levels with different responsibilities, goals and interests, the
changes as foreseen would take effect in just four years.
5.    Implementation Experience
5.1          Although the project became effective in October 1986 it was not
implemented until 1988. The reasons for the delayed implementation was the severe
budgetary constraints experienced by GOI in funding the existing extension services, and
remaining organizational problems at field level. The project was concluded in 1993, one
and a half years behind schedule to give time for project preparation and, due in part to
the decision to use US$5.3 million of loan funds as bridging financing for the IPM
program, while a project to support IPM was being prepared.
5.2          Soon after project effectiveness GOI and the Bank, therefore, agreed to
reformulate the project and, in early 1988, agreement was reached on a 26 percent reduced
project (see above) which, however, addressed the same objectives as the original project.
Assurances on minimum levels of operational funding were obtained from GOI and a
single line of command, with the head of AAETE at provincial level, and the Secretary
of BIMAS at district level being responsible, was created to ensure the implementation of
integrated extension activities. While the project quickly gained momentum in achieving
its targets in construction, recruitment and training, no significant progress was made in
the procurement of technical assistance and vehicles and in setting up an effective
monitoring and evaluation system.



- 5 -
5.3          This situation prevailed for most of the duration of the project and affected
its implementation. Vehicles-the project provided for procurement of vehicles (4-wheeled
and motor-cycle) through ICB. The acceptance of ICB procedures in the reformulated
project was a departure by GOI from its usual practice of providing project vehicles under
reserved procurement procedures. During implementation PIU complied with the agreed
procedures but was unable to obtain clearance from relevant Ministries to enable the
winning bidder to import the 4-wheeled vehicles since GOI regulations prohibited import
of vehicles which were available from local sources. The Bank came close to declaring
misprocurement of the vehicles but finally accepted GOI's provision of the required
vehicles from its own sources. The Bank thus disbursed only the payment for 1,500
motorcycles. The remaining vehicles were provided by GOI through reserve procurement.
TA in extension, rural sociology and monitoring and evaluation was not acquired due to
a difference of view between MOA and BAPPENAS. With Bank concurrence funds
provided for this were eventually used for a consultancy to evaluate the project, and, based
on this evaluation, to formulate a follow-up project combining training and extensions.
An effective M&E system for major extension programs was not developed making an
evaluation of the various extension activities and of the impact of the project difficult.
5.4         Other features which were to receive special attention during the revised
project, such as special assistance to resource poor farmers, development of stronger
research-extension linkages, more effective demonstrations and verification trials, and
better coordination between various programs, projects and agencies never gained strong
momentum, and some, like the demonstration program were not funded beyond the start-
up period.  Provincial sub-PIUs, established to provide stronger and more efficient
program planning and administration and to facilitate liaison between national and local
levels and the efficient flow of funds, were very slow in demonstrating a marked increase
in project implementation efficiency. Because of delays experienced in submission of
disbursement applications, operational funding remained a problem throughout the project.
5.5         Thus, although physical targets were reached or exceeded vital gaps in
implementation prevented the objectives from being fully achieved, particularly, the
project's impact in achieving the broader objectives of developing an integrated, cost-
effective extension service for a range of commodities, fell short of expectations.
Financial support given to IPM in the last year of the project, though not foreseen at
appraisal, not only contributed to a successful program, but resulted in a broader
rethinking of extension methodology which is likely to have significant impact. Because
of reorganization within MOA, the project finished amidst considerably uncertainty.
6.    Project Results
6.1         The project was the latest in a series that helped establish a strong
agricultural extension force with supporting infrastructure, giving fairly complete coverage
countrywide, although the majority of its activities was still concentrated in the rice
growing areas. Extension staff now number some 36,000 and an extensive network of
RECs, the focal point of extension activities at field level, is now in operation. Staff are
better trained and supervised, have better access to information and specialist back-up,



- 6 -
work in a more disciplined and structural environment, and generally have gained more
respect from farmers and are consequently more self-confident.
6.2          Extension practices have moved from largely a "campaign" approach (e.g.,
BIMAS program for rice), to a systematic and structured service provided by MOA.
Gradually, extension for subsectors other than rice, and for other agro-ecologies, e.g.,
uplands, are being expanded and strengthened and there is an emerging focus on a more
integrated or farming systems approach. Technology transfer for crops other than rice,
including conservation techniques for upland and marginal areas, is becoming increasingly
more effective over wider areas. The overall result has been, in addition to increased
productivity, an increased awareness of farmers towards the environment and enhanced
farmer skills in protecting the environment and conserving resources. Small-farmer groups
have been rapidly increasing, particularly in relation to poverty eradication programs such
as P4K and farm women groups increased at a yearly rate of almost 6 percent during the
project.
6.3          While there are undeniable indicators that the project significantly
contributed to all this, and it is easy to quantify the expansion in staff, infrastructure,
training and so on, it is more difficult to demonstrate the extent to which it improved the
institutional efficiency, or the quality, relevance and cost-effectiveness of training and
extension activities, in part since it failed in setting up a monitoring and evaluation system
as agreed. Failure to engage technical assistance as planned and to procure vehicles in a
timely manner to provide staff mobility are, on the other hand, evidence that important
actions included in the project to improve those aspects were not implemented and
therefore these objectives were not achieved as planned.
6.4          The inability or unwillingness of GOI to implement these important actions
could be construed as a lack of commitment and interest beyond the more mechanical
actions of expanding staff and infrastructure and training, even though they had been
recognized as being an important part in the design of the project. It also reflects the
continuing organizational complexity and number of actors, and therefore different (vested)
interests and diffuse decision-making and responsibility, complicating implementation on
a national scale. Despite considerable attention being given by MOA to reorganizing the
training and extension services to increase their effectiveness and to make them more
responsive to the changing requirements of the sector, and efforts under the project to
simplify lines of command, the involvement of many agencies at different levels and
continuing complex organizational relationships still, result in a lack of clarity of
responsibilities, and this continues to interfere with the smooth, efficient provision of
training and extension services.
6.5          While physical targets have been reached, and a number of efforts went into
improving the quality of training and the relevance of extension services, research-
extension linkages have only improved marginally, with the result that a lot of available
technology is not being applied because the formulation and approval of recommendations
for location-specific conditions is a long and arduous process.  Decentralization of
extension services, started during the latter part of the project and placing greater
responsibility at provincial and local levels, has had mixed results because little was done



- 7 -
to prepare provincial and local staff, and, in any case, funds still have to come from the
center.
6.6          Probably, the most significant achievement of the project, apart from
creating a critical mass in staff and infrastructure, was the establishment of the REC as the
focal point for extension planning and the provision of an integrated, unified extension
service by a multi-disciplinary group of PPLs under the direction of a PPUP. A unified
extension apaproach and effective coordination among the four DGs and AAET was not
achieved at national, provincial and district level, but it did take hold at the REC level.
However, with the decentralization of extension services, the management of RECs
reverted to individual DGs, leaving the future use and operation and management of the
RECs somewhat unclear.
7.    Sustainability
7.1         NAEP III, following on the preceding projects, succeeded in providing the
manpower and infrastructure for a nationwide extension service. The sustainability of this
service will depend on GOI's ability to operate and maintain the considerable assets
acquired during the project and to divest some of this responsibility to the private sector
as the willingness to upgrade and restructure its staff and introduce new methodologies to
meet changing requirements as farmers become more sophisticated and commercially
oriented, and as access to more effective means of mass communication becomes more
widely available.
7.2          Until now, the extension service has been a public sector activity and in its
present form will be a costly and substantial drain on GOI's budget. The greater part of
expenditure now comes from the development budget (rather than the routine budget, the
bulk of which is for salaries) under various donor-supported projects. Shortage of timely
operational funds and deteriorating facilities through lack of O&M are likely to be
recurring problems, and it is extremely doubtful that the present extension system can be
sustained from Indonesia's own resources without major changes in structure and GOI
policy and strategy.
7.3         In addition to adequate funds for O&M  of the considerable existing
infrastructure and staff operational expenses, GOI will also need additional investment to
upgrade present staff and to introduce new extension methodologies in order to make
extension more efficient and cost-effective and to extend the coverage of extension services
to all major commodities and agro-climatic regions. A national system based on central
oversight and, more or less, on a single approach (T&V), while effective and appropriate
at the time, will have to be replaced by a more diverse and flexible system attuned to
location-specific conditions and problems.
7.4          Future extension efforts can only be sustained by being more decentralized,
by greater farmer involvement and reliance on private sector participation and by gradually
introducing feasible cost recovery systems to ensure the level of funding that GOI cannot
provide in the long run. Future efforts would be directed at better educated farmers
looking for specific information, making greater use of modern communications



- 8 -
techniques, and needing fewer but more highly qualified extension staff supported by better
equipped facilities and readily available funds.
7.5         Changes in this direction, particularly decentralization and staff upgrading,
and greater farmer involvement, are already occurring or being contemplated. However,
in the transition, some of the changes being implemented are threatening to cause setbacks
to the achievement of important institutional developments introduced under NAEP III,
particularly the achievement of a more unified and integrated service.  In the
decentralization process, the RECs have been returned to individual DGs for technical
control while administration, including funding, now rests with the district. This so far,
has had the result of breaking up the unified approach, with many PPLs returning to the
offices of the provincial services supported by respective DGs, and has also led to under
use of some RECs. Unless corrected, this may cause a setback in developing the extension
services as a result of the very process of making them more efficient and responsive to
new needs.
7.6         Overall, there is no doubt that the project is sustainable, although some parts
which were time-bound will not sustain and there may be a temporary setback while in the
present organization questions of responsibility, ownership, O&M and operational funding
are being ironed out. The critical mass in staff and infrastructure build-up during NAEP
III and preceding projects will sustain, however, as the basis of a re-oriented and reformed
extension system which a committed MOA is in the process of thinking through and
implementing. NAEP III was an appropriate phase in a long-term program in the
evolution of a suitable agricultural extension structure for Indonesia, and GOI will need
further support in the next phase to modify and strengthen it to respond to the needs of a
rapidly changing sector at a crucial stage in the country's development.
8.    Bank Performance
8.1         Bank performance, in general, can be considered satisfactory. Although
from project appraisal through completion the project had five different Task Managers,
there was reasonably good continuity in other staff supervising the project. As this project
was one in a series and Bank staff had been engaged in an ongoing dialogue with GOI on
extension matters, issues were clearly identified at appraisal and project design benefitted
from lessons of experience from the previous projects.
8.2         Because deteriorating economic conditions dictated the reformulation of the
project soon after effectiveness, the project received more attention than usual for a follow-
up project during appraisal, and was subject to intense and protracted discussion to ensure
agreement on solutions to key issues, particularly funding, a single line of command, and
coordination between the DGs in MOA.
8.3         Supervision was carried out regularly and, at least initially, with greater
intensity than normal. Soon after implementation, during project reformulation, the project
was supervised heavily and almost continuously from RSI for a period of about six months
after which Bank supervision missions were carried out at roughly 10-month intervals.
Some attempt was made to coordinate supervision missions with those of the Bank-



- 9 -
supported Agricultural Research Management project in order to encourage GOI staff to
give more attention to the improvement of research-extension linkages.
8.4         The Bank showed itself flexible, particularly in finding ways to overcome
operational funding problems and in setting up a project management structure to facilitate
the smooth and timely flow of funds and rapid disbursements. It also readily agreed to
project extensions and the provision of project funds for follow-up project preparation and
the support of IPM activities not foreseen at appraisal.
8.5         Supervision repeatedly brought to the attention of GOI and implementing
authorities serious omissions adversely affecting implementation, such as failure to engage
consultants and to procure vehicles in a timely fashion, and to set up an adequate
monitoring and evaluation system. It closely monitored funding to ensure satisfactory
implementation and placed considering stress on finding ways to improve identified
weaknesses in demonstration/verification trials, quality and relevance of training, and
research-extension linkages.
8.6         Despite considerable effort on the part of the Bank little progress was made
in these because of the slowness of the organizational machinery to adapt to the changes
required, the continued lack of coordination between agencies, and the absence of ground
rules in implementing the coordinated programs involving several agencies. Satisfactory
solutions to GOI's failure to recruit technical assistance, procure vehicles and establish a
M&E system were never found although the Bank did accept certain compromises.
Stronger insistence and action on the part of Bank that these project actions be carried out
as agreed might have caused temporary delays but resulted in a better project.
9.    Borrower Performance
9.1         With minor changes, and the appointment of a new Project Director early
in the project, the PIU within AAET responsible for NAEP II continued to implement
NAEP III. Since many elements of NAEP III were a continuation of what was started
under NAEP IT the project profited from having a relatively experienced project
management unit from  the start.  Thus, despite the economic squeeze and budget
constraints necessitating a downsizing of the project, physical targets in civil works,
staffing and training were achieved more or less according to schedule.
9.2         GOI officials and project staff were less able to ensure the flow of adequate
and timely operational funds to the dispersed project sites, even though the Bank agreed
to finance a greater share of those expenditures during project reformulation, affecting
particularly field extension activities. Disbursement was also slow because of the inability
to set up an efficient system in the field to obtain the necessary accounts and
documentation to support disbursement applications to ensure quick turnover of funds.
The provincial sub-PMs, established to facilitate the flow of funds and documentation, only
marginally improved this situation, which remained problematic throughout the project.
9.3          From the Bank's perspective, GOI's handling of the recruitment of long-
term consultants, the procurement of vehicles and the establishment of a suitable M&E



- 10 -
system was less than satisfactory. These were recognized and agreed to at appraisal as
important actions required to fully achieve the project's objectives, and failure to execute
them on time or at all severely detracted from the project's effectiveness and resulted in
important activities such as the evaluation and comparison of major extension programs
and different extension methodologies never being carried out.
9.4         Despite the specific provisions under the project, GOI was not able to
materially improve the coordination between AAETE and the DGs, and the linkage
between research and extension. AAETE being the lead agency there was a tendency to
place too much emphasis on training. Even increasing the role of, and funding to the DGs
during project formulation did not appear to significantly improve coordination or their
participation. The verification trials/demonstration program, first carried out by AAET
and later transferred to the DGs, which should have been an important focal point in
research-extension linkage and technology transfer, lacked quality, relevance and
effectiveness, as pointed out by various Bank supervision missions, again through the
inability of the various agencies to fully participate and coordinate their activities. This
lack of coordination was also a major reason for the apparent lack of progress in
strengthening the quality, relevance and focus of training in general.
9.5         GOI's tardiness in issuing job descriptions and clear instructions prevented
the full and immediate implementation of a single line of command under the project, and
its decision to transfer RECs to individual agricultural services of the local government has
been, at least temporarily, a setback to the development of an integrated, unified extension
service.
9.6         Toward the end of the project, GOI constituted a MOA-wide Steering
Committee and working group to guide and work with the consultants in the evaluation of
NAEP III and the preparation of a follow-up project building upon NAEP III experience
and responding to the requirements of a changing agriculture sector. This work was not
well synchronized with reorganization and policy planning proceedings in other parts of
the ministry and GOI, resulting in a project proposal which was too narrowly focused and
which did not adequately address the fundamental issues of human resource development
and extension in the sector. MOA is now in the process of addressing these issues more
comprehensively through a series of round table discussions, but this will delay a follow-
up project.
10.   Project Relationships
10.1        An excellent understanding and working relationship existed throughout the
project period between the Borrower and the Bank despite certain inconsistencies in
implementation and periodic difficulties experienced in communication as, for instance,
during procurement of long-term consultants and vehicles. Apart from these instances, the
Borrower generally responded promptly to the Bank's observations and recommendations
on how to improve project execution and the Bank showed sufficient flexibility to accept
suggested changes (sometimes compromises) in order to improve, or at least maintain the
momentum of implementation.



- 11 -
10.2        Staff continuity and intensive and continuous inputs from the Resident
Mission staff played an important part in maintaining this relationship and mutual respect.
Despite the good relationship at project level and the ongoing dialogue on broader policy
and strategy issues, the Borrower did not fully involve, or consult with the Bank in the
considerable planning for reorganization and modernization of the agricultural extension
services taking place outside the project with MOA and GOI generally during the period
of implementation of the project.
10.3        Relationships between the various implementing agencies and entities
involved in agricultural education, training, research and extension were, and continue to
be weak. This resulted in little progress being made in coordination of overall program
implementation by securing timely inputs by all parties required for providing balance in
extension for various subsectors and for strengthening research-extension linkages and the
process of technology transfer. Agency coordination generally was better at local rather
than higher levels, and was weakest at national level. Generally, the relationship with
benefitting farmers was characterized by a "top-down" approach, although a gradual
increase in farmer participation became evident towards the end of the project.
11.   Consulting Services
11.1        Studies carried out or completed under the project by consultants were
completed to GOI's and the Bank's satisfaction and contributed to further policy and
strategy development for agricultural extension.  Results of the one relatively major
consultancy for the evaluation of NAEP III and the Third Agricultural Training Project
were not so satisfactory. The reports went through a number of drafts before finally being
accepted by GOI and the consultancy had to be extended beyond the originally agreed
contract period. The evaluation did not yield the information and insights expected and
the proposal for a new project was rejected by the Bank as inadequate and not addressing
the fundamental issues and needed reforms to serve a fast growing and rapidly changing
sector.
11.2        The unsatisfactory outcome of this consultancy was not entirely due to the
consultants' performance but was influenced by external circumstances over which the
consultants had no control. The evaluation, particularly that of NAEP III, suffered from
a lack of information and baseline data, as pointed out in the consultant's report. Since
a comprehensive M&E system was not established under the project, partly due to the
failure of the project to hire long-term consultants who were to assist in creating the
system, adequate data were not available and could not be completely replaced by surveys
conducted by the consultants.
11.3        The formulation of the new project coincided with a period of intense
discussion and planning within GOI and MOA for the second 25-year long-term
development plan and the sixth five-year development plan, including organizational
changes required in the public sector to serve agriculture. Due to uncertainties as to the
outcome of this planning process at the time, the Steering Committee and Working Group
guiding and assisting the consultants, which comprised representatives of MOA's Planning
Bureau, the DGs and BAPPENAS, was unable to give firm directions to the consultants



- 12 -
within the context of the pending changes. Instead, individual members of the Committee
tended to give advice, often conflicting, according to their own interests and interpretation
of events, leading to some confusion on the part of the consultants.
11.4        In retrospect, it would have been better to delay project formulation until
details of future directions and reorganizations were better known. However, had it been
possible for the consultants to play a more integral part in the discussions and planning at
the time at the inter-agency level, the resulting proposal might have been closer to the
mark.  As it was, they appeared to work in relative isolation, and since AAET
administered the contract and provided most of the members of the Working Group, the
proposal was too narrowly focused with the result that a lot of time and effort was wasted
and implementation of a follow-up project is likely to be delayed.
12.   Lessons Learned
12.1        The main lessons of experience from the project are:
(a)    Building up and strengthening a large, dispersed national organization,
involving many agencies and points of decision-making at different levels
requires adequate time to effect the necessary changes, and need to be
phased realistically in accordance with the institutional capacity to absorb
those changes. If support is provided in a series of projects, clear project
by project indicators of success are needed, and inputs clearly defined in
line with a long-range institutional objective.
(b)   Even though changes are introduced through a national project, there is a
continuous evolution of concepts and approaches within GOI outside the
confines of the project. If the project is not fully integrated in this process
it loses effectiveness. The Borrower does not make full use of resources
that can be provided under this project and there is a danger that the
sustainability of project elements may be affected.
(c)   When creating a unified national extension service, it must be accepted that
decentralized and dispersed decision making is necessary because of location
specificity of conditions to be addressed. The approach must be flexible
and relevant to localized social and resource situations which range from
sophisticated Java to newer, more remote and marginal areas recently
settled in the Outer Islands. A simple T&V approach may be suitable for
the latter whereas a more integrated farm management approach such as
used in IPM may be better from the former.
(d)   Human resource development planning for MOA and sector should be
carried out at the Ministry and DG level and not be left to AAET only.
AAET must focus more on its real function which is in-service training.
(e)   Research-extension linkages must be established at local level rather than
through HQ organizations, with direct connection between field level staff



- 13 -
to ensure relevance and speed in technology transfer.  Local farmer
communities must be directly involved in the process of problem
identification and solving.
(f)   It is unlikely that in a country as large and diverse as Indonesia the public
sector can continue to completely support an adequate and efficient
extension service as currently constituted. More cost-effective methods and
approaches, and greater private sector involvement, responsibility and
initiatives on the part of farmer communities themselves will be required to
spread the cost.
(g)   The strategy to increase farmers income requires the development of
technical  recommendation  that  are  location  specific.    Technical
recommendations must be based on regional potentials based on the agro-
ecological conditions.
(h)   Agriculture extension requires adaptive research in line with the local
potentials and the transfer of relevant technology supported by better
marketing strategies, and an increased role of rural economic institutions
(KUD). The relationship between SMS and research staff and also the
economic and marketing field staff of each agricultural service of the local
government (food and plantation crops, livestock and fisheries) and other
institutions needs to be integrated.



- 14 -
PROJECT COMIPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
TIIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
PART II PROJECT REVIEW FROM
THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
INTRODUCTION
1.               In order to support step up rice production, the World Bank
has approved NFCEP (Loan 1267-IND), managed by DGFC, 1977-1981, covering 13
provinces, by introducing the LAKU system. The project is continued by NAEP
II (Cr. 996-IND), 1980-1986, covering 26 provinces by continuing the LAKU
(T&V) System for food crops extension including smallholder estate crops,
livestock and fish culture. This project was transferred to AAETE in 1984.
NAEP III (LA 2748-IND), managed by AAET, was approved on September 4, 1986,
and was completed on June 30, 1993 after reformulation and two extensions.
2.               A fundamental concept is that the project is designed to
implement rationally agricultural extension through the integration of PPLs,
PPUPs and PPSs of each subsector in a unified extension drive. This
fundamental concept is also right, because: (i) the extension workers of all
subsectors have been managed by the BP BIMAS (1986), whereas the farmers
generally have integrated farm businesses; and (ii) the REC, being a home base
for the PPLs, has five kinds of PPUP with one agricultural extension program
covering all subsectors. Project revision was carried out to accommodate
changes occurring in the course of the project implementation, relating to
policy problems in conducting agricultural DIKLATLUH, project implementation
plan, or project implementation procedure. The time needed for revision of
the SAR was up to four months, the DIP up to three months, the PO up to seven
days, and the ROP up to fifteen days. Thus the time-consuming project
revision had delayed or hindered the project implemented activities.
3.               In accordance with the reformulation, the closing date of the
project was advanced by one year from December 31, 1991 to December 31, 1992.
Since there were overseas fellowship programs which would not be completed
until December 1992, and besides the NAEP III/ATP III Evaluation and the
Formulation of NATEP, was not be completed until July 1992, the closing date
was extended by one year to December 31, 1992. And in view of the approval of
the use of the remaining funds of US$5,300,000 as a bridging fund for the IPM
program managed by the BAPPENAS from July 1992 through June 1993, the closing
date was extended further to June 30, 1993. As a result of the project
extension, the provision of the APBN also increased for project administrative



- 15 -
and extension activities, the loan funds for which had been exhausted,
including the operation of SL-UBA in ten provinces.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
4.              Objective.  NAEP III is aimed to strengthen the extension
services of estate crops, livestock, fisheries, food crops, including
horticultural crops, covering 27 provinces by continuing to apply the LAKU
System. The project covers: (i) addition of extension personnel, (ii)
addition of equipment, REC, vehicles and houses for PPL; (iii) agricultural
training and education; (iv) agricultural extension; and (v) technical
assistance and studies.
5.              Issues and Approaches.  There are three issues in the
implementation of relevant projects, namely: (i) the availability of extension
budget outside the project; (ii) the implementation of integrated extension
through agricultural extension coordination; and (iii) effective project
organization in each province (Sub PIU). The recommended approaches are: (i)
the availability of specifically local technical recommendations, related to
institutional credits and marketing access according to the ability of farmer
sub groups so that it is able to improve income and job opportunities in the
rural areas: and (ii) the improvement of the extension organization efficiency
of the national, provincial and district level.
PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
6.              The project design covered all physical, financial and project
implementation aspects. The reformulation did not bring about design changes;
there were only changes in the composition of the physical and the financial
components. In the subsequent implementation of the project, there were no
significant changes; there were only additional IPM activities resulting from
the use of the remaining funds and the finishing of the remaining contract
payment for the ATP III training vessels (LA 2341-IND).
7.              Project organization at the national level (PIU) as stated in
the SAR was under the AAETE/AAET. The project was initially guided for the
performance of its tasks by the instructions issued by the KPPN. As a result
of the changes in the KPPN organization (1991), subsequent project
implementation was based on the instructions of the AAET. Whereas the sub-PIU
with the Kuasa Pimpro system, which was initially established at a Regional
Office (1987/1988 through 1989/1990), for the sake of smooth project
implementation had been transferred to the technical implementation unit of
the AAET with the PIMBAGPRO system (starting in 1990/1991).



- 16 -
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
8.              Loan Agreement 2748-IND/NAEP III was signed on September 4,
1986 and became effective on October 21, 1986. For the sake of the effective
use of loan funds, the loan agreement needed to be reformulated because: (i)
as a result of the devaluation of the rupiah against the dollar in November
1986, the amount of the loan for the project became excessive, thereby
requiring a cancellation of US$15,000,000 in accordance with the agreement
dated April 18, 1987; (ii) the activities of the project covering all areas
and all subsectors needed to be supported with the provision of efficient
technology on a continuous basis; (iii) the activities of the project have to
be emphasized on the development of human resources to improve the quality of
agricultural extension activities; and (iv) the construction of physical
facilities which support extension activities needed to be given priority in
areas outside Java and Bali for servicing coastal areas, dry land and
transmigration sites.
9.              The reformulation proposal which was submitted on October 31,
1987 was approved by the Bank on June 27, 1988 with a loan agreement
amendment, whereas the SAR was revised earlier on February 26, 1988. The
reformulation which took a considerable period of time substantially affected
the implementation of the project because: (i) the 1987/1988 DIP
implementation had to be put off with the exception of the Category III
activities, while the DIP had to be revised in accordance with the revised
SAR; (ii) the realization of the fiscal year 1987/1988 project reached only
73.4% in the case of the physical implementation, 56.5% in the case of the
financial implementation which meant that 25.4% of the APBN had to be unused,
and 44.7% of the loan was transferred to fiscal year 1988/1989, whereas
disbursement reached only 8.1% of the 21.8% target; and (iii) the extension
activities could not be included in the fiscal year 1987/1988 budget.
DETAILS OF PLANNED AND ACTUAL IMPLEMENTATION
10.             Category I
As a result of the reformulation, the initial building
construction target of 2,612 units was reduced to 1.130 units, but the
realization reached 1,357 units, i.e. an increase of 20.0%. The 90% loan of
US$30.0 million initially provided was reduced to US$10.4 million and the
realization was US$9.5 million, i.e. a decrease of 8.07%. Whereas the 10%
counterpart funds, which initially amounted to US$5.4 million decreased to
US$1.2 million and the realization reached US$2.5 million.
11.             Category II
Prior to the reformulation, the furniture/equipment and
vehicle procurement plan called for 6,415 units. The quantity was reduced to
5,836 units, while the realization reached 5,962 units, i.e. a 2.1% increase,
which was partially accomplished through the reserved procurement plan and the
agreement of the Bank with the BAPPENAS. The 100% loan for import goods, 95%



- 17 -
for factory purchasing goods, and 65% for local purchasing goods, which was
altogether provided for US$6.0 million, was increased to US$7.4 million and
the realization was US$4.86 million, i.e. a 34.32% decrease. The 0%, 5% or
35% counterpart funds which had to be provided for US$1.4 million decreased to
US$0.8 million, while the realization reached US$3.0 million.
12.            Category III
The plan for training and TA/Studies prior to the
reformulation respectively called for 140,456 persons, 72 mm and 21 mm. The
figures were subsequently get lowered to 114,765 persons, 63 mm and 30 m. The
realization reached 197,110 persons, i.e. a 71.8% increase, 151 mm, i.e. a
139.7% increase, and 9 m, i.e. a 70% decrease, with the addition of 36 units
of supplementary IPM activities. The 100% loan funds, which were initially
planned to amount to US$27 million, went down to US$23.1 million, and the
realization reached US$27 million, went down to US$23.1 million, and the
realization reached US$36.8 million, i.e. a 46.5% increase. Whereas the
counterpart funds which provision was unclear initially amounted US$6.7
million, at last became unuseful, on the contrary the counterpart budget
should be provided for addition of 300 persons of D3 program funded by GOI,
and the realization achieved US$4.0 million.
13.            Category IV
This activity that served as an incremental operation
comprising project support activities and related activities, was initially
planned to amount to US$43 million in the form of counterpart funds. As a
result of the reformulation, there were additional activities for extension
material procurement and extension activities, but the amount of the funds was
reduced to US$36.7 million comprising counterpart funds of US$30.0 million and
planned loan funds of US$6.7 million with a 100% portion for activities before
April 1, 1989, a 75% portion for activities before March 31, 1990, and a 50%
portion for activities after that date. The physical use of the funds was
planned to cover 2,080,133 units and the realization reached 2,151,730 units,
i.e. a 34% increase. The loan funds used reached US$4.9 million and the
counterpart funds amounted to US$36.3 million.
14.            Land Acquisition.
The funds for land acquisition originating from the 100%
counterpart funds were initially planned to amount to US$9.5 million. after
the reformulation, the amount was reduced to US$5.8 million. The realization
of the land acquisition funds reached US$7.8 million, i.e. a 34.5% increase.
15.            Unallocated Funds.
These funds, which were initially provided for physical
contingencies, amounted to US$7.2 million, comprising loan funds of US$7.0 and
counterpart funds of US$0.2 million. After the reformulation, the use of the
fund for physical contingencies and price contingencies amounted to US$14.6
million, comprising loan funds of US$7.4 million and counterpart funds of
US$7.2 million. The realization of the loan funds was transferred to Category
III to finance additional activities, among others for the IPM program, while



- 18 -
the counterpart funds were transferred to Category IV to support the payment
of salaries of the PPLs/PPUPs/PPSs including Animal Health Officers and to
Category II for reserved procurement.
FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
16.             Operational Policy.
Factors largely affecting the project implementation that is
form policy changes related to the setting up of the agricultural DIKLATLUH
program. These factors included: (i) efficiency in the use of agricultural
DIKLATLUH funds; (ii) the continuation of the D3 extension program; (iii) the
application of mobile training and integrated training methods; (iv) the
application of the extension method in the form of an agricultural extension
forum and the application of agricultural technology packages; (v) changes in
the organization of the KPPN, the FKPP I and the FKPP II; (vi) the application
of the SL-PHT system; and (vii) reserved procurement for animal health mobile
units and their equipment.
17.             Operational Planning.
The factor that largely hindered the project implementation
was the inferior arrangement of the planning and the preparation of the
execution itself. This could be noted from the frequent occurrence of: (i)
unit cost changes; (ii) site changes; (iii) changes of technical
specifications of equipment; (vi) schedule changes caused by the long period
of time required for the preparation of construction and equipment
procurement; and (v) schedule changes caused by the long period of time needed
for the preparation of education, training, extension and studies.
PROJECT RESULTS
18.             The purpose of the project, namely to strengthen extension
covering estate crop, livestock, fisheries, and food crop activities including
horticulture crops, had in general been achieved properly, in spite of the
fact that the implementation of the project was in the end highly affected by
the new policy stipulated in the Joint Decree of the Minister of Agriculture
No. 539/VII/1991 and the Minister of Home Affairs No. 65/1991. The project
scope comprising the recruitment of extension workers including animal health
officers, the procurement of extension facilities and infrastructure, the
implementation of training and extension, and support activities had been
achieved, even exceeding the target. The SAR target could be exceeded because
of several revised activities or the addition of new activities agreed upon by
the BAPPENAS and the Bank. Actual budget utilization reached US$53,185,145.34
so that the remaining fund balance of the loan stood at US$1,814,854.66
whereas the counterpart fund reached US$53,600,000 or up by US$8,600,000.
19.             Distribution of REC by Location.  The construction of REC was
completed only in 1991/92, with sites for each province.  Sites of the 260



- 19 -
RECs, have been determined by FKPP I in accordance with the province's
requirement and evenly distributed as follows: (i) dry land, 134 units
(51.5%); (ii) coastal areas, 79 units (30.4%); and (iii) transmigration areas,
47 units (18.2%). By the completion of REC construction outside Java and Bali
which was supplied with basic extension equipment/furniture and a special
equipment for food crops, estate crops, livestock or fisheries, extension
activities in dry land, coastal areas and transmigration areas in that region
was gradually increase.
20.             Animal Health Posts and Agricultural Extension.  From 200 AHP
which were constructed in cattle densed population areas, many have been
equipped with furniture, animal health technical equipment and sufficient
operating expenses. The AHP which was headed by a veterinarian assisted by
two paramedics, supported the implementation of animal disease prevention and
eradication (P2H), which in certain activities it made use of an animal health
mobile unit, causing an impact related to the extension program. With the
improvement of perception, knowledge and skills in P3H the farmer have
implemented activities including P3H aspects, so that they were able to reduce
the loss of livestock due to animal disease. This resulted in an increase of
livestock productivity and farmers income.
21.             Special Training Material.  In line with the agricultural
development policy, four types of special training material have been
introduced, namely: (i) special PPL basic training which contained sea
fisheries material for 510 PPLs who already had a basic education in
agriculture and transformed into PPL for fisheries (1992/1993); (ii) special
skills training for up to 2,100 contacts farmer and heads of village, who were
given additional material in co-operatives and Supra Insus (1989/1990); (iii)
special skills training in commodities oriented towards the agribusiness for
up to 510 PPLs/technical workers and 3,060 contacts farmer (1992/1993); and
(iv) management training in farm business for 200 young farmers in East Timor
(1992/1993).
22.             Development of Agricultural Training Methods.  In the context
of speeding up the transfer of technology for the farmers, four types of
effective training methods have been introduced and developed, namely: (i) an
apprenticeship system for 210 farmers-fishermen in East Timor in various farm
businesses belonging to farmers in NTT, NTB, Bali, East Java and Yogyakarta
(1989/1990 and 1990/1991); (ii) mobile training for 1.650 PPLs in RECs with
trainers from BLPPs so that the PPLs did not have to leave their post
(1990/1991); (iii) an integrated training package for 810 PPLs in BLPPs which
was followed by a course for farmers held in the farmers areas and at Islamic
Centers for 4,680 farmers, with the PPLs as trainers (1992/1993); and (iv) a
farmer field school on agribusiness, with 80Pl-Is (instructors, PPS and
technical workers). These guides, after having been trained in BPLP Ciawi
earlier, became trainers for 280 PL-IIs and for 300 Mantri Tani's in BLPP/BKPI
from 10 provinces. The PL-IIs and Mantri Tani's then implement a fields
school for 12,000 farmers in the latter's own farm businesses (1993/1994).
23.             Development of Agricultural Extension Methods and Programs.
The efforts to speed up the improvement of the farmers' abilities have been
made by increasing the participation of various parties concerned by means of:
(i) agricultural extension forum, being a meeting-based method in which 1,035



- 20 -
KTNA personnel discussed a farm business development program with the
authorities concerned (1990/1991); (ii) an agricultural technology package
application as a meeting-based method which involved seven parties, namely up
to 5,387 farmers, researcher, extension officers, trainers/instructors,
teachers in agriculture, entrepreneurs/KUD and banking officials (1990/1991,
1991/1992 and 1992/1993); (iii) a co-ordination meeting for the agricultural
program implementation, as a meeting to discuss the relation between
agricultural extension policy, with agricultural development program and
agricultural technology in order to support the agricultural extension program
at the provincial and district levels, involved 3,120 members of KPPN, FKPP I,
FKPP II, Provincial Coordinator PPSs, District Coordinator PPSs and related
institutional officials concerned (co-operatives, rural development, trade and
industry in 1990/1991 and 1991/1992).
24.            Additional Integrated Pest Management.  Utilization of the
remaining funds for IPM has had a special impact and cannot be separated from
agricultural extension. There were five IPM activities, namely: (i) training
in nine FTFs, which involved 894 PHPs, 4,465 PPLs and 45,500 farmers; (ii) IPM
support activities in the form of 32 researchers and four seminars; (iii) Di
program implementation for 1,192 PHPs; (iv) IPM's implementation and
development for upland vegetables which involved 2,450 persons; and (v)
technical assistance in co-operation with FAO for 111 mm.
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
25.            Agricultural Extension and Increasing Human Resources
Productivity. The agricultural extension has successfully enhanced the
perception, knowledge, and the attitudes of the farmers in respect of
agricultural technology and they will be able to apply it appropriately in
their farm business to increase their income. Considering that the sector of
agriculture is expected to become a reliable base for the development of the
non-agricultural sector, the management of agricultural extension should be
continued. The mcre so if the matter is related to the efforts to increase
the productivity of the labor force in the sector of agriculture so that the
transformation of the labour force to the sector of non-agriculture will run
smoothly.
26.            Net Benefits, Outcome and Risk Factors.  Project
sustainability is affected by a high level of benefit from: (i) agricultural
extension in respect of behavioral change and work productivity improvement of
farmers; (ii) implementation of decentralized extension by the regions with
the support of the national; and (iii) institutionalization of IPM related to
the agricultural extension program. While the outcome of agricultural
extension is much affected by: (i) the agricultural development program; (ii)
the organization and management of agricultural extension; and (iii) the
participation of farmer groups. While real agricultural extension project
risks is not significant, except the problems caused by the impossibility to
cover the beneficiary contact as a result of the large extension area and the
agricultural extension policy implementation which has not yet enhanced
agricultural extension effectiveness.



- 21 -
27.             Institutionalization of Integrated Pest Management and
Agricultural Extension Program. The IPM Program has had a beneficial impact
on the sector of agriculture, particularly in the food crops as implemented to
date. In the efforts of institutionalization a more extensive IPM, the IPM
Program needs to be integrated into the agricultural extension program in the
regions. This matter will be even firmer if the said IPM program is
integrated in a program for the increasing of farm business in each subsector
including PB BIMAS.
BANK PERFORMANCE
28.            Approval and Revision Procedures.  The approval by the Bank of
any activity/procurement of goods and services in the form of a "no objection
letter" was often too late and this was particularly the case since fiscal
year 1989/1990. However, with the increase of the SOE threshold value from
less than USZ50,000 to less than US$100,000, the delay could be overcome,
because for any contract value below US$100,000, a no-objection letter from
the Bank was no longer required.
29.             The revision of any activity did not encounter any significant
problem as long as the proposal for such revision was submitted in a complete
form with appropriate justifications. However, the loan reallocation process
took a considerable time to finalize (2-3 months). It was for this reason
that any borrower should be given an automatic right of reallocation, provided
that: (i) the funds to be reallocated were still available (i.e. not exceeding
the total loan amount); and (ii) if there should be an overdrawn of one
category, the borrower concerned was automatically entitled to use any
unallocated budget.
30.            Withdrawal of Proceeds.  The availability of deposits in a
Special Account at Bank Indonesia did indeed facilitate the GOI's effort to
provide the necessary funding for those activities payable in rupiah. In this
way, the GOI would not be necessary to provide any funds for prefinancing
purposes, especially after the amount of the initial deposit had been raised
from US$3 million to US$5 million. The replenishment to the special account
by the Bank often run into problems, especially for the reimbursement of funds
related to activates payable by definitely charged expenditures, because the
supporting documents among others contract and minutes thereof received from
regional-level sub-project implementation units were often incomplete. To
overcome the problem, it was suggested that the attachment of a payment
instruction letter should be the only requirement to be fulfilled when
submitting any replenishment application.
31.            The determination of the amount of percentage, specifically
for categories II and IV, should actually have followed the guidelines of the
disbursement procedure along with the explanation thereof, but those
guidelines were not issued until 1990. As a consequence thereof, a great deal
of the applications were not payable in full because they were considered
ineligible; the Bank was not at all flexible in its judgement, if any of the
recommended applications should turn out to be overdrawn, the amount overdrawn
was directly deducted without giving any consideration to the fact that the



- 22 -
overall balance of the loan was in fact still sufficient to pay out the full
amount of the overdrawn application.
32.             Bank Supervision.  The Bank supervision schedule was well
planned beforehand as indicated by the fact that, before the arrival of its
supervision team, it had given due notice to the Indonesian Government, in
this case the AAET/NAEP. The span of control was generally quite extensive in
terms of direct supervision on NAEP III or the exercise of agricultural
extension generally. Under such the Bank supervision, quite a few problems
activities of the project could duly be resolved and new activities approved,
even though the project should give clarification or justification. Matters
that were approved by the Bank during the exercise of the supervision were:
(i) additional 30 buildings for REC in ten provinces; (ii) transforming the
studies into an evaluation activity of NAEP III/ATP III and formulating of
NATEP; (iii) reserved procurement for 45 animal health mobile units; (iv)
balance of loan amounting to US$5.3 million for the IPM Program; and (v)
making funding available for the procurement of vessels for ATP III (LA 2341-
IND).
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
33.             Distribution of Project Activities.  With the project widely
scattered all over the provinces of Indonesia, numerous problems were
encountered by PIU, relating to such things as project administration, project
implementation, monitoring and project supervision. Although measures had
been taken solve the problems, such as through instituting sub-PIUs under the
system of Kuasa Pimpro (1987/1988-1989/1990 fiscal years) and through the
system of Pimbagpro (1990/1991-1993/1994 fiscal years), somehow they could not
as yet be overcome completely.
34.             The existing approved DIP/PO/ROP were often revised due to
changes occurring in the volume and composition of the activity and cost.
Loan reallocation was frequently carried out with the intention to maximize
the use of the loan available for each Category.
35.             Organization of the Project.  The organizational structure of
the project had changed over the years with suitable form in line with the
changes of policy. The favorable impacts of such changes on its
organizational structure were: (i) the funds withdrawal and financial
accountability process in each province was thereby very much smoothly; (ii)
operational decisions in the field proceeded much more smoothly because the
decision from the National Project Director was no longer required; and (iii)
the capability and responsibility of Pimbagpro could speedily be upgraded due
to their good responsibility in the management of their respective sub-
Project. On the other hand, the negative effects thereof included such things
as: (i) the frequent rotation of the Pimbagpro and sub-PIU treasurers did
hamper the smooth implementation of the project because it took time for them
to get used to the management procedure and mechanism of project funded by
foreign loans; (ii) as a consequence of the varying skills of the Pimbagpro
and treasurers, it frequently happened that payments which had already been
made by the KPKN were later declared by the Bank to be ineligible expenditure;



- 23 -
and (iii) loan disbursement was somewhat delayed because the DITUA required
the supporting documents for the application, which should first be collected
from every sub-Project.
36.             Implementation of the Indonesia Government's Assurance.  The
GOI's assurance in the implementation of extension had been carried out with
the Instruction Letter of the Minister of Agriculture No. 03/1988 dated
February 28, 1988 concerning the improvement of agricultural extension co-
ordination in the regions. Given that the role of agricultural extension was
very decisive in ensuring the success of the agricultural development program,
the assurance of the GOI to allocate agricultural extension budget, out of
that provided under the project, with the amount of Rp 15 billion annually
starting from 1988/1989 was in fact exceeded every year.
37.             The assurance of the GOI relating to project implementation
had duly been fulfilled such as for: (i) annual operational plan; (ii) annual
long-term education program; (iii) counterpart funding for incremental
operating costs; (iv) a study on the cost effectiveness of animal health
mobile units and audio-visual mobile units, in 1989/1990 fiscal year did see
quite significant results; (v) the procurement of 1500 motorcycles by ICB;
(vi) land acquisition for construction provided by the Regional
Administration; and (vii) compilation of extension materials at province and
national levels. In the meantime, those GOI assurance that had been modified
and already been agreed upon by and between BAPPENAS and the Bank were: (i)
procurement of animal health mobile units (45 units) to be borne by the
Indonesian Government because it came under the reserved procurement category;
(ii) the remaining budget of motorcycle procurement (2,328 units) and four-
wheel vehicle procurement (64 units) to be met by the BP BIMAS and for the
audiovisual mobile unit procurement by ATP (LA 2341-IND); and (ii) hiring of
extension, monitoring, evaluation and rural sociology consultants to be
replaced by the evaluation of NAEP III/ATP III and the formulation of NATEP
for 1991/1992.
38.             Disbursement Realization.  Disbursement realized by the
closing date stood at US$53.18 million or 96.7% of the total funds. The
rather low disbursement rate of the loan could be attributed to the combined
problem of co-ordination, fund withdrawal speed from the KPKN/DITUA,
application process and replenishment from the Bank. The actual disbursements
still failed to reach the set target. The principal obstacles standing in the
way of the disbursement reaching the intended target were as follows: (i)
construction of many of the REC and the procurement of their equipment were
behind schedule and the payments would accordingly have to held back, because
land acquisition for the purpose in regions could not be acquired on time;
(ii) the payment schedule lagged behind, due to the loan reformulation with
the subsequent consequence that the activity schedule would have to be put
back; (iii) the payment process was slowed down because the approval from the
Bank was often late in coming; (iv) the payment procedure through a Special
Account, on the one hand, facilitate the implementation of payments but, on
the other, raise some problems with respect to the application/replenishment
of it; the reason was because, in this procedure, any new payment instruction
(SPM) could only be applied if it was indeed covered in the Special Account so
that all SPMs which were temporarily borne by the State Treasury Account could
not as yet be applied before a SPM was issued by the DITUA; and (v) the



- 24 -
exchange rate of the U.S. dollar tended to increase continuously from year to
year; as a consequence, the rupiah amount paid out earlier by the KPKN/DJA,
when later applied, would not get the same dollar amount from the Bank as that
based on the exchange rate estimated in the Special Account.
39.            Monitoring and Evaluation of Project.  The hiring of a project
monitoring/evaluation consultant, whose assignment was earlier to draw up a
system and assist with the implementation of the project monitoring/
evaluation, was in fact abandoned. Project monitoring/evaluation was instead
being carried out by a combination of four methods: (i) the submission of
reports on a periodic basis (monthly, quarterly, semi-annually and annually),
which cost little but was quite effective, although punctuality often seemed
to be the problem; (ii) visits to the sites, which cost a lot but were also
quite effective, although not all the sites, could be visited with adequate
frequency; (iii) evaluation meetings concerned twice a year, which also cost a
lot but were just as effective and could deal adequately with all the aspects
involved; and (iv) special studies being conducted as necessary on such
matters as evaluation of the LAKU system and extension method, and evaluation
of NAEP III/ATP III and formulation of NATEP.
40.            In the meantime, the supervision on extension co-ordination
aimed at promoting and guiding the implementation of agricultural extension
co-ordination as carried out by the KPPN, the FKPP I and FKPP II was not as
yet so successful. No significant improvement was observable, even after the
KPPN was reorganized, the FKPP I transformed into KPP I and the FKPP II into
KPP II beginning in 1991.
41.            A special report on the evaluation of the LAKU system and
extension method conducted in 1988/1989 did state that the system of was quite
effective, but it should be backed up by adequate infrastructure and
facilities, and its execution should be modified to accommodate the locally
prevailing farming system. On the other hand, the recommendations put forward
in the training and visit system evaluation report were not so practical and
the professional application thereof would not have any wide-ranging impacts.
As far as the evaluation results of NAEP III/ATP III were concerned, although
not every fundamental aspect of evaluation was as yet touched on. The
recommendations given were indeed very instrumental in formulating the NATEP
which focussed on the development of human resources within the agricultural
sector through the system of field schools.
MAIN LESSONS FROM EXPERIENCES RELEVANT TO THE FUTURE.
42.            Implementation of Agricultural Extension Decentralization.
The decentralization of agricultural extension was introduced by a joint
Ministerial Decree (Minister for Agriculture No. 539/VII/1991 and Minister of
Home Affairs No. 65/1991) which shall be the full responsibility of the
provinces and implemented in accordance with established policy. However, its
implementation to date had not yet proceeded in accordance with the set policy
guidelines, so that the quality and intensify of agricultural extension in the
provinces did in fact decline. Some of the contributing factors were: (i)
widely varying perception, insight and knowledge regarding the significance



- 25 -
and the role of agricultural extension in the development of agriculture; (ii)
limited skills of the personnel in term of the management of agricultural
extension, including the allocation of funds for extension work; and (iii)
weaknesses in agricultural extension among the various sub-sectors.
43.            Co-ordination of Agricultural Extension.  The co-ordination of
agricultural extension to date was still very weak and difficult to improve so
that it remained a dominant factor hampering the success of agricultural
extension. This condition did also affect unfavorably the smooth
implementation of the project to date. For this reason, hope was still being
expressed that a unified organization and management of agricultural extension
could somehow be instituted one day.
44.            Effectiveness of Research-Extension Linkage.  The exercise of
research function in agriculture still appeared to be as yet unrelated to the
exercise of extension function and, therefore, a dichotomy did still exist
here. A researcher conducting a research program as a component of
agricultural development, did not have many direct contacts with any of the
PPSs, PPLs nor with the farmers groups and, therefore, did not know much about
the sort of problems being encountered by the farmers. On the other hand, the
PPSs and PPLs who were fully conversant with the materials relevant to their
respective locality were not involved in any of the research programs. A
situation thus arose where the technology being introduced was not the kind
required by the local farmers, the flow of technology proceeded rather slowly,
and so was the slow adoption of technology by the farmers.
45.             Participation of Farmers Groups.  The very limited success of
agricultural extension to date could be attributed among other things to the
very limited activities on the part of farmers groups to upgrade their skills
and knowledge, and take full advantage of whatever they already had to improve
their attitude. In addition, the application of the LAKU system with a
participatory approach was not meaningfully developed as yet, whereas the
farmer group approach which constituted one of the most effective way of
working with the farmers was not as yet consistently pursued by the PPLs.
46.            REC's Function and Role.  Most of the functions of the RECs
had changed their role as agricultural extension center in their respective
region had vanished. The problem here was because no definite policy as yet
existed which revamped the function and role of REC such that these centers
could be used as centers for rural community development in line with the
effort to step up regional participation in agricultural development.
47.            Changes of Agricultural Extension Policy.  The existing
changes of extension policy relating to the decentralization of agricultural
extension which are attributable to the decreasing agricultural extension
effectiveness in the regions that has not hitherto been overcome. Likewise,
the changes for organizing the agricultural extension co-ordination at the
national, provincial, and district levels also continue to be unable to
enhance the effectiveness of the agricultural extension co-ordination.
48.            Organization and Management Agricultural Extension.  The
success of a widely disseminated extension is highly affected by the
effectiveness of the organization and management of the extension to date.



- 26 -
The factors that decreases the success include: (i) the weak agricultural
extension co-ordination; (ii) the absence of one line of command; (iii) the
large of agricultural extension administrative areas, particularly those
outside Java/Bali; (iv) the weak application of decentralization of
agricultural extension; and (v) the relationship of the extension-research
functions which is still dichotomic.
49.             Agricultural Extension Decentralization and Central Gover nent
Support. The weakness in managing the decentralization of the extension in
the regions is attributable to the decreasing effectiveness of the
agricultural extension in the regions. In order to properly run the
agricultural extension in the regions, it is necessary to get the support of
the central government. Hence the management for the execution of the
integrated agricultural extension will be better guaranteed.
50.             NATEP.  Successful and shortcomings in the implementation of
NAEP III need to serve for consideration in the preparation of new/next
project (NATEP). Besides, change of policy and agricultural development
program orientation in Pelita VI should be taken into account.
CONSULTING SERVICES
51.             Consultants' and Contractors' Performance.  The Consultants'
and Contractors' role in supporting the project and its performance was more
sufficient. The performance weaknesses vary from one consultant and
contractor to the other, although it was generally similar with respect to
after service. The studies consultants, who assisted the project in
respectively undertaking: (i) the evaluation of the LAKU system and extension
method; (ii) the evaluation of NAEP III and ATP III and formulation of NATEP
had done a good job in accordance with the contract. However, as it related
specifically to the formulation of NATEP, the contract concerned would have to
be extended to enable the formulation to be readjusted to the agricultural
development policy set for the Pelita VI. Meanwhile, the financial report
consultant, who assisted the project in preparing the annual financial report
duly audited by the BPKP, also did a good job according to the contract.
However, the consultant did run into a problem in collecting accurate
financial data from all the sub-PIUs.
PROJECT RELATIONSHIPS
52.             Bank Relationship.  The relationship between the Bank with
Borrower (MOF, BAPPENAS and Executing Agency including the Directorates
General, AARD and MOA) was good. Any weakness in general was related to
policy implementation in accordance with the respective functions. The work
relationship between the Bank and the Executing Agencies (AAET, including NAEP
III) in organizing the project was quite good (93% rating) and the project was
thereby greatly facilitated. The snag in this working relation (7Z) was
mainly caused by the rather limited skills on the part of personnel in the
provinces and the frequent rotation/replacement of sub-project manager and



- 27 -
treasurers of sub-PIUs as well as lack of adequate work facilities. Beside
that, the staff assigned to the Bank's supervision mission were generally
technical people with a very limited knowledge of administration and so any
administrative issues which could arise in the field could not be tacked
directly.
53.            Executing Agency Relationship.  The relationship of the
Executing Agency with the Directorates General, AARD and Farmer Groups was
good enough. Any weakness was due to internal policy implementation which is
not yet in line with the institution's expectations.



- 28 -
PART m: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDirS
rTte                    Purpose             FY of      Status    Comments
approvjal
National Food Crop      The improvement of field      1975    Closed     PCR issued in
Extension Project (Loan  extension services for food          12/31182   June 1983
1267-IND)               crops
Agriculture Research and    Strengthen national production  1976    Closed  PCR issued in
Extension (Ln. 1179-IND)   agricultural research programs     12/31/82   May 1983
in communities of importance
Second National         To expand Food Crops          1980    Closed     PCR issued in
Agriculture Extension   extension service                     3/87       February 1989
(Credit 946-IND)
Table 2: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item                       Planned             Revised              Actual
Identification                -                   -                 September 1984
Preparation                   -                   -                 November 1984
Appraisal Mission             -                   -                 March 1985
Loan Negotiations             -                   -                 May 1986
Board Approval                -                   -                 July 29, 1986
Loan Signature                -                   -                 September 4, 1986
Loan Effectiveness            -                   -                 October 21, 1986
Project Completion     June 30, 1992
Loan Closing         December 31, 1991    June 30, 1993             June 30, 1993
Table 3: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements in US$ million
World Bank Fiscal Year            1987    1988   1989   1990    1991    1992   1993
Appraisal Estimate                13.0    26.0   24.0   36.0   52.0   65.0   70.0
Revised Estimate                     0     12.0   28.0   43.0   52.0   55.0
Actual Disbursement                 0       6.5    15.4   26.6   35.4   44.5   53.2
Actual as % of Appraisal Estimate    0     25.0   64.2   73.9   68.1   68.5   76.0
Actual as % of Revised Estimate     0      54.2   55.0   61.9   68.1    80.9
Date of last Disbursement: October 31, 1993



- 29 -
Table 4: PROJECF IMPLEMENTATION
Key Indicators - Physical Targets
Appraisal           Revised             Actual
Indicators          Estimates          Estimate        (or PCR Estimate)
Extension Staff           6,000              3,450               9,573
(Under NAEP III)  (Under NAEP III)
Rural Extension            400                230                 260
Center (REC)          (req. in 1991)     (req. in 1991)
Expansion of              1,400               490                 490
Existing RECs
Vehicles              125 four-wheel      64 four-wheel       64 four-wheel
drive vehicles;    drive vehicles;     drive vehicles
3,200 motorcycles   3,830 motorcycles     45 AHMU
45 AHMU             16 AVMU
16 AVMU        2,328 motorcycles la
1,500 motorcycles Lh
La Required vehicles from Government source.
Lb Procured by loan.



- 30 -
Table 5: PROJECr COST AND FINANCING
A. Project Cost
ARoraisal Estimate   Revised Estimate          Actual
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign Total
------------------ (US$ million) -------------------
Civil Works          30.7   6.5   37.2    8.8    2.8    11.6    2.0    10.0  12.0
Vehicles, furniture,
and equipment         7.2   5.4   12.6    7.6    3.8   11.4   2.6    5.0   7.6
Training             20.1   4.6   24.7   19.4    2.6   22.0    2.9   32.3  35.2
TA and Studies        2.1   1.4    3.5    0.5    0.6    1.1    0.2       1.7   1.9
Incremental Operating
Cost                28.3   1.0  29.3   32.2    1.3   33.5   37.3    5.0  42.3
Land Acquisition       -      -      -    5.8      -      5.8    7.8      -    7.8
Total Base Costs     88.4  18.9  107.3   74.3   11.1   85.4   52.8   54.0 106.8
Physical Contingency  5.9   1.3    7.2    4.5    0.7    5.2       -       -     -
Price Contingency    18.6   3.1   21.7    8.2    1.3    9.4       -       -     -
Total Project Cost    112.9  23.3  136.2   87.0   13.0  100.0   52.8   54.0 106.8
B. Project Financing
Source                    Planned            Revised             Actual
IBRD                      70.0                55.0               53.2
GOI                       66.2                45.0               53.6
Total                    136.2               100.0              106.8



- 31 -
Table 6: PRoJEcT RESuLTS
A. Direct Benefits La
B. Economic Impact La
C. Financial Impact La
D. Studies
Strengthening of Agricultural Extension Services.
1. Evaluation of T&V System and Extension Method
2. Evaluation of NAEP III/ATPE III and NATEP Formulation
3. Integrated Pest Management contracted with FAO.
La This is an extension project, and therefore it is theoretically and empirically difficult to
measure any economic benefit calculation.
Table 7: STATUS OF COVENANTS
Section                Description of Covenants                     Status
3.02 (b)   The Borrower shall employ consultants for technical  Not in
assistance in extension, monitoring and evaluation and  compliance La
rural sociology, commencing not later than 09/30/88.
3.03      Borrower shall furnish by November 1 of each year an  In compliance.
annual operation plan (AOP), starting 11/01/88.
3.04      Borrower shall in June/July 1989 carry out a detailed  In compliance.
review of the organizational structure.
3.05      The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, by   In compliance.
March 31, 1989 an improved monitoring and evaluation
system for the project (both physical and financial
aspects) as well as for the overall extension program.
3.06      With respect to Schedule 2, Part 3, the Borrower shall    In compliance.
purchase five animal health mobile units for FY88, and
shall purchase the animal health mobile units and audio-
visual mobile units for subsequent years of the project
only after an evaluation of the units purchased initially.
La The funds provided for these consultants were used, with Bank concurrence, for evaluation
of NAEP III and preparation of NATEP.



- 32 -
Table 8: USE OF BANK RESOURCES
A. Staff Inputs (staffweeks)
LENP    LENA    LENN    SPN           PCR      Total
1984                   6.1        -         -        -         -        6.1
1985                  47.9      13.9        -        -         -       61.8
1986                     -        -       14.2       -         -       14.2
1987                     -        -       0.1      16.0        -       16.1
1988                     -        -         -      32.4        -       32.4
1989                     -        -         -      19.3        -       19.3
1990                     -        -         -      19.2        -       19.2
1991                     -        -         -       7.9        -        7.9
1992                     -        -         -       9.9        -        9.9
1993                    -         -         -       4.9        -        4.9
1994                    -         -         -        -        2.7       2.7
Total                  54.0     13.9      14.3    109.6       2.7     195.5



- 33 -
B. Missions
Month/   No. of   Days in Specialization Performance     Types of
Activity   Activity  Persons    Field    Repres. La  Rate Status   Problems
Preparation 10/84     6         18
Appraisal  03/85      2         15
Board
Approval  07/86
Supervision 03/87      1        10        LO           4       Adequate funding.
02/88      4        10      A,A,A,PO        3       Adequate funding.
10/88      3        15       A,A,A          2       Procedural  changes.
caused by restructuring
and reorganization of
responsibilities.
07/89      3        14       A,A,A          2       Late approval and release
of funds and inadequate
planning and implemen-
tation capability.
03/90      4        11      A,A,A,TS        2       Delays in submission of
accountability reports to
H.Q.
10/90      2        6         A,A           2       Need for clarification of
Presidential  and
Ministerial decrees.
03/92      2         3        A,A           2       Evaluation of extension
services  and  training
program.
06/93      2        15        A,A           2       Adequate funding.
La PO = Project Officer; TS = Training Specialist; A = Agriculturist; LO = Loan Officer.



- 34 -
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF HANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS la
(as of March 31, 1994)
Amount (USS$ niilion)
Loan/                                                         Barnk        IOA
Credit  Fiscal                                                Original principal    Urnd-
Number   Yeer                                                 (l.os cancellaton)     burved
One-hundred-nineteen loans and                            9,906.39  -  901.60
fourry-eight credits fully disbursed
Of which SECALS, SALs and Program Loans lb
2780   1987   Trade Policy Adjustment                      300.00
2937   1988   Second Trade Policy Adjustment               300.00
3080   1989   Private Sector Development                   350.00
3267   1991   Second Private Sector Development            250.00
Subtotal:                        1,200.00
2431   1984   Second Swamp Reclamation                      64.00                   3.24
2543   1985   Kedung Ombo Multipurpose Dam                 156.00                   2.63
and Irrigation
2547   1985   Second University Development                147.00                    2.48
2632   1986   Second East Java Water Supply                  43.19                   1.47
2638   1986   Nusa Tenggara Agriculture Support             33.00                    6.51
2690   1986   Gas Distribution                              34.00                    8.55
2705   1986   Manpower Development and Training             58.10                   4.76
2773   1987   Fisheries Support Services                    20.00                    5.94
2881   1988   Second Rural Roads Development               190.00                  18.43
2930   1988   Forestry Institutions & Conservation          30.00                   9.06
2932   1988   Jabotabek Urban Development                  150.00                  41.22
2940   1988   Accountancy Development                      113.00                  29.40
2944   1988   Higher Education Development                 140.30                   7.08
2992   1989   Tree Crops Human Resource Development          18.40                  4.16
/a    The status of the projects listed in Pert A is described in a seperate
report on all Bank/IlDA-financed projects in execution, wich is updated
twice yeariy and circulated to the Executive Oirectors on April 30 and
October 31.
/b    Approved during or after FY90.



- 35 -
Amount (US$ nititon)
Loan/                                                    Bank       IDA
Credit  Fiscal                                          Original Piinaipl    Undb.-
Number   Year                                            (less cancullation)  bured
3000  1989  Tree Crops Processing                     102.70                55.28
3031   1989  Agriculture Research Management           35.30                 7.38
3040  1989  Industrial Restructuring                  283.60                60.42
3041   1989  Small & Medium Industrial Enterprise     100.00                 8.85
3042  1989  Third Health                               43.50                14.40
3097   1989  Power Sector Efficiency                  337.00               106.25
3098   1989  Paiton Thermal Power                     354.00               101.95
3112  1990  Public Works Institutional                 36.10                 8.73
Development & Training
3133   1990  Highway Sector                           350.00                64.11
3134  1990  Professional Human Resource Development    117.50               18.84
3158   1990  Second Secondary Education               154.20                91.18
3180  1990  Rural Electrification                     329.00               134.19
3182  1990  Third Telecommunications                  350.00               159.24
3209  1990  Gas Utilization                            86.00                72.80
3219   1990  Second Jabotabek Urban Development       190.00               122.46
3243   1990  Second Forestry Institution               20.00                14.04
and Conservation
3246  1991  Third Jabotabek Urban Development          61.00                46.47
3249  1991   Second BRI/KUPEDES Small Credit          125.00                23.95
3282  1991  Fertilizer Restructuring                  221.70                58.44
3298  1991  Fifth Population                          104.00                57.32
3302  1991  Provincial Irrigated Agriculture          125.00                97.58
Development
3304  1991   East Java/Bali Urban Development         180.30               117.30
3305  1991   Yogyakarta Upland Area Development        15.50                 9.84
3311   1991   Second Higher Education                 150.00                74.32
3340  1991   Sulawesi-irian Jaya Urban Development    100.00                69.44
3349   1991   Power Transmission                      275.00               219.47
3385   1991  Technical Assistance Project for          30.00                25.20
Public and Private Provision
of Infrastructure
3392  1992  Second Irrigation Subsector               225.00                82.19
3402  1992  Agricultural Financing                    106.10                80.15
3431   1992  Third Non-Formal Education                69.50                53.27
3448  1992  Primary Education Quality Improvement      37.00                32.71
3454  1992  BAPEDAL Development                        12.00                10.84
3464  1992  Treecrops Smallholder                      87.60                73.59
3482  1992  Fourth Telecommunications                 375.00              349.12



- 36-
Schtduie 0
Pe. 3 ot 4
Amount (USS nillion)
Loani                                                      Bank       IOA
Ctedit  Fiscal                                             Odigne Principai     Und.-
Number   Year                                               (less cancellation)  buned
3490   1992  Third Kabupaten Roads                      215.00                128.70
3496   1992  Primary School Teacher Development          36.60                 31.63
3501   1992   Suralaya Thermal Power                    423.60                417.54
3526   1993   Financial Sector Development              307.00                198.07
3550   1993  Third Community Health & Nutrition          93.50                 86.88
3579   1993   E. Indonesia Kabupaten Roads              155.00                134.19
3586   1993  Integrated Pest Management                  32.00                 30.19
3588   1993   Groundwater Development                    54.00                 54.00
3589   1993   Flores Earthquake Reconstruction           42.10                 34.99
3602   1993   Cirata Hydroelectric Phase II             104.00                104.00
3629   1993   Water Supply & Sanitation for              80.00                 78.00
Low Income Communities
3658   1994   National Watershed Management and          56.50                 56.50
Conservation /a
Total                                                 17,891.28     901.60
of which has been repaid                              3,932.32     109.36
Total now held by Bank and IDA                        13,958.96     792.24
Amount sold    88.08
of which repaid 76.47
Total undisbursed                                                            4,020.94
/a    Not offecuve as of March 31, 1994.



-37                                  ANNEX
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(Loan 2748-IND)
LIST OF STUDIES 1/
Report                         Author                         Results
1.  Evaluation  of NAEP        Pusat  Pengembanam             Not  fully   satisfactory
III,  ATP   III  and      Agilusmis                       because it did not address
Formulation of NATEP                                      some of the organizational
changes; therefore it could
not be used as a project
preparation document as
intended.
2.  Evaluation  of T&V         Pusat  Pengembanam             Studies  carried  out  or
Systems                   Agilusmis                      completed under the project
by   consultants   were
completed to GOI's and the
Bank's  satisfaction   and
contributed to further policy
and strategy development
for agricultural extension.
1/  There were two other studies planned in the original SAR which were not carried out because one
was not approved by the Bank and the other was not approved by BAPPENAS. Agreement was
finally obtained to replace these studies with 1. above.






NI                                                     I                                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 2581 2
tFIAIdAND                                                   f'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ~~~<C              >INDONESIA
S..th Ch- S~~~~v                                                                        THIRD   NATIONAL ~~AGRICULTURAL
SONIh CI<'~~~~~~~N SeQ ~~~PHILIPPINES                                                                      TIDN TO A                      R JC
1 3                                                                                            BRUNEI,-                                                                                                EXTENSIONPRJC
MALAYSIA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROV NCE HEADQUARTERS
MALAYSIA                                                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NA7IONAL CAPITAL
K  I                                                                                                                                           -     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
-    NTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
~SINGAPORE                  f____________
P0d..~~~~~~~~~~~M                                                                                       r-~~~~~~~~~ '  /   >~~~~~~~~~~~~'                            ORHPACIFIC OCEAN
I  D K.IJAKARTA   C<N'f900N                                                                                         ~iA                                                N      C~o'o          .Nb
2  JAwABAATPoeoo                                                                                                                     L          '
3jAwAAATNDP       IA         7
4DI YOrYAKCJ7ART4A 
JAWA TIMUR                  ..91N                                                                                                                                       
LAMPUNG,                                                                                     IcP0,                          ~PN~02*N~~
7  BENGKUL[U                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    >
ASUMARTERA SELATANJ2
10JAMBI                                       0G9                                                                    Ul-gp-ed-Ng~
I?SUAMTERAUBARAT                                                                                                                  C-)  
13 A I    2GI3AKI1
15  KALIMANTAN TENGAH                                 >'N,.                                                                                                                               
I    AMANTAN SELATAN'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2
17KALIMANTAN TIMUR                                                      3          ~         oy
IASULAWESITENGAH-
19  SULAWS TR
20  SULAAWWESSi STLAATAN
21  SULAWES5I TENGGARA       T*bo,a,.   oo.
22  MAU                      -.,,ope,od  ~gDNOO 
23  NUA TENGGARA BPARAT        h,*fl,oloo-                                                                                                      24                      2
24  NUSSAATENGGARA nMUR      ,o,o00p    a,   f-                                                                                                       Kupoo           TO
25  MAUSTh. 'wad S.,,  G,.INDIAN OCEAN                                                                                                                                  2
27  IRIAN JAYA                       f      A.-lOg-
27INMOR TIMUR                                                                                                                                                                                                       AUSTRALIA   ,j
APRIL 1994



