Dment of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5707-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
June 27, 1986
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Rupiah
US$1.00       =  Rupiah (Rp) 1,100
Rp I milLion  =  US$909.09
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April I-March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)            =  0.62 miles      (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)   =  100 ha = 0.39  sq miles
1 hectare (ha)              =  2.47 acres      (ac)
1 kilogram (kg)             =  2.2 pounds      (lb)
I metric ton (ton)          =  2,206 pounds   (Lb)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AAETE       -   Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and Extension
AARD        -   Agency for Agricultural Research and DeveLopment
ADAB        -   Australian Development Assistance Bureau
AHO         -   Animal Health Officer
AIC         -   Agricultural Information Center
BAE         -   Bureau of Agricultural Extension, AAETE
BAPPENAS    -   Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan Nasional -  National Development
Planning Agency
BIHAS       -   Bimbingan Hassal Sw Sembada Bahan Makanan, "Mass Guidance for
Self-Sufficiency in Foodstuffs' - a farm input credit program
BRI         -   Bank Rakyat Indonesia -  People's Bank of Indonesia
BUUD        -   Badan Usaha Unit Desa -  Village Unit Cooperative (not
incorporated)
BULOG       -   Badan Urusan Logistik -  National Logistic Board
DCE         -   Directorate General of Estates
DGF         -   Directorate General of Fisheries
DCFCA       -   Directorate General of Food Crops Agriculture
DCL         -   Directorate General of Livestock
INMAS       -   Intensifikasi Kassal -  Mass intensification program
INSUS       -   Intesifikasi Khusus -  Special intensification program
IPS         -   Institut Pertanian, Bogor-Bogor Agricultural University
ISTC        -   In-service Training Center
KCAKANDEP    -   Head of District Office (Kepala Kantor Department), Minister
of Agriculture's representative at district level.
KAKANWIL    -   Head of Regional Office (Kepala Kantor Wilaya), Minister of
Agriculture's representative at province Level
KUD         -   Koperasi Unit Desa -  Village Unit Cooperative
MOA         -   Ministry of Agriculture (Departmen Pertanian)
MOT         -   Ministry of Transmigration (Departmen Transmigrasi)
MOC         -   Ministry of Cooperatives (Departmen Kooperasi)
NCAE        -   National Comission for Agricultural Extension
NFCEP       -   National Food Crop Extension Project (Loan 1267-IND)
NES         -   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders Project
NAEP II     -   National Agricultural Extension Project II (Credit 996-IND)
PIR         -   Perkebunan Inti Rakyat; GOI-financed NucLeus Estate and
Smallholder Project
PIU         -   Project Implementation Unit
PPL         -   Penyluh Pertanian Lapangan -  field extension worker
PPM         -   Penyluh Pertanian Kadia -  field extension supervisor
PPS         -   Penyluh Pertanian Spesialis -  extension subject matter
specialist
PHU         -   Project Management Unit
REC         -   Rural Extension Center
REPELITA IV -   Fourth Five-Year Plan, 1984-1989
SATCAS      -   Satuan Petugas Lapangan (FieLd task force comprising animal
health, extension and husbandry workers)
SOE         -   Statement of Expenditures
T&V         -   Training and Visit -  a system of agricultural extension
VAT         -   Value Added Tax
vU          -   Village Unit



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ................        ...........................    iv
I.  BACKGR      OUND.........................................                I
A. *The Agricultural Sector  . ............................              1
B.  Institutions in the Sector .       .    .....................        4
II.  ISSUES IN EXTENSION AND PROJECT RATIONALE ....................           7
A.  The Status of Agricultural Extension ....................            7
B.  Bank Group Involvement in Agricultural Extension .........           9
C.  Project Formulation .............. .......................          12
D.  Rationale for Bank Support . ......................                 13
III.  THE PROJECT ....... ...         ...........................             14
A.  Objectives and Scope ...................                            14
B.  Detailed Features .          ...............             .....      14
C.  Implementation Schedule ...................... .........            19
IV.  PROJECT COST AND FINANCING ................. ...............            20
A.  Cost Estimates ........................................ . ..        20
B.  Financing Plan .......... ...............      .      ....          21
C.  Procurement ............................................ . .        22
D.  Disbursement ............................................ .         24
E. Accounts and Audits ......................................           24
V.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ..........          25
A.  Reorganization of Agricultural Extension Service .........          25
B.  Organization for Project Implementation ..................          26
C.  Extension Methodology .................. ... ....... .........      27
D.  Farmers' Groups .......... .... ..................... .             28
E.  Role of wome ...........................                            29
F.  Monitoring and Evaluation . ....................... .. ....         7S
G.  Research-Extension Linkage ............. ............... ......     30
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Indonesia in March 1985. The appraisal mission comprised Messrs. K. Sengupta
(Bank) and S. Silbiger (Consultant).
Thi document has a resticted disrbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dues Its contents may not otherwise be dislosed without World Dank authoriztion.



Page No.
VI.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ..........................        31
A.  Production Targets and Extension Packages  . .. .........       31
B.  Benefit Estimation .......................................      31
C.  Environmental Effects ............................. .......     33
D.  Risks ........................... . .................. .....    33
VII.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION .....   ...........................    33
A.  Agreements ...............................................      33
B. Recommendation                   .........  33
LIST OF TABLES AND FIGURES IN THE MAIN REPORT
4.1 Project Cost Summary
4.2 Estimated Price Contingencies
4.3 Procurement Arrangements
ANNEXES
Annex 1, Table 1:  Estimates of Smallholder Agricultural Land Use, by
Province, 1983
Table 2:  Number of Households by Subsector
Table 3:  Production of Some Major Agricultural Commodities (1978-
83) and Target for 1988
Annex 2,  Table 1:  Project Cost Estimate
Table 2:  Summary of Construction Costs
Table 3:  Construction Program - Settled Areas and Transmigration
Areas
Table 4:  Number of Rural Extension Centers
Table 5:  Vehicle List
Table 6:  Schedule of Vehicle Provision
Table 7:  Cost of Furniture and Equipment for RECs and AHPs
Table 8:  Basic Equipment and Furniture for New RECs
Table 9:  Specialized Extension Package for Food Crops at RECs
Table 10: Specialized Extension Package for Estate Crops at RECs
Table 11: Specialized Extension Package for Livestock at RECs and
AHPs
Table 12: Specialized Extension Package for Fisheries at RECs
Table 13: Training Programs and Cost
Table 14: Specific Skill Course for PPLs, PPMs, PPSs, and Farmers
Table 15: Capacity of In-service Training Centers



- iii -
Annex 3,  Table 1:  Schedule of Project Expenditures
Table 2: Proposed Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Table 3: Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Table 4:  Implementation Schedule
Annex 4,  Table 1:  Total Number of Extension Agents (PPL/PPN), 1986/87
Table 2: Total Number of Subject Matter Specialists (PPS), 1986/87)
Table 3:  Extension Staff Requirement for Transmigration Areas
Table 4: Monthly Salaries and Allowances of Typical Extension
Personnel
Table 5: Incremental Operational Costs
Annex 5,  Tabie 1:  Main Constraints to Production and Potential for
Increasing Yields of Major Commodities
Table 2: Calculation of Indicative Economic Benefits
Table 3: Indicative Economic Costs and Benefits
Documents Available in Project File
Working Paper 1 - Estate Crops
Working Paper 2 - Livestock
Working Paper 3 - Fisheries
CHARTS
1.  Organization of MOA
2.  Organization of BIMAS
3.  Organization of KANWIL
4a. Organization of Directorate of Extension under D.G. Food Crop
Agriculture, D.G. Livestock, D.G. Fisheries
4b. Organization of Directorate of Extension under D.C Estate Crops
5.  Organization of Bureau of Agricultural Extension
6.  Organization of Project Implementation Unit
MAP
1. IBRD 19132R -- Project Provinces



- iv -
INDONESIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Indonesia.
Amount:            US$70.0 million equivalent.
Terms:             Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:     The objective of the project is to consolidate efforts to
improve extension services for food crops, especially low-
land rice, and to further strengthen those for estate
crops, livestock, fisheries and nonrice food and horticul-
tural crops, by integrating che various subsectoral exten-
sion services into one unified extension service within the
Ministry of Agriculture. The proposed project includes:
(a) recruitment of 6,000 field extension workers, 3,000
extension supervisors, 1,000 subject matter specialists and
200 Animal health officers; (b) construction of 400 new
Rural Extension Centers (REC) in upland, tidal swamp,
estate crops, livestock concentration, coastal fisheries,
and transmigration areas; expansion of about 1,400 existing
RECs; and construction of 200 animal health posts and 210
staff houses; (c) pro_urement of necessary vehicles, equip-
ment and furniture; (d) overseas and local training of
extension personnel; and (e) technical assistance and
studies. The unified extension service would help increase
production of secondary crops, horticultural crops, estate
crops, livestock and fisheries in order to provide the
population with a more balanced and nutritious diet, as
well as to increase tree crops and fisheries exports.
Risks              There are no significant agricultural risks associated with
the project, although the project could face some manage-
ment and organizational constraints, and the funding pro-
blems recently encountered by the Government might
continue. These risks are minimal, and have been addressed
in the project design.



Estimated Cost:                                    Local      Foreign     Total
(US$ million)
Expans ion and improvement of extension
capabilities of subsectors
Civil works                                     30.7          6.5       37.2
Vehicles, furniture and equipment                 7.2         5.4       12.6
Training                                        20.1          4.6      24.7
Technical assistance and studies                  2.1         1.4        3.5
Recurrent cost                                  28.3          1.0      29.3
Base costs                                      88.4         18.9     107.3
Physical contingencies                         5.9          1.3       7.2
Price contingencies                           18.6          3.1      21.7
Total Project Costs /a                       112.9         23.3     136.2
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                            48.9         21.1      70.0
COI lb                                          64.0          2.2       66.2
Totals                                    112.9         23.3     136.2
Estimated Disbursements
Bank FY         1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993
(US$ million)
Annual          2.1    7.9   14.0   12.0   16.0   13.0    5.0
Cumulative      2.1   10.0   24.0   36.0   52.0   65.0   70.0
Economic Rate of
Return:       Although not applicable for this project, indicative rates of return
are 32Z.
Map: IBRD 191321
la Including VAT of US$9.0 million and other taxes and duties estimated at
US$3.5 million.
/b Including taxes and duties of US$12.5 million, reserved procurement of vehicles
of US$7.0 million, and US$2.2 million of technical assistance and overseas
training expected to be provided by ADAB.



INDONESIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. The Agricultural Sector
1.01      Objectives.  The Government's major objectives for the agricultural
sector are to: (a) create productive employment to raise incomes of the rural
poor; (b) increase domestic food supply to keep pace with rising demand;
(c) expand agricultural exports particularly of tree crops; and (d) ensure
productive, sustainable use of Indonesia's varied land, water and other
natural resources.
1.02      Role and Performance.  Over the last one and a half decades,
agricultural growth has averaged about 4% p.a. and outpaced population growth
by a significant margin. Agriculture continues to be the backbone of the
economy - providing employment and the main source of livelihood for more
than half of the labor force. The growth of rice output at 5% p.a. accounts
for more than two fifths of gross output, land use and employment, and has
made a solid contribution to the sector's impressive performance. It has also
transformed the country from one of the world's largest importers of rice
Cabout 2 million tons as late as 1978/79) to one with considerable surpluses
in 1985186. Other food and cash crops - growing at 3.5Z and 4.5% annually -
have also added to the significant gains registered in rural welfare in the
past several years. Major factors contributing to the current self-
sufficiency in rice and an impressive growth in other crops have been heavy
investment in infrastructure such as irrigation, a rapid increase in the use
of high yielding varieties, and subsidized fertilizers, research efforts and
extension - all of which helped double rice yields (from 1.5 tons per ha in
1969 to 2.7 tons per ha in 1984).
1.3       In the future, a growth in rice output of about 2.5-3% p.a. will
have to be maintained to basically meet domestic demand, since import substi-
tution possibilities are minimal and exporting is not profitable with current
domestic costs of production and international prices. Thus, the strategic
imperative is to introduce measures which would encourage efficient rice
production and to exploit fully the potential for agricultural diversifi-
cation. Diversified farming will require considerable success in solving
technical problems and providing adequate inputs and services (quality seeds,
extension, marketing, etc.) for alternative field and tree crops, and also
policies giving appropriate signals to small farmers, and careful monitoring
of the relative incentives for farmers to produce rice and other crops.
Efforts in the food and field crops will also need to be supplemented by care-
fully planned tree crops programs if efficient agricultural diversification is
to be achieved. This, in turn, will require substantial improvement in the
implementation capacity of the public sector enterprises involved, vigorous
participation by the private sector, and improved extension to existing tree
crop smallholders.



1.04      Food Crops.  In the past GOI has concentrated on increasing the
production of rice, the preferred staple food of the great majority of
Indonesians. Rice production increased rapidly (4.5% p.a.) between 1970 and
1983, chiefly due to irrigation rehabilitation and the provision to irrigated
rice growers of fertilizer, pesticidics and high-yielding variety seed.
Estimated 1985 production is 26 million tons, as a result of which GOI reduced
its rice imports to only about 0.4 million tons during 1984 compared to
imports of 2.3 million tons in 1977. The objective of Repelita IV (Fourth
Five Year Plan 1984-1989) is to stabilize self-sufficiency in rice for the
growing population. The target for rice production at the end of Repelita IV
has been set at 28.6 million tons - a growth of 4% p.a.
1.05     Over the past decade, output of secondary food crops (maize, cas-
sava, soybeans, peAnuts, and sweet potatoes) grew more slowly, at an average
of only 1.6Z p.a., composed of a 1.1% p.a. average decline in area (much of
this land shifting to irrigated rice) and a 2.7% p.a. increase in yield.  On
both Java and the Other Islands, secondary food crops offer promising develop-
ment prospects. For example, there is room for yield improvement through
research, extension and supporting services, and great scope for an expansion
in harvested area, particularly in transmigration areas. The annual growth of
secondary crops during Repelita IV has been targetted at 5.1Z for corn, 5.8Z
for peanuts and 20.7% for soybeans.
1.06      Horticultural and Vegetable Crops.  Some 0.55 million ha are estima-
ted to be planted with fruit trees and 0.4-0.9 million ha under vegetables in
Indonesia. In addition, about 20 million home gardens with a total area of up
to about one million ha are also used for fruit and vegetable production. In
1984 production was estimated at 8 million tons of fruit and 5.5 million tons
of vegetables. Demand for fruits and vegetables has a high income elasticity,
and has grown sharply in recent years. Annual imports of fruit (mainly
apples, oranges and grapes) were about 23,000 tons valued at abouc US$12 mil-
lion between 1978 and 1982. In 1983 the Government placed a ban on imports of
these fruits in order to conserve foreign exchange and encourage domestic
production. Vegetable imports consisting mainly of garlic and, to a lesser
extent, onions totalled 28,000 tons valued at US$19 million in 1982. Repelita
IV targets for increasing production of fruits and vegetables have been fixed
at 9% for oranges, 4.1% for pineapple, 10% for mangoes, 5Z for banana, 5.2%
for papaya, 6.9% for potatoes, 5.6Z for onions and 3.5% for tomatoes. To
intensify research and to increase production, GOI has recently created a
Research Coordinating Center for Horticulture under the Agency for
Agricultural Research and Development (AARD) and a Directorate of Horticul-
tural Crop Production under the Directorate General of Food Crops Agriculture
(DGFCA).
1.07      Estate and Industrial Crops. Products from these crops continue to
be an important source of export income. Tree crops account for over 8 mil-
lion ha of the overall 9 million ha covered by estate and industrial crops and
occupy some 45Z of total cropped land. The most widely cultivated crops in
this subsector are coconuts, rubber, coffee, clove, kapok, sugarcane and oil
palm. Some 86% of the 9 million ha are farmed by smallholders. Coconut,
coffee, clove and kapok are almost exclusively smallholder crops while 83% of
sugar and 81% of rubber are on smallholdings; oil palm is grown principally on



government and private estates. In the case of tree crops, static or
declining production has resulted from the deteriorating age profile of the
plantings, which remain of predominantly poor genetic potential. Until
recently, efforts to revitalize the smallholder tree crop sector were
limited. However, an approach begun in 1976, which has received increased
emphasis by GOI, is for government-owned estates to plant and maintain tree
crops for smallholders on previously undeveloped land until they reach
maturity, using farmers selected to be settlers as employees, and thereafter
to provide the settlers with inputs, extension services, and processing
facilities. This is the approach supported by seven Bank-financed Nucleus
Estates and Smallholders (NES) Projects. While the NES approach has been
mainly for new settlers, GOI has also initiated national programs to assist
existing smallholders to replant rubber or coconuts themselves, with fairly
intensive support from Project Management Units (PMUs). Efforts to design a
lower-cost system of tree crop planting with minimal demands on management
have also started. Expansion of smallholder tree crops is of high priority,
given the vast area of over-aged and low-yielding smallholder rubber and
coconuts, the good market prospects and employment potential for these crops,
and the Other Islands' land availability and natural comparative advantage in
them. The Bank is currently financing three smallholder rubber and coconut
development projects. Repelita IV targets have been fixed for annual increase
of 8.2% for rubber, 9.7% for coconuts, 26.5% for oil palm and 20.7Z for
cotton. A Bank-prepared Tree Crop Sector Review will assist in determining
the direction of future investment in the sector.
1.08      Livestock.  There are some 8.3 million cattle and 2.5 million
buffalo in Indonesia, the majority kept by smallholders primarily as a source
of draft power and manure, and secondly as a capital reserve and source of
cash income. About 70% of all land cultivated for food crops is prepared by
cattle or buffalo power, the other 30Z by hand labor. Mechanization is
discouraged on employment grounds and is still negligible.  The herd offtake,
at about 12% nationally (14Z on Java), supplies an accelerating demand for
meat especially on Java where cattle slaughter has increased by about 3% p.a.
over the last 10 years. In order to increase consumption of protein foods to
provide a balanced diet, Repelita IV targets have been fixed at increasing
production of meat by 6.1%, eggs by 6.6Z and fresh milk by 28.3% per year.
1.09      Fisheries.  Indonesia's untapped fisheries resources are consider-
able. Some estimates put the potential annual marine fish catch in Indonesia
at between 3-6 million tons. Fish is becoming one of the major foreign
exchange earners for Indonesia, and in 1982 Indonesia's fish exports amounted
to about 88,000 tons valued at about US$253 million. Fish products play a
central role in the Indonesian diet, providing 62% of animal protein sup-
plies. Present production of the subsector is about 2 million tons p.a., of
which 70% is from marine fisheries and 30% from other sources. Of the 2 mil-
lion tons, more than 85% of production results from small scale or subsistence
level fishermen. An Indonesia Fishery Sector Study (1983) undertaken by the
Asian Development Bank in association with the World Bank recommends that GOI
efforts during 1984-88 shou±d focus on (a) the need to encourage private
sector development and participation in the fishing industry by providing the
infrastructure facilities and credit requirements for support services, dis-
tributors and marketers; (b) expansion and diversification of the fishery



- 4 -
export industry in the public and private sectors; and (c) expanding fisheries
research, manpower and statistical resources. Of high priority are efforts to
increase shrimp production and exports from brackish-water fish farming. The
Repelita IV targets for annual production increases have been fixed at 6.3%
for inland fish and 5.6Z for marine fish.
1.1U      The Transmigration Program.  Of Indonesia's present estimated
population of about 158 million, over 100 million (62Z) reside in Java, an
island with about 7% of the nation's land. Seventy percent of Java's total
area is cultivaied, and population densities in irrigated areas rise to
2,000 people/km . Meanwhile, vast areas of relatively low fertility soil lie
uncultivated in the Other Islands and low population densities in some areas
impede regional development and economic growth. These facts have been so
striking for so long that programs to wed the underutilized labor of Java with
the underutilized land of the Other Islands have been implemented for three
quarters of a century. The major purposes of the transmigration program are
to: (a) create employment opportunities for and improve the incomes of the
impoverished and landless laborers on Java, Bali and Lombok; (b) alleviate
population pressures on these islands, especially pressures in environmentally
vulnerable areas; (c) promote balanced regional development; and (d) increase
food and tree crop production.
1.11      During REPELITA I (1969-1974) and II (1974-1979) 39,000 and 44,000
families were transmigrated, respectively. About 366,000 families were set-
tled during REPELITA III (1979-84). The transmigration target of REPELITA IV
(1984-1989) was originally been set at 750,000 families but has recently been
curtailed because of financial constraints. The Directorate General of Food
Crop Agriculture (DGFCA) is primarily responsible for food crop production
aspects of transmigration projects, including provision of inputs and agricul-
tural extension. The Directorate General of Estate Crops (DGE) is similarly
responsible for tree crop production aspects of transmigration projects.
Integrated agricultural extension is needed to guide the settlers, who must
learn new cropping systems and agricultural practices to successfully cope
with new agricultural environments.
B. Institutions in the Sector
1.12      Directorates General.  Prior to 1974, the Ministry of Agriculture
consisted of five commodity-oriented Directorates General, responsible for
food crops, estate crops, livestock, fisheries and forestry. In 1974, the
Government decided to reorganize the Ministry, by removing the research func-
tions and responsibility for extension methodology from the Directorates
General and placing them into two new agencies, the Agency for Agricultural
Research and Development (AARD) and the Agency for Agricultural Education,
Training and Extension (AAETE), respectively. In 1983, by another
Presidential Decree, forestry was separated from the Ministry of Agriculture
and placed under a new Ministry of Forestry and a Directorate of Extension was
created under each of the remaining Directorates General in the Ministry of
Agriculture (Chart 1). Each Directorate General has six to seven directorates
responsible for program development, production, protection, farmers' business
and processing, land expansion and extension.



1.13      Provincial Agricultural Services.  Each of the Directorates General
is represented at the provincial level by a provincial department, headed by
an Inspector. The departments are divided into bureaus including a Bureau of
Extension reflecting the functional directorates in the Directorates Gene-
ral. Provincial Inspectors are administrativeLy responsible to the Governor
and Provincial Government. However, they remain responsible to the respective
central Directorates General for implementation of national programs and tech-
niral matters in general. Where the work load justifies it and provincial
funds are adequate, the various provincial departments maintain offices at
district (Kabupaten) level. Depending on size, population and importance, the
district office is divided into sections, including one for extension, corres-
ponding to the bureaus at the provincial level. Extension Subject-Matter
Specialists (PPS) are attached to the Provincial Bureau of Extension and the
district Extension sections. The lowest level structural position in each
subsector is that of a subdistrict agricultural officer (Mantri Kecamatan),
who is almost exclusively concerned with statistical reporting and regulatory
work. Field extension supervisors (PPMs) are attached to Rural Extension
Centers (RECs) and field extension workers (PPLs) are posted at village level.
1.14      AAETE.  The AAETE is responsible for all agricultural education,
training and extension methodology and since 1984 it has had overall respon-
sibility for coordinating agricultural extension at the national level. Since
its establishment in 1974, it has concentrated its efforts in the areas of
refining extension methodology, producing extension materials and particularly
in managing the education and training of agricultural staff. It supervises
three types of institutions, (a) agricultural (vocational) high schools pro-
ducing technical level graduates; (b) regional in-service training centers
(ISTC) to upgrade the skill of agricultural staff; and (c) agricultural infor-
mation centers (AIC) to produce extension materials (publications, films,
radio broadcasts) and to support extension work through organizing farmer
competitions, field days and conferences. In addition, AAETE runs a national
training center at Ciwai, near Bogor, which provides longer term in-service
training courses for agricultural teachers and instructors from the regional
schools and centers, and for senior personnel of the provincial and central
agricultural agencies. The high scl.ools and training centers are being
assisted by three Bank-financed agricultural training projects (Credit 288-
IND, Loan 1692-IND and Loan 2341-IND), while the first Bank-assisted agricul-
tural research and extension project (Loan 1179-IND) and third agricultural
training project (Loan 2341-IND) provided funds for establishing one AIC per
province.
1.15      AARD.  Since its establishmpnt in 1974 AARD has managed to absorb
most ongoing agricultural research programs. Eighteen budget-supported
researzh institutes were transferred from the five Directors General to
AARD. AARD was reorganized in 1979 and 1983 to Improve its effectiveness
following the growth in staff and responsibilities. In 1979 the GOI,
established five Central Research Institutes (food crops, industrial crops,
animal husbandry, fisheries and forestry) and a new Center for Agricultural
Research Programming. Presidential Decree No. 24 of May 19, 1983 created a
new Research Coordinating Center for Horticultural Crops; merged the Center
for Agricultural Research Programming with its Secretariat; removed the
quarantine regulatory function to the Secretary-General, Ministry of Agricul-



ture and transferred forestry research to the newly created Ministry of
Forestry. Further changes have been effected involving rationalization of
research institutes, research stations and experimental farms grouped under
Research Coordinating Centers in five commodity areas (Food Crops, Horticul-
tural Crops, Industrial Crops, Fisheries and Animal Sciences).  AARD has a
network of two research centers for soils and agro-economics, one center for
statistics and data processing, a national library, five research coordinating
centers, 23 research institutes, 42 research stations, and 151 experimental
farms/or fish ponds. AARD has been assisted by two Bank-financed projects,
the Agricultural Research and Extension Project (Loan 1179-IND) and National
Agricultural Research Project II (Cr. 1014-IND/Ln. 1840-IND). The third
research project is under appraisal.
1.16      BIMAS.  BIMAS (Bimbingan Massal) literally translated means "Mass
Guidance". It is a national program to raise food crop production and farm
income by applying credit and cash inputs at subsidized prices. The first
credit package program, the paddy center program, was introduced in 1958/59.
Several modifications in approach were progressively introduced as experience
was gained in handling and organizing farmers, credit and input supply, until
the BIMAS program evolved and was initiated in the 1965/66 wet season. In
1967/68 the INMAS (Intensifikasi Masal) program was initiated in the belief
that after a few years under BIMAS the farmer's requirement for credit would
be less. Under this program, all farmers who are not eligible for BIMAS due
to credit default or who do not wish to take credit can buy subsidized
inputs.
1.17      A BIMAS secretariat within the Ministry of Agriculture administers
the program. Although there was a provision for a BIMAS Secretary as execu-
tive head, the Director General Food Crops Agriculture concurrently held the
position until 1983, and BIMAS officers in the provinces and districts were
part of provincial and district food crop offices. Under Presidential Decree
No. 62 of 1983, the role of BIMAS was expanded significantly and it has become
organizationally separate from the DGFCA. A full time Secretary of BIHAS has
been appointed at the national level and secretariats of BIHAS have been
established in all provinces and districts separate from the provincial and
district food crop service (Chart 2).
1.18      The BIMAS rice program is implemented via Village Units (VU).  These
cover 600-1,000 ha of rice land and consist of 2-3 villages and up to about
1,500 farm families. A fully established VU is supposed to have a Bank Rakyat
Indonesia (BRI) credit office, a farmer cooperative (BUUD/KUD) for input
supply and procurement of paddy or a village kiosk to supply inputs, and at
least one field extension worker (PPL). Initially, BIMAS was largely
restricted to paddy areas with good water control and later expanded to
include some upland rice, maize, sorghum, soybean, groundnut, green beans and
cassava areas. After the recent Presidential Decree, BIMAS is responsible for
coordinating all supporting services required for the production not only of
food crops but of all other priority agricultural commodities such as
sugarcane, tobacco, cotton, draft animals, local poultry and brackish water
shrimp in selected areas. Other participants in the BIMAS program, both in
planning committees at various levels and in field level operations, are BRI
(for loan disbursements and collections), the Ministry of Cooperatives (for



- 7 -
input supply and marketing), BULOG (for purchase of rice and maintenance of
floor price), and the Directorate General of Water Resources Development (for
irrigation services).
1.19      Coordination of Agricultural Activities.  The provincial Inspectors
of Food Crops, Estate Crops, Livestock and Fishery and the corresponding dis-
trict heads are administratively responsible to the Governor and district-
head, respectively. Their salaries are funded by the provincial governments
but they are technically responsible to the Directorates General. There are,
however, some institutions at the province and district level which are funded
by the central government. Such institutions are regional in-service training
centers, agricultural information centers and the BIMAS Secretariat at
province and district level. To supervise the activities of such central
government institutions in the provinces and to coordinate the activities of
the provincial agricultural services, the Minister of Agriculture appoints a
regional head or KAKANWIL (Kepala Kantor Wilaya) in each province. There are
three categories of KAKANWIL depending on the size, population and importance
of the provinces. West Java, Central Java, East Java, North Sumatra and South
Sulawesi have type "A" KAKANWILs who have seven divisions under them
(i) Regional Program; (ii) General Agriculture; (iii) Technology Application;
(iv) Agricultural Education, Training and Extension; (v) Control and
Evaluation; (vi) Administration; and (vii) BIMAS Secretariat (Chart 3).
Thirteen provinces have type "B" KAKANWILs with six divisions. The remaining
nine provinces have type "C" KAKANWILs with five divisions. The Head of the
Agricultural Education, Training and Extension division under the KAKANWIL is
the representative of AAETE at the province level. There are no representa-
tives of AAETE at the district level.
1.20      Although several other Ministries such as Transmigration, Education
and Cooperatives have representatives at district level known as KAKANDEP
(Kepala Kantor Departmen - Head of District Office), the Ministry of Agricul-
ture has as yet no KAKANDEP at district level. Within the context of current
budget and personnel const-;aints, it is unlikely that KAKANDEP for agriculture
would be appointed for all the districts within Repelita IV.
II. ISSUES IN EXTENSION AND PROJECT RATIONALE
A. The Status of Agricultural Extension
2.01      Before 1974 each Directorate General within the Ministry of Agricul-
ture had its own extension service. Some of the Directorates General, such as
DGFCA, had their own Directorates of Extension but other Directorates General
combined production and extension functions under one Directorate. With the
establishment of AAETE in 1974 all Directorates of Extension at the national
level were disbanded, with some of their personnel transferring to AAETE.
With the exception of the provincial food crop agricultural services,
extension bureaus within the provincial agricultural departments of other
subsectors were also disbanded. However, the food crop field level extension
workers (PPL) and subject matter specialists (PPS) recruited under the
centrally funded BIMAS program for rice production were not transferred to



- 8 -
AAETE, but continued to remain administratively under BIMAS and technically
under DGFCA. The Director General of Food Crops, who was the Secretary of
BIKAS, thus had a large contingent of extension workers.
2.02      Without a central funding source equivalent to BIMAS, the other
Directorates General did not have PPLs, PPKs and PPSs like DGFCA and conse-
quently hardly any extension activity for smallholders. They maintained their
development operations by hiring field technicians using specific project
budgets, restricting extension work for nonfood crop subsectors to special
target areas. Smallholder activity in the other subsectors is primarily a
matter of establishing and maintaining long-lived capital assets, such as
stands of tree crops, animal herds, and fish stock. Field work in these
subsectors thus typically concentrates on assisting small localized numbers of
farmers to establish those assets (e.g., via rubber and coconut replanting
programs), involves a considerable amount of credit or grant finance per
farmer, and often involves stationing field staff at physical facilities
(e.g., latex and copra processing centers, sugar factories, tobacco barns, and
demonstration fish ponds). Staff so stationed are unavailable to meet farmers
regularly and are unable to maintain close contact with them other than for
credit recovery purposes after the establishment phase. The status of
extension services in the nonfood crops is described below.
2.03      Estate Crops Extension Service.  In NES, PIR and PMU areas which
cover about 30% of area under estate crops, extension services are being pro-
vided alongside the provision of inputs, credit and in some cases processing
and marketing. Extension advice is continued when smallholders obtain title
to their own plots. PTPs are currently in the process of devising more com-
prehensive extension systems known as "built-in systems" which they would be
prepared to oversee for a period of up to 25 years from crop establishment.
Typically, PTPs providing extension and input services to smallholders have an
average of 1 extension officer for every 250-300 families. Smallholders on
the 70% of the estate crop area which is outside NES, PIR and PMU areas
receive little or no extension service.
2.04      Livestock Extension Services.  The Directorate General of Livestock
(DGL) has established Units of Technical Management (UPT) in the provinces to
provide seed, fodder and breeding stock, artificial insemination, disease
investigation, and quarantine services.  At the district level, DGL field
services are organized by field supervisors, at the subdistrict level by
mantris or assistant field livestock officers (AFLO). An average of 1 AFLO is
available for every 10-15 villages and 10 AFLO for a typical district with
100-150 villages. Most field time is spent on veterinary tasks, little
attention being paid to livestock production, and contact with farmers is
generally poor because of lack of adequate number of village level extension
workers. Under a livestock project being funded by the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (IFAD), field staff have been organized into provin-
cial level task forces (SATGAS) in the stock procurement areas, and into
provincial and district level task forces (SATGAS) in distribution areas. In
addition to organizing project and credit activities, these SATGAS provide
extension and animal health services to project beneficiaries.



- 9 -
2.05      Fishery Extension Service.  The Directorate General of Fisheries
(DGF) has established (a) a Brackish Water Aquaculture Development Center at
Jepara, (b) a Freshwater Aquaculture Development Center at Sukabumi, (c) a
Marine Fishery Development Center at Semarang, (d) a Fishery Product Develop-
ment and Quality Control Center at Jakarta, and (e) a Marine Aquaculture
Development Center at Lampung for adaptive research, training and preparation
of extension materials. To strengthen the work of the provincial governments
in conducting extension activities, the centers have established specialized
extension development units in a few provinces. These extension development
units are responsible for field trials, demonstrations of fishing methods and
techniques, fish culture training of extension workers, contact with fishermen
and fish-farmers, and the supervision and monitoring of extension activi-
ties. However, due to an inadequate number of field extension workers, exten-
sion messages do not reach most of the fishermen.
B. Bank Group Involvement in Agricultural Extension
The National Food Crop Extension Project (NFCEP)
2.06      The Bank's involvement in assisting the improvement of field exten-
sion services for food crops began with extension components in irrigation
projects, whereby a version of the training and visit system of extension-t
was progressively introduced in irrigation command areas. In view of the
large role that agriculture plays in the Indonesian economy and relatively low
productivity of food crops, tree crops, aquaculture and animal husbandry, GOI
sought the Bank's assistance at about the same time that AAETE was created to
expand and improve its extension services. There were two alternatives,
either to have separate extension projects under each Direct*rate General, or
to unify the extension services under AAETE. After considerable deliberation
GOI decided at that time that, while creation of a unified extension service
under AAETE was a desirable goal, a major reorganization would seriously dis-
rupt the program for increasing rice production. Consequently, the Government
chose to focus on improving and rationaLizing the extension services under the
DGFCA_ In 1976 the Bank approved the National Food Crop Extension Project
(Ln. 1267-IND) under the DGFCA originally in nine provinces and later extended
to an additional four provinces.
2.07      Under the NFCEP the link of the food crop extension service with the
BINAS program was preserved, but NFCEP deviated from the BIMAS program in
several positive ways: (a) extension services were provided to all farmers,
not only to BIMAS participants, in advance of other components of the BIMAS
package in the project area; (b) field extension supervisors (PPHs) were
created and additional PPSs were recruited under the project, although the
salaries of PPLs, PPMs and PPSs were paid through BIMAS budget; (c) Rural
Extension Centers, the basic modules around which the extension service was
built, were created: each REC serviced 15,000-25,000 farm families and Was
1/  This system is described in detail in a Bank publication entitled
"Agricultural Extension: The Training and Visit System," by
Daniel Benor, James Q. Harrison and M. Baxter (1984).



- 10 -
staffed with 2 PPMs covering 10-12 PPLs; and (d) the Training and Visit system
of agricultural extension was introduced.
Second National Agricultural Extension Project (NAEP II)
2.08      As the NFCEP was operating well in the 13 project provinces and
parts of Lampung, areas which include nearly 80% of the farm population of
Indonesia, demand grew for other provinces to be covered. Moreover, it was
felt that the time had arrived to introduce, selectively and in phases, exten-
sion information for nonfood crops and smallholder livestock and fisheries, in
areas where those activities provide major components of farmers' incomes.
This step was considered important both for effective utilization of the
information delivery system already developed for food crops, and to generate
more farmer interest in the extension process itself, which would also improve
effectiveness of food crop extension. The Bank approved the Second National
Agricultural Extension Project (Cr. 996-IND) in 1980 with the principal
objectives of (a) strengthening food crop extension services in a further
group of 13 provinces not covered by NFCEP; (b) establishing an integrated
extension service for transmigration areas; and (c) incorporating extension
activities for smallholder estate crops, animal husbandry and inland fish
culture into the basic extension program and delivery system heretofore
exclusively utilized for food crops.
2.09      NAEP II has been managed at the national level by the NFCEP project
unit under the jurisdiction of the DGFCA, pending completion of an organiza-
tional study aimed at examining ways of unifying agricultural extension ser-
vices under AAETE's coordination. All PPL, PPM and PPS have been paid through
the BIMAS budget. The RECs have been constructed through the provincial and
district food crop services, mostly in predominantly food crop areas, and have
been controlled and maintained by the DGFCA.
Experience with Past Lending
2.10      The food crop extension service has been considerably strengthened
under the above projects. Compared to 3,960 PPLs, no PPMs and 179 PPSs at the
beginning of NFCEP (early 1976), the numbers have increased to 22,162 PPLs
(including PPM) and 796 PPSs at the beginning of 1986. There are now two PPMs
in each REC and two PPMs in each district food crop extension section. Under
the 2 projects, 1,402 RECs had been constructed or rehabilitated mainly in
lowland rice areas and in some transmigration areas. All RECs have been
provided with furniture and equipment and vehicles have been purchased.
In-service training has been provided to about 26,000 extension personnel and
overseas training to about 400 persons. Both the projects thus far have
extended mainly information on rice, with limited attention paid to fruit,
vegetables and secondary crops. The major agricultural impact of the project
has been its remarkable success in combating the severe attacks of brown
planthopper in the main rice areas during 1976-77. In the years following the
outbreak, the expanded corps of field workers has promoted a shift by hundreds
of thousands of small farmers to recently released resistant rice varieties
and increased usage of fertilizers and effective insecticides. Although the
extension service alone cannot claim all the credit, it has contributed
significantly to the increase in rice production from about 13 million tons in
1976 to about 26 million tons in 1985.



- 11 -
2.11      Although one of the objectives of NAEP II was to strengthen exten-
sion services for estate crops, livestock and fisheries, these services still
remain weak. At the beginning of 1986, there were 6,075 PPLs+PPMs and 29 PPSs
in estate crops, 2,170 PPLs + PPMs and 153 PPSs in livestock, and 1,698 PPLs *
PPMs and 193 PPSs in fisheries extension services. The DGs other than DG Food
Crops could not create additional positions for extension officers out of
BIMAS funds as there was no national policy to that effect, and therefore had
to remain content with the few positions they could create out of specific
project funds. These three DGs were, in effect, operating outside the purview
of NAEP II. Very few of these extension staff received any training, and they
spent a disproportionate amount of their time in regulatory, licensing and
data collection work rather than in disseminating extension information.
2.12      Over the past years, considerable discussion, partly as a result of
the above shortcomings, has taken place regarding appropriate measures to
unify the extension services. In a national workshop on the subject in 1982,
at which all DGs and AAETE participated, two important decisions were taken as
steps toward unification: (i) the name of the RECs was changed to refer to
Ministry of Agriculture (rather than DG Food Crops), and RECs were offered to
all DGs to be used as focal points for extension, and (ii) DGs were requested
to use, as far as possible, the nationwide network of farmers' groups organ-
ized by the food crop extension service. However, the DGs of Estate Crops,
Livestock and Fisheries showed little inclination to use the existing network
of RECs as bases for their respective extension services for two main
reasons. First, most of the RECs were managed and controlled by DGFCA and
were thus not perceived as a joint facility. Second, there were few RECs in
remote geographical areas where tree crops, livestock, and fishery activities
are concentrated.
2.13      Government has recognized that the structural and functional
divisions in the extension organization, as they existed until 1983, have been
causing operational inefficiencies. At the field level it was difficult to
integrate the extension function for all crops in a system dominated by the
food crops extension infrastructure. There has also been a mismatch between
demand for training of extension staff under the DGs and AAETE's capability to
meet that demand. The effectiveness of Agricultural Informatior Centers,
under AAETE, has been impaired by the structural separation of producers/dis-
seminators and users of information. The linkage between research and
extension is also weakened by the splintered extension apparatus.
2.14      To address these institutional weaknesses, the Government made the
following changes in the latter part of 1983 and early 1984.
(a)  AAETE.  By a Ministerial Decree issued in 1984, AAETE was given
overall responsibility for coordinating extension at the national
level and formulating extension policies and methodology. Conse-
quently, management of NAEP II, which supports the e_tension activi-
ties of all subsectors, was transferred from the DCFCA to AAETE on
April 16, 1984. New coordination forums at the national, provincial
and district levels were established by Ministerial Decree No. 482
issued July 3, 1985.



- 12 -
(b)  Directorates General.  Realizing the contribution of the food crop
extension service to rice production and the intimate relation
between extension and production, GOI, under Presidential Decree
No. 24/1983, created Directorates of Extension under all four Direc-
torates General. At the same time, AAETE retained its Bureau of
Extension. The Directorates of Extension are responsible for
exerting technical and operational control over the extension staff
and formulating extension programs to fit the needs of specific
commodity production programs (Charts 4a and 4b), while the Bureau
of Extension of AAETE is responsible for carrying out studies for
improving the extension program, methods and formulation of
extension methodology and policies (Chart 5).
(c)  BIMAS.  The BIMAS Secretariat is responsible for administering the
agricultural extension personnel of all subsectors and for synchron-
izing provision of inputs, credit, marketing and cooperative devel-
opment. In pursuance to the Minister of Agriculture Decree
(N)143/KPES/LP 410/31 1985, handover of the extension personnel from
DGs and AAETE to BIMAS was completed by March 31, 1986. BIMAS is
also responsible for administrative control of RECs constructed by
DGFCA which have not been handed over to local government.
2.15      The transfer of NAEP II from DGFCA to AAETE caused some problems in
implementation. Between December 1983 and April 1984, all project activities
practically stood at a standstill. The Project Director, five out of six
Assistant Directors, and several junior officers of the project unit trans-
ferred to the offices of the Directors General and BIMAS. AAETE appointed a
new Project Director and filled some of the vacancies but it took the new
project management some time to come to grips with the situation. The new
management of NAEP II had to evolve different procedures for implementation of
civil works to fulfill the requirement of new decrees. Considerable time has
been spent to collect the supporting documents for applications for withdrawal
from the offices of provincial inspectors of Agriculture, through whom civil
works were earlier implemented by the DGFCA. Some additional RECs in nonfood
crop areas are being constructed in line with the new policy of strengthening
extension services of other subsectors. All physical activities are expected
to be completed by March 1987, one year behind schedule, and most of the
Credit is expected to be utilized.
C. Project Formulation
2.16      Formulation and preparation of the proposed project grew directly
from experience gained in implementing NFCEP and NAEP II. A special team con-
stituted by the Director General of AAETE consisting of representatives of
AAETE, DGs and BIMAS, prepared the project report with the assistance of a
Bank mission.



- 13 -
D. Rationale for Bank Support
2.17      Bank support will permit GOI to strengthen and reorganize the
extension services into one unified extension service to support production
targets in Rtpelita IV. The first two Bank-supported extension projects
considerably strengthened the food crops (especially lowland rice) extension
services but the other extension services remain weak. The proposed project,
in addition to consolidating the efforts to improve rice extension, would
strengthen extension for estate crops, livestock, fisheries and nonrice food
and horticultural crops. The agricultural extension service would be
r-tionalized by integrating the PPLs, PPMs and PPSs of subsectoral extension
service into one unified extension service within the Hinistry of Agricul-
ture. The unified extension service will operate from RECs and advise
farmers, who have generally complex farming systems (except in predominantly
irrigated rice areas or coastal fisheries areas) involving both annual and
perennial crops, livestock and often fish, on a "whole-farm" basis. The
unified extension service would support GOI's objective in Repelita IV to
sustain self-sufficiency in rice and to step up substantially production of
secondary crops, horticultural crops, estate crops, livestock and fisheries to
provide the people a more balanced and nutritious diet, as well as to increase
tree crops and fisheries exports. The unified extension service would also
support the GOI's transmigration program. The Bank is particularly concerned
that transmigrants, once settled, have the support to enable them to raise
incomes above a subsistence level. The unified extension service would play
an important role in training the transmigrants, who are traditionally lowland
rice farmers, in the techniques of growing upland food crops, tree crops, hor-
ticultural and vegetable crops.



- 14 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Scope
3.01      The major objective of the project is to strengthen extension
services covering estate crops, livestock and fisheries activities, in addi-
tion to food and horticultural crops, in all provinces through provision for
an increase in trained extension personnel, vehicles and equipment, new 2ECs
in areas not covered by earlier projects, construction of limited staff
housing, training and technical assistance.
3.02      Project Scope.  The project would provide:
(a) an increase in extension staff by about 6,OOC PPLs, 3,000 PPMs,
1,000 PPSs and 200 animal health officers;
(b) construction of 400 new RECs in transmigration, upland, tidal swamp,
estate crops, livestock concentration and coastal fisheries areas;
210 houses for PPLs in Irian Jaya and East Timor, 200 animal health
posts and expansion of about 1,400 existing RECs;
Cc) procurement of 3,206 motor cycles, 124 four-wheel drive vehicles,
45 animal health mobile units, and 11 audiovisual mobile units;
Cd)  procurement of furniture for new and expanded RECs, as well as of
basic and specialized subsectoral equipment for new RECs;
Ce) training of extension staff and key farmers through a limited number
of overseas courses and fellowships, and a large number of local
training courses; and provision of related facilities;
(f) 6 man-years of long-term consulting services in extension, training,
rural sociology, monitoring and evaluation; about 4 man-years short-
term consultancies for reviewing and revising extension recommen-
dations; and local consultancy services for engineering design and
supervision of project civil works; and
(g) monitoring, evaluation and studies.
B. Detailed Features
Project Staffing
3.03      Under the NAEP II, the PPL requirement was calculated as follows:
Transmigration areas - 1 PPL:500 families
Sparsely populated provinces -- 1 PPL:600 families
Remaining Other Island provinces - 1 PPL:800 families
Java and Bali - 1 PPL:1,600 families



- 15 -
3.04      During implementation of NAEP II, it became evident that the size of
farmer groups was rather large for the PPL and the diffusion of extension rec-
omuendations was slow. It was also apparent that more emphasis should be
given to the estate, livestock and fishery subsectors to cope with accelerated
agricultural development. AAETE, therefore, proposed 1 PPL for 640 farm
families in Java and Bali and 1 PPL for 400 families in Other Islands in
NAEP III. Based on the proposed ratio, a total of 44,000 PPL would be
required by 1989. Considering the budget constraints of GOI, availability of
agricultural graduates from high schools and past performance, it was felt
that a more realistic target for recruitment of additional PPLs would be 6,000
under NAEP III at the rate of 15 PPLs per new REC. Out of 6,000 PPLs,
657 PPLs would be required for transmigration areas (Annex 4, Table 3). All
new PPLs would be graduates from agricultural high schools where they undergo
three years training in food crops, estate crops, livestock and fisheries.
3.05      A total of 3,000 additional PPMs would also be required to achieve
an average rate of at least 3 PPMs per REC (3 PPMs for each of the 400 new
RECs and 1 additional PPM for about 1,402 existing RECs). As PPMs are not
recruited directly but are promoted from among the more experienced and
successful PPLs, a total of 9,000 new PPLs would have to be recruited over the
5-year project period. As this compares favorably with the number success-
fully recruited and assimilated in the extension service, and as accredited
agricultural high schools are increasing their output of graduates with PPL
qualifications, these staffing targets are achievable.
3.06      The overall PPL/PPS ratio adopted in NAEP II was 25 to 1.  However,
due to greater emphasis on the estate crop, livestock and fishery subsectors,
GOI has estimated an additional requirement of comodity/discipline-
specialized PPSs to be 352 for food crops, 260 for estate crops, 892 for live-
stock and 611 for fisheries, or a total of 2,115 by 1989. However, to be con-
sistent with the number of PPLs to be recruited under this project and at the
same time to provide sufficient commodity/discipline-specialized PPSs in all
the subsectors, the target for additional PPSs under this project has been
fixed at 1,000. Most of the PPSs would be based in provinces where the
respective activities Dredominate. For transmigration areas, an additional
57 PPS would be required based on one PPS for 7,500 transmigration families.
3.07      Recruitment of qualified university agricultural graduates to fill
PPS positions, particularly in the more remote regions of the Other Islands,
would be somewhat more difficult than recruitment of lower level staff,
although again the earlier projects have mostly met their PPS staffing targets
on schedule.
Construction Program
3.08      Rural Extension Centers serve as the home base of the field exten-
sion workers (PPLs and PPMs), as their officefs, the site of their regular
(usually biweekly) training and briefing by PPSs, occasional farmer courses
and meetings, simple agricultural field trials, and as storehouses for their
equipment. Under NAEP II, RECs in the 26 project provinces were 130 m2 in
area, located in predominantly food crop producing areas and some in
transmigration areas, and included a house for one PPM and site development



- 16 -
(fencing, access road). On completion of NAEP II, a total of 1,402 RECs will
have been built. Given a ratio of 1 REC for 15,000-20,000 farm families in
Java and Bali and 1 REC for about 8,000 farm families in the Other Islands,
about 2,000 RECs would be required in 1991. In a survey recently conducted by
AAETE, the number of existing RECs was ascertained to be 1,255 and the
cequirement of new RECs was determined to be 894. AAETE has planned for
147 additional RECs under NAEP II and 400 under the proposed project. A
committee consisting of representatives of the Ministry of Home Affairs,
AAETE, BIMAS, and the four Directorates General would decide the general
location of RECs so that RECs can serve as many subsectors as possible and
that their areas of operation do not overlap with other existing facilities.
The same committee would also decide the general location of 200 animal health
posts taking into consideration other installations such as existing and
proposed plant protection centers for food crops and estate crops. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that the location committee having deter-
mined the general locations, the specific site of each REC and each AHP for
subsequent year satisfactory to the Bank would be submitted to the Bank by
November 1 of each year.
3.09      The 400 new RECs would be 168 m2 each comprising 1 meeting-room, 1
chief's room, 1 room for PPMs and secretariat, 1 library, 1 storage room, 1
toilet, 1 generator room, and 2 houses, 1 for the Chief of REC and 1 for 1
PPM. All RECs previously constructed under NFCEP and NAEP II would be expand-
ed by 48 m2 and would include 1 house of 36 m2 for the REC chief. The REC
construction schedule is described in detail in Annex 2, Table 3. Of the 400
new RECs, 50 RECs would be constructed in NTT/NTB.
3.10      Two hundred and ten houses of 36 m2 each would be constructed in
Irian Jaya and East Timor for PPLs because of the difficulty in obtaining
suitable houses in these 2 remote provinces.
Vehicles and Equipment
3.11      Vehicles are one of the most important inputs to the training and
visit system, as they provide the mobility required to meet the demanding
schedule of PPL field visits, field supervision and assistance by managers and
PPSs, and the bi-weekly training sessions of PPLs by PPSs. Motorcycles at the
rate of 3 motorcycles per new and old REC for the movement of PPMs and PPLs
and 124 four-wheel drive vehicles would be provided to provincial PPSs,
project officiers, provincial BIMAS Secretary and PIU. All vehicles would be
operated under a pool arrangement. Forty-five animal health mobile units for
18 provinces and 11 audiovisual mobile units for 11 provinces would be
provided. All other provinces have received mobile units for food crops under
earlier two Bank-assisted prcjects. Assurances were obtained from GOI that
necessary funds would be provided, in accordance with a detailed schedule for
vehicle procurement given in Annex 2, Table 6.
3.12      Equipment and furniture would be provided under the project to all
new RECs. The basic REC equipment package, largely similar to that provided
under the NAEP II (Annex 2, Table 8) consists of the minimum required office
equipment and furniture, instructional equipment, and basic agricultural
equipment necessary for field extension work. Some inexpensive and portable



- 17 -
instruments would be provided in quantities sufficient to provide them to most
PPLs, to enable them to demonstrate their use to farmers. In addition, spe-
cialized extension packages useful for extension in food crop, estate crop,
livestock and fisheries subsectors would be provided to RECs to be built in
areas where those activities predominate (Annex 2, Tables 9, 10, 11, 12).
These packages have been designed to include only the simplest tools, or
equipment to avoid transforming RECs into specialized demonstration farms
incapable of replication by most smallholders.
Training
3.13      Essentially, four types of staff and farmer training would be
undertaken under the project. The first is the continuous routine bi-weekly
(or as frequently as may be necessary for the different subsectors) training
or briefing of PPLs by PPSs in the RECs on impact points to be communicated to
the farmer groups during the cycle of visits. The second type of training
consists of periodic operational reviews and preparation sessions by field
staff and supervisors (paras. 3.14-3.15). The third is the special training
for key farmers and for staff to introduce them to new job responsibilities
and work methods, and to new technical subject matter fields (para. 3.16).
The fourth consists of degree or certificate courses both in countrv and
overseas, and study tours abroad for selected staff (para. 3.17).
3.14      Periodic Review Sessions.  PPSs and provincial and district exten-
sion managers would take part in one or two 2-3 day sessions per year to be
held at provincial level before each main sowing/planting/stocking season.
With the assistance of local university and research staff, experts from AARD,
consultants, and senior project staff, these meetings would determine and
agree on detailed technical recommendations for individual crops and farming
systems in the various agricultural regions of the province. The scheduling
of these recommendations in the overall training and visit cycle would also be
reviewed. The most important function of these sessions is to provide a
research/extension linkage. The researchers would train the PPS on the latest
findings of research relevant to commodities and areas, while the PPSs would
apprise the researchers of the problems of the farmers. ."'llowing these ses-
sions, similar sessions would be held at the district level for the PPLs and
PPMs to provide them with the background required to understand the applied
REC training they will receive during the next season.
3.15      Each PPS would attend a 1-2 day review session once a month (or as
frequently as may be necessary for different subsectors) at provincial head-
quarters to be organized by the provincial Inspectors and the Heads of the
Extension Bureau, during which progress would be reviewed and the REC training
program for the next month planned and prepared.
3.16      Special Training Courses.  All newly recruited PPLs, PPMs and PPSs
would attend an orientation course concentrated on the training and visit sys-
tem and communication techniques to be held in in-service training centers
(ISTCs). The ISTCs have been strengthened by three Bank-assisted projects and
have sufficient capacity (Annex 2, Table 15). Short specific skill courses of
less than 14 days duration for the extension staff (Annex 2, Table 14) would
be organized by the ISTCs in cooperation with respective provincial agricul-



- 18 -
tural services. Contact farmers, women farmers and young farmers would attend
short courses of seven days duration to be organized by the ISTCs in consulta-
tion with provincial agricultural services, so that they can comprehend and
apply new agrotechnologies including methods of storing and using agricultural
products and seeds, utilization of home gardens, water management, soil con-
servation, cattle breeding, fisheries etc. (Annex 2, Table 13).
3.17      Fellowships and Courses.  Long-term fellowships of 1-3.5 years
duration leading to Diploma, Masters and Ph.D degrees in extension education,
home economics, agribusiness, production and post harvest technology would be
provided to qualified PPL, PPM and PPS and district, provincial and central
extension staff and IPB staff. Overseas training would consist of 8 Ph.Ds, 60
M.Scs, and 160 short-term training of three months duration for PPS and exten-
sion officers at district, provincial and national level. In-country training
would consist of 8 Ph.Ds, 180 M.Scs, 300 Diploma courses of 3 years' duration
and 340 Diploma courses of 1 year duration. The purpose of this program would
be to upgrade the overall technical capability of the cadre of extension
staff, increasing its capacity to assimilate the flow of research results from
foreign, national, and local research institutions and to utilize them in
refining field extension recommendations. Assurances were obtained from GOI
during negotiations that annual training proposals, satisfactory to the Bank,
would be submitted to the Bank by December 31 of each year, beginning
December 31, 1986.
Consultants
3B18      Consultant technicaL assistance in direct support of project imple-
mentation would fall into three categories: long-term advisory service to
project management; short-term technical assistance to Directors of Extension
in reviewing and revising extension recommendations for the entire range of
smallholder agricultural activities to be eventually covered by the extension
system; and local consultants for engineering design and supervision of pro-
ject civil works. The first category would consist of a consultant to assess
training needs (24 man-months) who would assist the Project Director in refin-
ing training programs; an Extension Advisor (24 man-months) to assist the
Project Director and Director of the Bureau of Agricultural Extension in
extension methodology and communication; and 1 consultant in monitoring and
evaluation (12 man-months) and 1 in rural sociology (12 man-months) to assist
the Project Director and Director of the Bureau of Agricultural Extension.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that GOI would employ consultants for
technical assistance in extension, training and rural sociology commencing not
later than June 30, 1987 (para. 4.04).
3.19      The short-term technical agricultural consultants would work with
the Directors of Extension, and would be responsible for reviewing in detail
the conditions of smallholder production in all major commodity fields in the
important agricultural regions of Indonesia, assessing the relevance of
domestic and foreign research results for upgrading field practices of small-
holders in various regions, and on this basis would help prepare practical
extension recommendations to be delivered by the extension workers. The
projected distribution of the short-term technical assistance requirement by
subsectors would be food crops, 20 man-months; estate crops, 8 man-months;



- 19 -
livestock, 6 man-months; and fisheries, 16 man-months. The costs of local
engineering firm services are estimated at 7% of the value of civil works.
Studies
3.20      The project would provide funds for carrying out the following
studies, which will be conducted by the Bureau of Agricultural Extension
within AAETE. The outputs of these studies would be used by the Directorates
of Extension in each Directorate General to improve the strategy and guide-
lines of extension in supporting respective commodity production programs:
(a) Study and evaluation of the T&V system in relation to production
development approaches, farmers' socioeconomic conditions and needs,
research-extension linkage and management system.
(b) Study and evaluation on the strategy for developing participation of
farmers, fishermen, women and youth in agricultural development.
(c) Study and evaluation of selected extension methods as well as deliv-
ery systems.
Extension Materials
3.21      No funds would be provided under this project for production of
extension materials. Under the Agricultural Research and Extension Project
(Loan 1179-IND) a National Agricultural Information Center (AIC) was estab-
lished at Ciwai and 11 ArCs in 11 provinces under AAETE. Another 15 AICs are
being established in the remaining 15 provinces under AAETE with funds pro-
vided by the Third Agricultural Training Project (Ln. 2341-IND). These AICs
are equipped with printing machines to produce leaflets and brochures, movie
cameras to produce films, cameras to produce slides, facilities to duplicate
cassettes, etc. The AICs also have a group of personnel specialized in
certain disciplines and trained in producing extension materials. Host common
types of extension material can be produced by the AICs. Any special
extension material should be written jointly by the Directorate of Extension
and representatives of AARD and finally produced by AICs.
3.22      All RECs are supplied with slide projectors and cassette recorders,
and all food crop provincial extension bureaus and ten estate crop provincial
bureaus have mobile extension units capable of presenting moving pictures.
Since agricultural and linguistic patterns vary widely across Indonesia, the
production, dubbing, and distribution of film materials would require careful
planning.
C. Implementation Schedule
3.23      Project implementation would cover a period of about six years from
October 1986 to June 1992. The sites for the first year's construction
program were selected prior to loan negotiations by the special committee for
this purpose. All civil works design, estimates and bidding are planned to be
completed in the first year and with construction in the second, third and
fourth years. PPLs, PPMs and PPSs are scheduled to be recruited from the



- 20 -
would be procured during the second, third and fourth years. The in-service
training program would coincide with the recruitment program. Diploma,
Masters and Doctorate courses would commence from the second year so that they
can be completed within the life of the project. Recruitment of long-term
consultants would commence nor later than June 30, 1987. An implementation
schedule is shown in Annex 3, Table 4.
IV. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
4.01      The total estimated project cost is US$136.2 million equivalent, of
which US$23.3 million (17Z) would be foreign exchange (Table 4.1). Base costs
are expressed in May 1986 prices and include about US$12.5 million in value-
added tax and other taxes and drties. Project costs by item of expenditure
are provided in Annex 2, Table 1.
Table 4.1: N     D 11OST SEORY
&Bpiah bLlo                US$ milli           Foreign Z Basic
lncal   Foreign  IXal    local  Forei   Ttal   E            cost
Civil wrs                  33.8      7.1   40.9    30.7    6.5   37.2          18        34
Vehicles                    3.6      3.3    6.9       3.4    2.9    6.3        48         6
Frniture                    2.6      0.7    3.3       2.4    0.6    3.0        21         3
Bluipmeat                   1.4      2.2    3.6       1.4    1.9    3.3        61        3
Training                   21.9      5.2   27.1    20.1    4.6   24.7          17        25
TAal Studies                2.3      1.5    3.9       2.1    1.4    3.5        41         3
tncreamtal ope-ating cost    31.5    1.1   32.6    28.3    1.0   29.3           4        26
Subtotal Base Cost         97.2     21.1   118.3    88.4   18.9  107.3         18       100
Ftlysical                 6.5       1.4    7.9      5.9    1.3    7.2        18         -
Price                    20.5      3.5   24.0    18.6    3.1    21.7         14         -
ltal Projet Gost /a       124.2     26.0  15D.2   112.9   23.3   136.2         17       100
/a  ITxludiag VAT of US$9.0 million and US$3.5 milli other taxes and duties.



- 21 -
4.02      Construction cost estimates are based upon updated standard costs
supplied by BAPPENAS and the Mini try of Finance and updated Cipta Karya data
to estimated May 1986 level per m for the lowest (Grade C) category of
offices. Prices have been weighted considering the differences in the various
provinces. For Irian Jaya and East Timor, prices are higher than the weighted
average, based on available data from BAPPENAS, Ministry of Finance and Cipta
Karya. Cost estimates for equipment and furniture are based on recent con-
tracts for identical items purchased under NAEP II with a 10Z increase allow-
ing for estimated price escalation through May 1986. For locally assembled
vehicles, estimates are based on local experience with possible price escala-
tion in 1985/86. Unit costs for local training programs are based on detailed
budgets for training courses prepared by AAETE, while costs for overseas
courses are based on recent experience under NAEP II and other Bank Group-
financed projects in Indonesia. Salaries and allowances for the project
implementation unit and incremental field staff are derived from current
scales under NAEP II which provide a graduated structure according to the
years of employment of tLe field staff. Other operational expenses are based
on recent experience under NAEP II allowing for estimated price increases in
1985/86. Cost estimates include physical contingencies at 10% of all costs
except incremental field staff salaries and allowances. Price contingencies
are indicated in Table 4.2 and equal 20% of base costs.
Table 4.2: ESTIMATED PRICE CONTINGENCIES (X)
Calendar year       1986     1987      1988     1989     1990      1991-93
Foreign              7.0      7.0       7.5      7.7      7.6          4.5
Local                6.0      6.0      6.0       6.0      6.0          4.5
B. Financing Plan
4.03      The proposed Bank loan of US$70 million equivalent would cover 60%
of the project cost excluding the estimated cost of vehicles (about
US$7.0 million) and taxes and duties estimated at US$12.5 million. The
Government of Indonesia would provide annual budget eppropriations to cover
expenditures estimated at Rp 70.4 billion (US$64.0 million). The loan would
finance US$21.1 million of foreign costs (91Z) and US$48.9 million (43%) of
local costs.
4.04      The Australian Development Assistance Bureau (ADAB) has confirmed
its interest in providing A$2.8 million (equivalent to US$2.15 million) as
grant over the project period for technical assistance covering long-term and
short-term consultancies and 15 Master's degree fellowships abroad. The
conditions for the ADAB grant are: (a) technical assistance would be provided
by Australian consultants; and (b) M.Sc. fellowships would be for studies in
Austrialia. APAB cofinancing of A$2.8 million would be in addition to the
Bank loan of US$70 million.



- 22 -
C. Procurement
4.05      Civil Works.  Procurement arrangements are shown in Table 4.3.
Nearly all project civil works (US$37.2 million) would consist of the con-
struction or upgrading of small rural installations and houses, representing
an expenditure of about US$47,000 at any one location.- These works would be
carried out following local competitive bidding with contract packages
generally encompassing entire provincial or district construction programs.
On this basis, contracts for works would average US$0.4 million in size, with
the largest contract worth up to about US$1.5 million. As these works are
scattered over 27 provinces and are to be impLemented over 3 years, it would
be difficult to combine them into large contracts suitable for international
competitive bidding. Local contracting procedures have been reviewed by the
Bank Group, and are acceptable. Contracts subject to prior review by the Bank
would be about 30% of total civil works contracts. There are numerous local
contractors capable of executing the required works. The engineering firms
would be responsible for site surveys, preparation of tender documents and
contracts, and supervision of construction. Tender and contract documents for
civil works would be in the same format as in NAEP II. All contracts for
civil works estimated to cost US$1 million and above would be subject to prior
Bank review. Land purchase (US$10.0 million) would be carried out according
to standard government procedure.
2/   The building costs per square meter would be Rp 170,000 on average,
except Irian Jaya and East Timor where it would be Rp 280,000
(para. 4.02).



- 23 -
Table 4.3: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS /a
(US$ million)
Component                  ICB        LCB        Other        N.A.    Total
Civil Works                 -        37.2            -        10.1/b   47.3
-       (32.0)          -           -     (32.0)
Vehicles                    -         8.1           -           -       8.1
Furniture                   -         3.8           -           -       3.8
-        (3.0)          -           -      (3.0)
Equipment                  4.2         -            -           -       4.2
(3.5)        -            -           -      (3.5)
Training                    -          -           29.5         -      29.5
-          -         (29.5)         -     (29.5)
Technical Assistance
and Studies               -         2.0          2.2          -       4.2
-        (2.0)          -           -      (2.0)
incremental Operating
Cost                                 -            -         39.1     39.1
Total                      4.2       51.1          31.7       49.2    136.2
(3.5)     (37.0)       (29.5)         -     (70.0)
/a   Costs including physical and price contingencies and taxes.  Figures in
parentheses ( ) are Bank loan amounts.
lb   Purchase of land.
4.06      Vehicles, Furniture and Equipment.  Vehicles (US$8.1 million) would
be procured by LCB and will be treated as reserved procurement because of a
ban on importation. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
necessary funds would be provided by GOI for the vehicles required for the
project in accordance with an agreed schedule. Furniture (US$3.8 million)
would be procured through local competitive bidding procedures as these would
be purchased in small lots for the RECs spread over 27 provinces, unattractive
to international bidders. Office and technical equipment worth a total of
US$4.2 million would be procured under international competitive bidding (ICB)
in accordance with Bank Group guidelines, and would be grouped in contract
packages large enough to attract international competition. A preference
limited to 15Z of the c.i.f. price of imported goods, or the custom duty,
whichever is lower, would be extended to local manufacturers of such items in
the evaluation of bids. All contracts for equipment and materials exceeding



- 24 -
US$200,000 in value would be submitted to the Bank Group for review before
bidding and award. Contracts subject to prior review by the Bank would be
about 30% of total contracts.
4.07      Services.  Overseas short-term and long-term courses (US$5.0 mil-
lion) will be administered by the PIU and conducted in selected countries and
universities. The average cost assumed per student for studies abroad are
US$55,000 Ph.D, US$38,000 for M.Sc and US$9,000 for short course of 3 months'
duration. The domestic specific-skill short courses for PPLs, PPSs, contact
and master farmers, and rural women would be carried out by AAETE at the ISTCs
according to a training program reviewed and agreed by the Bank (US$24.7 mil-
lion). Contracts for engineering design and supervisio2 (US$1.7 million)
would be awarded on the basis of Bank Guidelines on the Use of Consultants.
Studies wouLd be carried out by AAETE (US$0.1 million). Technical assistance
and overseas training (US$2.2 million) expected to be provided by ADAB would
be procured under their procedures. Routine expenditures totalling
US$39.1 million are also included in project costs.
D. Disbursement
4.08      The proposed allocation of loan proceeds is shown in Annex 3,
Table 2. The loan would be disbursed at the following rates: 90% of the cost
of construction and site development including VAT, and 100% of the cost of
training, technical assistance and studies; 100% of the foreign exchange cost
of directly imported equipment and goods, 65% of the total cost of locally
procured imported equipment and goods, and 95% of the ex-factory costs of
locally manufactured equipment and goods. The Bank would not disburse against
land purchases, salaries, or operation and maintenance expenditures. For most
components, disbursement would be made on the basis of standard documenta-
tion. Disbursement would be made on the basis of statements of expenditures
(SOEs) for equipment and furniture purchases under US$50,000 (contract value),
and for local training expenses; all other disbursements would require full
documentation. Detailed documentation for SOEs would be retained in Indonesia
and made available to the Bank for supervision. Minimum size of reimbursement
application should be around $100,000 equivalent. Minimum size of letter of
credit for goods to be disbursed under agreements to reimburse should be
$10,000 equivalent.
4.09      An estimated schedule of disbursements is shown in Annex 3,
Table 3. Disbursements are projected over a six and one-half year period from
FY87 to FY93 (Annex 3, Table 3). Disbursements are expected to be completed
faster than the profile of actual disbursements under previous Indonesian
agricultural projects. This is a reasonable expectation because this is the
third phase of an ongoing project with well-developed operations. The Loan
closing date would be December 31, 1992.
E. Accounts and Audits
4.10      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that (a) separate
accounts would be maintained for the project; (b) these accounts and the
statements of expenditure would be audited annually by an independent auditor
acceptable to the Bank; and (c) these audited accounts and the audit report



- 25 -
would be submitted to the Bank within nine months of the close of each GOI
fiscal year.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Reorganization of Agricultural Extension Service
5.01      The agricultural extension service has been recently reorganized on
the basis of Presidential Decrees Nos. 24/1983, 62/1983, Ministerial Circular
of January 25, 1985 and Ministerial Decrees No. 143 of March 11, 1985 and 482
of July 3, 1985. These decrees establish and strengthen the unified extension
service.
5.02      Coordination.  The coordination of agricultural extension at the
national level is being carried out by the National Commisission for Agricul-
tural Extension (NCAE) comprising the Director General of AAETE as Chairman,
the Secretary of BIMAS as Vice Chairman, the Director of the Bureau of Exten-
sion, AAETE, as Secretary, the Directors of Extension and other Directors
within the Ministry of Agriculture closely linked with agricultural extension
(including Directors of Research Coordinating Centers for Food Crops, Horti-
cultural Crops, Industrial Crops, Fisheries and Animal Sciences of AARD) as
members. The provincial coordination forum comprises the KAKANWIL as
Chairman, the Secretary of Provincial BIMAS as Secretary, and the heads of
provincial agricultural services and chiefs of technical units and other
institutions closely linked to agricultural extension as members. The
district coordination forum comprises the head of one of the subsectors
designated by Bupati (district administrative head) as Chairman, the Secretary
of district BIMAS as Secretary, and the heads of the other subsectors and
institutions closely related to agricultural extension as members. Each of
the three coordination committees is being assisted by a working group to
carry out daily duties. At the REC level, the coordination committee would
consist of the Chief of the REC and the PPMs and PPLs based at the REC.
5.03      The main tasks of the NCAE, which meets once a month, are to
coordinate: (a) formulation of national policies and strategies for agri-
cultural extension, (b) preparation of the national agricultural extension
plan with the agricultural production program, and (c) research/extension
linkages. The functions of the provincial and district level coordination
forums, also meeting once a month, are to: (a) translate the national agri-
cultural extension policies and strategies into provincial and district opera-
tional plans according to regional needs, and (b) coordinate management of
agricultural extension activities in the region in accordance with the program
of the forums. The functions of the REC committee are to: (a) formulate the
agricultural extension program of all subsectors in the REC area through a
cooperative planning exercise with contact farmers, and to draw up a work
schedule for each PPL, (b) monitor and supervise the implementation of
agricultural extension activities in the REC area, and (c) coordinate regular
training of PPLs at the RECs and visits by PPLs to farmers' groups.



- 26 -
5.04      Administration of Extension Staff.  Administration of the agricul-
tural extension service within the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) now devolves
on BIMAS. This involves appointment, placement, salary assignment, salary
increase, promotion, transfer and retirement of extension personnel and
operational expenses. In administering extension personnel, the Secretary of
BIMAS would consider: (a) extension policy as outlined by the Director
General of AAETE, (b) the agricultural development program of the Directors-
General within MOA, and (c) existing laws and regulations on personnel
affairs. The handover of the extension personnel whose administration was
being managed by the DGs and AAETE to the Secretariat of BIMAS was completed
by March 31, 1986.
5.05      Control over and Responsibility of RECs.  The RECs constructed by
the DGFCA which have not been turned over to the Regional Government would be
managed by the Secretary, District BIMAS. Assurances were obtained from GOI
during negotiations that necessary funding for operation and maintenance of
RECs (approximately Rp 3 million per REC) would be made to BIMAS. According
to Ministerial decree, the Secretary of BIMAS would appoint for each REC
(a) one Chief of REC, and (b) according to need, no more than five PPMs each
assigned to organize, develop and control the execution of agricultural exten-
sion programs in Ci) agricultural resources, (ii) food crops, (iii) estate
crops, (iv) animal husbandry, and (v) fisheries. Depending on the situation
and condition, two or more subsectors may be managed by one PPM. Just as
subsector staff at the provincial level are under the administrative control
of the Governor while technical control is retained by the four DGs at the
national level, the administrative control over PPMs and PPLs is under
district BIMAS while technical control is retained by the subsectors at the
district, province and national level. One PPM in each REC has been
designated as Chief of REC.
B. Organization for Project Implementation
5.06      PIU.  The proposed project would be implemented at the national
level by the same project implementation unit (PIU) under AAETE which is exe-
cuting NAEP II. The responsibility for providing technical guidance to and
supervision of the PPSs, PPMs and PPLs rests with the Directorates of Exten-
sion under the DGs. The key positions such as Procurement Officer, Financial
Officer, Training Officer, Planning and Monitoring Officer, Treasurer and
Secretary of the PIU have been filled on a full-time basis for the proper
implementation of the project.
5.07      Project Implementation at the Provincial Level.  The project would
be implemented at the provincial level as follows: (a) civil works and pro-
curement of furniture and equipment would be implemented by KAKANWIL/Head of
Training and Extension Division; (b) training program would be implemented by
ISTCs; and (c) production of extension materials would be implemented by AICs.



- 27 -
C. Extension Methodology
5.08      The basic principles of the Training and Visit system of agricul-
tural extension are by now well understood widely in Indonesia, both in theory
and in concrete implementation in the field. NFCEP and NAEP II management
have been quite effective in communicating those principles to the provincial
agricultural staff. However, this task will be made difficult in the proposed
project due to the increased difficulty of communication in the upland, tidal
swamp, transmigration, and coastal fisheries areas to be included in the
program and the involvement of PPLs and PPSs from all the subsectors. Train-
ing programs under the project would thus be increased in frequency, and would
concentrate on teaching extension methodology as well as the simple elements
of technical background of other subsectors to the PPLs of all subsectors. As
far as possible only one set of extension farmer groups will be formed in any
locality served by one set of PPLs in a REC.
5.09      PPSs of the different subsectors would be responsible for introduc-
ing extension packages for their subsectors and for training, briefing and
backstopping the PPLs in their specialized subsectors. The Chief of the REC
with the help of the PPMs would prepare an integrated program of all four
extension services for delivery to the farmers. Tne PPLs of different sub-
sectors would work together to prepare a joint program for the individual
farmers of the group, and initially the PPLs of all four subsectors (or as
many as are present) would jointly visit the farmers to advise them on their
individual needs. Given the long-term asset establishment and maintenance
nature of nonfood-crop activities, extension on such matters as construction
of, water supply to, and fertilization of, fishponds, construction of chicken
houses, and inoculation and breeding of cattle is not particularly time-bound
and can be fitted into the slack periods of the seasonal crops. In many
cases, extension recommendations for the various activities must be integrated
to be relevant to actual farm-level decisions. This applies for example to
intercropping (upland paddy under the rubber or coconut), fish raising in
paddy fields, estate crops (e.g., sugar) rotated with food crops, or a mutual-
ly bereficial farming system involving animals (for manure and draft power)
and forage crops.
5.10      In many such areas, generalist PPLs with guidance from PPSs of diff-
erent subsectors would be able to deliver simple extension messages for most
of the commodities with which the farmers are concerned, calling on requisite
specialist PPL or PPS when problems arise. However, for some estate crops
such as rubber, coconut, oil palm, for animal health, and for brackish water
and marine fisheries, specialist PPLs may be needed depending on the nature of
job they would have to perform, as indicated in the following paragraphs.
5.11      Estate Crops.  For rubber, coconut and oil palm, the extension
message would focus on cultivation methods, nursery techniques, weeding,
processing and marketing, with the ultimate aim of introducing the farmers to
somewhat more sophisticated and financially viable packages. For tree crops,
a major constraint to progress in the smallholder sector has been the non-
availability of high quality planting materials. However, there is scope for
remedying this shortage of planting material through harnessing the resources
and capabilities of PTPs, PHUs and even the private sector in the target



- 28 -
areas. The provision of improved planting material would have to be accom-
panied by the requisite fertilizer, pesticides, equipment, credit, processing
and marketing. (For further details, see Project File Annes 6, Working
Paper 1 - Estate Crops.)
5.12      Livestock.  Increase in livestock output would largely come from
extension of better nutrition and animal health services. While nutrition
extension may be handled by generalist PPLs, animal health extension could be
performed better by specialist PPLs. The project includes animal health
posts, mobile animal health clinics, and animal health officers (AHO) in addi-
tion to PPLs. The concept is to provide low cost delivery of basic animal
health services through these posts, the AHOs and the mobile animal health
clinics. The AHOs and specialist PPLs would be trained to recognize the most
common forms of major diseases such as Newcastle, hemorrhagic septicemia and
anthrax, administer vaccines and advise on other treatments and procedures and
thereby achieve a wide dispersion of the benefits that improved animal health
can yield. Improvement in livestock production from better nutrition and
animal health would make increased draft power available for increased crop
production. (For further details, see Project File Annex 6, Working Paper 2
-- Livestock.)
5.13      Fisheries.  Extension activities for brackish water fisheries would
include pond engineering, shrimp hatchery development, shrimp culture develop-
ment and feed production technology. However, most development constraints
are in the marine subsector. The average productivity of a small-scale marine
fisherman is about 1.1 mt per year. To ensure the well-being of small-scale
marine fishermen on a sustained basis, it may be necessary in some cases to
reduce fishing effort in the coastal areas by limiting the number of fisher-
men. Special effort needs to be made to encourage the introduction of marine
or brackish water aquaculture for underemployed marine fishermen. Fishery
extension for small-scale marine fishing communities would include communicat-
ing improvements in postharvest technology, fisheries technology, and assist-
ing social welfare and community development programs, and in the management
and operation of small-scale enterprises and organization. (For further
details see Project File Annex 6, Working Paper 3 - Fisheries.)
D. Farmers' Groups
5.14      Rural people have lived for centuries within strong communal groups
or cooperatives (such as subak, gotong-royong, maphalus, etc.). These have
clear membership ties, strong individual affiliation, and considerable power
invested in the chosen leader, who receives high loyalty from the members.
Principally, the traditional groups' agricultural activities (subak, maphalus)
have a close parallel with the T&V system as they have regular meetings (every
35 days) to discuss field problems, transfer government policy and technology,
and try to apply new technology. It has thus not been difficult to adapt them
to form groups for agricultural extension purpose. Farmer group formation is
generally based on contiguous field areas (23-50 ha/farmer group) rather than
being village neighbors. Generally, each farmer group consists of approxi-
mately 100 farm families in irrigated areas comprising one contact farmer,
20 progressive farmers from the upper layer and 80 followers from the lower
layer.  The demarcation of the area is decided by natural factors such as



- 29 -
canals, roads, forests, or villages. Selection into groups emphasizes that
the group has: (a) a similar purpose; (b) the same activities; (c) very easy
communication with each other; and (d) weekly or monthly activities arranged
and done together by group members. The effectiveness of farmer groups
depends upon the degree of interaction within the group. The task of the
extension services is to motivate and maintain the social interaction
permanently among members and between the group and external institutions
concerned with agricultural development. The farmer group was the embryo of
the Special Intensification (INSUS) Program which has been expanded to the
entire country. The PPLs have had an important role in maintaining and sup-
porting the communication of the group with other social institutions, and
guiding the farmers, in analyzing their farm management needs to get maximum
profit and in practicing new technology in their own field. The growth and
development of farmer groups depends upon the activity of the groups them-
selves as well as that of PPLs. Whereas farmers' attitudes were changing very
slowly when based on individual approach, it has become much faster with the
approaches based on farmer groups.
5.15      Every ye--  he GOI selects the best farmer group in the country for
award as an incentive to motivate the growth and development of farmer
groups. The competition encourages farmer involvement in the program, and
raises its social status. Some farmer groups evolve into cooperative systems
with a strong legal foundation and a more formal constitution.
E. Role of Women
5.16      Women continue to play an important role in extension both as exten-
sion agents and as members of the target groups. About 15Z of the PPLs
engaged under NFCEP and NAEP II are women. The proposed project would provide
support for training women in food crop production and improved household
management practices. Although the most direct communication by extension
workers has been with the husbands, the women are reached indirectly through
demonstration plots, leaflets, and film shows. On the whole, the extension
system has been essentially neutral regarding the role of women in smallholder
agriculture but efforts are underway to increase the direct impact of exten-
sion services on women.
F. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.17      Monitoring of the project's physical and financial programs would be
conducted by provincial implementation units under the guidance of the PIU.
The provincial implementation units would prepare half-yearly progress reports
which would be reviewed by the PIU. Based on these semiannual reports the PIU
would prepare semiannual progress reports, as well as a project completion
report within six months of the completion of the project for submission to
the Bank.
5.18      The Bureau of Agricultural Extension (BAE) of AAETE would be
responsible for establishing and managing the project's evaluation system to
enable evaluation of the overall success of the project. BAE would also eval-
uate achievements of each project component in relation to its objectives and,
where feasible, estimation of quantified benefits. Funds have been provided



- 30 -
in the project for seve-al studies and ongoing evaluations and for an expa-
triate expert on monitoring and evaluation. The main purpose of the evalua-
tion and studies would be to make recommendations to project management on
modifications or improvements to ongoing extension activities so that they may
be better adapted to the needs and characteristics of the farmers.
G. Research-Extension Linkage
5.19      AARD is responsible for conducting research in the four subsectors,
while each DC is responsible for technical inputs to extension in his subsec-
tor under the coordinating umbrella of AAETE. In response to the need for
close linkages with extension agencies, AARD has (a) established a farming
system research program with a whole-farm approach, and (b) established a com-
munication unit responsible for providing technical assistance to training
courses for extension workers, technical meetings, seminars, and publication
cf technical bulletins and papers. The PPLs and PPSs under the DGs are
responsible for conducting verification trials and other simple on-farm trials
under the supervision of research scientists. The PPSs are required to spend
one third of their time in visiting research institutes, stations, and farms
to interact directly with multidisciplinary research teams working there. The
specialists at the AIC under AAETE are responsible for preparing extension
materials based on their contacts with research scientists and PPSs. A
national technical committee and five regional technical committees were
established under NFCEP and NAEP II comprising representatives from AARD,
AAETE, the DGs and universities to coordinate the technical support program
and workshop and training activities for extension workers at the national and
provincial levels.
5.20      Research-extension linkage would be further strengthened under the
proposed project through (a) meetings once every two months of the Directors
of Extension, Director of the Bureau of Agricultural Extension, and Directors
of Central Research Institutes of AARD; (b) a semi-annual dialogue with the
National Farmers Representative and master farmers by the Directors of Exten-
sion, Director of the Bureau of Agricultural Extension, Directors of Central
Research Institutes, Heads of Bureaus of BIHAS, DG-AARD, DC-AAETE and Secre-
tary of BIMAS in accordance with the Minister's Decree; (c) more frequent,
systematic and effective meetings of research and extension specialists in the
periodic review sessions (para. 3.15); (d) increase in the frequency of visits
by PPSs to research institutes; (e) more verification and on-farm trials to be
carried out by PPLs and PPSs under supervision of research scientists;
(f) more involvement of farmers in the identification of research problems and
interpretation of research findings; and (g) quicker distribution of extension
materials from AICs based on new recommendations resulting from on-farm
trials. Under the Third National Agricultural Research Project being
appraised by the Bank, the farming systems research program would be streng-
thened and placed under a national coordinator and research scientists would
be encouraged to visit farmers more frequently than at present.



- 31 -
VI. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Production Targets and Extension Packages
6.01      Assessments have been made of the main constraints to smallholder
production of the more important commodities, present average yields, agrono-
mically feasible smallholder yields, and expected yields with extension, which
are in each case taken at levels assumed to be far below what could be
potentially achieved with intensive area- and commodity-specific development
programs. These assessments are presented in working papers in the project
file (Annex 6) and summarized in Annex 5, Table 1. In many cases, constraints
are identified in areas outside the purview of the extension effort: for
example, the development of new varieties by research and improvements in
marketing and credit arrangements and price policies. In most cases, however,
yield increases profitable to the smallholder are possible with improved agri-
cultural te-hnique alone, even under present institutional arrangements and
with the varieties currently available.
B. Benefit Estimation
6.02      An economic assessment of the proposed project is difficult for
several reasons. First, its implementation and impact would be dispersed
throughout 27 provinces of Indonesia, and across the entire range of small-
holder agricultural activity. Second, other variables such as research
results, availability of inputs, and attitudes and response of farmers affect
the estimation of benefits in every area or subsector. Finally, it is theore-
tically and empirically difficult to isolate the effects of extension from
those of research, improved inputs, weather trends, changes in relative prices
and marketing systems, general improvements in education and access to mass
media, and programs of investment in transport, agricultural and irrigation
infrastructure. The following economic analysis is therefore presented as a
broad indicator of the economic rate of return for the project based on ar.
identification of certain key parameters and conservative but reasonable
values for these parameters.
6.03      Potential Incrermental Yields.  The assessments of the potential
impact of the project were narrowed to a few selected commodities which would
be emphasized in this project and which would be readily amenable to produc-
tion increases through improved extension. These include the major food crops
(rice, maize, cassava, groundnuts, soybean, sweet potatoes), estate crops
(rubber, coconut, coffee, cloves, pepper, sugar, tobacco, cotton), freshwater
and brackish water fisheries, and livestock (cattle, dairy cattle, poultry,
ducks, sheep and goats). For these commodities, a potential incremental yield
was estimated based on the projected impact of extension alone (Annex 5,
Table 1) assuming only relatively simple improvements in culti'vation
practices, minimum increase in purchased inputs and no major on-farm invest-
ments. These assumed yield increments are far below both the genetic
potential of improved varieties and increases attainable with more intensive
specialized programs.



- 32 -
6.04      Farmer Participation.  Farmer participation was projected on past
experience and on a model of the actual implementation of excension at the
field level, where farmer response depends on the PPL's ability to organize a
group and a visiting schedule, to build close rapport with at least a minimum
number of contact farmers, and to improve their practices and pass on to their
neighbors by demonstration practices. Based on this model, two categories of
food crop farmers and fishermen were defined:
(a) Contact farmers and fishermen (1 for each farmer/fisherman group)
following most of the PPL's recommendations and achieving 100% of
the potential yield increment. This is equivalent to 16 farmers/
fishermen per PPL in Java and Bali where one PPL handles 16 farmer/
fishermen groups, and eight in Other Islands.
(b) Partially participating farmers/fishermen who follow some of the
recommendations of the PPL, i.e., 44 farmers/fishermen per group
achieving 30% of the potential yield increment, 23 per group
achieving 60Z, and 22 per group achieving 80%. It is estimated to
be 99 per farmer/fisherman group formed and 1,584 farmers/fishermen
per PPL in Java and Bali, and 792 in Other Islands.
For estate crops, it is assumed that only an average 50% of the potential
incremental yield will be achieved by the farmers reached. For livestock,
about 30% of the livestock population is expected to be covered which would
achieve 100X of the potential increment. Using the number of incremental
field staff to be recruited under this project and their projected
farmer/area/livestock coverage, the impact of the project was calculated.
6.05      Development Period.  The final incremental production due to the
project is given in Annex 5, Table 2. It is assumed that achievement of
potential incremental yields and production of the representative food crops
and poultry products would require five years, commencing in the year
following introduction of extension in various districts and provinces. The
development period for fish production is assumed to be three years, and for
tree crops, ten years. A two-year lag was assumed for the benefit stream
following the construction of RECs and the recruitment of the staff. These
assumptions are built into the total benefit stream given in Annex 5, Table 3.
E.06      Prices.  Estimates of farmgate prices for the food and tree crops
for 1985 and beyond are based on projections of world prices in constant 1986
currency value for those commodities. For the local fish, food crop and live-
stock products, which are generally not internationally traded and for which
long-term price projections are not available, estimates of typical local
farmgate prices have been made for 1985, and these prices have been assumed to
remain constant in real terms over the life of the project. Although the
potential yield increments were derived under the assumption of negligible
increases in input usage, the gross benefits for each commodity presented in
Annex 5, Table 2 have been reduced by 25% in Annex 5, Table 3 to account for
any incremental input usage which may be necessary.
6.07      Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis.  The indicative project
economic rate of return based on the foregoing set of conservative assumptions



- 33 -
is 32Z. The ERR is relatively insensitive to change in either costs or bene-
fits. Costs could rise by 236% before the ERR would fall below 10Z. Benefits
could decrease by 70X and the ERR would still be 10Z (Annex 5, Table 3).
C. Environmental Effects
6.08      The only foreseeable significant environment impact of the project
would be a positive one in that the introduction of extension recommendations
in the upland and transmigration areas, where erosion due to agricultural
practices is currentLy a problem, would be reduced.
D. Risks
6.09      There are no significant agricultural risks, but the project could
face some management and organizational constraints, and the funding problems
recently encountered by GOI might continue. These risks are minimal and have
been addressed in the project design.
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
Agreements
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on
the following points:
(a) A location committee having determined the general locations, GOI
would determine or cause to be determined by November 1 of each year
the specific site of each REC and each AHP, satisfactory to the
Bank, for the subsequent year (para. 3.08).
(b) Necessary funds would be pr3vided by COI, in accordance with an
agreed schedule, for the reserved procurement of vehicles
(para. 3.11).
(c) Annual training programs satisfactory to the Bank would be submitted
to the Bank by December 31 each year starting in 1986 (para. 3.17).
(d) Consultants for technical assistance in extension, training and
rural sociology would be employed commencing not later than 'une 30,
1987 (para. 3.18).
(e) An adequate level of funding for the operation and maintenance cost
of RECs would be made available to BIMAS (para. 5.05).
Recommendation
7.02      With the above assurances and conditions, the project is suitable
for a Bank loan of US$70 million for a term of 20 years, including a 5-year
grace period, at the standard variable race. The Borrower would be the
Republic of Indonesia.



IND0Nt SIA
THIRD NATIONAL AORICULTURAL EXTFNSION PROJECT
Etimates of Sallholder Aaricultural Land Use, by Province, 1953
Total    SmAllholder  t total area          Num'er of       Estimated        Estimated arem        Estimated arem  Eatimatad arms            tstiomted Area        Annual crops as   Population
ares      agric. area  In cealihol-   amallhold-   averaAe tarm   smallholder annual    Vet season                     other annual       eoallholder peren-   2 of smAllhold-  density per
(eq km)    CnOO  ha)   day farm  (Y)  Inps ('000)   sIte (ha)                crops (0nnn ha)          ('nnn ha)       crop.  (onn  ha)  nial crops ('o00 ha)    er area (2)    aq km (1950)
(1)           (2)             (3)              (4)             (5)                 (6)                 (7)                 (R)                     (9)                   (10)              (11)
West Java                  46,300        6,129             13            3,551             1.72              1,911               1,209                702                     4,218                   7R                593
Central JavY               34,2n6        4,617             13            3,SR9            1,.9               1,796               I,1i5                751                     2,521                  77                 742
Yoxy4ksrta                  3,169          510             16              429            1,19                  172                  66                106                      138                  R3                 868
East Java                  47,922        6,n30             13            3,916            1,5                2,2`1               1,19n              1,n6I                     3,779                  79                 609
IIX  Jakarta                  590           91             is               23            1,96                   19                  1I                  a                       72                  94              11,023
Sell                        5,561          R33              S              346            2.41                 25n                   99                151                      577                  60                 444
SubtotWl            137.74S       15,210             23          11.914             1.53               6.399               3.59n              2,8ng                    11s805                  78
North Sumatera             7n,7R7        5,956             13            1,n06            5.90                 9n4                  45n               454                    R5n,2                   52                 115
West Sumster               49,778        4,426              9              506            8.75                 402                  208                194                    4,024                  68                  65
Laspuns                    33,107        4,166             13              724            5,75                  202                 147                 s5                    3,964                   sn                139
North Sulaweal             19,023        2,883             is              290            9.94                  152                  43                109                    2,731                   38                III
South Sulavesl             72,781        9,1n7             12              Anl           11.26               1,123                 545                s7R                     7,A94                  14               * 3
West Nuea Tenggara         20,177        1,949             10              395            4.90                  333                 187                146                    1,616                   77                 135
Laet Nums TenRars          47,876        2,993              6              457            6.55                  311                  7n               241                     2,hR:                  65                  57
Subtotal            313,729       34,39n            1             4,2R2            8.25               3,427               1,650              1,777                    30n963                   59
South S      "matera      203,6h8       12,256             12              S68           21.5R                 369                  146               223                    11,AR7                  27                  45
Aceh                       55,392        7,493             14              397           18,87                 5s6                  273               313                     6,907                  Ss                  47
Riau                       94,5h2        5,750              9              2R4           3n.91                  324                 130                194                    0,456                  32                  23
Jambi                      44,924        5,852             13              212           25.22                  320                 146                174                    5,531                   23                  12
IBengkulu                  21,165        2,ns5            In               114           15,14                  121                  66                 55                    1,934                  54                  36
Veet Kalimnten            146,760       14,632             10              193           37,23                 426                  234                192                   24,206                  58                   17
South Eallmntan            37,660        2,74n              7              319            5.59                 446                  311                131                    2,294                  67                  55
Central Kalimantan        152,600       16,464             11              151          209.03                  220                  94                126                   16,244                  48                    6
East Kalimantan           202,44n       16,061              a              115          139,66                  231                 197                 34                   25,53n                  6n                    6
Central Sulavesi           69,725        5,255              R              207           25.39                   94                  41                 51                    5,161                  43                   i8
Southeast Sulawesl         27,656        4,832             17              144           12.43                  R9                   26                73                     4,741                  45                   14
Naluku                     74,505          ,.,           ,,,               191              .,,                                                        , ,,  ,,,              ,,.                  37                  19
Subtotal         2.032.122        96.419              9            3.140           30,71               3,226               1.656              2,570                    93.193                  47
Irian JAYA               421,921           ...           .,.               161             ,,,                 ,,,                  .,,               .,,                        65                  35                    5
Total            2,904,i50       149,019              9           19,399            7.65              23,2                 6,R96              6,1S6                   115,961                   62
Notes,   (1)  Column& 1, 7, 9 and 10 from, Statictical Yearbook of Indonetla, 1983,
(2)  Column .n estimated fron irrigated paddy field, dryland And tainfed, grassland, garden, ponds and 8n0  of total plantation excluding forest land,
(3)  Column 3 equals column 2 divided by coluon 1.
(4)  Column 4 smallholdtngs by number of farms from Asricultural Creiasu 1953,
(5)  Column S equAls column 2 divided by column 4.
(6)  Column 6 equals column I plus column A.
(7)  Column 9 equals column 2 minus column 6.



- 35 -
ANNEX 1
Table 2
INDONESIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Number of Households by Subsector /a /b
('000)
(1)      (2)       (3)      (4)          (5)         (6) /d
All        /c                    Fisheries
All    agric-   Food        All     Freshwater  Coastal
Province          sectors  culture  crops   livestock    culture   fisheries
Aceh                     557     396       314      110           3          14
North Sumatra          1,639   1,060       845      187          16         29
West Sumatra             730     509       430       96          65          10
Riau                     462     286       160       39           3         24
Jambi                    325     230       183       41           4          2
South Sumatra            908     570       434       80          13         14
Bengkulu                 170     136       106       24           6           1
Lampung                  926     730       631       95          13          5
DKI Jakarta            1,265      27         7        4           1          3
West Java              5,552   3,929    3,032       733         121         33
Central Java           5,552   3,929    3,032       733         121         33
DI Jogjakarta            608     440       370       101         15           1
East Java              6,804   4,663    3,276    1,284           33         92
Bali                     501     357       262      164           8         11
West Nusa Tenggara       651     442       332       150          3          19
East Nusa Tenggara       513     460       447      188           2         14
West Kalimantan          505     377       343       96           6          12
Central Kalimantan       210     149       127       25           2          4
South Kalimantan         479     323       28-       38           3          9
East Kalimantan          256      116       91       22           3          8
North Sulawesi           416     299       248       76          12         24
Central Sulawesi         255     209       159       56           3         15
South Sulawesi         1,176     805       673      311           3         20
Southeast Sulawesi       187     159       117       24           1         26
Maluku                   244      191      149        29          1         49
West Irian               228      161      139       65           2          17
East Timor               121      114      110        32          1          2
Total              32,232  21,190   16,356    4,490          699        493
/a  As of 1983.
/b Rounded.
T7  Includes tree crops.
T7  Columns 3,4,5,6 are not additive due to double counting and subsector
omissions.
Source: GOI, Agricultural Census 1983.



ANNEX 1
- 36 -                               Table 3
INDONESIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Production of Some Major Agricultural Commodities (1978-1983) and
Target for 1988 (last year of Repelita IV)
(in thousand tons)
Items           1978     1979      1980    1981 /a  1982 /b  1983 /d   1988
Rice              17,523   17,872   20,163   22,286   23,191   23,462   28,624
Maize              4,029    5,606    3,991    4,509    3,207    5,180    6,656
Cassava           12,902   13,751   13,726   13,301   12,676   13,219   17,756
Sweet potatoes    2,083    2,194    2,079    2,094    1,897    2,231    2,564
Soy beans            617      680       653       704      513       580    1,370
Peanuts              446       424      470       475      434       477      724
Sea fish           1,227    1,318    1,395    1,408    1,490    1,527    2,058
Inland fish          420      430       455       506      530       552      753
Meat                 475       486      571       596      629       671       894
Eggs                 151       164      259       275      297       316       432
Milk /c               62        72       78        86      117       135      586
Rubber               884       898    1,002    1,046       861    1,017    1,514
Palm oil             532      642       701       748      874       972    2,470
Coconut            1,575    1,582    1,759    1,812    1,736    1,628    2,914
Coffee               223       228      285       295      266       234      348
Tea                   91       125      106       110       92       111       130
Pepper                46        47       37        39       38        32        49
Tobacco               81        87      116       118      117       122      267
Sugarcane          1,516    1,601    1,831    1,700    1,861    2,164    3,204
/a Revised figures
/b Tentative figures
/c In million liters
7T Forecasted figure.



-37 -                                                     ANLN   2
Table 1
INDONESLA
THIRD NATIONAL ACRICuLTuRAL iEnmsioN PROJECT
Project Cost Estimte
Foreign   Proportion of
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total exchange    base coat
(Rp billion) -    -   (USS millien) -                (I)
Civil Vorks
Construction of new RECs                             R.7    2.7      11.4   7.9     2.5      10.4     24
Purchase of land for new and existing RECs           8.0     -        8.0   7.2      -        7.2      -
Site development                                     1.7    0.6       2.1   1.6     0.5       2.1     24
Expansion of existing RECa                           8.7    2.8      11.5   7.4     2.5      In4     24
Construction of animal health posts                  1.6    n.5       2.1   1.4     0.5       1.      24
Construction of PPL houses In Irian Jaya and
E. Timor                                           1.6    0.5       2.1   1.4     0.5       1.9     24
Subtotal                                         30.3    7.1     37.4  27.4      6.5      33.9     19           34
Vehicles
Motorcycles                                          1.6    1.6       1.2   1.4     1.5       2.9     50
Four-wheel drtve vehicles                            0.8    0.9       1.7   0.8     0.8       1.6     50
Animal health mobile vehicles                        0.6    0.6       1.2   0.5     0.3       1.0    50
Audiovisual mobile vehicles                          0.1    0.2       0.3   0.2     0.1       0.3     48
Subtotal                                          3.1    3.3      6.4   2.9      2.9       5,R     50            6
Furniture
For new RECs                                         1.1    0.3       1.4   0.9     n.3       1.2     24
For expanded RECs                                    1.1    0.4       1.5   1.1     0.3       1.4     24
Subtotal                                          2.2    0.7      2.9   2.0      0.6       2.6     24            3
Equipment
Basic equipment for new RECs                         0.2    0.5       0.7   0.2     0.4       0.6     64
Basic equipmnat without generator nd pressure
lamp for new RECs                                  0.1    0.1      0.2   0.1      0.1      0.2      64
Specialized equipment for new RECs                   0.8    1.3       2.1   0.7     1.2       1.9     64
For aniuml health posts                              0.1    0.3      0.4   n.1      0.2      0.3      64
Subtotal                                          1.2    2.2      3.4   1.1      1.9       3.0     64            3
Training
Pm? basic training                                   3.0    0.2       3.2   2.8     0.1       2.9      5
PPM basic training                                   1.0     -        1.0   0.9      -        0.9      5
PPS bastc training                                   1.0     -        1.0   0.9      -        0.9      5
PPL & PPM skill training                             7.7    0.4       8.1   7.0     0.4       7.4      5
FPS skill training                                   1.3    0.1       1.4   1.2     0.1       1.3      5
Farmers' skill training                              2.8    0.2       3.0   2.6     0.1       2.7      5
Diplom  course (3 years)                             2.1    0.1       2.2   1.9     n.1       2.0      5
Diplom  course (l year)                              0.8     -        0.8   0.7      -        0.7      5
Masters degree (in-country)                          1.8    n.1       1.9   1.6     0.1       1.7      5
Ph.D. degree (in-country)                            0.1     -       0.1   0.1       -        0.1      5
3 montha overseas traintng                           0.1    1.4       1.5   0.1     1.1       1.4     9n
Masters degree abroad                                0.2    2.3       2.5   0.3     2.0       2.3     gn
Ph.D. degree abroad                                   -     0.4      0.4    -        v.4      0.4     90
Subtotal                                         21.9    5.2     27.1  20.1      4.C      24.7     19           25
Technical Assistance and Studies
Long- and short-term consultancies                   0.1    1.4       1.5   0.1     1.3       1.4     90
Engineering consultant                               1.8    0.1       1.9   1.6     0.1       1.7      5
Studies                                              0.1     -       0.1   0.1       -        0.1      5
Subtotal                                          2.0    1.5       3.5   1.8     1.4       3.2     44            3
Incremental Operational Cost
Salaries and operating cost of PTl                   1.2     -        1.2   1.1      -        1.1      -
09 of RECs                                          1.7    0.2       1.9   1.5     0.2       1.7     10
0OE of vehicles                                      1.3    0.9       2.2   1.2     0.8       2.0     40
Salaries of incremental PPLa. PIKs. PPS.            24.0     -       24.0  21.8      -       21.8      -
Subtotal                                         28.2    1.1      29.3  25.6     1.0      26.6      4           26
Base Costs                                        8A.9   21.1    110.0  80.9    18.9     99.8     19          100
Value-added tax (VAT)                                  A3      -        8.3   7.5      -        7.5                   8
Physical contingencies                                 6.5    1.4       7.9   5.9     1.3       7.2                    7
Price contingencies                                   18.8    3.5      22.3  17.1     3.:      20.2                  20
VAT (price contingencies)                              1.7     -        1.7   1.5       -       1.5                    I
Total Project Cost                              124.2   26.0    150.2 112.9    23.3    136.2       17         13.6



- 38 -                               ANNEX 2
Table 2
INDONESIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Summary of Construction Costs
Cost
Number    Area per    per unit   Total cost
of unit   unit m     Rp million   Rp million
Construction of new Rural
Extension Centers                  400        168         28.56         11,424
Fencing, site development and
access roads for new RECs          400          -          5.71         2,284
Expansion of existing RECs         1,402         48          8.16         11,440
Construction of Animal
Health Posts                       200         72         10.8           2,160
PPL housing in East Timor
and Irian Jaya                     210         36         10.08         2,117
Total                                                               29,325



39-                                              ANNEX 2
Table 3
INDONESIA
THIRD RATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Construction Program - Settled Areas and Transuigrtion Areas
(number of units)
1987/88               1988/89             1989/90                  Total
A    B    C   D     A    B    C   D       A    B    C   D      A      B     C    1
Aceh                       6   10   3   -      11   17   4    -       5   10   2   -      22     37    9    -
North Suatera              7   20   8   -      9   40-                    19   -  -      21      79    8    -
West Sumatera              5   16   -   -       6   29   2    -      -   13   2   -       11     58    4 A
Riau                       5    7   3   -      8   12   2    -       8    5   -   -       21     24    5    -
Jambi                      7    7   -   -       8   12   4    -      5    5   -   -       20     24    4    -
South Sumatera            10   17   2  -       10   28   4    -     10   11   -   -       30     56    6    -
Bengkulu                   5    6   -   -      6   10-    -          -    3  2   -        11     19    2    -
Lampung                    7   14  -   -        7   234    -         6    8   2   -       20     45    6    -
West Java                  -   60   4   -      -  105  9    -        -  44 -              -    209   13    -
Jakarta                    -    2   -   -      -    4   -    -       -    2   -   -       -       0    -    -
Central Java               -   35   3  -       -   68   6    -       - 33   2   -         -    136   11    -
Jogjakarta                 -    4   3-         -    8-    -          -    3   -   -       -      15    3    -
East Java                  -  40  10   -       -   74  12   -        -   33   -   -       -    147   22    -
Bali                       -    8   2   -      -  -14-    -          -    5   -   -       -      27    2    -
West Nusa Tenggara        10   10   2   -      7   18   5    -       5    7   -   -      22      35    7    -
East Nusa Tenggara        10   23   -   -      9   10   3    -       9    9   -   -       28     42    3    -
West Kalimantan            5   10   2   -       5   20-    -         4    9   2   -       14     39    4    -
Central Kalimantan         3    5   -   -      -    84    -          -    3   2   -       3      16    6    -
South Kalimantan           6   10   4   -      8   17   3    -       4    5   -   -       18     32    7    -
East Kalimantan            5    4   2  -       10    7-    -         5    3   -   -      20      14    2    -
Nortb Sulavesi             4   10   3   -      5   15   2    -       4    5   -   -       13     3-    5    -
Central Sulawesi           5    7   3   -      4   12-    -          -    5   -   -       9      24    3    -
South Sulawesi            10   12   3   -     20   49   5    -      15   10   -   -      45      77    8    -
Southeast Sulavesi         5    7   2  -       4   12   -    -       3    5   -   -       12     24    2    -
Maluku                     5    6   2   -      -    9   -    -       7    3   -   -       12     18    2    -
Irian Jaya                10    3   3  40     14    5   -   70      10    2   -  31      34      10    3  141
East Timor                 4    3   -  20      5    5  -   30        5    2   -  19       14     10    -   69
Total               134  356  64  60    1S6  631  69  100    110  268  14  50    400  1.255  147  210
Note:  Column A -   Construction of new Rural Extension Center, fencing. mite development and access
roads.
Column B -   Expansion of existing RECs (addition of one PPM house).
Column C -   Expansion of 147 RECs being constructed under NAEP II (addition of one PPM house).
Column D -   PPL housing in Irian Jaya and East Timor.



- 40 -                              ANNEX 2
Table 4
INDONESIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Number of Rural Extension Centers
Being
construc-     Proposed
Existing    ted under       under
REC        NAEP II       NAEP III      Total
Aceh                              37            9           22             68
North Sumatra                     79            8           21            108
West Sumatra                      58            4            11            73
Riau                              24            5           21             50
Jambi                             24            4           20             48
South Sumatera                    56            6           30             92
Bengkulu                          19            2           11             32
Lampung                           45            6           20             71
West Java                        209           13            -            222
Jakarta                            8            -            -              8
Central Java                     136           11            -            147
Jogjakarta                        15            3            -             18
East Java                        147           22            -            169
Bali                              27            2            -             29
West Nusa Tenggara                35            7           22             64
East Nusa Tenggara                42            3           28             73
West Kalimantan                   39            4           14             57
Central Kalimantan                16            6            3             25
South Kalimantan                  32            7           18             57
East Kalimantan                   14            2           20             36
North Sulawesi                    30            5           13             48
Central Sulawesi                  24            3            9             36
South Sulawesi                    77            8           45            130
Southeast Sulawesi                24            2           12             38
Maluku                            18            2           12             32
Irian Jaya                        10            3           34             47
East Timor                        10            -           14             24
Total                     1,255          147          400          1,802



- 41 -                               ANNEX 2
Table 5
INDONESIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Vehicle List
Unit     Total
Vehicle types, placement and ratios                 Numbers      cost      cost
- Rp million -
Four-wheeled vehicles
PPS, provincial project officers,
provincial BIMAS secretary                         121       14.0       1,694
PIU                                                     3      14.0          42
Motorcycles
For 1,802 RECs                                     3,206        1.0       3,206
Mobile Units
Animal health                                         45       25.0       1,125
Audiovisual                                            11      31.0         341
Total                                                                 6,408



- 42 -                              ANNEX 2
Table 6
INDONESIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Schedule of Vehicle Provision
Total
Type                                        numbers       1987     1988     1989
Four-wheeled vehicles                         124           54       40       30
Motorcycles                                 3,206        1,200    1,200      806
Animal health mobile unit                      45           14       22        9
Au*diovisual mobile unit                       11            3        6        2



- 43 -                              ANNEX 2
Table 7
INDONESIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Cost of Furniture and Equipment for Rural Extension Centers
and Animal Health Posts
Cost per
Number of REC or         REC       Total cost
Item                              animal health posts   Rp million   Rp million
Rural Extension Centers
Furniture                         400  (new)               3.37       1,348.00
Additional furniture            1,402  (expanied)          1.07       1,500.14
Equipment                         100  (new)               1.57         157.00
Equipment                         300  (new)               2.25         675.00
Specialized extension
package for food crops          180                      4.29         772.20
Specialized extension
package for estate crops         95                      3.00         285.00
Specialized extension
package for livestock           132                      1.12         147.84
Specialized extension
package for fisheries           220                      4.25         935.00
Animal Health Posts
Equipment                         200                      1.93         386.00
Total                                                              6,206.18



- 44 -                              ANNEX 2
Table 8
INDONESIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Basic Equipment and Furniture for New RECs
Basis of            Unit             Total
supply             cost              cost
Item                   per REC           (Rp '000)         Rp million
Furniture
Desk with chair                   8                125               1.00
Meeting table                    10                 60               0.60
Meeting chair                    20                 25               0.50
Cupboard                         4                 120               0.48
Book rack                        4                  60               0.24
Filing cabinet                   4                 125               0.50
Blackboard                        2                 25               0.05
Total                                                            3.37
Equipment
Typewriter                        1                400               0.40
Calculator                       3                  30               0.09
Cassette recorder                 1                100               0.10
Megaphone                         3                 75               0.225
Slide projector                   1                750               0.75
Total                                                            1.57
Equipment
Pressure lamp                     3                 25               0.08
Generator                         1                600               0.60
Total                                                            0.68
Additional Furniture for Expanded RECs
Desk with chair                   3                125               0.375
Book rack                         3                 60               0.18
Cupboard                         2                 120               0.24
Filing cabinet                    2                125               0.25
Blackboard                        1                 25               0.025
Total                                                            1.07



- 45 -                               WM 2
Table 9
INDONESIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Specialized Extension Package for Food Crops
at Rural Extension Centers
Basis of      Unit
supply       cost      Total cost
Item                                per REC     Rp '000      Rp million
Hand duster                                     10           15           0.15
Insect net                                      10           10           0.10
Hand sprayer                                    10           45           0.45
Mist blower                                      2          350           0.70
Light trap                                       1           80           0.08
Measuring cylinder                               5           20           0.10
Household scale                                  1           50           0.05
Soil auger                                       1           50           0.05
Farm tool set                                    3           70           0.21
Spring scale 25 mg                               5           10           0.05
Measuring tape                                   5           10           0.05
Magnifying glass                                 5           10           0.05
Hand tally                                       5           10           0.05
Chart board                                      5           10           0.05
Flip chart frame                                10            5           0.05
Thresher                                         1          150           0.15
Winnower                                         1          200           0.20
Groundnut peeler                                 2           75           0.15
Corn peeler                                      2           50           0.10
Cassava cutter                                   2          400           0.80
Plowing tool                                     2           40           0.08
Corn grinder                                     2          100           0.20
Dry-land weeder                                  2          100           0.20
Row marker                                       2           35           0.07
Rake                                             2           25           0.05
Pruning knife, scissors, hoe, sickle, etc.       2           50           0.10
Total                                                                4.29



- 46 -                              ANNEX 2
Table 10
INDONESIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Specialized Extension Package for Estate Crops
at Rural Extension Centers
Basis of      Unit
supply       cost       Total cost
Item                                per LEC      Rp '000      Rp million
Penetrometer                                      2           27            0.054
Coagulation tank                                  2          7.5            0.015
Tapping knife for rubber                          3          1.5            0.005
Occulation knife                                  3         15.5            0.047
Occulation tape                                   5          1.2            0.006
Wire spring for cup                                5         0.5            0.003
Latex cup                                         5            2            0.010
Spout                                            25         0.75            0.019
Plastic tape                                      1            5            0.055
Sharpening stone for rubber                       2          0.5            0.001
Snap cut                                          5           15           0.075
Hand mangel                                        1         200            0.200
Metrolax                                           1          75            0.075
Huller for coffee                                 1        1,250            1.250
Drying floor for coffee                           1          200            0.200
Fermentation tank for coffee                      1           75            0.075
Moisture tester for coffee                         1         125            0.125
Filter mesh type                                  2            5            0.010
Bag for coffee                                    5          0.5            0.003
Basket                                            5          1.5            0.008
Free injection instrument                         1          250            0.250
Package                                           2          0.5            0.001
Stage                                             2          2.5            0.005
Basket for pepper                                 5          1.5            0.008
Rake                                              5            5            0.025
Kacip knife                                       5           10            0.050
Cutting knife                                     5            2            0.010
Sui                                               4          1.5            0.006
Smoke room                                        1          300            0.300
Saccharometer                                     1           75            0.075
Drying mat                                        3            2            0.006
Bamboo rack                                       1           20            0.020
Boiler                                            1           10            0.010
Cloth                                             3           10            0.030
Drier/drum for green tea                          2           10            0.020
Total                                                                 3.000



- 47 -                             ANNEX 2
Table 11
INDONESIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Specialized Extension Package for Livestock
at Rural Extension Centers dnd Animal Health Posts
Basis of        Unit
supply per       cost          Total cost
Item                                REC/AHP         Rp'000         Rp million
Livestock Care at REC
Ear marking plier                     5              10             0.050
Tatooing forcep                       5              30             0.150
Castration knife                     5                5             0.025
Artificial insemination set           5              40             0.200
Forcep for applying bull ring         5              20             0.100
Egg test'ng lamp                      5               8             0.040
Egg grader                            5              25             0.125
Killing cone and knife                5               5             0.025
Shear master                          1             140             0.140
Milk tester                           1             200             0.200
Weighing scale                        1              60             0.060
Total                                                            1.115
Animal Health at AHP
Desk with chair                       2             125             0.250
Filling cabinet                       1             125             0.125
White board                           1              40             0.040
Syringes                             10              40             0.040
Borduzzotang                          2             170             0.340
Scalpel                              4                5             0.020
Scissors                             5                5             0.025
Artery klem                          10               5             0.050
Forceps                               5               5             0.025
Suture needles                       5               15             0.075
Needle holder                         5              15             0.075
Suture                               5               15             0.075
Pincet anatomis                       5               5             0.025
Pincet cairrurgis                     5               5             0.025
Automatic injection                   1              50             0.050
Obsetric equipment set                1             400             0.400
Rubber gloves                         6               5             0.030
Total                                                            1.930
Grand Total                                                      3.045



- 48-                             ANNE 2
Table 12
INDONESIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTMRAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Specialized Extension Package for Fisheries
at Rural Extension Center
Basis of      Unit
supply       cost       Total cost
Item                                per REC      Rp '000     Rp million
Hapu net                                          6          50            0.300
Cotton pieces                                    10          10            0.100
Plastic bowl                                      5          15            0.075
Funnel                                            5          10            0.050
Casting net                                       5          50            0.250
Plastic bag                                      10          20            0.200
Oxygen tank                                       3         100            0.300
Plastic rope                                     10          12            0.120
Hoe                                               5          15            0.075
:' ckle                                           5           6            0.030
Spade                                             5          15            0.075
Container                                         5         100            0.500
Portable pH meter                                 1         600            0.600
Filter paper                                      5          12            0.060
Thermometer                                       1           5            0.005
Sechi disc                                        1         200            0.200
Portable water test kit                           1         500            0.500
Drying rack                                       1         100            0.100
Tray                                              1          10            0.010
Cooling box                                       1         500            0.500
Noozle tester                                     1         200            0.200
Tota'l                                                                4.250



INDONESIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Training Programs and Cost
Number of participants by area of training
Ext. Ed.           Prod.   P har-                  Unit    Total
Training program                      Duration  & Homec   Agrib   tech.   vest T    Total           cost    cost
Overseas
Short-term training for PPS
and ext. officers at Provin-
cial and Kabupaten level           3 mos.        30        30      40        60        160       9.n4    1,446
Masters degree                      2-5 yrs        10        10       15       25         60       38.6    2,316
Ph.D,                                3 yrs          2         4       -         2          8       55.0       440
In-Country Training
Ph.D.                               3-S yrs         -         3        3        2          8       16.0       128          1
Masters degree                      2-5 yrs        30        80      40        30        180      9,275    1,669           X
Diploma course                       3 yrs         60        90      60        90        300      6,820    2,046
Diploma course                        1 yr         90        90      90        70        340      2,000       680
PPL basic training                  30 days    9,n00          -       -         -      9,000      0,318    2,862
PPM basic training                  30 days    3,000          -       -         -      3,000      0.318       954
PPS basic training                  30 days    1,500          -                 -      1,500      0.590       885
PPL and PPM Special
skill training                     7 days    2,000    8,000  30,o0o   50,000    90,000          0.082    7,380
PPS special skill training          14 days       200       600   1,000    1,400       3,200      0,410    1,312
Key .^rmer-men, women and
youth-special skill
training                           7 days    6,000    7,700   9,000   10,000    32,700         0.082    2,618
Total                                                                         i40j456               24,736
Note:  Ext. Ed. & Hlomec  -  Extension Education and Home Economics.                                                       |
Agrib,             m  Agribusiness.
Prod. Tech.        -  Production Technology.
P, Harvest T       -  Post Harvest Technology.



INDONESIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Specific Skill Course for PPLe, PPMF. PPSs. and Farmer.
Extension education and                                              Production technology              PoathaTeeat technology
human resource development         Agribusiness                           and economics                      and marketing                  Kiscellaneous
Development Communication          Agribusiness of Production         Production TechnoloRy              Postharvest TechnologY             Orientation training for
(Communication elements,        supplies                              Production of soybeans,            Technology of rice, secon-         PPL, PPS
techniques, evaluation)         Seed/seedling improvement             corn, horticulture                 dary crops, horticulture
program                         Production of coconut,              rechnoloRy of milk, egg,         Basic training for PPLs,
Group Dynamics                       Animal breeding improve-             cocoa, rubber                      meat                             PPM., PPSs
(Role of members, role of            ment program                    Dairy cattle, beef cattle,          Technology of fish/shrimp
facilitators)                   Fish breeding Improvement             poultry                         Technology of estate              Intensification of brack-
program                         Fish/shrimp culture                   crops:  coffee, cocoa,           ishwater culture
Home Economics                       Animal feeding program                                                  tobacco, vanilla
Family welfare                     Fish feeding program            Farm Hansaement                                                        Water management
Family business                                                       Integrated farm business        Marketini of
Use of resources                ARribusiness ot Product               Food crop farm business            Food crop products               Mobile unit operation tech-
Processing of                        Estate crop farm business          Animal products                    nique
Secondary crops                   Livestock farm business             Estate crop products
Horticulture                       Fishing business                                                    Audiovisual aid
Fish/shrimp
Kilk/egg                                                                                               Adaptation training
.                                           .~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
1'-1



-51-                              ANNEX 2
Table 15
INLe)NESIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Capacity of In-Service Training Centers
Existing             Additional by
Capacity           in 2341            Total
Province          Number    (man-month)    Number    Capacity    capacity
Aceh                      1            950         -             -          950
North Sumatra             2          2,050         -             -        2,050
West Sumatra              1            950         -             -          950
Riau                      1            950         -             -          950
Jambi                     1            950         -             -          950
South Sumatra             1            950         -             -          950
West Sumatra              3          4,850          1          900        5,750
Central Java             3           3,800         -             -        3,800
Yogyakarta                1            950         -             -          950
East Java                 3          2,500          1          900        3,400
Bali                      1            950         -             -          950
East Nusa Teuggara        1            950         -             -          950
West Kalimantan           1            950         -             -          950
South Kalimantan          1            950         -             -          950
North Sulawesi            2          1,850         -             -        1,850
South Sulawesi            1         1,5000         -             -        1,500
Maluku                    1          1,200          1          900        2,100
Irian Jaya                1            600         1           900        1,500
Lampung                                             1          900          900
East Kalimantan          -               -         1           900          900
Yogyakarta
(Estate T.C.)             1          2,600         -             -        2,600
Indonesia            25          30,450         6        5,400        35,850
Note:  (a)  West Java includes Ciawi National Training Center and Fishery
Academy Out Station.
(b) Fishery Training Centers are located in: North Sumatra, Central
Java, East Java, North Sulawesi, Maluku and Irian Jaya.
(c) One Animal Health T.C. in West Java and one Milk Production and
Processing T.C. in East Java.



INDONESIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Schedule of Prolect Expenditures /a
(US$ million)
1987/88           1988/89          1989/90           1990/91           1991/92           1992/93        Total exe enditures
Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign  Total
Civil workB           2,4       -       9.2      2.1    11.0       2.9      4,8      1.5       -        -        -        -      27.4      6.5    33.9
Vehicles               -        -       1.1      1.1      1.1     1i1       0.7       -        -        -        -        -        2.9      2.9'    5.8
Furniture              -        -       0.6      0.2      0.9      0.3      0.5      0.1       -        -        -       -         2.0     0,6      2.6
Equipment              -        -       0.3      0.6      0.5      0.9      0.3      0,4       -        -        -        -        1.1      1.9      3.0
Training              2.5      0.3      4.9      1.0      5.3      1.5      3,9      1,2      3.1      0.6      0,4       -       20.1      4.6    24.7
Technical assis-
tance & studies   0.3         -       0.4      0.3     0.4      0.4      0,4      0.3      0,3      0,3               0.1       1.8      1.4      3.2
Incremental ope-
rating costs        2.o      0.1      5.1     0,2       5.1     0.2      5.1      0,2      5.1      0.2      2.6      0.1      25,6      1.0    26.6
Total           7.8      4.0    21.6       5.5    24.3       7,3    15.7       4,4      8.5      1.1      3.0      0.2      80.9    18.9    99.8
,^   GOI Fiscal Year - April I to March 31.
II1



- 53-                              ANNE-  3
Table 2
INDONESIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Total cost
including
price con-                          Disbursement
tingencies   Foreign    Proposed      in % of
and VAT    exchange  allocation   total cost
Categories of expenditur.           -     (US$ million)
Civil works                         35.4        7.6        30.0          90
Furniture                            3.4        0.7         6.0          /a
Equipment                            4.0        2.2                      h
Technical assistance,
training and studies              33.7        7.0        27.0         100
Unallocated
Land acquisition                   9.5         -
Vehicles                           7.7        3.3
Incremental operations cost       35.3        1.2
Physical contingencies             7.2        1.3         7.0
Total                         136.2       23.3       70.0
/a  Disbursement would be 100% of foreign exchange of directly imported equip-
ment and g3ods, 65% of total cost of locally procured imported equipment
and goods, and 95% of ex-factory costs of locally manufactured equipment
and goods.



- 54 -                              ANNEX 3
Table 3
INDONESIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements /a
IBRD fiscal                                               Profile
year and               Cumulative                                     Bank
semester             disbursements            Project              projects
(USS million)                        (%)
FY87
First                     0.1                    0.1                   2
Second                    2.0                      3                   5
FY88
First                     5.0                      7                  12
Second                   10.0                     14                  19
FY89
First                    16.5                     24                  27
Second                   24.0                     34                 36
FY90
First                    30.0                     43                  44
Second                   36.0                     51                 51
FY91
First                    45.0                     64                  58
Second                   52.0                     74                 65
FY92
First                    58.0                     83                  76
Second                   65.0                     93                 78
FY93
First                    70.0                    100
/a  Closing date December 31, 1992.



- 55 -                                        ANNEX 3
Table 4
Page 1
IDNESIA
THIRD N&TIONAL AGRICULTI2AL EXrENSION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule (October 1986-June 1992) /a
(Number)
1987188  1988/89  1989/90  1990191  1991/92  1992/93  Total
Recruitment of Extension Staff
PPL                                        -     1,000    1.000   1,000       848        -    3,848
PPM                                        -       425      600      500      400        -    1,925
PPS                                        -       200      237      200      200        -      837
Animal health officer                      -        50       50       50       50        -       200
Construction of RECs
Land acquisition for new RECs            134       156      110        -        -        -      400
Cost estimates, invitation of bid,
bid evaluation and signing of con-
tract for new RECs                        -       134      156      110        -        -      400
For expansion of RECs                    -       700      702       -         -        -    1,402
For PPL houses                           -       105      105       -         -        -      210
For animal health posts                  -       100      100       -         -        -      200
Civil works and site development for
new RECs                                 -       134      156      110        -        -      400
Expansion of existing RECs                 -       420      700      282        -        -    1,402
PPL housing                                -        63      105       42        -        -      210
Animal health posts                        -        60      100       40        -        -      200
Procurement of Vehicles
Motorcycles                                -     1.200    1,200      806        -        -    3,206
Four-wheel drive vehicles                  -        54       40       30        -        -      124
Animal health mobile units                 -        14       22        9        -        -       45
Audiovisual mobile units                   -         3        6        2        -        -        11
Procurement of Furniture: For new
RECs                                       -       134      156      110        -        -      400
Procuiement of Equipment
Basic for new RECs                         -       134      156      110        -        -      400
Additional for expanded RECs               -       420      700     282         -        -    1,402
Specialized extension package
For food crops                           -        50       80      50         -        -      1S0
For estate crops                         -        28       47       20        -        -       95
For livestock                            -        40       61      31         -        -      132
For fisheries                            -        66      110      44         -        -      110
/a GOI Fiscal Year - April to March 31.



- 56 -                                         ARMEX 3
Table 4
Page 2
INDONESIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule (October 1986-June 1992)
(Number)
1987/88  1988/89  1989/90  1991/91  1991/92  1992/93  Total
Overseas Training
Short-term training                       20         40       40       40       20        -      160
Masters' degree                            -         30       30        -        -        -       60
Ph.D.                                      -          4        4       -         -        -        8
In-Country Training
Ph.D                                       -          4        4        -        -        -        8
Masters' degree                            -         90       90        -        -        -      180
Diploma course (3 years)                  60        120      120        -        -        -      300
Diploma course (1 year)                   40        100      100      100        -        -      340
PPL basic training                       900      2,100    2,100   2,100    1,800         -   9,000
PPM basic training                       300        900    1,200      300      300        -   3,000
PPS basic training                         -        450      450      300      300        -   1.500
PPL and PPM special skill training   18,000    18,000   18,000  18.000   18,000           -  90,000
PPS special skill course                 600        900      900     600       200        -   3.200
Key farmer-men, women and
youth-special skill training         3.900      6,400    6,400   6,400    5,600    4,000  32.700
Technical Assistance
Extension advisor (mm)                     -         12       12        -        -        -       24
Training advisor (mm)                      -          6       12        6        -        -       24
Monitoring and evaluation
advisor (mm)                             -          6        3        3        -        -       12
Rural sociology advisor (mm)               -          6        6        -        -        -       12
Studies
Study and evaluation of T&V system
(months)                                 -          3        3       -         -        -        6
Study and evaluation of farmer's
participation (months)                   -          3        3        3        -        -        9
Study and evaluation extension
methods (months)                         -          3        3        -        -        -        6



INDONESIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Total Number of Extenslon Agents (PPL/PP1)
Fiscal Year 1986/87
Food crop                 Livestock                 Fishery                   Estate                 AIC                    Total
Pn       Hr   Total       Pn    Hr    Total       Pn    Hr    Total          Pn      Hr    Total       Hr  Total        Pn       Hr    Total
Jabar              3,384       502   2,886    46       133     179     118      106    224                200      2nn       I      1       2,54R      942   3,49n
Jateng              1,945      717   2,662      20     liq    139        23    I1I    134                 294      294       1      1       1,988   1,242   3,21n
0.l, Yogya            286       R1      367     14      63      77       8       22      31                39       39                        308      205      513
Jatim              2,119       554   2,673   lln    144    254           32      98     130               552      552                      2,261    1,348   3,609
Sumut                836       27n    1,106     16    140      156       15     81       96               284      2R4       1      1         867      776    1,643
Sumbar                588      191      779     27      73    inn        18      6l      79               249      849       3      3         633      577    1,210
Lampung               394      429      823      6      56      62        q      36      45               319      319                        409      840   1,349
Kalsel                475      287      762     21      7n      92       19      41      6n               153       153                       515      551    1,n66
Sulsel               829       498    1,327     19      62      82      36       71    In7                294      294       1      1         884      926    1,810
Bali                  368       IR      3R6     28      43      71      25       47      72               17n      170                        421      27R      699
DKI Jaya               37       51        RR    15      36      51               17      17                                                    52      104       156
D.I. Aceh            322      I1n       422     14      7n      84      23      60       83               291      29l                        359      521      q88
Riau                 29n       294      584      8      65      73        3      33      36               384      384                        301      776   1,n77
U'
Jambi                 266      219      485    11       44      55       20      17      37               411      411       1      1         297      692      989
Sumsel                787      729   1,516      12      70      82       in      51     hl                367      367       1      1         8n9   1,219   2,n27
Bengkuliu             173      174      347    11       $5      66      2n       26      46               1IQ      liq       I      1         204      375      579
Kalbar                283      330      613    14       45      59        9      31      42               3nl      301                        306      7n9    l,015
Kaltent               1,i      247      438      6       13     39        3      16      Iq               162       162                       2nn      458      658
Kaltim                164      226      39n    1l       5n      68       13      35      48               138      138                        195      449      644
Sulut                229       IR8      417     16      2R      44      26      41       67               294      294                        271      551      822
Sulteng              245       190      435      3      36      39              42      42                143      143                        24R      411      65q
Sultara               111      399      512      A      11      39       16      i5      51               29l      191                        137      656      793
NTR                   3n6      175      481     18      45      63        2      41      43               IR2      182       6     6          326      449      779
NTT                   161      457      61h    2n       86     In6       in      32      42               197      199                        191      774      965
Maluku                 77      315      392      6      34      40       13      26      39               195       195                        96      57n      666
Irja                   68      5nq      577     12      24      36      13       26      29                98       98                         93      647      74n
Timtim                  9       67       76             16      16               19      19                46       46                          9      148       157
Total        13,945   8,217  22,162   499  1,671  2,17n    484  1.214  1,698                      6,n75   6,075       16    16       14,928  17,193  32,121
Legend:
AIC - Agricultural Information Center
Pn  - Civil Service                                                                                                                                                     I|
Hr  s Honorary                                                                                                                                                            1



-58- SNu8 -
Table 2
:.4DONESIA
THIRD NATIONAL ACRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Total Number of SubLect Matter Specialists (PPS)
Fiscal Year 1t98687
Food crop         Livestock          Fishery             Estate                 AIC                 Total
Pn   Nr   Total   Pn  Hr   Total   Pn  Hr   Total    Pn   Hr   Total    Pn  Hr   Total           Pn   Hr   Total
Jabar             43   23    66      -    7      7      5    5   10        -    -      -       6   14    20         54   49    103
Jateng            61   16    77      -    6      6      7    6   13        -    4      4      10    2    12         78   35    113
D.I. Yogya        11    4    15      -    6      6     2    2    4         -    -      -       1    4      5        14   16      30
Jatia             6n   26    86      -    7      7      5    7   12        -    8      8      13    2    15         66   63    128
Sumt              24    7    31      -    6      6      3    7   10       -    2       2       5    2      7        28   28      56
Sumbar            24    7    31      -    6      6     2    7    9         -    2      2       7    2      9        23   34      57
Lampung           25    -    25      -   11    11       2    3    5        -    I      1       6    3      9        33   18      51
Ralsel            20    4    24      -    6      6     -    9    9         -    -      -       6    5    11         28   22      50
Sulsel            38   31    69      -    7      7    11    6   17         -    -      -       5    5    10         52   51    103
Bsli              16    6    22      -    6      6     3    9   12         -    2      2       -    8      8        19   31      50
DKI Jaya           7    6    13      -    2      2     -    2    2         -    -      -       -    3      3         7   13      20
0.I. Aceh         13   13    26      -    3      3      3    -    3        -    -      -       q    1    10         25   17      42
Risu              18    7    25      -    3      3      3    5    8        -    -      -       -    5      5        21   20      41
Jambi             16    R    24      -    6      6      I    a   10        -    -      -       4    6    10         20   30      50
Susel             23    4    27      -    8      8      1    2    3       -    I       1       -    5      5        27   17      44
Wengkulu          16    3    19      -    7      7     -    2    2         -    -      -       -    3      3        19   12      31
Kalbar            18    5    23      -    6      6     7    £   11         -    I      I       -    6      6        26   21      47
Kalteng           12    R    2n      -    6      6     -    6    6         -    1      1       -    2      2        14   21      35
Kaltim            12    9    21      -    7      7     -    1    1         -    -      -       -    4      £        14   19      33
Sulut             14    5    19      -    5      5      1    3    4        -    I      1       -    5      5        17   17      34
Sulteng            5   14    19      -    5      5     2    3    5        -    2       2       -    7      7         8   30      38
Sultars           13    4    17      -    3      3     3    5    8         -    -      -       -    A      4        16   16      32
NTB               15    3    18      -    7      7      5    3    8        -    -      -       6    8    14         25  22       47
nTT                9   15    24      -    8      a    12    2   14         -    -      -       -    4      4        22   28      50
Maluku            10    7    17      -    4      4      1    1    2        -    -      -       -    6      6        11   18      29
Irjs               9   14    23      -    2      2      2    -    2        -    4      4       1    4      5        13   23      36
Tiutim            13    2    15      -    2      2     -    3    3         -    -      -       -    6      6        13   13      26
Total      545  251   796       -  153   153    81  112  193         -   29    29        79  126   205       705  671  1.376
Legend:
AIC - Agricultural Infornstion Center
Po - Civil Service
Hr - Honorary



INDONESIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Extension Staff Requirement for Transmigration Areas
Number of transmigrants            No. of PPLs  No, of PPSs        Total          Total
Not covered    As targeted                 available    available   no. of PPLs  no. of PPSs
Province              by NAEP II   in Repelita IV   Total    (as of December 1984)            required      required
Aceh                      2,700          17,938        20,638         35            5              41             5
North Sumatra               616           5,687         6,303         26            1              13             2
Riau                      3,850         56,243         60,093        110            5             120             5
West Sumatra              5,400           4,345         9,745         23            4              19             4
Jambi                     9,350         29,550         38,900         78            4              78             4             1
Bengkulu                  6,862         10,728         17,590         44            2              35             2
South Sumatra            17,307         66,588         83,895        213           5              168           10
Lampung                  20,799          11,315        32,114          0            0              64             6
West Kalimantan           5,171         70,842         76,013        111            6             152             8
Central Kalimantan        2,000        126,756        128,756         78            2             258            14
South Kalimantan          7,667          9,450         17,117         80            4              34            4
East Kalimantan           7,618        110,204        117,822         60            2             236            12
North Sulawesi            2,155           1,500         3,655         11            0               7             1
Central Sulawesi          9,633          10,307        19,940         50            0              40             3
South Sulawesi            8,009          5,570         13,579         19           0               27             2
Southeast Sulawesi        8,641         15,345         23,986          5            3              48             3
Maluku                      536          13,970        14,506          13           2              29             3
Irian Jaya                1,594        167,739        169,333         50            3             339           17
Total             119,908         734,077       853,985       1,051          48           1,708           105
Note:  Minimum PPL required is one PPL for 500 transmigrants.
w I



INDONESIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Monthly Salaries and Allowances of Typical Extension Personnel
(Rp)
Spouse  Children's Position   Special   Project    Other
Basic   allowance allowance  allowance allowance allowance allowances    Net salar
Status and years of service                 salary    (2%)      (5%) /a      (20%)      (10%)                (Avg)    (Rp)    (US$) _
Head District Extension Service            140,400      2,888      7,020     17,500       none   25,000        none  192,808   175.3
15 years experience
(salary scale III/b)
Subject Matter Speciallst (PPS)             88,300      1,766     4,415        none       none   19000o    39,000   152,481   138.6  *
3 years experience                                                                                                                    o
(salary scale III/a)
Middle Level Extension Worker (PPH)         58,200      1,164      2,910       none       none   11,500      40,00n  113,774   103,4
3 years experience
(salary scale Il/b)
Field Extension Worker (PPL)                36,500        730      1,825       none       none   11,50n      40,000   90,555    82,3
3 years experience
(salary scale II/a)
/a 5% per child. Maximum allowance for three children.
T7 US$ u Rp 1,100.



- 61 -                                                     ANNEX 4
Table 5
INDONESIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Incremental Operational Cost
Unit cost  Total     Rupiab billior             US$ million        2 Foreign
Item                                     Unit   (Rp OOO)   units  Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total exchange
Project Implenentation Unit
Salaries                                 -           -        -   0.32      -      0.31   0.21    -       0.29        -
Operating expenses                       -           -        -   0.91      -      0.91   0.83      /b    0.83        -
Subtotal                                                       1.22      -      1.22   1.12    -       1.12       -
REC's Operation and Maintenance        One year   3,500       540   1.70    0.19    1.89   1.54   0.18    1.72         10
Vehicle Operation and Maintenance
Motorcycles                          One year      330    5,406   0.97    0.71    1.78   0.88   0.60    1.48         39
Anlial health  obile units           One year   2,500        45   0.07    0.04    0.11   0.06   0.04    0.10         39
4-vheel drive vehicles               One year   1,500       178   0.17    0.09    0.26   0.20   0.10    0.30         39
Nobile units                         One year   2.500        11   0.02    0.01    0.03   0.01   0.01    0.02         39
Subtotal                                                       1.28    o.q0    2.18   1.15   0.80    1.95        39
Incremental Field Staff
Salaries
PPLs/PPMa                          Man-year   2,300    9,000  20.7        -     20.7   18.8      -      18.8        -
PPSa                               Man-year   2.750    1.000   2.8        -      2.8    2.5      -       2.5        -
Animal health officer                          2,300      20n   0.5       -      0.5     -       -      0.45       -
Subtotal                                                      24.0      -      24.0   21.8      -      21.8       -
Total Cost                                                    28.2      1.1    29.3   25.6    1.00    26.6         4
/a  10T on all recurrent cost except Incremental field staff and allovances.
/b Negligible.



INDONESIA
TlRJI  NATIONAL ACRICULTUlAl EXTENSION PRDJECS
Maitn Constratnts to Production end Potential for Increasing the Yields of Hlior Casom4itles
Provinces with major                                                                                                          Present            Agrononically         Expected yield
mallholder activities                    Main constraintr to Increasing                   Key points for                   averaRe emall-             feasible          with tsproved
Comodity                    In order of itpor:ance                       small holder production                  emphasis In extensloo                  holder yield          average yield            exteneinn
(1)                                (2)                                             (3)                                   (6)                              (5)                    (I)                    (7)
Paddy (rice)         W.Jav, PR.Jave, C.Java, S.Sulaweail    Peetr (chiefly brown plant hoppers               Selection of varieties resistant to    Jeva:  45 ton/ha    Javal 6n tnn/ha             Javal 50 ton/he
(dry gabah)          N.Su.ntra, S.Sumatra, Wi.Kaliantan,    and rate); diseamers  limited periods  local pnsta/diseases; improved nur-   Other Islandst                       Other Imland.s        Other Island.:
S.Kali.antan. W.Sumatra, Acsh, Lom-    of w ;er eupply or floodingl lack of  sary management;  timing, rate and                    10 ton/he            45 ton/ha             3S ton/ha
puns, Kra, Bali, luau, Jambi, NIl          upland blast-resistant varietiea.           method of applicetion of  tertilizerr
and pesticides; correct age of
transplantingI pest surveillancel
comwnal rat control; water unage-
ment including drainage In maturity
period.
Haize (dry seed)   E.Java,  :.Java, S.Sulaweat, NTT,             Downy mildew and inaufficient Rood          Introduce short duration NW  In             Javal 1.7 ton/he    Jeva:                  Javat 2.1 ton/ha
N.Suiawest, V.lava, N.Sumatra, Ralf,  seed of mildew-reasitant varinty;                I.!Java and in other provincee              Other Islands:        2.75 ton/ha          Other Island.s
S.E.Sulaweat, Jogjakarta,                  yield ciceely linked to rainfall and  mildew-resietant NYV; correct time                1.6 ton/he            Other Islands:        2.3 ton/ha
C.Sulavesi, Laspung, NTi,                  risk factor and unreltable marketing  of plantiOg and peat control; rate,                                     2.3 ton/ha
discourage farwere from using cash          time, method of application of far-
input.                                     tiliserl Improved proceesing and
atorage.
Cassava (fresh       E.Java, C.Java, W.Java, Jogjakarta,    Poorly developed marketing system                Selection of high-yielding bacterial  Java: 9.9 ton/ha   Javat 20 ton/ha               Javal
root)               LWmpung, NTT, S.Sulavesl                     and low frugeAte price; Inadequate          blight-resistent vartetlas; improved   Other Islands:                                  12.3 ton/ha
supply of Inproved planting                procesaing to achieVe better quallty   9.8 ton/ha                                       OtWer Islands:
material; crop   nragsement poor due       and pricel promote use of ferti-                                                        12.2 ton/ha
to lack of incentives and knowledxe.   lier; better plant spacing; erosion
control mecures.
Croundnut            E.Java, C.Jeva, W.Java, Jogjakarta,    Marketing system and price fluctue-    Introduce Improve HYVs; ur. of good    n.95 ton/ha                          1.5 ton/ha           1.25 ton/ha
(shelled)            S.Sulawesi, N.Sunatra  NM.                  tion; inadequate supply of good geed   seed rate, time, method of applica-
of Improved vaztetite; rather poor         tion of fertilizerl Improved pest
quality of product due to lack of          and disease control and poet-harvest
effective peat control and poat-           handling:  improve sowing timing and
harvest handling,                           land preparation, ItiLng where
necessary.
Soybean (dry         E.Java, C.Java, NTd, Lampung,               Pod-boring tneecte uncontrolled;            Introduce improved varietiea; to-          0.90 ton/ha            1.sn ton/ha           1.1 ton/ha
seed)                W.Javs, JogJakarta, N,Suutra, Bali    indeterminate fruiting pattern,                   proved seed and preparation/planting
cercospors rust disease; rather poor  technique, best control, end post-
quality due to lack of effective           harvest handlinag  rhtiohtua
past control and low standard of           inoculation; btaal phosphatic and
manageoent.                                 initial nitrogen fertilIter
application.
Sweet potato         X.Java, W Java, C.Java, Irian Jaya,    Lack of effective marketing system               Introduce improved planting                 7l.  ton/ha          2n ton/ha             If ton/ha
(fresh r-)t)         N.Sumatra, NTT, Bali, NTB, Maluku           and adequate toproved planting              materials;  improved rate, time, and
Materiall titmted use of cash Inputs  method of application of fertLizer
due to lack of market end price            and poet-harvest handling.
level.
Si                              (El~~~~~~w1



Provincese vith eaJor                                                                                                        Present            Agronomically         Impected yield
emallholder sctivities                   Main constraints to increasing                  Xey points for                    average smal-             feasible          vith Improved
Commodity                   In order of Importance                       small holder production                  emphasis in extension                 holder yield          average yield            extenxton
(1)                               (2)                                             (3)                                    (4)                             (5)                    (6)                    (7)
Coconut (dry         Java harat: Java Tiaurl Jaws Tengshl  Poor maintenance and production                  Rehabilitation postbilities Includ-  62n kg/ha p.s.               2,O0-3,000           7S0 ks/ha p.m.
copra)               Sulewesi Utara: Riau; Sulawesi              techniquesl Insufficient replanting,   ing maintenance methods, response to                                 kg/ha p.x. from
Tengahl Malukul Sulavesi Seletan:          poor transport, communication and           fertiliners, removal of ste.1le tall                             hybrid material
Lampung; Sumatera Utxare                   mrketing system.  Little Incentive    palms, pest and diseset recognition
to produce good quality cnpra.             end action, and intercropping possi-
bilities. Processing, marketing and
cooperative formAtion. Replanting
posslbilities.
Rubber (dry          Sumatera Selatan: Jambil loliantan    Aging protble Of Poor genetic poten-  Rational tAppInA syste*zs  ccording                   340 ks/ba P.A.        7O-60Nn kg/ha        40n  kg/ba p.s.
rubber)               retail Sumatera Utera; ltaul               tiall poor muantenancel Injurious          to tree age and condition.  Improved                             from Improved         of improved
lKlimantan Tangahl Ralimantan              tapping methods; no sanuringl poor          tapping standards and latex collec-                              quality clonal       quality.
Selatan; Sumatera earet,                   transport and processing                   tion and processing methods.  Inter-                              saterial
infrastructurel no price incentive         croppinx possibilities.  Karketinil
for quality,                               and cooperative forsation,  Rsplant-
ins possibilities.
Coffee (dry          Sumatera Selatan: Lampungi  Sengkulu:   Credit and marketingl premature                Improved uaintenance procedure with    375 kg/ha P.a.             1,000 kg/ha p.m.   5no kg/ha p.ae
green beans)         Aceh: Java Timurl SumAtera Utaral           harvest of cherries to get cash;           particular reference to pests and                                 from Improved        of tmproved
selt. Sulawesi Selstang Javw  Tensgh;  poor knowledge of maintenance and              diseses  pruning and manuring.  Cor-                              clonal mterial       quality
Ruse Tenggara Timur                        processing procedures.                      rect harvesting stage and process-
ing,  Marketing and cooperative for-
mation. Raplanting possibilities.
Cloves (dry          Java Tengahi Lampung; Jaws Sarat:           Credit and mrketingA  smll term            Improved mAintenance proceduree.            60 klt/l& p.o.       4An  kg/ha p.a.       lStlke/ha p.a.
buds)                Jeav  Timur: Sulawesi Tengsh:               sisal poet and disease  problems:          lmproved harvesting and proceseing                                from improved        of improved
Sulgveai  Selatan: Sulawesi Utarea         poor quality of farmer produce:  far-  techr..ques.  Correct manuring.                                       material.             quality
Aceh: Maluku; Sumatere Utara               mre' lack of knowledge of crop man-  Possibility of intercropping market-
ageent, harvesting eod processing          Ing and cooperative formAtion, 
techniques.                                loproved varletlee.
Pepper (day          Lampung; Sumaters Selatani                  Disease problems: poor maintenance:l  Improved mintenance procedures.                  SW kg/ha p.m.         1,500 kq/ha p.m.   600 kg/ha p.a.
corne)               Kalimanten Timurg Kallmntan garat:    unbalanced manurlng:  lack of mulch-    Improved harvesting and processinp                                                             of Improved
BSngkulu                                   Inge: harvesting and proceesing            techniques,  Proper support trees or                                                   quality
deficiencies,                              poles,  Poesibility of intercrop-
ping, Marketing and cooperativa
tormation. Improved varieties,
Sugar (sucrose)    Javw  Timur: Java Tenrgah; Java Sarat;  Land preparation and maintenance                 Improved land preparation and               4,400 kg/ha p.s.   I0,nn0  kg/ha           5,000 kg/ha p.m.
Sumatera Earat: Topyakarta                 procedureel poor harvesting                maintenance procedures.  Peat and                                 p.A.
procedures.                                disease control,  Improved
varieties.
Tobacco (dry         Jaws Tensgh: Javw  Timur; Sulaeesi          Poor selection of areas relative to    Improved land selection and prepara-  Vlrginia tobacco   VT                                VT
cured leaf)          Selatan: Nuee Teongara Baratl Jaws          nutrient status and varietiee: pest   tion methods.  Improved maintenance    (VT) 620 kgha                   1,0)0 kg/ha p.s.   700 kg/ha p.s.
Sarat: ASch                                and disease control; procesetng             particularly mAnuring.  On-farm pro-  p.s.                       LT                    Local tobaeco
shortcomings,                              caseinA methods.  Markating and             Local tobecco         1,000 kg/ha p.o.   LT
cooperative formtion. Improved             (LT) 520 kg/ha                              575 kg/ha p.s.
varieties.                                 p.m.
Cotton (seed         Sulawesi Selatan; Jaw:% Tlxur: Nuss         Land preparation; past and diseaea         Improved 'hnd selection and prepara-   700 kg/ha pa.              1,x.0  kg/ha  x.a.   775 kg/ha p.s.
Cotton)              Tenggara Srat; Java Tengah                  control; processing deficier,cies,         tion.  Pest and disease control
particularly ..'^.,ting. Maintenance
methods. On-farm processing
methods.  Marketing and cooperative
formation. Improved varieties.



Provinces with malor                                                                                                           Present             Apronomlcelly         Expected yield
mallholder activities                     M41n constraints tn increallng                   Key points for                    average etuli-             feasible          vith Improved
Commodity                   in order of Importance                        smail holder production                   emphasis in extension                  holder yield          average yield            extenston
(1)                                (2)                                              (3)                                    (4)                              (S)                    (6)                    ( 71
h,a1rine fisheries    SumatrR, Java, Sulawei, KalimantAn    Overfishinp; lack of extension; poor  Coemunity development; education;                        1,non kg/year        Not Applicable         I.5 t/year
quality of products at landing              tranimigration.
places.
Brsckhihwater        Javal S.Sulawesi; Acch                       Water controll extension;  fry for          Water control; pond enAineering;  uu   Qn kg/ha                   qnn ky/ha              300-S00 kI/ha
fleheries                                                         stockinA.                                   of seedstock; predator control.
(prawn)
freshwater           W.Ilaval C.Javal E.Java; WVSumatra,          Water supply and quaity and water           Water qualityl pond engineering and    1,nof  kg/ha/year    I,RO-2,5nn                   IAlnn kt/ha/rear
flsherieo            N.Sumatra; N.Sulavesi, Jamblj               managemnt; lack of quality and               mAnagement;  fertiliser and feeding                               kg/ha/year
Bangkulu                                    quantity of fish fry; laek of               techniquel parasites controll pro-
knowledge abeut pond manaseent.             c'iremnt; production and handling of
fry and fingerling.
Beef cattle and    W.Javal C.lav, ?.Java, 5.5ulawesi,    Host cattle and buffalo kept for                     Iducation farmers to potenttal and          '6 kg                 -                      57.f6A kg live-
buffalo mat           Aceh, Balt, NTS, C.Kalimsntan;              draft purposes and farmers not              methods of keeping animAl. for meet    ltvAweieht/                                       weight/total
production           W.Sumatra                                    oriented to meat production;  need          production; concentrate extension           total population                             population
breed isprovewnt, better nutrition,   effort Initially on improved                                                                  Lower mortality
husbandry, credit, marketing and            nutrition and disease control,
slaughter facilities and farmer             followed by pen construction, feed
education.                                  and fodder production, and basic
breeding guidelines.
IRg  production       E.Java; W.Javn; C.Java, LamounR,            Lack oft  adequate Improved breading   Educate farmses to potential commer-  1n eggs/laying                   R0 eggs/laying         42 eggs/laying
S.ulawesi, Aceh, N.Sumatra,                 atoTe  fective grading, price And    cial egg production; concentrate ex-  hen/year                           hen/yeAr              hen/year
S.Kalimantan                                marketing system; knowledge of tech-   tension efforts initially on im-
niques of small-scale poultry               proved nutrition and disease
management.                                 control.                                                                                                        r
K1lk production       W.Jsval C.Javal W.Javal N.Sumatra           Lack ofi  adequate improved breeding   leproved nutrition of dairy cattle               2,snn                                        2,625
stocks  knowledge and skill of far-    and disease control.                             liters/lactation                            liters/lactation
mere, cashi small farm elsel collec-                                                    /cow                                         /cow
tion, processinA and sarketing sys-
teme must be improved.
Sourceet Directorate General of Food Crops Agriculture
Directorate General of letnte Crops
Directorate Ceneral of Fisheries
Directorate General of Livestock.
-1%A



INDONESIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTFINSION PROJECT
Calculation of Indicative Economic benefits
Expected yield                                     Inere-                            ToL.  annual   Typical current  Typical future  Potential gross
Present             with t proved                                      mental         Extension           Incremental          economic           economic       annual economic
Commodity                   average yield              extension         Potential increment /a    no. of            coverage /t          production       farm-gate price  farm-gate price          benefits
(tone/ha)              (tone/ha)                 kahe/y r          I    PPL               (ha)               (tons)            (USS/ton)          (Us$/ton)        (MUS million)
_ j~rf . I..
liddj Irice)
Java                          4.S                     S.n                     SOO           12.5    4no             22,360             11,120                l3n                233                 2.6
Other Islands                 3.0                     3.5                     500           17.0    900             47,480             26,n90                                                       6.1
3a45:
Java                           1.7                    2.1                     400           25.0    400             21,080              8,430                190                385                 1.6
Other islands                 1.6                    139                      300           25.0    900             50,445             15,133                                                       2.8
Ciasava                          9.9                   12.3                   2,400           25.0  13300              7,475              17,94n                IS                  IS                0.3
Croundnut (sholled)            0.95                    1.25                     200           33.0  13200              7,475               2,242               580                600                 1.3
Soybean                         0.9                      1.1                    200           32.n  1,300              7,475               1,495               300                350                 0.5
Swat potato                      7.8                   10.0                   2,200           28.0  1,300              7,475              16,445                25                 30                 0.5
Estate Croops Lb
Itubtsr                        0.34                     0.4                      60           18.0    son            250,000             35,n0O                62n                760                11.4
Coconut                        0,62                    0,75                      110          21.0    565            282,500              36,725               290                 460               16,9
Coffee                        0.375                     0.5                      125          33.0     100            50,n00               6,250             1,39n              3,500                 9.4
Cloves                         0.06                    0.15                       IS          25.0    100             50,000                 75n             6,600              6,800                 5._
Pepper                          0.5                     0.6                      100          2n00      50            25,000               2,500               755                780                 1.9
Sugar                          4.44                     5.0                     560           13.0    125             50,000             28,000                200                220                 6.2
Tobacco
Virginia                     n,62                     0.7                      80           13.0      SO            25,000              21000              3,245              1,404                 2.8
Local                        0,32                   0.575                      55           11.0
Cotton                        0.707                   0.775                       68          10.0      10             S,nno                 340             1,062               1,100                0.4
Fishery le
Freshwater                       l.                      1.8                    800             -   2,0no          32,000 fully          57,ono                 7n0                 77n              43.9
Marine                           1.0                     1.5                    SOO                               participating
brackish water                  On.9                   n.3-(.5                  310                                 fsherhmn
198,000 pertially
participating
fisherven
Livestock
population
Livestock                                                                                                               covered
Cow/ Tfalo weat          56 kg liveweight/   57.68 kg liveweitht 1.68 kA/cow/buffalo   3.0  1,200                  2.4 million         4,032 tons             0.6/kA              tl9/kg              3,6
total population       total population
Milk                        2,00ln lI:ar/          2,625 liters/       125 liters/milk cow   5.n  1,200         42,non milk cowa  5.25 win liters           n.25/liter         (0.34/liter            1.8
milk cow               milk cow
Local chicken meat                -                       -              0.03 kg/chieken       5.0  1,200          41.9 million        1,257 tons             1.3/kag             I3./kg              3.
Local chicken egAs        40 apgs/chicken         42 egRs/chicken         2 *goe/chickan       5.0  1,200         41.9 million       83.8 *ln eggs          005/egg             0,07s5/ea            6.3
Duck meet                                                                0 -  .012 kg/total    2.n  21,20          7.2 million           86 tons             3.07/kg               1 2/kg             0.1
population
Duck eggs                         -                       -                4 egtgs/duck        2.n  2,200          7.2 million       28.8 mln egIs           o0n./esg            n.32/egg             3.4
Sheep and goat meat               -                       -            0.27 kg/goat/sheep    3.0  1,200            3.6 million          972 tons             0l.4/kR              1.26/kg             1.2
Draft power /d                    -                       -            per kg paddy price       -        -               -                  -                0.18/kg              2.33/kV            11.1
/a Asaming only one crop per annum, full bensfits achieved over five years. Representative holding aesumed to produce all sitx ujor food crops.
i Pull benefits aehieved over ten years.
Pull benefIts rehieved over three years.
/d  Bnefits froumncresezd draft power are aesumed to be shown through a 31 increase in the aoulint of land prepAred annual for rice croppimn.  Data usedl  2.7 million ha to be covered,
3 tons/he paddy rice at $0.14/kg farm-gate price.
l Based on difference between present average yield and expected yield with improved extension.
_F Por food crops, assuming that one PPL will have 16 contact farmers in Java and Bali (S In other islands) who will achieve 1002 of potential Increment and rest of the farere covered
(1,584 in Java and ail and 792 In other Islands) achieving 502 of the potential increment; reprosentative holding site is 0.4 ha for paddy, n.2 ha for mAte and 0.l ha each for rest
of food crops. for estate crops, 50S achievement of incremental yield ti aesumed and figures are In full ha equivalent of WO2 adoption; eR,g, PPLs In rubber would cover sn,o000 ha
which vould achieve 502 of the potential increments, thus equal to 25n,00n ha achieving 3002 of the potential incraese. For fishery, assuninp 36 contact fishermen per rPL will
attain 1002 of the potential incremnt, and rest of fishermn (1,585) will attain 25  of potential increxent.



- 66 -                                     ANNEX 5
Table 3
INDONESIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Indicative Economic Costs and Benefits
Year:  1      2      3       4     5     6      7     8     9      10     11  12-20
Incremental
benefits
(BI)             -      -       -    1.6   5.1  14.5  35.6  62.8  92.2  117.1  129.7  132.4
Incremental
costs (C1)     6.7   28.9   35.0   20.0  15.0  12.0  12.0  12.0  12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0
Incremental
Net Benefit
(NI)          -6.7  -28.9  -35.0  -18.4  -9.9   2.5  23.6  50.8  80.2  105.1  117.7  120.4
Internal Rates of Return of Net Strems
Down    Down    Down      Lag     Lag      Lag
Bi    Up 10%  Up 20%  Up 50%   10%      20%      50%     1 yr    2 yrs   3 yrs
Cl            31.626  33.504  35.254  39.906  29.594  27.373  18.933  27.068  23.676  21.040
Up 10Z        29.786  31.626  33.339  37.888  27.793  25.611  17.282  25.533  22.353  19.876
Up 20Z        28.137  29.945  31.626  36.086  26.177  24.028  15.784  24.151  21.158  18.820
Up 50%        24.028  25.763  27.373  31.626  22.139  20.060  11.961  20.678  18.140  16.145
Down 10%      33.704  35.627  37.419  42.192  31.626  29.358  20.777  28.791  25.155  22.340
Down 20%      36.086  38.062  39.906  44.822  33.953  31.626  22.867  30.753  26.832  23.809
Down 50%      46.297  48.522  50.603  56.174  43.901  41.299  31.626  39.016  33.810  29.870
Lag 1 year          -       -       -        -       -       -        -  31.626  27.068  23.676
Lag 2 years        -        -       -       -        -       -        -       -  31.626  27.068
Lag 3 years        -        -       -        -       -       -        -       -        -  31.626
Switching Values at 10%
Appraisal                    Switching                    Percentage
Stream                       value                        value                         change
BI                        456.97                       L.>.9Z                        -70.26
Cl                        135.92                       456.97                         236.21
Net present value at OCC 10% - 321
Internal rate of return - 31.6%
Coupon equivalent rate of return - 43Z



INDONESIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Organizatlonal Chort of the Mlnlstiy of Agdculture
|  M!nistoa d Agcltt
In2  3  4        5                                              - 51 Sectela r1
Go rwal                                                                                  Gerwwala
D4rectoate Cenerol of                            Drectoate Genera l                                  ectorote General dt                        Dvnctorate General al
Food Crops    Figiorlos                                         LIstok                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~       ~~               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Estate Crops  -.
R9 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~930312334356378390
Agency for Agricultural                                                    Agency for Agricullural
Reseorch & Developmrnen|                                                 Educant  foin rx
W.eld B onk-27395



-6  -                                                  Chart 15
INDONESIA
NA7IONAL AGRICULTURAL EatENUON PROJECT 111
DWIded OrganIonka1     l Choit at he Mhinsi d AAgfculfute
V .-..d   l _.I
_~~~~ (t d__    _                      df
,0 D-     . IC W  U
_           s o   qvea_
~~ (t                     _V'Ih.. o   
U £          eO D
sJ .
II &w
2s 0 sow-_sOCow_
f    ~         
ofcv.Pc. e0 De                             cn. .-&P.-
_            so ezvz~~3
r~~J r e>C~.
.w  c            2        3 D_O".f  E.%  D@_.  V%
43 C-r, ft-k                _r_
e f _ | X D e cl  _  D_Ke a-0c
4I CZ                        D
AG.ftf           5 Or_esw_w{_ao



- 69 -
Chart 2
INDONESIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
BIMAS Organizaffon Structure
BUBS 80Ae                     a
CtoriorD: MinistertofrAgibuto
n>           Expe|B rtE Team d    l
NATIONAL
BIMAS SECRETARIAT                , TednKI reOM
Head: Bknos Sacrly
Bureau at AnmimHsbratond
- Bureau of Plannros
- hB3auo of CGetli Dist but on &
Repayywnt
- Bureau dt Farrn nput Supl
& Daskiotrin
Cnops PiAcu.
-aiteceou oH Aneia HusbDndri &
- BLbreset  of Estate Cop Pt
-Neou dStatsticw Repoft
& Evaluation
PR4OVINCIA LBWAS UNrr.
CholmrKcn: Gowrw
Dal Exeuo: Kcdovl AgrkeW
IPRONCIALI
D       BIMAS SECRErARlAT
Rccr BWIW UNITf|
Choimfnan: Bupal
Daily Executor. Head of Dominant
_           9t~~~ubsector1
.            ~~~~~DtSMCT BWAS SECETMAPrAT
VAbd Boznk-27398



- 70 -
Chart 3
INDONESIA
NAllONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT III
Organization of Kakonwal of Minishy of Agriculture (Type A)
NATKOCJD&
Mniw5ter ir                            Mnter tor
Home Alla                              Aqcufwe
I   Seceftw                                sea J  e c-6t ,eneri
PROCINCE
Go________ ___ _    _akO_Ar
1 I xSecret I
Rega                    Geneal                TeChnology             Education               Contol &
Ptogrm                AgCuftue           _ Apct'on                   Traininlg &        _ Evauat                         AS
Extenson
Data             ~~~Farn              AgnaiulturaEtnsol                             -b*Io                     -M
DevetVgment               Troining               *CbOflPzvi
Anxlysas&                i
Progrcmn  Commodity           Fretd                  Ex~~TensiongDcto
World Bank-273J99



- 71 -
Chart 4a
INDONESIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Organization of the Directorate of Extension Under
- Directorate-General Food Crop Agriculture
- Directorate-General of Livestock
- Directorate-General of Fisheries
I     Director-General
r   Director 0W  |
Extenon               Faf fnrs               Extension   | |       EKnernson              Tronsder at
PFfgan              kIstMiti                  Staff               Gucoc                 Techro"b
GuKknoe          Guidance         G_ICOnC                      Focilfitij            Gukidonce
jPpaoiont foRzr w |m                             Staf               of dExden               Eil:xsostctions
Prucio               P.P                         laffnin            EquTiprnntl 
Guc1nc  -1:1<{<   -
EKtension                                                          Pm~~~~~~~~~~~~~U duBonk-70



- 72 -
INDONESIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Organization of the Directorate of Extension
Under
Directorate-General of Estate Crops
I    DWedorGeCart
at EstateCrops
L.    ~~~II
I     Directr of Estae 
|Crops Exdenslon
I     Secretarial
EAd Program             Ext. Program            Guidance for               F
Guidance for            Guidance for             Ext. Workers &                                  Ext. Materils
Project Area           Non Proj. Area             hsttutionis
Program                 PrvmProject]
H Guknc for                GuJac fo                    Arec                   Fame                    Reeac
OMU Area  Trormnigrcdion           ~~~~~~Institutions         GopRonwdfo
Guidance for        Progrom Guiionce for         Non Project    1                  a s            Trials and
NES Areo     l       NonPrj Area              Area lnstitution   |Skid                          Applicajon
Ext. Method  Bd- MethociExtension                         Copxten ih                   dnsion
for Project              for Non                                                                  Mol8*f
Area     Pfojocf Area             ~~Workrers            Professional Org.          Pouh
Monitoring &             Extension                                Jans
Ewikxflon             kFcilities                                        MaterLio
Note- PMU - Project Management Unit.
NES - Nucleus Estate Smoliholder.                                                                World Bank-30526



INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT III
Organizatlon of the Bureau of Agrcuhural Extenslon under AAETE
Diroctor Gonoral
Buroau of Agr
Extenion
Orroctor
DMsio of                       Dvatn of                                Dsisnt of                                  Division of                             Dvsion d
Aanc Extondcn                             4c Extonstn                            Acrk Fxtonsion                                 Fcrmuts                              Agnc Extonw
nno Eltrdtns on                 ~~~~~~~Prcogram a                       Forsuonno &                                Organization                            Ccopotolion
Malhodologtes FiCilty                                                              indution_
SubdsOdmsion of                         SUbdfAwSOn ot                             SuWiviwon d                                SSuudMs*n dt
Agnrc Ex?ens on                         Agnc Externson                    _       Agrnc. ExtAQn                    _              Extension0                        A ftic   dxacn
M6thodologess                              Ftagrom                                   p hsll                                 Formr/ hrnan                             Cooperation
SUbdmsion 0i                            Stwbdision                        |      Subdivilim d                                SubWmwn of                            SubcIatsKn of
Agnc. Exlension                         Agnc Extension                           Agnc Extrnm                                   ForYalh                               M o lton &
Mechanismf                               FocilitisIsiuinWociOgnztinEauto
SubdMsian Cf                             SubdMsOnw Ofo  fSbmo    fk mwo
Agrnc Extension                          Agric Exlension                          AgcEtmi                                      gcExeinAn  xos
Sytem                                Impact analysisCutc  ams/FtYohAdnntrtn
Sysiem  Irmccol orVztivSs   {  Fishermen  F   |   Ogoonuzoton   ]        l             u a
WOMBo 3cnk-2739'4     r



INDONESIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Orgonization of Proposed Project Implementation Unit
~~~~~Natk3mlo= r,Isdonr
Direcfor Genera INtOlic*liisin                                                
AretAM                                       fofefal  AC _  _  _  _  _ _   E4 enshl - 4--   Directors-Generat
Director of                                                                I      Directoos of
PIU                                                                            Extenscn    _
Asstant
Project Director
Treasurer
l  l                                                    |    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SecretoV  |
wEL 7JZ 7ZZ1Z  Im                                                                                                                                                   I
Procufomont               Fnoncalai          I        troining 1             Cdvll Works         Planning &Monitoring 
Officei                        z J          [ j        z      J rstOffier                            Offcer
Eat. material         CMtl Works &
Production       Equlpffent              Tfaining
AIC          ~~Procufrement              OTC
KANMI
World Bonk-27397
ro



THAILAND   '05'                     Iio-                    1i5
Banda Aceh
13                   MALAYSIA              . .ea                              BRUNEI                     - r
0.  ~ ~ ~~~~~~N~rrf~
n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
12                        (                                 MALAYSIA               1
J   ~~~~-.:-SINGAP0RE                      \rn>- 
Pe.kanbaru
9.K.I                      PontAanak A  A         PaL   A   N a AtN
<                   e                  J        V1        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Samarinda
Padang                                                 4        o         
rJ   ',ro   xA                   (         ~~ ~~~~~~15  
tD.K.I. JAKARTAi              A                                               Plakrv   /  _
2 JAWA BARAT                            Palembang
3 JAWA TENGAH
4 D1. YOGYAKARTA
-. JAWA TIMURt        B   nkuluet/,Bnarnn3r-
a LAMPUNG                                                                      O             6 :
7 BENGKULU                             J
a SUMATERA SELATAN
. RIAU                                                                   Java  Sea                   Ujungpandu
10 JAMBI                               arClg'lavaSe 1
1 SUMATERA BARAl                                  UAnpnrA
12 SUMATERA UTARA                                 JAK          A
13 Di ACEH                                                J
14 KALIMANTAN BARAT
K5 KALIMANTAN TENGAH                                               3            LADRA
16 KALtMANTAN SELATAN                            Ba3dung         MSemaangIRA
17 KALIMANTAN TIMUR                              Bd          Sernara                ya
18 SULAWESI TENGAH                                  2              e          5                      SUMBAWA
19 SULAWESI UTARA                                  Y2Syukart                                    L-
20 SULAWESI SELATAN                                        Y v                          (        aAU  -U-A =
21 SULAWESI TENGGARA
22 BALI
22 NUSA TENGGARA BARAT                               t      _-UBOK
24 NUSA TENGGARA TIMUR
25 MALUKU                                                                                  22           23
26 IRIAN JAYA                                   _ tl wf_r_h
27 TIMOR TIMUR                       W---y lar   Of b30A"..  W      ,d
100.                     105-                    110°                     115



(ORD 19132R
5'I                        130                          1t5"    INDONESIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL
PHIUPPINES                                                              EXTENSION PROJECT
Manado,                                                            -)  PWN  HE.DUk
eS                                          Ig  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROWINCE HENDM l
19                         HALMAHERA                                            BNDAo
18
?alu                                    25              (
LAUAN SULA
* to  (  oafl                                                       JayapuraO'
SULAWESI \
21                                   *   GERAU                                          IRIAN JAYA             i
,/21       V                   s~~~~ CERAM                                           
*Kelldari               BURU  AmllbonB                                                    26                 C   G 5,
z
-                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~13
FL ORES               'P.-
r                                  0       100     200      300     400      500               to°
_,/   %  rTIMORI
MILES
'BA      24      Kupang                                            o   tOo0  200  300  400  500  e00  700  800
KILOMETERS
120'                         125P                          130°                         135,                         140°
JULY  1986






