Dolument of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
AAN. v>yg-marA;
Report No. P-4363-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$70.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
June 27, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may noE otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00       =  Rupiah 1,100
Rp 1 million  =  US$909
GOVERNMENT OF IND)ONESIA FISCAL YEAR
ApriL 1 - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)            =  0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (sq kin) =  100 ha = 0.39 sq miles
1 hectare (ha)              =  2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilogram (kg)             =  2.2 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (ton)          =  2,206 pounds (lb)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AAETE       -   Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and Extension
AARD        -   Agency for Agricultural Research and Development
ADAB        -   Australian Development Assistance Bureau
AHO         -   Animal Health Officer
AIC         -   Agricultural Information Center
BAE         -   Bureau of Agricultural Extension, AAETE
BAPPENAS    -   NationaL Development Planning Agency
BIMAS       -   "Mass Guidance for Self-Sufficiency in Foodstuffs" - a farm
input credit program
DGE         -   Directorate General of Estates
DGF         -   Directorate General of Fisheries
DCFCA       -   Directorate General of Food Crops Agriculture
0OI         -   Government of Indonesia
ISTC        -   In-service Training Center
KAKANWIL    -   Head of Regional Office (Kepala Kantor Wilaya), Minister of
Agriculture's representative at province level
MOA         -   Ministry of Agriculture
NAEP II     -   Second NationaL Agricultural Extension Project (Credit 996-IND)
NCAE        -   National Commission for Agricultural Extension
NFCEP       -   National Food Crop Extension Project (Loan 1267-IND)
PIU         -   Project Implementation Unit
PPL         -   Penyluh Pertanian Lapangan - field extension worker
PPM         -   Penyluh Pertanian Madia - field extension supervisor
PPS         -   Penyluh Pertanian Specialis - extension subject matter
specialist
REC         -   Rural Extension Center
REPELITA    -   National Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita I, 1969-74;
Repelita II, 1974-79; Repelita III, 1979-84, Repelita IV,
1984-1989; Repelita V, 1989-94)
SOE         -   Statement of Expenditure
VAT         -   Value Added Tax



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Indonesia.
Amount:             US$70.0 million equivalent.
Terms:              Repayable in 20 years, incLuding five years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:     The objective of the project is to consolidate efforts to
improve extension services for food crops, especially low-
land rice, and to further strengthen those for estate
crops, livestock, fisheries and non-rice food and horticul-
tural crops, by integrating the various subsectoral exten-
sion services into one unified extension service within the
Ministry of Agriculture.
The proposed project includes: Ca) recruitment of 6,000
field extension workers, 3,000 extension supervisors, 1,000
subject matter specialists and 200 animal health officers;
(b) construction of 400 new Rural Extension Centers (REC)
in upland, tidal swamp, estate crops, livestock concentra-
tion, coastal fisheries, and transmigration areas; expan-
sion of about 1,400 existing RECs; and construction of 200
animal health posts and 210 staff houses; (c) procurement
of the necessary vehicles, equipment and furniture;
(d) overseas and local training of extension personnel; and
(e) technical assistance and studies. The unified
extension service would help increase production of secon-
dary crops, horticultural crops, estate crops, livestock
and fisheries in order to provide the population with a
more balanced and nutritious diet, as well as to increase
tree crops and fisheries exports.
Risks:             There are no significant agricultural risks associated with
the project, although the project could face some manage-
ment and organizational constraints, and the funding
problems recently encountered by the Government might
continue. These risks are minimal and have been addressed
in the project design.
This document hau  restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance |
of their ofcial dutiesm Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs:                                    Local      Foreign      Total
--J(S$ million) …---
Expansion and improvement of extension
capabilities of subsectors
Civil works                                      30.7          6.5       37.2
Vehicles, furniture and equipment                  7.2         5.4       12.6
Training                                         20.1          4.6       24.7
Technical assistance and studies                  2.1          1.4        3.5
Recurrent cost                                   28.3          1.0       29.3
Base costs                                       88.4         18.9      107.3
Physical contingencies                          5.9          1.3        7.2
Price contingencies                            18.6          3.1       21.7
Total Project Costs /a                        112.9         23.3      136.2
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                             48.9         21.1       70.0
COI /b                                           64.0          2.2       66.2
Total Financing Required                      112.9         23.3      136.2
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY          1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993
--------------- (US$ million… -
Annual           2.1    7.9   14.0   12.0   16.0   13.0    5.0
Cumulative       2.1   10.0   24.0   36.0   52.0   65.0   70.0
Economic Rate of
Return:       Although not applicable for this project, indicative rates of
return are 32Z.
Staff Appraisal
Report:       No. 5707-IND dated June 27, 1986.
Map:             IBRD 19132R.
/a   Including VAT of US$9.0 miLlion and other taxes and duties estimated at
US$3.5 million.
/b   Including taxes and duties of US$12.5 million, reserved procurement of vehicles
of US$7.0 million, and US$2.2 million if technical assistance and overseas
training expected to be provided by ADAB.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC
OF INDONESIA FOR THE THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
1.        1 submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of US$70 million to help
finance the Third National Agricultural Extension Project. The loan would
have a term of 20 years, including five years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1-
2.        An economic report, entitled "Indonesia:  Adjusting to Lower Oil
Revenues" (No. 6201-IND, dated May 20, 1986), was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 27, 1986. Annex I gives selected social and economic
indicators for the country.
Backgrour.n
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is a highly diverse country spread across
an archipelago of more than 13,000 islands with a land area of about two mil-
lion km . It now has a population of over 158 million, growing at about 2.2%
p.a., and is the world's fifth most populous nation. The country has a
diversified resource base, with plentiful primary energy resources, signifi-
cant mineral deposits, large timber potential and a developed system of agri-
cultural commodity production and export. A high proportion of these primary
resources are located on the sparsely populated islands of Sumatra and
Kalimantan, while two thirds of the population lives on Java, which has areas
with some of the highest rural population densities in the world. About a
quarter of the population lives in urban areas, and the current rate of urban
population growth is about 4% p.a.  The 1983 estimate of GNP y,r capita is
US$560, which places Indonesia among middle-income countries._'
Macroeconomic Developments and Resource Management
4.        During the 1970s, the Indonesian economy grew at almost 8% p.a.
This growth was associated with rapid increases in public expenditures, total
investment and savings. Following the turbulence of the mid-1960s, the
Government of Indonesia (GOI) took effective action to restore macroeconomic
stability, liberalize the economy, rehabilitate infrastructure, and provide
incentives for domestic and foreign private investment. However, the dominant
1/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Housing Sector
Loan (P-4221-IND) circulated under cover of R86-152, dated June 5, 1986,
and approved by the Executive Directors on June 23, 1986.
2/   On the basis of the World Bank's system of country classification and
Atlas methodology for calculation of GNP.



-2-
external influence was the huge expansion, and significant variability, in
foreign exchange earnings from oil. Net earnings from oil and LNG exports
rose from US$0.6 billion in 1973/74 to US$10.6 billion in 1980/81, when the
current account enjoyed a surplus of US$2.1 billion. Oil and LNG also pro-
vided about 602 of budget revenues by 1980/81 and helped finance a sustained
increase in demand. The pattern of expenditures helped foster diversified
growth. Of particular note has been the support for agriculture through
investment in infrastructure and support services. This supported an
agricultural growth rate of almost 42 p.a. and led to the recent achievement
of self-sufficiency in rice. Manufacturing also enjoyed a high growth rate
during the 1970s (of about 14% p.a.), although this was from a very low base
and predominantly oriented toward the protected domestic market.
5.        Since 1981, the economy has been buffeted by unfavorable external
developments, especially for oil. Accordingly, the external terms of trade
have deteriorated by 18% over the past four years. In response, the
Government acted decisively to stabilize the economy and provide a basis for
longer-term structural adjustment. Related measures included: (a) restraints
on public investment and reductions in budget subsidies; (b) maintenance of a
flexible exchange rate policy (folLowing a major devaLuation in March 1983);
(c) wide-ranging structural reforms in the taxation and financial systems; and
(d) a major reorganization of customs, ports and shipping operations. These
measures have had a positive impact on the balance of payments, with the
current account deficit reduced from US$7.2 billion (8.5% of GNP) in 1982/83
to an estimated US$2.0 billion (2.6% of CNP) in 1985/86. Domestic in'lation
has also been reduced to less than 5% in 1985. However, this stabilization
process has involved a heavy cost in terms of lower investment and growth.
Since 1981, GDP growth has averaged only 2.6% p.a.; adjusting for population
growth and the terms of trade loss, per capita incomes have fallen. The
industrial sector has been particularly hard hit, with low rates of capacity
utilization and emerging financial problems in many enterprises.
6.        The economic outlook for Indonesia is dominated by the recent
collapse and uncertain prospects for world oil markets. Preliminary
indicators are that Indonesia's net oil/LNG export earnings could fall by
almost 60% during 1986/87. Because of the cautious management strategy
adopted by the Government in recent years, Indonesia is better placed than
most oil exporters to cushion the short-term impact of lower oil revenues.
External reserves stand at over US$10 billion (equivalent to nine months of
imports) and another US$2 billion is available in undrawn commercial
credits. However, the Government is still legitimately concerned about the
impact of a prolonged shortfall in oil revenues. Despite tight controls over
public external borrowing in recent years, the debt service ratio had reached
25% by 1985 and will rise further (even without new borrowing) over the next
few years. The scope, therefore, for additional borrowing to cover the
resource gap is limited. Instead, the Government has opted for further
cutbacks in government expenditure. Already, an austerity budget has been
announced for 1986/87, with total expenditure budgeted to decline by 7% (22%
for development expenditure). With continued prudence and some recovery in
oil prices, the current account deficit could be brought back to less than 3Z
of GNP over the next three years. However, economic performance would remain
highly constrained, with GDP growth close to 2% p.a. and declining per capita
incomes.



- 3-
Policies for Growth and Adjustment
7.        As already noted, the Indonesian Government, faced with lower oil
revenues, is acting to maintain balance of payments and domestic financial
stability through demand restraint. However, over the medium term,
Indonesia's ability to achieve its goals of sustainable growth with equity
will depend crucially on the skill with which it manages the tranqition from
oil dependency toward a more diversified, semi-industrial economy. Some of
the elements of this strategy, including structural reforms in the taxation
and financial systems, are already in place. However, successful adjustment
will require continued action in three key policy areas: management of the
public investment program (and improvements in the regulatory/policy environ-
ment for private investment), rationalization of the external trade regime and
development of the financial sector.
8.        The projected import constraint imposes serious limitations on the
rate at which Indonesia can undertake new investments over the next few
years. At the same time, some reallocation of resources towards regional
development and the social sectors might be justified, in order to reduce the
import content of investment while still meeting the Government's equity and
employment objectives. It is therefore important that mechanisms are estab-
lished to facilitate orderly and rational adjustments to the public investment
program. Possible options include preparation of multiyear expenditure plans
(at least for the larger projects), identification of a core program of high
priority projects and strengthening of project appraisal/selection proce-
dures. The Government is also considering ways to improve project implemen-
tation, so that investment returns can be realized more promptly.  Given the
budgetary constraints, it is expected that the private sector will be called
upon to play an increasingly important role in capital formation.  To
encourage this process, the Government recently announced simplifications in
investment approval procedures and a major internal reorganization of the
Investment Coordinating Board. These measures were followed, in May 1986, by
a package of regulatory reforms to make Indonesia more attractive to foreign
investments.
9.        The recent decline in the price of oil has clearly demonstrated the
importance of reducing the economy's heavy dependence on a single source of
foreign exchange and, more generally, the need to rationalize the external
trade regime. The Government has set a target of doubling non-oil exports in
nominal terms over the next five years. This target should be attainable
provided that economic recovery in the industrial economies is sustained,
Indonesia's access to those markets is not constrained by protectionist
measures and, most importantly, Indonesia follows appropriate trade and
exchange rate poLicies. The Government has already introduced a range of
export promotion measures intended to improve export incentives, ensure ready
access to finance for exporters, raise product quality and enhance marketing
capacity. Most recently, in May 1986, the Government announced a policy
package designed to ensure that exporters would have access to raw materials
and intermediate inputs at international prices. However, over the longer
term, there is no effective substitute for comprehensive trade reform. On the
import side, Indonesia's trade regime has historically been characterized by a
predilection for high tariffs and quantitative restrictions. In March 1985,



- 4 -
the Government announced a major reduction in the range and level of nominal
import tariffs. However, other actions, including increased use of import
quotas/bans and regulation. requiring higher local content in production, have
served to promote some potentially costly and uneconomic investments which
could prove counterproductive to the export drive.
10.       The Government's decision to move towards a more liberal financial
environment raises a number of issues relating to resource mobilization,
financial intermediation and credit allocation. Over the longer term, as the
scope for subsidized credit is reduced, the banking system will have to play
an increasingly important role in mobilizing domestic resources. However,
during the transition period, some potential conflicts between the resource
mobilization and credit allocation objectives could arise. For exampLe, the
increase in deposit rates following the recent financial reforms, whiLe
encouraging resource mobilization, has also led to high real lending rates
which have tended to dampen investment and credit demand. This in turn may
restrain economic activity. It is therefore important to find ways to reduce
the high intermediation costs of banks. Consideration should also be given to
other ways of mobilizing financial resources, including development of a
capital market, expansion of the banking network (especially in rural areas)
and selective relaxation of restrictions on private banks (combined with
increased bank supervision).
Incomesp Employment and Human Development
11.       Indonesia's physical, human and economic resources are very unevenly
distributed among its main regions. Java, for example, accounts for almost
50% of Indonesia's GDP and 62% of its population, but only 7% of its land
area. Although all five of the country's main regions experienced rapid per
capita growth in the 1970s, regional differences in output tended to widen.
To a large extent, differences in performance are associated with the impor-
tance of the mineral sector, particularly petroleum. However, there are two
important processes at work in Indonesia which enable the benefits of growth
to be more evenly spread than indicated by output trends. The first of these
is migration. Between 1971 and 1980, 4.3 million people (or 16% of the natur-
al increase in population) resettled permanently in provinces outside those of
their birth. Approximately 1.7 million people moved from Java to the Other
Islands, of whom one million were resettled through the official transmigra-
tion program. There has also been substantial rural-urban migration both
between and within provinces. The second process is the redistribution of
income through the government budget. Regional variations in per capita con-
sumption are much less pronounced than differences in per capita output. This
is largely due to the impact of taxation on the oil sector.
12.       An analysis of household expenditures indicates that Indonesia's
rapid economic development has been accompanied by significant progress in
reducing poverty. Between 1970 and 1980, the proportion of the population
living in poverty declined from 57% to 40%; the decline was particularly rapid
in the Other Islands and in urban areas. The core of the poverty problem con-
tinues to be in rural Java, where landless laborers form a large, and possibly
rising, proportion of the population and where, for most of the 1970s, there
is little evidence of any rise in real agricultural wages. However, there was



a significant rise in real agricultural wages around 1980-81 associated with
the sharp increase in rice output and booming overall economic growth.
Increases in rural nonagricultural and urban wages also occurred at the
beginning of the 1980s. Despite the slowdown in economic growth and stabili-
zation measures since 1982, the limited available evidence suggests that wages
and incomes have held up, partly as a consequence of continued agricultural
growth.
13.       In the futuret the availability of productive employment will be a
key determinant of income distribution. The labor force is expected to grow
at about 2.3Z p.a. over the next decade, while economic growth will be lower
than in the 1970s. The resultant squeeze in the labor market could lead to
stagnant or declining Labor income, especially in rural areas and the urban
informal sector. Given the balance of payments constraint facing the country,
Indonesia's employment outlook depends crucially on the pattern of economic
growth, and in particular the extent of labor absorption in the commodity-
producing sectors. Although over the long term the structural shift in
employment away from agriculture should continue, this sector will still
account for half or more of total employment and the growth in agricultural
incomes will be an important determinant of job opportunities elsewhere in
nonfarm activities. This will require continued priority to agriculture in
the form of supportive pricing and investment policy, with some shift in
emphasis toward the Other Islands. On Java, attention will need to be paid to
issues of agricultural diversification and the pace of mechanization. With
respect to the industrial sector, the development of an efficient, relatively
export-oriented pattern of production can also contribute to significant labor
absorption in the medium to long term, especially in Java; this will involve a
continuing major role for small-scale firms. If a favorable evolution of the
employment situation is to occur, there will also need to be an appropriate
pattern of public expenditure and supportive policies for the urban informal
sector; finally, the transmigration program can make a substantial contribu-
tion, provided it is closely coordinated with complementary agricultural
investment programs, in tree crops, water resources and livestock development.
14.       There has been substantial progress in extending the provision of
social services throughout the population. Universal enrollment in primary
education has been virtually achieved and the enrollment rate in secondary
schools is now about 35%. However, the weak educational base of the popula-
tion continues to be a major obstacle to rapid economic development and a
substantial further expansion of secondary and tertiary education will be
necessary as well as a major effort to raise the quality of the whole system.
In the health sector, there has been a large expansion in facilities, notably
at the subdistrict level, but continued investment and an improvement in
quality will be necessary to increase effectiveness. This will have to be
complemented by a major expansion in water supply and sanitation if the
improvement in indices of mortality and morbidity during the 1970s is to be
maintained. By 1981, only 18% of the rural and 40Z of the urban population
had access to safe water, compared with government targets of 60% and 75%,
respectively, for 1990.



-6-
External Capital Flows
15.       The recent improvement in Indonesia's balance of payments situation
is evidence of the Government's commitment to manage short-term economic
shocks. The ongoing program of economic reforms should also help to hold the
current account deficit to sustainable levels over the medium term, despite
the impact of lower oil revenues. Even so, continued resource transfers from
abroad will be essential to sustain modest GDP growth (2% p.a.) over the next
three years. Staff projections indicate that new public medium- and long-term
(MLT) borrowing will have to average about US$4.8 billion p.a. from 1986/87 to
1988/89, including about US$2.4 billion p.a. of official development assis-
tance and the balance Erom import-related credits and untied borrowing.
Indonesia is well placed to arrange the necessary financing on reasonable
terms; the Government's record of economic management is good and a
comfortable cushion of external reserves has been rebuilt over the past two
years.
16.       Total public debt outstanding at the end oE 1985 is estimated at
US$28 billion, with an additional US$15 billion of undisbursed commitments.
Of the total debt disbursed and outstanding, official assistance (including
nonconcessional multilateral aid) accounts for 48% and obligations at variable
interest rates for only 21%; there is no short-term public debt. The average
maturity of public MLT debt at the end of 1985 is estimated at 16 years. The
Government continues to manage its external debt quite prudently. Until 1981,
Indonesia had succeeded in maintaining its public debt service ratio, based on
gross exports, at below 10%. However, because of the sharp drop in oil export
receipts over the past three years, the ratio rose to about 20% in 1985. With
the projected levels and composition of borrowings and export Rarnings,
Indonesia's public debt service ratio would rise to about 28% in 1986 and then
gradually decline in later years. With private MLT debt included, the totaL
debt service ratio would rise from 25% in 1985 to around 33% in 1986 and then
decline again. While debt management will require careful attention in the
coming years, the projected debt service ratios are not excessive by inter-
national standards.
PART [I - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA 3t
17.       As of March 31, 1986, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits total-
ling US$896.5 million (less cancellations) and 107 Bank loans amounting to
US$8,149.54 million (less cancellations). IFC commitments totalled US$163.2
million. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC
investments as of March 31, 1986. The share of the Bank Group in Indonesia's
public (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1985 was 14.8%, and
the share of debt service, 9.7% compared with 14.5% and 8.8%, respectively, in
1984. From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through IDA.
31   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Housing Sector
Loan (No. P-4221-IND) circulated under cover of R86-152, dated
June 5, 1986, and approved by the Exective Directors on June 23, 1986.



- 7 -
Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the commodity and oil
price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's lending in the remainder
of the 1970s was through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA lending being
justified primarily on poverty grounds, as the per capita GNP was well below
the IDA cutoff level. IDA lending was discontinued in FY80. Given the
critical importance of agriculture (including transmigration) for employment,
food security and exports, over one-third of Bank Group-assisted projects have
been in this sector. In addition, loans and credits have been extended to
virtually all other sectors of the economy, including transportation,
education, urban development, water supply, rural development, industrial
develo.,aent financing (including small-scale industry), power, telecom-
munications, population and nutrition, and technical assistance.
18.       During Repelitas ; (1969-74) and II (1974-79), and in line with the
objectives of these first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group
lending was directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the expan-
sion of infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was also
given to meeting the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance
needed for preinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita III (1979-
84), published in early 1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and
stability, but departed from previous plans by placing special emphasis on
more equitable income distribution and poverty alleviation. This focus, which
was fully in line with the conclusions of the basic economic report, required
greater attention to employment generation (particularly in the industrial
sector) and to improvements in basic public services. While Bank lending was
already consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis has been given to
these priorities. However, the adverse economic deveLopments that occurred in
the latter half of the plan period and the measures taken to address them, led
to a reshaping of development objectives for Repelita IV (1984-89). These
emphasize restoring growth of incomes and employment while continuing finan-
cial prudence, promoting structural change toward a more diversified economy,
and maintaining efforts to improve income distribution and alleviate poverty.
This shift in focus has underscored the need to follow through on reforms that
have already been initiated, seek increased efficiencies in the economy, mobi-
lize domestic resources to finance needed investments and recurrent expendi-
tures, and foster a policy environment conducive to the achievement of
required changes.
19.       The Bank has geared its lending and economic work program to address
these needs and to maintain a high level of resource transfer. The approach
is to continue to emphasize the ongoing dialogue on economic policy that has
been a cornerstone of the Bank's relationship with the Covernment for many
years, and to coordinate discussion of macroeconomic issues with advice on
institutional and policy reform in important sectors and subsectors, coupled
with lending operations and technical assistance that meet priority needs and
support institutional improvements in specific areas. Emphasis in economic
work is being given to trade and industrial issues, development of the finan-
cial system, and public resource management. In the lending program, agricul-
ture continues to receive the most attention. However, the program is broadly
based, and includes increasing emphasis on education and human resource deve-
lopment. Continued attention is being given to power and energy, where the
Bank is concentrating on policies to diversify Indonesia's energy base,



rationalize pricing and improve sector planning. In transportation, the Bank
is focussing on efficiency improvements in the maritime sector and on improv-
ing the national network of highways and rural roads. In urban development
and water supply, lending is being directed more and more to developing inno-
vative low-cost solutions, providing for cost recovery and strengthening local
institutions, in order to minimize demands on the Government budget and decen-
tralize the responsibility for addressing basic needs. In all, the Bank's
lending program is intended to contribute about 20X of Indonesia's capital
requirements during the next three years and is expected to be an important
catalyst in attracting other funds. Where possible, we are seeking also to
widen the impact of Bank lending through technical assistance, as well as
complementary investments and coordinated policy dialogue with oLher donors.
This is especially true in our lending programs for power, urban developmentp
water supply and transportation.
20.       There has 4een a improvement in the last few years in the
disbursement ratio - from a low of 132 in FY80 to over 17X in FY85. The poor
FY80 ratio was in large part merely a result of the rapid increase in commit-
ments during the FY77-79 period, when total Bank/IDA comuitments to Indonesia
increased by 122Z compared to a Bank-wide increase of 83%. However, it also
reflected implementation difficulties arising out of the Government's budget-
ary, procurement and payment procedures, as well as the severe shortage of
managerial and technical manpower in Indonesia. A number of steps have been
taken by the Government and the Bank to address these issues. Several special
Bank missions have visited Indonesia to analyze the problems and make recom-
mendations for simplifying budgetary and financial procedures. The Government
and the Bank have also instituted formal and regular joint review procedures
to identify general and project-specific problems and work out corrective
measures. Procurement seminars were held in Jakarta in September 1979,
November 1981 and May 1984. As a consequence of these joint initiatives, the
Government has taken measures to streamline some of the complex budgetary and
financial procedures affecting project implementation. In addition, in order
to reduce disbursement delays due to initial project implementation difficul-
ties, many operations are now being presented for Board consideration at a
later stage in the project cycle. The combined effects of all of these acti-
vities are reflected in the increase in disbursements from US$206 million in
FY79 to US$72B million in FY85. It is nevertheless clear that continued
efforts to improve project implementation and the pace of disbursements are
required, as Indonesia continues to show a disbursement ratio below the Bank-
wide average. A number of initiatives are underway. The Bank is helping the
Government in a special effort to identify problems in the construction indus-
try with a view to developing appropriate remedial actions and policies, as
weaknesses in the domestic contracting industry have been identified as one of
the major causes of implementation problems in Indonesia. Efforts are also
underway to develop standardized tender documents in order to speed the
procurement process, and to improve project monitoring and land acquisition
procedures. It is the Bank's and the Government's intention to devote conti-
4/   The ratio of actual disbursements during the fiscal year to the cumula-
tive undisbursed amount at the beginning of the fiscal year.



- 9 -
nued attention to these and other aspects of project implementation in the
coming year, in order to ensure that maximum benefit is realized from the
Government's investments, Bank-assisted and other.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL SECTOR
The Sector
21.       Objectives.  The Government's major objectives for the agricultural
and rural sector are to: (a) create productive employment to raise incomes of
the rural poor; (b) increase domestic food supply to keep pace with rising
demand; (c) expand agricultural exports, particularly of tree crops; and (d)
ensure productive, sustainable use of Indonesia's varied land, water and other
natural resources.
22.       Role and Performance.  Over the last one and a half decades, agri-
cultural growth has averaged about 4Z p.a. and outpaced population growth by a
significant margin. Agriculture continues to be the backbone of the economy
-- providing employment and the main source of livelihood for more than half
of the labor force. The growth of rice output at 5Z p.a. accounts for more
than two-fifths of gross output, land use and employment, and has made a solid
contribution to the sector's impressive performance. It has also transformed
the country from one of the world's largest importers of rice (about 2 million
tons as late as 1978-79) to one with considerable surpluses in 1985-86. Other
food and cash crops -- growing at 3.5X and 4.5% annually -- have also added to
the significanr gains registered in rural welfare in the past several years.
Major factors contributing to the current self-sufficiency in rice and an
impressive growth in other crops have been heavy investment in infrastructure
such as irrigation, a rapid increase in the use of high yielding varieties and
subsidized fertilizers, research efforts and extension - all of which helped
double rice yields (from 1.5 tons per ha in 1969 to 2.7 tons per ha in 1984).
23.       In the future, a growth in rice output of about 2.5-3Z p.a. will
have to be maintained to basically meet domestic demand, since import substi-
tution possibilities are minimal and exporting is not profitable with current
domestic costs of production and international prices. Thus, the strategic
imperative is to introduce measures which would encourage efficient rice pro-
duction and to fully exploit the potential for agricultural diversification.
Diversified farming will require considerable success in solving technical
problems and providing adequate inputs and services (quality seeds, extension,
marketing, etc.) for alternative field and tree crops, and also policies
giving appropriate signals to small farmers, and careful monitoring of the
relative incentives for farmers to produce rice and other crops. Efforts in
the food and field crops will also need to be supplemented by carefully
planned tree crops programs if efficient agricultural diversification is to be
achieved. This, in turn, will require substantial improvement in the imple-
mentation capacity of the public sector enterprises involved, vigorous parti-
cipation by the private sector, and improved extension to existing tree crop
smallholders.



- 10 -
Institutions in the Sector
24.       Ministry of Agriculture.  The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) includes
four commodity-oriented Directorates General (DC) one each for Food Crops
(DCFCA), Estate Crops (DGE), Livestock (DGL), and Fisheries (DGF), as well as
two other agencies with DG status, the Agency for Agricultural Research and
Development (AARD) and the Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and
Extension (AMETE).
25.       Provincial Agricultural Services.  Each of the Directorates General
is represented at the provincial and district level. These offices are
responsible administratively to the Governor and Provincial Covernment, but
technically to the respective Directorates General. To coordinate the activi-
ties of provincial agricultural services, the Minister of Agriculture appoints
a head of the regional office (KAKANWIL) in each province.
26.       BIMAS.  BIMAS (Bimbingan Massal), which literaLly translated means
"Mass Guidance," is a national program to raise food crop production and farm
income by applying credit and cash inputs at subsidized prices. A BIMAS
secretariat within the Ministry of Agriculture administers the program and,
until recently, the Director General of Food Crops Agriculture (DCFCA) acted
as the executive head.
The Status of Agricultural Extension
27.       Before 1974 each Directorate General within the Ministry of
Agriculture had its own extension service. Some of the Directorates General,
such as DCFCA, had their own Directorates of Extension, but others combined
production and extension functions. With the establishment of AAETE in 1974,
all Directorates of Extension at the national level were disbanded. Extension
bureaus within the provincial agricultural departments were also abolished
with the exception of those in the provincial food crop services. Field level
extension workers (PPLs) and subject matter specialists (PPSs) recruited under
the BIMAS program were also retained and they remained administratively under
BIMAS and technically under the DGFCA. The head of the DCFCA, who was concur-
rently the Secretary of BIMAS, thus had a large contingent of extension work-
ers even after creation of AAETE.
2B.       Without a central funding source equivalent to BIMAS, the other
Directorates General did not have resources for extension activity. Instead,
they maintained their development operations by hiring field technicians using
specific project budgets, and by restricting extension work to special target
areas. Field work in these subsectors has concentrated on assisting small
farmers to establish and maintain long-lived capital assets (such as tree
crops, animal herds, and fish stock) which often require credit financing.
Field staff for these activities have generally been stationed at physical
facilities (e.g., latex and copra processing centers, sugar factories, tobacco
barns, and demonstration fish ponds), and have seldom been available to meet
farmers regularly or maintain close contact with them after the establishment
phase. For these reasons, extension in nonfood crop sectors has lagged far
behind that in food crops.



- 11 -
Bank Group Involvement in Agricultural Extension
29.       The National Food Crop Extension Project (NFCEP).  The Bank's
involvement in extension began with extension components in irrigation
projects, where a version of the Training and Visit system of extension - was
introduced in irrigation conmnand areas. In view of the large role that agri-
culture played in the economy and relatively low productivity of food crops,
tree crops, aquaculture and animal husbandry, GOI sought the Bank's assistance
to expand and improve its extension services at about the same time that METE
was created. At that time there were two alternatives, either to have
separate extension services under each Directorate General, or to unify the
extension services under AAETE. After considerable deliberation the GOI
decided that creation of a unified extension service under AAETE was a desir-
able goal, but that a major reorganization would seriously disrupt the program
for increasing rice production. Consequently, the Covernment chose to focus
on improving and rationalizing the extension services under the DCFCA. The
Bank approved the National Food Crop Extension Project (NFCEP, Ln. 1267-IND)
in 1976, with DGFCA as the implementing agency. This project was originally
in nine provinces and was later extended to four more.
30.       Under the NFCEP, the link between the food crop extension service
and the BIMAS program was preserved, but the NFCEP deviated from the BIMAS
program in several positive ways: (a) it provided extension services to all
farmers, not only to BIMAS participants; (b) it created field extension
supervisors (PPMs) and provided additional technical specialists (PPSs);
(c) it established Rural Extension Centers (RECs), the basic modules around
which the extension service was built; and td) it introduced the Training and
Visit system of agricultural extension on a broad basis.
31.       Second National Agricultural Extension Project (NAEP II).  NFCEP
operated well in the 13 project provinces, and by the late 1970s demand had
grown for coverage in other provinces and for the introduction of extension
information for non-food crops and smallholder livestock and fisheries,
particularly in areas where those activities provide major components of
farmers' incomes. Therefore, in 1980 the Bank approved the Second National
Agricultural Extension Project (NAEP II, Cr. 996-iND) with the principal
objectives of (a) strengthening food crop extension services in provinces not
covered by NFCEP; (b) establishing an integrated extension service for trans-
migration areas; and (c) incorporating extension activity for smallholder
estate crops, animal husbandry and inland fish culture into the basic exten-
sion program and delivery system. The project was managed at the national
level by the NFCEP project unit under the jurisdiction of the DGFCA, pending
completion of an organizational study aimed at examining ways of unifying
agricultural extension services under AAETE.
5/   This system is described in detail in a Bank publication entitled
"Agricultural Extension: The Training and Visit System", by Daniel Benor,
James Q. Harrison and M. Baxter (The World Bank, 1984).



- 12 -
32.       Experience with Past Lending.  Under the two Bank-assisted projects
the food crop extension service has been considerably strengthened. At the
beginning of NFCEP (early 1976) there were 4,140 field extension staff focused
on food crops, and ten years later this number had grown to nearly 23,000. A
total of 1,402 Rural Extension Centers (RECs) were constructed or
rehabilitated mainly in lowland rice and transmigration areas. Although the
extension service alone cannot claim all the credit, it has contributed
significantly to a doubling of rice production from about 13 million tons in
1976 to about 26 million tons in 1985.
33.       NAEP II also strengthened the extension services of estate crops,
livestock and fisheries and by 1986 there were about 6,100 extension staff in
estate crops, 2,300 in livestock, and 1,900 in fisheries. However, extension
in nonrice areas has remained limited. There are no RECs in 70% of the estate
crop areas, or in livestock concentration or coastal fisheries areas, and very
few extension staff in these three subsectors have received technical training
in their fields.
34.       Current Status.  With the achievement of rice self-sufficiency and
growing interest in increasing nonoil exports, the Government has taken
several new measures to promote the integration of the various extension
services and to strengthen non-food crop extension. First, the AAETE has been
given overall responsibility for coordinating extension at the national level
and for formulating extension policies and methodologies. Consequently,
management of NAEP II was transferred from the DGFCA to AAETE in 1984.
Second, BIMAS has been made responsible for administering the agricultural
extension personnel and for coordinating the program with the needs of
specific commodity production programs. These recent decisions have created a
better climate for introducing a unified extension service at the field
level. Finally, in recognition of the close relatiohship between production
and extension, Directorates of Extension have been established under the four
Directorates General responsible for technical control over extension staff.
Rationale for Bank Support
35.       Bank support will permit the GOI to strengthen and reorganize the
extension services into one unified service to support the production targets of
the Government's Fourth Five-Year Development Plan, 1984-89 (Repelita IV).
The unified extension service would support GOI's objectives of sustaining
self-sufficiency in rice and stepping up production of secondary crops, horti-
cultural crops, estate crops, livestock and fisheries, in order to provide a
more balanced and nutritious diet to the population, as well as to increase
tree crops and fisheries exports. The unified extension service would also
support the GOt's transmigration program by training transmigrants, who are
traditionally lowland rice farmers, in the techniques of growing upland food
crops, tree crops, horticultural and vegetable crops.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
36.       Formulation and preparation of the proposed project grew directly
from experience gained in implementing NFCEP and MAEP II. A special team
constituted by the Director General of AAETE consisting of representatives of
AAETE, the four MOA Directorates General and 8IMAS prepared the project with
the assistance of Bank staff. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5707-IND) is
being distributed separately. Negotiations were held in Washington from May 5
to May 8, 1986 with the Indonesian delegation led by Mr. Salmon Padmanagara,
Director General of MAETE. Supplementary project data are provided in
Annex III.
Objectives and Scope
37.       The major objective of the project is to strengthen extension
services covering estate crop, livestock, fisheries, food and horticultural
crops, in all provinces by providing an increase in trained personnel,
vehicles, equipment, new RECs in areas not covered by earlier projects,
construction of limited staff housing, training, and technical assistance.
38.       The project would provide:
(a)  an increase in extension staff by about 6,000 field extension work-
ers (PPLs), 3,000 field extension supervisors (PPMs), 1,000 exten-
sion subject matter specialists (PPSs), and 200 animal health
officers;
(b)  construction of 400 new RECs in transmigration, upland, tidal swamp,
estate crop, livestock concentration and coastal fisheries areas;
200 animal health posts (AHPs); 210 houses for PPLs in Irian Jays
and East Timor; and expansion of about 1,400 existing RECs;
(c)  procurement of 3,206 motorcycles, 124 four-wheel drive vehicles, 45
animal health mobile units, and 11 audiovisual mobile units;
(d)  procurement of furniture for new and expanded RECs, as well as basic
and specialized subsectoral equipment for new RECs;
(e)  training of extension staff and key farmers through a limited number
of overseas courses and fellowships, and a large number of local
training courses and provision of related facilities;
(f)  six man-years of long-term consulting services in extension, train-
ing, rural sociology, monitoring and evaluation; about four man-
years of short-term consultancies for reviewing and revising exten-
sion recommendations; and consultancy services for engineering
design and supervision of project civil works; and
(g) monitoring, evaluation and studies.



- 14 -
Organization and Management
39.       Coordination.  At the national level, the coordination of agricul-
tural extension is carried out by the National Commission for Agricultural
Extension (NCAE) which includes the Director General of MAETE (Chairman), the
Secretary of BIMAS (Vice Chairman), the Director of the Bureau of Extension,
AAETE (Secretary), the Directors of Extension in the four Directorates
General, and five other Directors of the AARD institutes closely linked with
agricultural extension. The provincial coordination forum includes the
KAKANWIL (Chairman), the Secretary of provincial BIMAS (Secretary), and the
heads of provincial agricultural services and chiefs of technical units and
other institutions closely linked to agricultural extension. The district
coordination forum includes the head of one of the subsectors (Chairman),
the Secretary of district BIMAS (Secretary), and the heads of the other
subsectors and institutions closely related to agricultural extension. Each
of the three coordination committees is assisted by a working group formed to
carry out daily duties. At the REC Level, the coordination committee consists
of the chief of the REC and all the PPMs and PPLs based at the REC.
40.       The National Commission meets once a month.  Its main tasks are (a)
formulation of national policies and strategies for agricultural extension;
(b) coordination of the national agricultural extension operational plan with
the agricultural production program; and (c) strengthening of research/
extension linkages. The functions of the provincial and district level
coordination forums, also meeting once a month, are to: (a) translate the
national agricultural extension policies and strategies into provincial and
district operational plans according to regional needs, and (b) coordinate the
management of agricultural extension activities in the region. The functions
of the REC committee are to: (a) formulate the agricultural extension program
of all subsectors in the REC area through a cooperative planning exercise with
contact farmers and PPLs; (b) prepare work schedules for each PPL and monitor
and supervise the implementation of agricultural extension activities in the
REC area; and (c) coordinate regular training of PPLs at the RECs, and visits
by PPLs to farmers' groups.
41.       Administration of Extension Staff.  Administration of the entire
agricultural extension service within MOA now devolves on BIMAS. In accor-
dance with a Ministerial Decree, the handover of the extension personnel,
whose administration was managed by the Directorates General and AAETE, to the
Secretariat of BIMAS was completed by March 31, 1986.
42.       Control of and Responsibility for RECs and AHPs.  A location
committee consisting of representatives of the Ministry of Home Affairs,
AAETE, BIMAS, and the four Directorates General would decide the general
location of RECs so that each REC can serve as many subsectors as possible,
and so their areas of operation do not overlap with other existing
facilities. The same committee would also decide the general location of the
200 Animal Health Posts, taking into consideration other installations such as
plant protection centers. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
the location committee having determined the general locations, the GOI would
determine by November 1 of each year the specific site of each REC and each
AHP, for the subsequent year, which site shall be satisfactory to the Bank.



- 15 -
Assurances were also obtained from GOI during negotiations that the necessary
funding would be available for operation and maintenance of RECs transferred
to BIMAS.  The level of funding is expected to be about Rp 3 million per RE!.
43.       The Secretary of BIMAS would appoint for each REC (a) one Chief of
REC, and (b) according to need, no more than 5 PPMs to organize, develop and
control the execution of agricultural extension programs in agricultural
resources, food crops, estate crops, animal husbandry, and fisheries. Depend-
ing on the situation and condition, two or more subsectors may be managed by
one PPM. The administrative control of PPMs and PPLs would be under the dis-
trict BIMAS, while technical control would be retained by the subsectors at
the district, provincial and national levels. One PPM in each REC has been
designated as chief of the REC.
Project Implementation
44.       Project Implementation Unit (PIU).  The proposed project would be
implemented at the national level by the same Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) under AAETE which is executing NAEP II. Key positions such as officers
for Procurement, Finance, Training, Planning and Monitoring, Treasurer and
Secretary of the PIU have been filled on a full-time basis. AAETE would be
responsible for preparing the national training program and assurances were
obtained during negotiations that such program would be submitted to the Bank
for comment by December 31 of each year beginning December 31, 1986.
45.       Project Implementation at the Provincial Level.  The project would
be implemented at the provincial level as follows: (a) the procurement of
civil works, furniture and equipment would be carried out by the KAKANWIL/Head
of Training and Extension Division; (b) the training program would be carried
out by In-Service Training Centers (ISTCs); and (c) production of extension
materials woula be implemented by the Agricultural Information Centers (AICs).
46.       Implementation Schedule.  The sites for the first year's construc-
tion program were selected prior to loan negotiations by the special conmiittee
for this purpose. Project implementation would cover a period of six years,
FY87 to FY92. All civil works design, estimates and bidding are planned to be
completed in the first year, and construction in the second, third and fourth
years. PPLs, PPMs and PPSs are scheduled to be recruited from the second
year. Vehicles would be provided during the fiscal year of recruitment of the
staff for whom they are intended. Equipment and furniture would be procured
during the second, third and fourth years. The in-service training program
would coincide with the recruitment program. Diploma, Masters and Doctorate
courses would commence from the second year so that they can be completed
within the life of the project. Recruitment of long-term consultants would
commence not later than June 30, 1987.
Extension Methodology
47.       The basic principles of the Training and Visit system of agricul-
tural extension are by now well understood throughout Indonesia, both in
theory and in concrete implementation in the field. However, this task will
be more difficult in the proposed project than in previous ones due to



- 16 -
(a) problems of working in upland, tidal swamp, transmigration, and coastal
fisheries areas; and (b) the necessity of involving extension staff from all
the subsectors. Training programs under the project would thus be increased
in frequency, and would concentrate on teaching extension methodology as well
as the simple elements of technical background for the subsectors to all PPLs.
48.       Technical specialists (PPSs) from the different subsectors would be
responsible for introducing extension packages for their subsectors and for
training, briefing and supporting the PPLs. The chief of the REC with the
help of the PPKs would coordinate an integrated program of all four extension
services for delivery to the farmers. The PPLs of different subsectors would
work together to prepare a joint program for the individual farmers of the
group and initially the PPLs of four subsectors (or as many as are present)
would jointly visit the farmers to advise them on their individual needs.
49.       In many cases, where intercropping is practiced, where fish are
raised in paddy fields, where estate crops (e.g., sugar) are rotated with food
crops, or where a mutually beneficial farming system can be established
involving animals (for manure and draft power) and forage crops, extension
recomendations for the various activities must be integrated to be relevant
to actual farm-level decisions. In such areas, generalist PPLs, with guidance
from PPSs of different subsectors, would be able to deliver simpler extension
messages for most of the commodities with which the farmers are concerned,
calling on the requisite specialist PPL or PPS when problems arise.
50.       However, for some estate crops (rubber, coconut, oil palm), for
animal health, and for brackish water and marine fisheries, specialist PPLs
may be needed depending on the nature of job they would have to perform. In
such cases the functions of the extension workers would be as follows:
(a) Estate Crops. For rubber, coconut, and oil palm, extension advice
would be given on cultivation methods, nursery techniques, weeding,
processing and marketing, with the ultimate aim of introducing the
farmers to more sophisticated and financially viable packages. The
provision of improved planting material would be accompanied by
availability of the requisite fertilizer, pesticides, equipment,
credit, processing and marketing, through smallholder programs for
this purpose.
(b) Livestock. An increase in livestock output would largely come from
extension of better nutrition and animal health services. The
project includes animal health posts, mobile animal health clinics,
and animal health officers (AHO) in addition to PPLs. The concept
is to provide low-cost delivery of basic animal health services
through these posts, the AHOs, and the mobile animal health
clinics. The AHOs and specialist PPLs would be trained to recognize
the most common forms of major diseases, administer vaccines and
advise on other treatments and procedures.
(c)  Fisheries.  Extension activities for brackish water fisheries would
include pond engineering, shrimp hatchery development, shrimp
culture development and feed production technology. Fishery



- 17 -
extension for small-scale marine fishing communities would include
improvements in post-harvest technology, fisheries technology,
social welfare and community development programs, and the
management and operation of smaLl-scale enterprises and
organization. To ensure the well being of small-scale marine
fishermen on a sustained basis, it may be necessary in some cases to
reduce fishing effort in the coastal areas and secure alternative
sources of income by encouraging the introduction of marine or
brackish water aquaculture, or providing work for some of them in
the ofEshore fishing grounds on larger vessels.
Project Cost and Financing
51.       The total estimated project cost is US$136.2 million equivalent of
which US$23.3 miLlion (17%) is foreign exchange. Base costs are expressed in
May 1986 prices and include about US$12.5 million in value added tax (VAT) and
other taxes and duties. Construction cost estimates are based upon updated
standard COI costs. Prices have been weighted to reflect differences in the
various provinces. Cost estimates for equipment and furniture are based on
recent contracts for identical items purchased under NAEP II. For locally
assembled vehicles estimates are based on local quotations. Unit costs for
local training programs are based on detailed budgets for training courses
prepared by AAETE, while costs for overseas courses are based on recent
experience under NAEP II and other Bank-assisted projects in Indonesia.
Salaries and allowances are derived from current scales under NAEP II, while
other operational expenses are based on recent experience under NAEP II
allowing for estimated price increases in FY85/86. A total of 122 man-months
of consulting services will be needed under the project and are costed at
rates observed in past extension projects. Cost estimates include physical
contingencies of 10% for all items except staff salaries and allowances.
Price contingencies total 20Z of base cost and were estimated on the basis of
the following inflation rates: for foreign costs 7.01 in 1986-87, 7.5% during
1988, 7.7% in 1989, 7.6% in 1990 and 4.5% during 1991-93; for local costs 6Z
during 1986-1990 and 4.5% during 1991-93.
52.       The proposed Bank loan of US$70 million equivalent would cover about
60% of the project cost, excluding the estimated cost of reserved procurement
of vehicles (US$7.0 million) and taxes and duties (estimated at US$12.5 mil-
lion). ADAB is expected to provide US$2.2 million equivalent to cover the
cost of consultant services and training and the Covernment of Indonesia would
provide annual budget appropriations to cover all other expenditures estimated
at Rp 70.4 billion (US$64.0 million). The loan would finance US$21.1 million
(91%) of foreign cost and US$48.9 milLion (43%) of local cost.
53.       The Australian Development Assistance Bureau (ADAB) has confirmed
its interest in providing A$2.8 million (equivalent to US$2.15 million) as
grant for technical assistance covering long-term and short-term consultancies
and 15 Master's degree fellowships abroad. Technical assistance would be
provided by Australian consultants; and M.Sc. fellowships would be for studies
in Australia.



- 18 -
Procurement
54.       Civil Works.  Nearly all project civil works (US$37.2 million) would
consist of the construction or upgrading of small rural installations and
houses, representing an expenditure of about US$47,000 at any one location.
These works would be carried out following local competitive bidding (LCB)
procedures with contract packages generally encompassing entire provincial or
district construction programs. On this basis, contracts for works would ave-
rage US$0.4 million, with the largest contract worth up to about US$1.5 mil-
lion. As these works are scattered in 27 provinces and are to be implemented
over three years, it would be difficult to combine them into large contracts
suitable for international competitive bidding. Local contracting procedures
have been reviewed by the Bank Group and are acceptable. All contracts for
civil works estimated to cost more than US$1,000,000 equivalent (about 301 of
all contracts) would be subject to prior Bank review. There are numerous
local contractors capable of executing the required works. The engineering
firms would be responsible for site surveys, preparation of tender documents
and contracts, and supervision of construction. A sunmary of the project
procurement arrangements is shown in the table below. Land purchase (US$10.1
million) would be carried out according to standard Government procedures.
PROJECT EXPENDITURE BY PROCUREMENT CATEGORY
(US$ million)
Not
applic-
Expenditure category      ICB       LCB     Other        able        Total
Civil Works                -        37.2         -        10.1/a       47.3
(32.0)       -         (-)         (32.0)
Vehicles                             8.1         -          -           8.1
Furniture                  -         3.8         -          -           3.8
(3.0)       -           -          (3.0)
Equipment                 4.2         -          -          -           4.2
(3.5)       -          -          -          (3.5)
Training                   -          -        29.5         -          29.5
(29.5)        -         (29.5)
Technical Assistance       -         2.0        2.2         -           4.2
and Studies              -        (2.0)      (-)          -          (2.0)
Recurrent Cost             -          -          -        39.1         39.1
(-)         (-)
Total                     4.2       51.1       31.7       49.2        136.2
(3.5)    (37.0)    (29.5)       (-)         (70.0)
la   Purchase of land.
Note:     (1)  Costs include physical and price contingencies and taxes.
(2) Figures in parentheses are proposed loan amounts.



- 19 -
55.       Vehicles, Furniture and Equipment.  Vehicles (US$8.1 million) would
be subject to reserved procurement because the GOI requires the purchase of
locally assembled items. An assurance was obtained during negotiations that
the vehicles required for the project would be provided by the GOI in
accordance with an agreed schedule. Furniture (US$3.8 million) would be
procured through local competitive bidding procedures as it would be purchased
in small lots for RECs spread over 27 provinces and would be unattractive to
international bidders. Office and technical equipment (US$4.2 million) would
be procured under international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures in
accordance with Bank Group Guidelines, and would be grouped in contract
packages large enough to attract international competition. A preference
limited to 15% of the c.i.f. price of imported goods, or the customs duty,
whichever is lower, would be extended to local manufacturers of such items in
the evaluation of bids. All contracts for equipment and materials exceeding
US$200,000 in value (about 30% of all contracts) would be submitted to the
Bank Group for review before bidding and award.
56.       Services.  Overseas short-term and long-term courses (US$5.0 mil-
lion) will be administered by the PIU and conducted in selected countries and
universities under a schedule acceptable to the Bank. Local short courses for
extension staff, contact farmers, and rural women would be carried out by
AAETE at the ISTCs. Consultants and overseas training (US$2.2 million) is
expected to be provided by ADAB in accordance with their procedures. Con-
tracts for engineering design and supervision (US$1.7 million) would be
awarded on the basis of the Bank Guidelines on the Use of Consultants.
Studies would be carried out by AAETE (US$0.1 million). Routine expenditures
totalling US$39.1 million are also included in project costs.
Disbursement
57.       The loan would be disbursed at the following rates:  90% of the cost
(including VAT) of construction and site development, and 100% of the cost of
training, technical assistance and studies; 1001 of the foreign exchange cost
of directly imported equipment and goods, 65% of the total cost of locally
procured imported equipment and goods, and 95% of the ex-factory cost of
locally manufactured equipment and goods. The Bank would not disburse against
land purchases, salaries, or operation and maintenance expenditures. For most
components, disbursement would be made on the basis of standard documenta-
tion. Disbursement would be made on the basis of statements of expenditure
(SOEs) for equipment and furniture purchases under US$50,000 (contract value)
and for local training expenses. Detailed documentation for SOEs would be
retained in Indonesia and made available to the Bank for supervision. The
minimum size of a reimbursement application should be around US$100,000
equivalent. The minimum size of the letter of credit for goods to be
disbursed under agreements to reimburse should be US$10,000 equivalent.
Disbursements are projected over a six and a half year period, FY87 to FY93
and follow profiles for Bank and Indonesia projects. Disbursements are
expected to be completed faster than the profile of actual disbursements under
previous Indonesian agricultural projects because this is the third phase of
an ongoing project with well developed operations. Loan closing would be
December 31, 1992.



- 20 -
Accounts and Audits
58.       Assurances were obtained during negotiations that (a) separate
accounts would be maintained for the project; (b) these accounts and the
statements of expenditure would be audited annually by an independent auditor
acceptable to the Bank; and (c) these audited accounts and the audit report
would be submitted to the Bank within nine months of the close of each GOI
fiscal year.
Monitoring and Evaluation
59.       Monitoring of the project's physical and financial program would be
conducted by provincial implementation units under the guidance of the PIU.
The provincial implementation units would prepare semi-annual progress reports
which would be reviewed by the PIU.  Based on these reports, the PIU would
prepare semi-annual progress reports and a project completion report within
six months of completion of the project for submission to the Bank.
60.       The Bureau of Agricultural Extension (BAE) of METE would be respon-
sible for establishing and managing the project's evaluation system to enable
evaluation of the overall success of the project. BAE would also evaluate
achievements of each project component in relation to its objectives and,
where feasible, an estimation of quantified benefits. Funds have been provi-
ded in the project for studies and ongoing evaluations and for the services of
an expatriate expert on monitoring and evaluation. The main purpose of the
evaluation and studies would be to make recommendations to project management
on modifications to or improvement in ongoing extension activities so that
they may be better adapted to the needs and characteristics of the farmers.
Research-Extension Linkage
61.       AARD is responsible for conducting research in the four subsectors,
while each Director General is responsible for technical inputs in his subsec-
tor under the coordinating umbrella of AAETE. Research-extension linkage
would be further strengthened under the proposed project through (a) meetings
once every two months of the Directors of Extension, Director of the Bureau of
Agricultural Extension, and Directors of Central Research Institutes of AARD;
(b) semi-annual meeetings with the National Farmers Representative and master
farmers by the Directors of Extension, Director of the Bureau of Agricultural
Extension, Directors of Central Research Institutes, Heads of Bureaus of
BIMAS, Director General AARD, Director General AAETE and Secretary of BIMAS in
accordance with the Minister's Decree; (c) more frequent, systematic and
effective meetings of research and extension specialists in the periodic
review sessions; (d) more frequent visits by PPSs to research institutes;
(e) increased verification and on-farm trials to be carried out by extension
staff under supervision of research scientists; (f) more involvement of
farmers in the identification of research problems and interpretation of
research findings; and (g) quicker distribution of extension materials from
Agricultural Information Centers. Under the proposed Third National Agricul-
tural Research Project presently being appraised by the Bank, the farming
systems research program would be strengthened and placed under a national
coordinator and research scientists would be encouraged to visit farmers more
frequently than at present.



- 21 -
Benefits and Risks
62.       An economic assessment of the proposed project in difficuLt for
several reasons. First, its implementation and impact would be dispersed
throughout 27 provinces of Indonesia, and across the entire range of small-
holder agricultural activity. Second, other variables much as research
results, availability of inputs, and attitudes and response of farmers affect
the estimation of benefits in every area or subsector. Finally, it is
theoretically and empirically difficult to isolate the effects of extension
from those of research, improved inputs, weather trends, changes in relative
price. and marketing systems, general improvements in education and access to
mass media, and programs of investment in transport, agricultural and
irrigation infrastructure. The assessments of the potential impact of the
project were narrowed to a few selected commodities which would be emphasized
in this project and which would be readily amenable to production increases
through improved extension. For these commodities, a potential incremental
yield was estimated based on the projected impact of extension alone, assuming
only relatively simple improvements in cultivation practices, minimum increase
in purchased inputs and no major on-farm investments. Farmer participation
was projected on past experience and on a model of the actual implementation
of extension at the field level. Estimates of farmgate prices for the food
and tree crops for 1985 and beyond are based on projections of world prices in
constant 1986 currency value for those commodities. For the local fish, food
crop and livestock products, which are generally not internationally traded
and for which long-term price projections are not available, estimates of
typical local farngate prices have been made for 1985, and these prices have
been assumed to remain constant in real terms over the life of the project.
63.       Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and Sensitivity Analysis.  The indica-
tive project economic rate of return based on the foregoing set of conserva-
tive assumptions is 32Z. The ERR is relatively insensitive to change in
either costs or benefits. Cost could rise by 2362 and the ERR would remsin at
10%. Bcnefits could decrease by 702 and the ERR would still be 1OZ.
64.       There are no significant agricultural risks, but the project could
face some management and organizational constraints and the funding problems
recently encountered by COI might continue. However, these risks are minimal
and have been addressed in project design.
Environmental Impact
65.       The only foreseeable significant environmental impact of the project
would be a positive one. Erosion would be reduced through the introduction of
extension recommendations into the upland and transaigration areas where it is
currently a problem due to the present agricultural practices.



- 22 -
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
66.       r am satisfied that the proposed loan wouLd comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and I recoumend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
June 27, 1986
Washington, D.C.



- 23   -                   ~~~ANNEX  I
- 23 -                                 Page I of 6 pages
W_II^3SWPdIWrv                                                  wurr1
1 _                             X~~~~~'o'uFll[Affi011n [RIONIt10 AVIm- 
NDSI                      CnamT amour ESTI* ATE)
UCENT             MIDOLI  1300 4          HmL!
EITINATEL        AIA & P*cArtc IIA. aIURmrA A CAN
A ( Mmms.q. no
TOTAL                               1919.5      1919.3      1919.3
AORICILIUNAL                        23.3         307.1       315.5
U        c Cm  (CE)                       ..          ,,        560.0              1011.1                    115,9
-ssNr mn  Hinu     -  cairn
CLILOSAU Of OIL UQUIWAENT)           11.0         91.0       191.0               51b.1                     993.6
POPULATIIN1IO-YUAR (TNCUUAIOI)   94630.0    113201.0    355669.0
URBAN POPULATION  t OF TOTAL)         14.6        17.1        24.1                35.9                      61.7
POPULATtM PRIJCTION
iUATunon IN YWER 2000 (NZLI                               212.0
ITAU0NAR  POPUTION (KILL)                                  363.0
POPULATION HOENT                                             1.,
TOPULAfTO DENSITY
t# sq. IN.                         49.3         60.3        81.1              366.9                       44.0
FBI SQ. DX. AUt. LAND             319.3        378.4       413.4              £391.2                      91.1
PODULATION ACt STOUL (t)
0-14 YI1                          40.7         44.0        40.6                38e2                      38.0
If-44 I1R                          56.2        53.4         55.8               57.7                       57.1
65 AND ABO1E                        3.0          2.5         3.5                3.5                        4.2
POUlAtlON 423013 C1 IE CI)
TOTAL                                2.1         2.0         2.2                2.3                        2.4
URAN                                13.7         3.6         4.3                4.1                        3.b
CR01D3 3ITH LART  CIII TOUSI          44.2        41.0        34.0                30.1                      30.9
CRvt D8ATK AATE (CIi TIdE)            22.1        17.6        12.0                9.A                        0.0
CROSS ZILODuC¶ON EAT!                  2.7         2.7         2.1                 1.9                       2.0
FAMILY PIJIININ
ACC1PTOU, ANNUAL  (TUIIS)            ..        3S1.3      30IS.0 L
uSlN  (ZI or wmUaiD mN)             ..           ..         38.0               s6.3                       45.3
FM11  a  mwns
Inrs Ow woM  MC2D. In  CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                        93.0        102.0       123.0              124.4                      109.i
PE CAPITA SPPLY or
C41A.0I  (S OP NOUIEIIECETS)       79.0         92.0       112.0              115.7                      113.2
PrmazIS (aums  rEE DAY)            34.0         41.0       53.0                60.3                       69.4
OP WAICH ANIK ALID PULS            6.0          6.0         7.0 /4            14.1                       34.2
CHILD (AMS  1-4) DLAT3 KAT           21.9         18.1        13.0                7.2                        4.8
Nalll
LIFE SPCYr. AT SKUlN (tEAMS)         41.2         47.0        53.5               60.6                       64.6
INFANT NDRT. CATE CR m  NuS)        150.0        121.0       101.0               64.9                       59.7
ACCMSS TO SAFE WATCR 4(DP)
TOTA                                 ..          3.0        23.0               46.0                       65.3
USAN                                 ..          0.0        40.0               57.6                       76.5
RURAL                                ,.          1.0       13.0                37.1                       44.2
ACCESS TO EXCIETA DISPOSAL
(C O  POPUIJAUON)
TOTAL                                .          15.0        23.0               50.1                       56.3
UR                                   ..         19.0        20.0               52.9                       73.4
RURAL                                ..         14.0        24.0               44.7                       15.5
POPUIATCUN PER PYICIM             46780.0    26510.0       11530.0 /a          7751.7                     1909.7
POP. PERIEUNISIC PERSON            4510.0 Lf   7680.0       2300.0 7j          2466.8                     140.2
POP. ER HOsPrIAL M
TOTAL                            1350.0       1650.0      1720.0 /           1112.1                      362.0
URBN                              250.0          .         700.0              651.4                     422.o
EURAL                               ..           ..       3160.0 A           2596.9                    2716.7
ADMISSIONS PEI  OSPITAL SW             ..          ..          ..                41.1                      27.5
MI=
AV^EA  SIZE OF HOUSUOLD
TOTAL                               4.4          4.6
URBAN                               4.9          5.3
RDEAL                               4.3         4.1
AVERAGE  0. Or PMONS/NOON
TOTAL                               ..           1..
UIRAN                               ..           1.6
RURAL                                .           1.5         .                   .
PEcENTs! ow WIELLIKS 1rlTH l1.Cr.
TOTAL                                                      ..                 ..
UR                                  ..           ...
IUEA                                ..           ...



- 24 -                                        ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6 pages
INDONES1A              - SOCIAL INDICATORS DAA SHEET
ZUDONSIA                             EFERECE C CCOPTS (WRIGHTED AVEIIAG) (
rO8T                     (MOBT ? ECET ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT           MIDDLI INCOME           MIDDLE WOOlS
.otk.       IS70Db  itESTINATRLb    ASIA A rAcirto          LAT. AERICA 6 CAR
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRlMaRYI  TOTAL                    71.0        77.0       100.0              100.7                    106.7
MALI                   66.0         83.0       106.0              104.4                    108.1
nUUas                 5s.0          71.0        94.0              97.2                     104.6
SooDnDuakt TOTAL                    6.0        13.0        33.0               47.8                    6u.2
MALE                    10.0        20.0        38.0               50.6                     42.7
FEMALE                   3.0        10.0        27.0              44.8                      46.9
VOCATIONAL  i Or SECONDA)            20.4        22.1        13.9               18.4                     13.3
PUlL-TEAER RATIO
PRIMARY                            39.0        29.0        29.0               30.4                     29.9
SKOONDARY                          14.0        13.0        16.0               22.2                     16.7
PASSZENGR CARS/THOUSAND POP           1.1         2.1         4.4 le            10.1                     46.0
RADIO IECEIVRSJ/TIIDOUSAND POP        7.2        21.9       131.2              172.9                    328.3
TV RCEIVERB/TMWUSAND POP             0.1         0.8         22.6               58.5                     112.4
NEWSPAflK ("DAILY CGNERAL
INTEuSTr" CICULIATION
PUE THOUSAND POPULATION             11.0         ..         14.9               65.3                     81.1
CINMA ANWAL ATTENDNCEICAPITA          2.8         ..          1.0 It             3.4                      2.4
rNOI M
TOTAL AR FORCEa t (THDIS)        34791.D    41090.0    54417.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   27.0        30.9       29.3                33.6                     23.6
ACIICULTIJU (PElCENT)             75.0         66.0        5S.0 4            52.2                      31.6
INWDUTRY (PIEKNT)                  6.0         10.0       12.0 le             17.9                     24.3
PARTICZPATION RATE (PERCEN)
TorAL                              36.7        35.4        35.0               38.9                     33.5
MALE                               54.2        49.5        49.6              50.8                      51.3
FEMALE                             20.0        21.6        20.4               26.8                     1J.9
ECOMIC DtEINQC  RATIO                 1.2         1.3         1.3                1.1                       1.3
riles emmItuIm
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RGCGVtD BY
OICNSST 51 0o UOUSCHOLDS            .           .         23 5Th
RICHEST 201 07 IIUSENLDO            ..         ..         49 .4j             6i8.0                      .
LOWEST 201 OF IOUSEHOLOS                                    6.6Th             6.4
LOWET 401 OF UOUSUIODS              ..         ..         16.6                15.5
PVER      TAEET   IS1
ESTIMTED A0OTE POVERTY INCM
LEEL (USS PER OWITA)
URBAN                               ..        124.0 /h    124.0 Ih            ..                     828.3
WRAL                                ..        106.0 7j   :06.0 r             I251.9                   135.3
ESTIMATED uELATIV POVERTY INCOXM
LEVEL (USS PEN CAPITA)
URD                                                       119.0 t.          177.9                     519.8
RURL                                .                     9..*     7;i      164.7                     359.7
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY IXNOMD LZVEL (2)
URUBA                              ..          51.0 /!    26.01I              23.5
RURAL                                          59.0       64.0               37.8
OTr AVAILABU
NOT APPUCAI
N OT I S
is   The group avrages for each indicator are populatin-we_lghted arithmetic inane. Coverap of countrtie
among the Indicators depends on availability of data and La not unlforu.
lb   Unltaa  othLrvim  noted, "Date for 1960" refar to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" betwem
1969 and 1971; and data for "Moat lecent Etimate" between 1981 end 1983.
/c  19BO; id 1977; /l 1979;  af 1962; jg 1976; jh 1980 prlcan.
JNN, 1985



- 25 -                                   ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6 pages
DU'MONS Of SOCLIL INDICATOaS
Not: AboUg tedat a   wn dmw fr       y mu J     the momn ahinmuve and ual. it Ibuld alo be nowted tt  y may not be inm inoealy
_ompmbl bhm    of hne leek of miladised   did  and wowmW us   dill_ta  coemunen in ad  ur tOn dau The darn an. montm l ot
du    ordes _ofmude, Indiatc minds, ad ehrin   ens major dillmsbetws coinee .
The mA.. potp an I 1) tdie    country rop of die sutbjt countwy and (21 a country group with nuwhbat higer avampr imco  than the cmiry
roW of th wsib  comntry tempt for '4Hig Ibcamn Ol Exporer group where M ine o_ NasNoh Anc and Middl Earu is cho  beau of awonpr
soeo.cultaul atl In to d flI peep daa du avegs" atm populatin weght   an_umec -    for each indica and shown oniy when mpnty
olthie counie In a pop haa dta for doth lndicator. Sum the cana of contmria among the Indicalon depnd on he avmilabiliay of dota and ii not uniform,
cam  moat be  eed In reaing  e   of n indliator to anFore Theversgp an only ful in ompan the value crodn Indiator a a time anong
the Cotry mi serm groups.
AREA (thousad sq.kmn)                                           CArudebr ivRae rpar IAuisaO--Number of live births in the year
Tee-Total suri  aea cmprising land area and inland waten:       per thournd or mid-year population; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.
190, 1970 and 1983 data.                                        Crd Deat Rawe (Pr lseem d)-Number of deaths in the year
AVs*ars-Estimnate of agricultural arem  used temporarily or     per thowand of mid-veer populauion 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
penuautly for crops. pastures, market and kitchen gprdens or to  Gm= Repewrles. Rmoe-Averm  number ofdaughtem a woman
lie fallow. 1960, 1970 and 1982 data.                           will beat in her normal reproductive period if she experiene
preent e-spekfic fertility rtes: usually fOve-year averges ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at curmrm         in 1960, 1970, and 1933.
marks prices cakulated by same conversion method as Worl        Faw     Phadag-dwprs, Anna (rhowasd)- Annual num-
BtA Atlas (I191143 basis): 1983 data.                           berofceptr of birth-control devices under auspics of national
ENERGY CONSUMPlION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                  family planning progrm.
consumption or commercial primnry energy (coal and lignite.     PhaC  FlaLism  (pIbn   ef mnitd W.S-Thc percen-
petroleum, natural gs and hydro-, nuclear and geothermal chec-   tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tncity) in kilograms of oil equivaldem per capita: 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any rorm orcontraception. Women
i192 data.                                                      of child-bearing age are generally women aged 1549. although for
somne counties contraceptive usage is mnesured for other age
POPULATION AND VtTAL STATISTICS                                 groups.
Total Pop.i.a, WVid-Year fhe aJsaads-As of July 1l 1960. 1970.  FOOD AND NUTRMON
and 1913 data.
UJris  Fpopul  (pefrcent of wroalj-Ratio of urban to total      IirfePene   rCmr 14-110-ne   fpa
popWition. diffefent definitions of urban areas   urbay affect comp  capita annual production of all food commodites. Production
ppltion: different definitns o960f u 970 aeansd 1983 datac      excludes arirnal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
include primafy commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of supr I
tplatiem Preeieh                                                 which are edible and contain nutrients le.g. coffee and ea are
Pbpulatiom i year 2000-The projection of population for 200,    excludedt; they compris  cereals, root crops, pulses. oil seeds.
made ror each economy septely. Starting with information on     vegetabes fruits, nuts. sumrcane and sugar beets. livestock. and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates. mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggrepte production of each country is based
international  irtinuon in the base year 1980. these paraneters  on national average producer price weights: 1961.65. 1970. and
were projected at Aive-year intcrvals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
aumptions until the population became stauonary.                Per C4aa Suply ef CalmEs (prceOt ef ifeqaremerts)-Compui-
Stationarv population-ls one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed firom calorie equivalent of net rood supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-spectfic  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise donestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacemeat lcvel  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. NeL supplies
(net reproducuon rate - 1). In such a population. the birth rate is  CIclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
cor.tant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also  food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiolopeal needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considenng environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate ot decline of fertility  agc and sex distribution or population, and allowing IO percent for
rate to replacement level.                                      waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Momenrum-Is the tendency for population growth to    Aer Cpia Supply of fhotie (gram per day)-Protein content of
continue beyond the timc that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; that is. even after the met reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countrie established by USDA
unity. The momentumn of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for mnnimum allowances of 60 grams of toutl protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of whicb 10 grams
tIbe year r. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
ment kvel from year t onward. 19b5 data.                        75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Pepaarie Densty                                                 aveage for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per .sq.krn.-Mid-year population per square kilomieter (100 hec-  Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1912 data.
aes) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                  Per C*a. hankw Seppfr  os Aidm  and hPLe-Proian supply
Per sq.km. agrisultural tand-Computed as above for agncultural  of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day; 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data,                            1970 and 1977 data.
Pepeariou Age Stuuem  (percentj-Children 10-14 years). work-    CUd (ages 14) Death Rae (per thouaad)-N umber of deaths or
ing age (I5-64 years). and retired t65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 14 years per thousand children in the same age
or mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.              group in a given year. For most developing countnes data denved
from lire tables 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.
Peper arn Gr.vr Rar  pecnl-erl- nAnnal growth rates of
total mid-yer population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 197083-       HEALTH
tp.lhqaf    Growth Rae (percemirj-wha--Annual growth rates      Life Ewpecry at Birh (yea w;-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data      infant would lve if prevailing patints of mortality For all people



ANNEX I
- 26 -                              Page 4 of 6 pages
at tho Us of of Dr biUt  -  to stay tI ume througout its liff,  Ap&uwhr AmIro *pHrwy. wd uecou&ry-Total studs an.
1960.1970 md 1913 data.                                        roUld In priny ad   eoaday  lev   tdi         by numb. of
1iw M aIb t Ad  (u, demoo)-Numbur of Inrants who die    teace  in tdo campondlng ls*.
beore ruwsig om  yr of ap p.r thoumd ive bith In a gIml
yar, 1960. 1970 and 1983 dat                                   coNsurrnoN
Amcau ns      It   (pro S   (pa-f                      ad 1   husqur Cwm (Ps l         S pepsi lel)-Pase r ca  com.
rod-Number of pop         L     and rurld) Wtib rmasonaL       p    motor can uSI lm tha eight pomng exduds ambul.
-m  to mae wer suupn (IdS  trad udha  waen or                  -       oau a nd luky VewC11.
uontrad duo  n        tol a ya warn p_muc   ha fnr wspee       aa  Receve  (por rhaNmd pepdiheai-All Mrym of rdlven
bro      qn   ing and saItary       pebs uutag    or thirIpos  for radio broadcaets to general pubic per dmmasd o' population;
loce nt more tha nw 200 mom i fn aoe y be cnid  dtn                                                           yn who
- being witlhin rissnsamble acorn of that hous. 1n rurLial.'.  regtmtrtion or radio nu was in mfiect; dama for Imu  yuan may
routabb accss oWdimply that the housewife or tomb.. of the  not he comparable since momi counurie abolihe Uccuislg.
bowd d donot av to sped a dlipeootonate part or the day    TY*UfIPS(par rhesmdpepdsba)-TV receies for bradmit
in feching the fazly'm Wwan mOmWL                              tognrura public per dtcuand populationexcduda unlicensed TV
Acce. t. Ems" Dlqeeu (ercet qif pepulsku)-anal, wi'a           rein m cinrca u madi  a             eitaino  Vm    a
ad rwn-Number of people (total, urbn, and rural) srved by      in e
eeta disposal am pmentaa of their repective populations.       N*wIPiP  CkSnSh. (gw dr sud papoAs-Sows die aver.
Exctls dispoul mny include the collection and dispoal with or  age circulation or "daiy  ieral sut  newepaptrw p "deied u a
without treatment, of human excreta and wase-water by waler-   peiodial pubication devoted primarily to reconding pnl new
borne sysms or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is conidered to be "dadly" ir t ap"    at bat four time a wek.
Pabsbu pr Physlcl.-R,pulation divided by number of prac        C    . Aimul A emaudaee per CWpd  pff Yew-lamed on the
tuig physcans qualified froma medical school at univerity level  number of tickleu sold during the yea. including adinsn to
Apulu*b. per Nus5g Pt7nv--fpulation divided by number of       drive-in cOtne    and mobile unit.
practicing male and f( e grdute nurses assistunt nurses,
practical nurse and nursing auxiliaries.                       LABOR FORCE
.abrln pr  lfsahd-tutl win, an '                 pulation      er Labo )We (utheumd)-Economically acive persons, in
(total, urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of  cluding armed forces and unemployed but ecltuding houswive,
hospital beds available in public and private, general and specialbed  students, etc.. covering population of all age. Deflniuaos in
hospitals and rehabiliution centrs. Hospitals are estblishments  various countries are not comparable. 1960. 1970 and 19'3 data.
permnuently Msued by at lest one physician. Establishments prov  Fnse (pavrcm-Female labor force as prentage u' t   labor
iding principally custodial cae  are not included. Rural hospitab,  foce.
howveve indude bhalth and nedical centers not pennanenly saffed  4grkm   (percal)-Labor forae in farming fortry, huntn
by a physicin (but by a medicl assistant, nurse, midwife. etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force 1960. 1970 and 190
which oiler in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical facilities.                                         lAduVy  prcentan-Labor force in mining, construction, mnanu-
Adim   par Hasp Blehi-Total nunber of admissions to or         facturing and electricity, water and gas percentage of toull labor
discharges rrom hospitals divided by the number of beds.       force: 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Pkepdi Re (arcenr)-eol Pak, audlJhu.-Partidpation
HOUSING                                                        or activity rate are computed as totaL male, and female labor force
Averre Sn ef Hosehld (pare per ho Jseheid)-setil wham,         as percentages of total, male and remal populadon of all ags
tint--A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively; 1960, 1970, and 1983 data. These am baud on ILOs
hving quarten  and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structure of the population, and
may not be included in the household for statstical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
AverW  ,'V.r of Pmen  per Reeer-eeal, ari, and rural-          Eeornm   Depetdny Rario- Ratio of population under IS, and
Average number of persons per room in all urban, and rural     65 and over, to the working age population Rthose aged 15-64.
occupied conventional dwellings respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                INCOME DISTRIBLTION
Perceuuage of Dweus wish Ekect irch-ao al, ark., ad rural-     Percentae of rawl Disposak lncoe (bob in cuah u  kindj-
Conventional dwellings with electrcity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tagp of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively,       hold income
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Autted Eareaer Ras                                            The foilowing estisnates are very approximate neasures of poverty
)4bory schoo - total, mate and female-ross total, male and    levels, and should be interpreted with considerble caution.
fernale enrolmrent of all age at tbe pnmar level as pecntages of  Eimated Abshe Pvrey inome Levl (USS pr cuyia)-arhs
respective priMary school-age populations. While Many countries  and ruraL-Absolute poverty income ILvvd is that income kvel
consider primary school age to be 6-1 1 ycars. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutntionally adequate diet plus esntial
differnces in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For sone countries with universal  Esimaed Retiv APovery Incm  Level (USSper cqka)-rbau
educationL gross enrollment may excead 100 percent since some  and rua-Rural relative poveny income kvel is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-chool  average per capita personal income of the country- Urban level is
age                                                           derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Srcomhiy schold - total nmlk and fenaL-Computed as above,      bving in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pn-  Estmed Pepaaiea     w AdAhs    Poerwy 1mn Lel (pa-
nury instruction; provides geal. vocationaL or teacher training  cent)-har   ad rua- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupis usualy of 12 to 17 years of agr corrpond-  who are "absolute poor."
ence courses are generally exduded.
Vocatona Enrolie  (parcel of scodarv iVocational insitu-                 Comnparative Analysis and Dat Division
tions iandude technicaL industriaL or other program which operate     Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as deparments of secondary institutons.                               June 1985



-27-                                                I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NNER I
INDONESIA -ECONOMIC INDICAICR                                                      page 5 ofa
GNP per Capatia 091560 11993 nitimate)
Annual grautb rite 'il (dt cDontant 199: praces
h ount                 - -  - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - -  - - - -  - - -  - - - -  - -  - -  - - - -  - -    - - -  -  . .  . . .
(million LISA at                             Actual                        Est.                           Projecten
curreint    pracesl          - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -            . . .     - -      - - - - - - - - - - . . .       . . . . . . . .
Indicitar                             1993                       1991       1992      i9E1       1994      19B5       199o      I,9.'      1999      1920Y      2990     1:,q
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domeslic product la              93,016                   hA       -4',3       3.2         6.       l.l        IS0       21         .2        30        3.         I.t'
Rgracnltere                 2~~~~~~9,4&94.                     1.1       1.9        5.9        .2        2.5       2.5         .         .          .         .
Industry                                                     5.450L    -9.1        2.1       9,6       -3.3       1.1        2.7       _.'       '2.J       2 .4      2.2.1
Sornices                              2,5                    121.1      7.4        5.3!      5.31       4.0       0.0        I."       3.0       4l.u       5.0        9.4'
Consammptmon                           59,722                  I1.?       21.1      -tO6        1.0       2.1      -0.9        i. 9      2.9        3.5       4.4        5.1
Gross investement                      22,1031                 32.9      10.3    -20.4         8.8       -7.2     -12.3       -2.4       2.2        4.0       2. 6       0.4
Exports of StIES                        21,949                 -9.3     -10.9       14.0       4.9       -2.21       7.1       6.3       5,1        2.2       2.9        I
Imports of ONFI                        21,77!                  20.5       1.4     -ll.l      -16.2       -9.9     -23.6        0.4       3,9        5.2,      4.?        5.9
Brims nationAl Sailng;                    171,567                -Id7    -1I.]        I2.o       2 3.2      9.3       14.1      I,.;        2.9        1.0       2.2       2.5
PRICES
SOP deflator 11995'1100)                                         92        99        lol"      lo9        11I       (25        237       149        157       168        215
Exchunqe rite tip our USfi                                      632       661        909      2026       lilt
Share of GOP at market prices  Zrp                                   Average annual increase it!
iat currant Prices)ic ltat constAnt 1992, pricesI
1970      2975       (990      2995       3990      1995              1970-75  1975-80  199D-05  1905-90  1990-95
Gross domestic Volnuct                                110       100        200       200        lug       100                  9.4       ?.4        3.6       2.6        4.21
floriculture                                        41        312        25         24        25         23                  4.2       3.3         .4       2.7       3.0O
Industry,                                           19         31        421        5         35         2                 12.0        9.9       0.8        2.4       1.9
SerVIces                                            35,        35        35         40        40         45                  9.1       9.5       6.9        26        6.1
Consumption                                            99        ?9         72        89         be        71                  9.2       9.2        3.2         .I       5.2
Gross inveutmest                                       14        20         23        25         21       212                 10.:1     32.2        5.0      -1,0       5.2
Exports of SIBS                                        23       1.          21        26         291      215                  9_2        2.9      -1.1       4.9        I.,
Imports of GN5                                       -10,       -22.      -21        -210      -lO        -19                212.2      24.0      -2.0       -0.3       4.5
tross national savings                                  9        17         25        25         29        :                  213.3     (6.         3.9       5.0        2.3
As I of GOP
(910                195(0                                      994
PUBLIC FINANCE lb
Current revenues                                                                              10.1                 17,4                2.0.9                 29.6i
Current ewDendi turns                                                                          6.4                  9.9                 11.9                 22.0
Surplus                                                                                        2.6                  7.51                 9.0                  1.6
Capital expenditure                                                                            5.0                 1I-,                 32.1                 23.6
Foreiap 4inincinq                                                11.14                 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.7    3.2                  4.0
1910-75             19,15-to              0980-95             1915-90              1990-95
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual SW  growtk rite ill                                                           7.16                 3.1                  3.4                  2.9                  1.4
Annual SNP per capita nroeth rite (Xl                                                5.3                  6.7                  1.2                  0.9
Annual energy consumptmon growth rate lii                                           21.2                 11.0                N.A.                 N.A.                 N.A.
ICWR                                                                                 2.2                  3.3                  7.9                 9.5                   .
garginal savings rate                                                              0.49                 0.29B                0.27                 0.51                 0.15
laport elasticity                                                                    2.9                0.94                -0.55                -0.20                 1,07
Ia  At    market- - --    - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - -- - - -- - - -- --prices.- -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - -
,lb Central Government avIv, on an April-to-Narch fiscal year basis.
It At constamt prices from 2990 asl.
East Asia and Pacific RegiOnal Office
Oay 1986



1  |~~~~~o
immu  sab OFWW, ammi WIT" su K
131 mIllimi at ctrrat pricls
igu,lsils      I 15s.3  ulilimG  6.4lYli
* pal catelpa 3110 13911 nil mlii
................ .... .I.......................... _g............................... ....................................................... ............................
kiwi1                     (it.                     Frejicd
.............. ................    .. .                ................................ ..........
m1    m1   1nn                1        aIQ    11    m1               us m1 ,   i1e0   ms
IIOF cFlMItI la
,...................
3.  i rts                                                23.30m    19,111   ".2z  I   20,921   1,,mm    11,11t   II,          24,794 n   2,t9   15,171    31,31a
ii mol .,tm  IVBill                                 3I.32     14,7 44 11,469   14,4        12,437    1,141    9,122   11,12    12,111   13,325   11,73
lb) lua* 4.110    3,92                                                    3.310    1,917    53,43    4,42        0,374    1,113    9.,2k,  30,3%    il,c5
3cd                           313                      OIi        303      4e1            I      Sl 12     3       674       132    1,130   Lint    2,114
2    mIrls                                               22,      11 2,fll   20,116   11,814    11,114   13,14    13 134   31,134   19,121   23,232   32,111
i13  Ii oiliW                                         1,462     4.12      1,119     1,9      3,1,1    3,#33      3,111    1,14       3.,9     4, 2       ,121
lI kmiml ascts                                       14,l4     315'r    11,241   12,75    4,325    9,3s            10,r 6    i l,435   12111   14,64   21a301
id  On                                                2,917          1,231 ,112    1,114    2,2        2,1121    2,231    2,521    2,144    2,03    4I,22
3,   UI E toile.Pci                                          424   11,j171      11,    3,31    2,113         1101   1,51       ;,l11    2,471    3en        4,711
I,  Fatal  wa.iac                                          3,2139   11,I,     31,1091  15,0515  14,3123   33,t33i  14,24I  14,9311   .1231n  13,2511  1&,5211
Ill 3Kp^lt                                            3,413    1,19         3in      99        944       VI    1,116         99     1,013       91        713
lkl Pammts                                           i4,171    1,72n9     1   13,421  3,141i  15,7712   14,5441 3S,2ni  i913,91    i     1   44,1ja 1n.211
3.  Cosal2 *riuts                                             17       I15        IS      l33       114       itQ       354       ISO      ISO       Ill       Is
64 .   I,Iuc  em currmi stcta                              2,7171  11,133  11,3141   Ii' Ill  1,9333  63,3l 6        6,1393  31,6292   1 i,441 1i,2431  11 i,2i
7.  hrtlt tv.1g   innstmt3                                   332      ILL       193       245       2ii       25       322       475       494       443       941
e.  Pblut I  Li luau                                       3,41     3,4a      3,a1      2,260     1,I10    Mu11      2, ti 1,11          t 1,690     3       1n232
9.  tlwi  cipili  Intl                                       4142      431    2,61         42   12,61         670      limp      11131    13712    12221       3
Lt. oDW   to rnres 1 asureaul                               VP      3,5s4   11.1391         14191  2713         4        III      411        1        12      [1l
i1. hit  lus,cl  er          4tr                          6,354    3,4        6,403    5,332    3,311    3,142    3,2 5, 3,403    5,11i    5,19             3,49
hear.2 in IAlit .6 mso mm
Is rG                                                 4.4       2.3       1.3       4.3      3,3      $3.        54        5.0      4,5       4.1      727
OaiM OWIte bae m           
ta t raug iambs W,I I
bkglr  a syti  Phb                                 10,22    &,1?i    3,l14    9,179   34,353         9,U3    9,133    9,11 I   ,393        I4,2-2    10,217
'cleI roeryms ie muLtt of
iNsII l pfhs * tF                                     1.1       3.2       I.2       2.1      t         9. 1      9.1       6.        2.9      7.3       4.7
tlIlLb  Wl.L inl 2l3t ic
km. Iiehfvmsi                                            2,472   4,92    4,4,4  2,344    3,524
.. ... .. ...
Conm   t lmms     Lass                                      794       iII      ml        542       140
....... . ..... _
hIasiral                                                20        62        343       45e      5s1
[011                                                     0         71        61       sq         a
Othsr                                                      I        I         I        11        11
:cee.,m,ma3l Luau                                         i,3n1    3,533    4,357    3203    2,975
......... ........._  ,
Oltocami "WIl credits                                    114      312       414       44         zii
in0                                                     311       343       439       212      739
3lkv miiItersml                                          a3       134 lt1 143                   LA
Pti atsw_c                                             0S1,6    2,3       1,229     3,914    I,'m"
tvwul Datl id
.. .... ...._.._
alit  latietmis 1,   inui                            13,11304   11,515   21,4P    22,372   21,442
2li6cial-gsvce                                     10,439   11,113   12,3        127,24   36,974
Privs-smecrn                                        1,311     7,4312    1,49    3,069   Ii,44
fUd,,birms   Si                                      11,311   12,304   13,713   1S,9S   11',e
Deli in-ite
., ... _...
2It2l W.Ic. p,ats                                     2,447    2,264    2,36       3,151    4,310
Ivegst                                               1141l 11,4651  23,235    61,126i  11,343
P   uta as I umets is                                   9.2      11.1      12.1      34.3      11.1
1.t1l ddbl trsru title 1C                              10.4      2l4.     12.7      114       23.4
hra19   3ImeretO latit Itna  Lan  Il1                       6.7      9.2       3.3       9.1        I t
"4CIsIlsa_c.                                            1.1       3.3       3.7      l.A       2.4
Prtaii-swatc                                            9.4       9.5       1.1       t         .5
urig   Htsll2 at ie      _ Ltoe   IlStrl                   13.5     15.2      13. 1     13.9      j3.
01,a,imusc                                           20.5      23.4      2.2      24. 9     21.7
PIrsle-surce                                           33.3      13.3 1     4.1       .2      10.4
hi m t idt mntstlamqt tid oi 4193
hinitr  strttw  of 4l* us t tmdimg                                -....--.................... --.
htmrilln  baa d3t4A5 I  uwr                                                               31
kitils di         liti 1S pets                                                            11
claret strltut. *I debt .tiasd,mq
lIletS m o  waittle first VWa                                                            4.5
~~~~~~~~~~~~....._ . _._...... _..___.._........... __ _._.... . _.. . .._ . ___. _._ ................___ _._._ ..............     ----
Ii14 al Iwai-rla-tlarcl lost!l ye lbass
lb  llidan  foreign utas of kpuat SU     63k1 is 53tim km Ia  14gil1 rpesles.
IC  ScIds  o itu      m, nagststwmnd Ia   aiw La  mnaam.
Id tt atd f Peimd.
It  hi  piri  Itm          -  pm. basis.  itw    tacrti     ensien. Bellk t meits nriss   orna          d MI tomd,cited l1am  is f19.
11  Icimsn  prl .te msg rntmod ls.
Ent RUM  I a   PIif,E RegionUal   cis
mall-



- 29 -                     ANNEX I1
Page 1 of 4 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1986) /a
Loan/                                                          Amount (US$ million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                      Bank     IDA    Undisbursed
Forty Loans and forty-four Credits fully
diubursed                                                1,971.86   777.89         -
1578    1978   Tenth Irrigation                             109.00      -         22.96
1604    1978   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders II            50.50      -         10.40
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                       53.60      -          9.14
L707    1979   Transmigration II                             90.00      -         75.49
L70B    1979   Eighth Power                                 175.00      -         37.34
L709    1979   Second Water Supply                           35.49      -          4.87
946    1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                    -      12.00        5.50
1751    1980   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders III           92.00      -         23.85
995    1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                            -      37.60        5.53
996    1980   National Agriculture Extension II               -      39.00       19.26
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                        116.00      -         36.55
1835    1980   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders IV            30.00      -         15.69
1840    1980   National Agricultural Research                35.00      -         35.00
1014    1980   National Agricultural Research                  -      30.00        0.56
1872    1980   Ninth Power                                  253.00      -         65.46
1898    1981   Smallholder Coconut Development               25.00      -         10.51
1904    1981   University Development                        45.00      -         31.26
1950    1981   Tenth Power                                  250.00      -         10.97
1958    1981   Swamp Reclamation                             22.00      -         11.70
1972    1981   Fourth Urban Development                      43.00      -         19.66
2007    1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders V            134.00      -         80.69
2049    1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway                      85.00      -         66.60
2056    1982   Eleventh Power                               170.00      -         39.42
2066    1982   Second Seeds                                  15.00      -          9.34
/a  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 30 -                     ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4 pages
Loan/                                                           Amount (US$ million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                  (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                       Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
2079    1982   Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and
Transport                                  185.00      -         65.84
2083    1982   Rural Roads Development                        85.00       -        32.27
2101    1982   Second Teacher Training                        79.59      -         64.19
2102    1982   Second Textbook                                25.00      -         21.22
2118    1982   Sixteenth Irrigation                           37.00      -         15.66
2119    1982   Seventeenth Irrigation (East Java              70.00      -         36.31
Province)
2120    1982   National Fertilizer Distribution               66.00      -         31.35
2126    1982   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders VI             55.50      -         43.77
2153    1982   Coal Exploration Engineering                   25.00      -         14.56
2199    1982   Central Java Pulp and Paper Engineering         5.50       -         4.03
2214    1983   Twelfth Power                                 300.00       -       223.08
2232    1983   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders VII           138.90      -        136.43
2235    1983   Provincial Health                              27.00      -         23.25
2236    1983   Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation                22.40      -         19.22
2248    1983   Transmigration III                            101.00      -         54.16
2258    1983   Public Works Manpower Development              30.00      -         24.74
2275    1983   East Java Water Supply                         30.60      -         17.35
2277    1983   Fifth BAPINDO                                 208.90      -        131.24
2288    1983   Transmigration IV                              63.50      -         59.14
2290    1983   Second PoLytechnic                            107.40      -        105.47
2300    1983   Thirteenth Power                              279.00      -        171.84
2341    1984   Third Agricultural Training                    63.30      -         52.43
2344    1984   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder Sugar           79.20       -        47.84
2355    1984   Second Non-Formal Education                    43.00       -        34.89
2375    1984   Second Provincial Irrigation Dev.              89.00       -        60.31
2404    1984   Highway Betterment                            240.00       -       185.23
2408    1984   Fifth Urban Development                        39.25       -        35.45
2430    1984   Third Small Enterprise Development            204.65       -        96.73
2431    1984   Second Swamp Reclamation                       65.00       -        62.73
2443    1984   Fourteenth Power                              210.00       -       196.07
1950-1  1985   Supplemental Loan for Tenth Power
(1950-IND)                                 50.00       -         19.75
2472    1985   Secondary Education and Management
Training                                    78.00      -         73.58



-31 -                     ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4 pages
Loan/                                                           Amount (US$ million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                  (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                       Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
2474    1985   Upland Agriculture and Conservation            11.30       -        11.27
2494    1985   Smallholder Rubber Development II             131.00       -       131.00
2529    1985   Fourth Population                              46.00       -        46.00
2542    1985   Second Health (Manpower Development)           39.00       -        39.00
2543    1985   Kedung Ombo Multipurpose Dam and
Irrigation                                 156.00      -        156.00
2547    1985   Second University DeveLopment                 147.00       -       147.00
2560    1985   West Tarum Canal Improvement                   43.40       -        43.40
2577    1985   National Ports Development                    111.00       -       111.00
2578    1985   Transmigration V /a                           160.00       -       160.00
2599    1986   Science and Technology Training                93.00       -        93.00
2628    1986   Smallholder Cattle Development /a              32.00                32.00
2632    1986   Second East Java Water Supply /a               43.30       -        43.30
2636    1986   Second Nutrition and Community Health          33.40       -        33.40
2638    1986   Nusa Tenggara Agriculture Support /a           33.00       -        33.00
2649    1986   Central and West Java Irrigation /a           166.00       -       166.00
Total Bank loans and IDA credits           8,149.54   896.49
Of which has been repaid                    -577.51   -23.38
Total now outstanding                      7,572.03   873.11
Amount sold to third party         2B.24
Amount repaid by third party    -2B.24          -
Total now held by Bank and IDA lb          7,572.03   873.11
Total undisbursed Ic                                            4,053.25
/a  Not yet effective.
/b  Prior to exchange adjustment.
/c  Includes loans not yet effective.



- 32 -                      ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1986)
Fiscal                                                                  Loan  Equity  Total
year   Obligor                              Type of business           -- (USs million) --
1971    P.T. Semen Cibinong                  Cement                     10.6    2.5    13.1
1971    P.T. Unitex                           Textiles                   2.5    0.8      3.3
1971    P.T. Primatexco Indonesia            Textiles                    2.0    0.5      2.5
1971    P.T. Kabel Indonesia                 Cable                       2.8    0.4      3.2
1972    P.T. Daralon Textile Mfg. Corp.   Textiles                       4.5    1.5      6.0
1973    P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel               Tourism                    9.8    1.6    11.4
1973    P.T. Semen Cibinong                   Cement                     5.4    0.7      6.1
1974    P.T. Primatexco Indonesia            Textiles                    2.0    0.3      2.3
1974    P.T. Monsanto Pan                    Electronics                 0.9     -       0.9
1974    P.T. PDFCI                            Dev. fin. co.               -     0.5      0.5
1974    P.T. Kamaltex                        Textiles                    2.4    0.6      3.0
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong                  Cement                      5.0    1.5      6.5
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong                  Cement                       -     1.1      1.1
1977    P.T. Daralon Textile Mfg. Corp.   Textiles                       0.4     -       0.4
1977    P.T. Kamaltex                        Textiles                    1.3    0.2      1.5
1979    P.T. Daralon                         Textiles                    0.9     -       0.9
1980    P.T. Papan Sejahtera                 Capital market             4.0    1.2       5.2
1980    P.T. Indo American Industries        Class dinnerware           11.1    0.9    12.0
1980    P.T. Semen AndaLas Indonesia         Cement and construc-
tion material          48.0    5.0    53.0
1982/5  P.T. Saseka Celora Leasing           Capital market              5.0    0.3      5.3
1984    P.T. Semen Cibinong                  Cement                     25.0     -      25.0
Total gross commitments                                       143.6   19.6   163.2
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                           110.8    7.3   118.1
Total held by IFC                                              32.8   12.3    45.1
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)                   1.0             1.0



- 33 -                             ANNEX III
IUDONESIA
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section 1: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project                :  10 months
(b)  Agency which prepared the project                : GOI
(c)  Date of first mission to consider project        : October 1984
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission           : March 1985
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations               : May 1986
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness                    :  November 19B6
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
None.



THAILAND                        ItO                                          1W                           124
BEandi AcMh                         -j
13                        MALAYSIA                  --3 BRUNEI
\                              ~            ~           ~~~~/ A-)
)   *                        ~~~~~~~~~/               )                                   (j
12                                                                          MALAYSIA  1                 17
..--'-SINGAPORE
Pui manhlarul                                                        f
t   9                             Pontianak,.          K  A  L  I      AN        AN
Sa matnnda
14
Pcdang                 10                                                                                                   t 15
t         '@~itS                                                                                           K'Gi    15A<
D.K.I. JAKARTA                    A       A                                                      Potnnpknl, Vi-
2 JAWA RAtAT                                      2Pi.0mhnnq
a JAVA TENGAII                      7        5     '                                                                1
D.I. YOGYAKARTA                                                                                   anEaIru        16
5 JAWA TIMUR               B engkulu1.                                                             Saniarmnin
6 LAMPUNG                                            6
7 BENGKULU
a SUMATERASELATAN
g RIAU                                   Tajungerring                                                                          Ulunaptndun
10 JAMBI                                                                                                                            n
-1 SUMATERA BARAT
12 SUMATERA UTARA                                               JAA ArA     W
13Dl ACEH 
14 KALIMANTAN BARAT                                                                 3
15 KALIMANTAN TENGAH                                                                3                 ttAJPA
16 KALIMANTAN SELATAN                                         Bandun"g       )Srnhranq              1
17 KALIMANTANrTIMUR                                                                  9              *'Surabaya
18 SULAWESI TENGAH                                               2                                                BALi S,UL4AWA
19 SULAWESI UTARA                                                          YVogyakarta            ntmraSJA
20 SULAWESI SELATAN                                                                  4                                  J
21 SULAWESI rENGGARA                                                                                                                         I
22 BALI                                                                                                     Danp a r j~o ~ -.
2Et NUSA TENGGARA BARAT                                                                                           r22              23      '
24 NIUSA TENGGARA TIMUR
25 M AL UK U                            r iw n-. at   . eta, _r&  lo. a 
26 IRIAN JAYA                        .  '- -Uns' Fo a.A_n     rh. Ar,'. uw     ., sP. -d-                                                  SUMBA
27 TIMOR TIMUR A-    C.wof FMb - duSWfd. hao.uoo',. - VI.nw de 
nl- N'. pWo 1 - 0 t   O"V fist  h.N tko tkoWkoi raw. C4,maIia. -v 4pt)gl
10oo0                          10o5                           110'                           115"



IBRD 19132R
I 3.                           Ii.                           1 1l
*  1Xr,"  lao"                Xbr      INDONESIA            140"
THIRD NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL   b"
PHI LIPPINES                                                                 EXTENSION PROJECT
M o                                                             N. PwmrNcr HNrAm irns
PROWMCt IOUNDAUfS
19                           HALMAHERA                                    IN-ERNA1004 1.40 U4.2s             or
18
25
PAUAN SULA
\   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fIRAN JA rA                                j c
_-21 SU9 WFSI                                    6                                                                     1
*Kendarl                  {II  Ambon                                                           26
z
FLORES
_,rIMOR                                    0      100      200      300      400      boo                to
MILES
24      Kupange                                              0   100  200  300  400  BOO  600  700  BOO
KILOMETERS
125'                           IS0O                           135'                          14O0
III 1:  I 4ml



I



