Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
coq, 1112-yb-*Q
Riort No. P-3666-YDR
REPORT AND RECOMNENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTMVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN AN ANOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 6.5 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR THE
SEIYUN REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
November 1, 1983
This docnunt has a retriced distibution nd may be used by recpients only In the perfornmnce of
their official dtdes. Its eotents may not otherwise be discosed without World Bank authoriation.



CURBENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1982         October. 1983
Currency Unit      *                 Yemeni Dinars (YD)           YD
USt1      -                    YD 0.345                 0.345
YD1       -                    US$2.90                  2.90
Fiscal Year
April 1 to March 31              (prior to 1975)
April 1 to December 31           (1975)
January i to December 31        (from 1976)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
FAO      -         Food and Agriculture Orgagization
IDA                International Development Association
HAAR               N Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
PCEP     '         Public Corporation for Electric Power
PDRY               People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
PWC      -         Public Water Corporation
UNDP     -         United Nations Development Programe



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SEIYUN REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower.               People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY)
Beneficiary:            Public Water Corporation (PWC)
Amount:                 SDR8 6.5 million (about US$7 million equivalent)
Terms:                  Standard IDA
Relending Terms:        Twenty years including 5 years of grace, at an interest
rate of 8 percent per annum.
Project Description;   The project, which constitures the first construction
stage of a long-term water supply master plan, seeks to
increase the critically short supply of potable water,
and meet the peak demand up to 1995, in Seiyun, PDRY's
third largest town, and in thirty-nine surrounding
villages in the eastern part of Wadi Hadramawt. It
provides for the construction of a wellfield and the
installation of water distribution networks in the
Greater Seiyun area. The project also provides for the
carrying out of water supply studies in Aden, the
capital city of PDRY, for a second phase project and in
other parts of the Wadi Hadramawt, and of sanitation
studies in Seiyun. It includes management assistance
and staff training of a PWC operating branch in the
Wadi Hadramawt and the provision of operational
equipment and facilities for the branch office. The
project would provide substantial health and
environmental benefits to the population in the Greater
Seiyun area. It presents no special risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost: 1/                                  Local      Foreign     Total
------- US$ Million -------
Water Production Facilities                          0.23        1.38       1.61
Distribution Works                                   1.15        6.43       7.58
Supply of Water Meters                                 -         0.20       0.20
Supply of Operational Equipment                        -        0.20        0.20
Water Supply and Sanitation Studies                  0.05       0.87        0.92
Training and Technical Assistance                    0.12        0.72       0.84
Operational Facilities                               0.10       0.40        0.50
Total Base Cost                            1.65       10.20       11.85
Physical Contingencies                               0.23        1.43       1.66
Price Contingencies                                  0.37       2.17        2.54
Total Project Cost                         2.25       13.80       16.05
l  Excluding duties and taxes which are not levied on development projects in
PDRY.
Financing Plan:                                     Local     Foreign      Total
------- US$ Killion --…-
Government                                 2.25         -          2.25
IDA                                          -         7.00        7.00
Arab Fund                                    -         6.80        6.80
Total                                      2.25       13.80       16.05
Estimated
Disbursements:                   FY84      FY85      FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89
…______----  US$ Million -
Annual                 0.1        1.7      2.8      1.3     0.7      0.4
Cumulative             0.1        1.8      4.6      5.9     6.6      7.0
Estimated Completion
Date:                        December 31, 1987
Rate of Return:              About 10 percent
Staff Appraisal Report;      No. 4357a-YDR of October 14, 1983



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IDA TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN FOR
THE SEIYUN REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of SDRs 6.5 million (about US$7.0 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms to the People's Deimocratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY) to help
finance the Seiyun Regional Water Supply Project. The Government is
discussing the provision of US$6.8 million of cofinancing from the Arab Fund
for Social and Economic Development to help finance the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       An economic report entitled "People's Democratic Republic of Yemen;
Economic Memorandum" (3570-YDR) dated January 29, 1982, was distributed to the
Executive Directors on February 10, 1982. A country data sheet is attached as
Annex I.
introduction
3.       Situated in the southwestern corner of the Arabian Peninsula, the
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY), with a population of 1.9 million
(mid-1981), covers an area of 333,000 square km and extends nearly 1,400 km
along the Gulf of Aden. It is a semi-arid land of rugged configuration with
sparse vegetation, low rainfall and few natural resources. Agricultural
production is limited to some 12 scattered wadis comprising the total
cultivable area of about 200,000 ha or less than 1 percent of the country's
land surface. The one major resource is fish, which is not yet fully
exploited. The majority of the population lives on the narrow coastal plain
along the Gulf. The-a is also a concentration of population in the Wadi
Hadramawt, a large fertiLe valley in the centre of the country. The rest of
the population, of whieh 10 percent is bedouin, live in small scattered
communities. There are also an estimated 200,000 Yemeuis working outside
PDRY. Except for the oil refinery at Little Aden, there is little industrial



- 2 -
activity in the country. The country is still at a low level of development,
its institutions are relatively weak and its per capita income was $420 in
1980.
Development Objectives and Constraints
4.       Prior to independence in 1967, the economy was mainly centered around
Aden and depended heavily on services provided by the port of Aden and
budgetary support from the British. Following independence, the Government
has sought to diversify the economy and carry economic development to all
parts of the country. Over the past decade, the Government of PDRY has
consistently pursued a strategy of developing the country within the context
of a planned economic system. The principal objectives of the Government have
been:  (a) to satisfy the basic needs of the population for food, essential
consumer goods, shelter, employment, health care and other social services;
(b) to develop the production capacity of the economy, especially in
agriculture, fisheries, manufacturing, construction and minerals; (c) to
strengthen the infrastructure sectors, i.e., transport, power and
telecommunications; (d) to raise education standards, emphasizing technical
and higher education; and (e) to increase exports of domestic products.
5.       In pursuing these objectives, the Government relied primarily on a
strong public sector and on cooperatives. Major institutional reforms were
initiated w...th the nationalization of foreign properties in 1969, which
brought the bulk of the modern service activities in and around Aden (banking,
insurance, shipping, trading) under Government control. Subsequent investment
in manufacturing, power, construction and mineral exploration has given the
public sector a dominant influence over industrial activities. Two agrarian
reform laws enacted in 1968 and 1970 have fundamentally changed the land
tenure conditions, breaking up large feudal holdings. Simultaneously, new
farm organizations--state farms and cooperatives--were created to facilitate
the introduction of modern cultivation and marketing techniques. Fishing and
consumer cooperatives were also established. More recently, two of the
remaining foreign-owned installations--the Aden Refinery (British Petroleum)
and an international communications facility (Cable and Wireless)--were
transferred by mutual consent to the Government of PDRY.
6.       Private enterprise was given a subsidiary role by the Government, and
was to be gradually replaced by public corporations and cooperatives. But the
private sector has proven to be resilient and appears to have regained some
strength in recent years. At present, it is estimated to account for almost
half of the nation's gross output of goods and services (excluding government
services). Private activity can be found in almost every sector and is
strongly represented in agriculture, construction, trade and transport. The
volume of private investment--mainly in housing--has risen sharply since the
mid-1970s, partly at the expense of public investment. Cooperation between
public and private capital is encouraged in some areas, such as light
industries, and a limited number of joint ventures are now active. Foreign
private investors have been invited to participate in oil exploration and the
fishing industry. A new Investment Promotion Law has recently been
promulgated, providing incentives to private investors and encouraging foreign
investment in other sectors such as tourism and construction. The response



- 3 -
has been good from both Yemeni nationals returning from abroad and private
foreign investors but unfortunately the Government is not yet in a position to
offer significant assistance by way of feasibility studies or suitable
projects.
7.       Since the early 1970s the country has made significant progress in a
number of areas. Supplies of basic foodstuffs and other essential consumer
goods were increased, largely through higher imports. School enrollment rose
sharply, adult Literacy programs were introduced, and health services
improved. The transport network was strengthened, new power stations built,
and productive capacities in agriculture, fisheries and manufacturing
expanded. Substantial investments were made in mineral exploration while more
recently, there was an upsurge in private house construction. Rising
investments led to a rapid expansion of the local construction industry.
Overall economic expansion, together with net emigration abroad not only
eliminated open unemploymnent, but created some labor shortages.
8.       These developments were supported by substantial aid inflows, and by
a large increase of remittances sent by Yemenis working abroad (see para.
19). Exports on the other hand displayed little dynamism reflecting in large
part the low levels of capacity utilization, especially in agriculture and
fisheries. Notwithstanding large investments in these sectors, agricultural
and fish production have stagnated in the last five to six years. However,
since an increasing amount of product can be sold in the free market, the
official output statistics may increasingly understate the level of production
and thus the performance of the agriculture and fisheries sectors.
9.       The Second Five-Year Plan continues to pursue the overall development
objectives outlined above (see para. 4). The Plan was originally envisaged to
cover the 1979-83 period. However, following a recommendation by the Council
on Arab Economic Unity asking Arab countries to synchronize their five-year
development plans, the Second Five-Year Plan commenced in 1981. The Plan
proposes a total investment of $1.47 billion (in 1980 prices) for 1981-85, of
which 19 percent is to be spent for energy, 17 percent for agriculture and
fishing, 6 percent for manufacturing, 18 percent for transport and
cummunications, 8 percent for education and health and 18 percent for
housing. The Plan assumes that about $1.06 billion (72 percent) will be
financed through foreign capital, of which approximately $400 million had
already been committed at the beginning of the plan period. The production
targets are ambitious. They call for an overall rate of growth of 10 percent
per annum with sectoral growth targets of 13 percent for industry, 9 percent
for agriculture and 16 percent for fisheries, and 9 percent for transport and
communications.  Production growth is to be achieved not only through new
investments but also through improved utilization of existing capacities. The
plan, which is currently in its third year of implementation, achieved very
high implementation ratios during the first two years i.e., in 1981 about 80
percent and in 1982 about 90 percent of annual investment targets.
Implementation ratios were about 90 percent in industry, agriculture and
fisheries and 80 percent in social services. Nearly 60 percent of development
expenditure was financed through foreign sources and the rest from domestic
sources.
10.      In implementing the Plan, the Government faces a number of
constraints, the most important ones being limited natural resources,



shortages or manpower, especially in the construction sector, insufficient
technical and managerial skills, and low levels of productivity. A harsh
climate severely limits the area available for cultivation, although sub-
stantial increases in agricultural output could be achieved through higher
yields, and by substituting cash crops for subsistence agriculture. The
narrow domestic market and few known raw materials limit the scope for
industrial development. These constraints are compounded by the rugged
topography which creates severe difficulties for internal transportation
resulting in increased domestic transport cost.
11.      The Government has tried to ease the shortages of adequately trained
manpower with bilateral and multilateral technical assistance, including
assistance from UNDP which maintains a large program in PDRY. In addition,
again with foreign assistance (including IDA), a large education and training
program was launched and in recent years has become increasingly technically
oriented. Supported by scholarships for higher education abroad and the
establishment of technical training institutions in PDRY, the country is now
generating an increasing flow of technically trained people who could
gradually reduce the ahortage of skilled manpower. Shortages of unskilled
labor exist mainly in the construction sector and are being eased through the
import of foreign labor.
12.      Low productivity in the public and cooperative sectors is one of the
principal problems faced by the Government. In addition to shortages of
trained manpower, the reasons for this can be traced largely to inadequate
incentive systems, including Low Government procurement prices in agriculture
and fisherLes, weak management, lack of spare parts, and poor maintenance.
These constraints are often compounded by excessive state control which causes
distortions and stifles initiative. No early solutions to these deep-seated
problems are in sight, although the Government has recently started to pursue
a more flexible price policy to provide incentives for farmers and fishermen.
For example, state procurement prices for most agricultural crops and fish
have been substantially increased, accompanied by measures permitting farmers
and fishermen, both as individuals and in cooperatives, to sell a large
portion of their output on the free market at prices substantially above state
procurement prices.
Recent Economic Developments
13.      The Government's emphasis on the public sector has led to a rapid
increase in public spending. Priority was given to public investment, which
increased from $57 million in 1974-75 to $166 million in 1977. In 1978,
however, public investment started to decline in real terms and in 1979, it
was some 20 percent lower than in 1977. The principal reason for this decline
was a growing shortage of construction workers, many of who. preferred to work
in the private sector where much higher wages are being paid.  In 1982
development expenditures increased substantially to $397 million, reflecting
the special efforts of the Government to complete ongoing projects. Current
government expenditures for education, health and more recently defense,
continued to grow through 1982, both in nominal and real terms.
14.      During the past decade, high levels of public spending have accel-
erated the rate of economic growth. GDP at constant prices is estimated



- 5 -
to have grown at an annual average rate of about 4 percent during 1976-81,
compared with only 2 percent per annum during 1970-75. The major growth
sectors were government services, construction and manufacturing.
Agricultural output and fish production apparently stagnated. To some extent
the disappointing performance of agriculture and fisheries was the result of
labor migration from these sectors to higher paid jobs within the country
(i.e. construction) or abroad. But it also reflects the factors referred to
above (see para. 12).
15.      Real GDP is estimated to have grown by about 6 percent in 1981.
Agricultural production grew for the first time since 1975 by about 5 percent
while construction grew by about 20 percent. Industrial production, on the
other hand, slowed down in 1981 due to technical problems, congestion in the
port of Aden, and low capacity utilization of the oil refinery. Fish
production appears to have declined in 1981.  Even thouglh key economic
indicators for 1982 are not completely available, economic growth appears to
have slowed down in that year. The floods of Harch 1982 inflicted severe
damage to the agricultural sector, causing crop losses both for domestic
consumption and exports. Similarly, industrial output is expected to show
only a small increase due to the shortage of raw materials.
16.      To sustain the massive increase in public spending, the Government
had to make a major effort in mobilizing financial resources. With a low per
capita income, there were severe limitations on raising domestic resources.
Tne principal instrument used in mobilizing domestic funds was taxation. New
taxes have been introduced and tax collection improved. In addition, profits
of public enterprises have been rising. As a result, total public sector
income rose from $68 million in 1974/75 to $397 million in 1982. This still
left a large overall deficit in the public sector amounting to $412 million in
1982.
17.      To supplement the insufficient domestic resources, the Government
turned for help to friendly nations and international agencies. Increasing
amounts of foreign aid were provided, largely by socialist countries and Arab
nations. In addition, PDRY received support from regional and international
organizations, including IDA.   Gross foreign aid inflows rose from $66
million in 1974 to $131 million in 1978. In 1979 they dropped to $87 million,
due in part to the decLine in public investments. However, foreign aid
inflows once again rose sharply in 1980 ($169 million) and again in 1981 ($319
million). Preliminary estimates for 1982 show a slight decline ($263 million).
18.      The overall expansion of economic activity, especially the growth in
investment, has induced a considerable flow of additional imports.  Total
imports rose from $19U million in 1974 to $797 million in 1982. Most of the
increase was due to rising world prices, especially those for crude oil and
foodstuffs, reducing the growth of import volume to only one-fourth of the
nominal value. About 30 percent of imports represented food and beverages, 22
percent crude oil and petroleum products, and 20 percent machinery and
equipment. Rising import prices intensified inflationary pressures within
PDRY; these pressures were reinforced by substantial increases in wage levels,
especially in the private construction sector, and by growing domestic bank
financing of public sector expenditures.



- 6 -
19.      Exports, mainly fish and cotton, have been able to cover only a minor
share of the import bill. In 1982, they were estimated to be about $35
million or some 4 percent of commodity imports. Much more important than
commodity exports are PDRY's invisible earnings which are dominated by labor
income and private transfers. The latter have risen rapidly since the
mid-1970., increasing from $41 million in 1974 to $448 million in 1982. This
has been due to rising wage levels in the oil gurplus countries, to additional
emigration, and to new incentives which liberalized remittance-financed
imports, allowed the construction of private dwellings, and offered higher
interest rates to non-resident bank depositors. Fast growing exchange
earnings and increasing disbursements from foreign aid have enabled PDRY in
recent years to cover its import requirements and to strengthen its foreign
reserves. The latter rose from $67 million at end 1974 to $287 million at end
1982, which accounted for a little more than 4 months of imports.
20.      Gross official reserves increased moderately in 1982.  This probably
reflects growing imports due to the floods of 1982 and the intensification of
the development effort. The volume of imports is reported to have risen,
especially for consumer goods and fuels; in addition, import prices increased
further. Labor income and private transfers, on the other hand, have grown at
a slower pace as immigration and wages tended to stabilize in the oil
exporting countries. Rising import prices intensified inflationary pressures
within PDRY; these pressures were reinforced by substantial increases in wage
levels, especially in the private construction sector, and by growing domestic
bank financing of public sector expenditures.
Impact of Flood Damages
21.      In late March 1982, unusual floods caused extensive economic damage
in PDJY. Heavy rains fell continuously for about three days damaging arable
land, infrastructure and buildings throughout most of the country. In many
places, the rainfall exceeded 10 inches during the three-day period, and water
descended from the mountain slopes surrounding the area and swept away
villages, causing substantial losses to agricultural areas and crops,
livestock, roads and bridges and equipment. The most seriously affected areas
are in Lahej, Abyan and Shabwah Governorates. Wadis in Lahej and Abyan
Governorates were seriously affected due to erosion of the wadi banks, thus
washing away large tracts of agricultural lands and residential property.
Along the wadis, most feeder and on-farm roads have also been washed away.
Hence, much of PDRY's limited spate irrigated infrastructure is now in need of
rehabilitation, repair and probably in need of basic redesign and
reconstruction. The Zinjibar bridge in the Abyan Governorate has been totally
destroyed, as have numerous sections of the main Aden-Al Nlukalla coastal road
linking the capital to other governorates, and the branch to Wadi Ahwar in
Abyan Governorate. Thus, the disaster was reputedly the largest in recent
history. Official estimates listed 500 people dead, 25,000 houses destroyed
and 50,000 head of livestock lost, with physical damage of between $250
million and $500 million in total cost.
22.      Surveys on the overall impact of the floods on the economy indicate
that a substantial portion of the seasonal crops, viz, cotton, cereals, fruits
and vegetables, have been destroyed and prospects for resumption of such crops
in the affected areas in the near future are uncertain. It would take two to
three years before production could be resumed. Similarly, the damage to



higlways and bridges is quite extensive, and although emergency works have
already been completed, it will take about two years to complete full
reconstruction and rehabilitation. The Government has already begun
rehabilitation, repair and reconstruction works to avoid further damage to
wadi beds and agricultural land from mubsequent flooding. It had begun to
place orders for imports of machinery and equipment, as well as building
materials, with assistance from multilateral and bilateral donors.
23.      The damage to agricultural crops had a serious impact on the domestic
food supply and on exports. Apart from the export losses, the economy has to
bear additional costs in the ismediate period, arising out of the necessity to
imuport substantial amounts of foodstuffs to replace lost agricultural output
and of essential materials, machinery and spare parts to repair flood-damaged
infrastructure. While final balance of payments data are not yet available,
the additional balance of payments burden caused by the floods during 1982 is
estimated at between $55-60 million. The impact on the 1982 budget is
expected to be substantial, ranging up to YD 20 million or about 10 percent of
total expenditures. Emergency repair and reconstruction work is underway with
assistance from multilateral agencies and donor countries. PDRY has already
received emergency assistance of $16.8 million from the International Monetary
Fund and $7 million from IDA for a flood recovery program. In addition,
emergency assistance of about $6 million from UN agencies and some external
assistance in the form of project loans have been provided. These cash and
in-kind grants have so far been for relief purposes, and their magnitude is
small. The need to import additional food, construction materials and
capital equipment to replace losses will no doubt have a negative impact on
PDRY's balance of payments in the medium term. Hence, PDRY requires an
increased flow of material and financial assistance from the international
coimunity.
External Debt
24.      The large inflow of foreign loans since 1967 led to a rapid
accumulation of PDRY's external public debt, even though part of the aid was
provided in the form of grants. Total debt outstanding (including
undisbursed) as of end 1982 amounted to $1,540 million, of which $785 million
was disbursed. Bilateral sources accounted for $1,117 million or 72 percent
of total commitments, with the USSR providing the bulk ($714 million),
followed by China ($149 million), other Eastern European countries ($163
million), and Arab countries ($91 million). By the end of 1982, multilateral
flows amounted to $423 million, including $294 million from Arab Funds, i126
million from IDA I/ and $3 million from the European Common Market. The
terms of all loans are highly concessionary. In addition, PDRY has received
$511 million in grant assistance during 1974-82, mostly from Arab countries.
25.      The soft terms of PDRY's external debt have resulted in relatively
small debt service obligations until 1981. Debt service payments were $11
million in 1981. However, preliminary data for 1982 indicate a sharp rise in
PDRY's debt service obligations to $40 million or about 10 percent of total
foreign exchange earnings from exports of goods and services. Although the
Government in early 1982 had entered into debt rescheduling arrangements with
1/ This amount is now $151.2 million (see para. 28).



the socialist countriem, the extent of relief sought is not yet known in
detail. It it believed thac the debt relief would be on the ordor of $20-25
million per year. If this is so, then PDRY's debt service obligations would
be substantially lower. In any case, the fact remains that PDRY's debt
service obligations have started to rime and are projected to increase further
in future years. This will exert additional pressure on its balance of
payments. Therefore, in view of the country's low income level and low level
ot development, the Bank's assistance to VJ)Y should continue to be on IDA
terms. For thd some reason, local cost financing by IDA is justified.
2b.      In L9b9, tinder Nationalization Law No. 37, the Government
nationaliged most of the foreign-owned enterprises (see pars. 5). This law
provided for compensation in the furm of 20-year Government bonds bearing
interest of 2 percent. Twenty-five percent of the net annual profits of all
the nationalized companies were to be used for servicing the bonds.  In
response, same of the foreign banks which were nationalized froze substantial
Yemeni deposits which they had transferred abroad. Immediately after the
promnulgation of Law No. 37, the Government appointed a British firm of
accountants of international repute to audit the accounts of all the national-
ized companies and evaluate their assets. The audit report was submitted to
the Government in September 1971. Settlements were reached soon after with
three of the foreign banks involved. Agreements were finalized with three
additional banks in 1977, with the oil companies in late 1977, early 1978, and
in 1979, with a development finance company in mid-1978, and with a bank in
1980. Dialogue with the one remaining claimant company, of which IDA is
aware, continues, and both parties have stated their desire to reach a
mutually acceptable settlement.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS
7.       IDA's lending program in PDRY supports the Government's long-range
economic objective of broadening the base of a service-oriented economy
centered around Aden, by developing the productive capacity of the other
sectors of the economy and promoting investments in the outlying regions.
Efforts have been directed towards projects in the transport sector, which
would not only help to integrate the disparate regions of PDRY, but, more
importantly, link production areas with the main markets. This will be
continued. IUA will also continue to assist in agriculture, including the
fisheries subsector, education, water supply and s, rage, petroleum
exploration, power and health. In addition, new sectors being examined are
industry and technical assistance. Technical assistance and
institution-building will continue to be an integral feature of IDA projects
in PDRY.
28.      PDRY joined the Bank in 1969 and IDA in 1970, but is not a member of
IFC. Assistance to PDRY commenced in 1971 and, after a pause of about two
years (February 1976 to February 1978) because IDA funds allocated to PDRY for
this period had been committed more rapidly than envisaged, resumed again in



1978. To date, IDA has had 22 operations in PDRY, for a total commitment of
$151.2 million. Of this total, $39.7 million has assisted the transport
sector, $50.3 million the agriculture and fisheries sector, $21.5 million the
power and energy sector, $15.4 million the education sector, $16.7 million the
water supply sub-sector, and $7.6 million for the health sector. Project
implementation in PDRY has suffered from delays and in some cases cost
overruns. Common causes of delay have included the time required to arrange
the required cofinancing, difficulties in recruiting and retaining foreign
advisors and in attracting foreign contractors, inexperience in project
mobilization, and in recent years, shortages of both skilled and unskilled
manpower. But projects are in almost all cases being properly implemented,
even if delayed. Disbursement performance under IDA credits in PDRY continues
to be satisfactory. It is superior to other countries in the Middle East and
compares favorably with the Bankwide average. This trend is expected to
continue.  Lessons learned from experience with delays and cost overruns in
earlier projects are being taken into account in our follow-up projects.
Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits as of September 30, 1983.
29.      Future operations are both in the preparation and study stages.
Project possibilities in agriculture, fisheries, industry, transport,
education, technical assistance, petroleum and power are under consideration.
As in the recent past, the costs of future projects are expected to be
substantially higher than the funds IDA can provide to PDRY. Therefore,
efforts will be continued to encourage other development agencies to join IDA
in the financing of suitable projects. From FY71 through end-FY83, the
Government and IDA have been success'ul in securing through projects about
$182.6 million of cofinancing from other aid donors (UNDP $1.0 million; Kuwait
Fund $36.4 million; Arab Fund $76.85 million; Islamic Development Bank $11
million, Abu Dhabi Fund $16.75 million, OPEC Fund $22 million, IFAD $11
million, EEC $6.4 million, FAO $.l million, Swiss Relief $.I million, WHO $.6
million and UNICEF $.4 million), thus helping to increase the infl1w of
development aid to the country.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
Water Resources
30.      Water is a scarce resource in PDRY which is located in one of the
world's most arid regions. The mean annual rainfall does not exceed 50 mm in
the country's coastal areas but is much higher in the interior. The land is
rugged, with sparse vegetation and few natural resources, and temperatures in
summer rise to 430C. The rate of evaporation is high, and runoff is limited
even in the irrigated areas. The majority of the population lives in the
narrow coastal plain along the Gulf of Aden. Farther inland to the north, the
country becomes very mountainous, and beyond the mountains, flattens again to
form the high plateaux and the Northern Desert, which extend into the Yemen
Arab Republic and Saudi Arabia.



- 10 -
31.      PDRY relies essentially on underground water resources for its
supply, as few perennial water streams exist in the country. There are seven
major catchment areas which drain into wadis, of which the most important are
the Hadramawt with a drainage area of 90 000 kn2/, the Bana with
9,600 km2/, and the Tuban with 5,000 km27.  Since 1970, various studies of
the major groundwater aquifers have been made by the Food and Agriculture
Organization (FAO). The Association has assisted in this area by financing a
study of the underground water resources in Wadi Hadramawt, as part of an
agricultural project (Credit 615-YDR). This study was completed at the end of
1979. The IDA-financed Wadi Tuban Agricultural Development Project (Credit
768-YDR) also included a water management study of the Wadi Tuban aquifer
which supplies water to Greater Aden and for irrigation in the Tuban Delta.
This study, which assessed the possibilities of increasing the water
extraction rate from the aquifer, was completed in 1981.
32.      The Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MAAR) manages all
water resources in the country. A national authority, the Public Water
Corporation (PWC), is responsible for the planning, design, construction and
operation of public water supply systems in PDRY. Because of the climatic
conditions and low and irregular rainfall, agriculture in PDRY is dependent on
irrigation from groundwater and seasonal floods. Given its objective of
bringing additional land under cultivation, the MAAR until recently had
concentrated its efforts on providing sufficient water for agricultural use.
But increasing claims by the agricultural sector on the scarce groundwater has
resulted in declining quantity and quality available for urban use and in the
over-exploitation of the aquifers. This problem has reached serious
proportions in Wadi Tuban, which supplies potable water to Greater Aden, and
in 1980 the MAAR issued a moratorium on the drilling of wells for irrigation
in Wadi Tuban. A similar moratorium was passed for Wadi Beihan in the north
of PDRY. Recognizing this problem, the Government set up a Water Committee in
1980, whose functions are to regulate the collection and allocation of water
resources, and to establish usage priorities. This Committee is made up of
representatives of the MAAR, the Ministry of Planning and PWC. IDA is
assisting the Committee in preparing a work agenda and a water code for the
country.
Public Water Corporation
33.      PWC was created in 1970 by Public Law No. 19 to replace the Aden
Water Authority. This law was amended in 1981 by Ministerial Decision No. 16,
setting out a new organizational structure for the corporation. PWC is now an
autonomous public enterprise which reports to the Minister of Local
Administration and functions as a commercial undertaking. In addition to
Greater Aden and Al Mukalla, PWC provides water supply services in eight other
locations which contribute less than 20 percent of its revenues. Under the
proposed project, PWC is planning to expand its services to Seiyun, PDRY's
third largest agglomeration, and to thirty-nine surrounding villages. A Boars
of eight members, chaired by the General Manager, manages PWC's operations.
All the members of the Board are employees of PWC, representing various
departments. The Government appoints the General Manager and other
departmental chiefs and also approves PUC's operational budgets, investment
program, tariff levels and borrowings. As a result of a study carried out by
consultants financed under the Water Supply Engineering



- 11 -
Credit (S-21 YDR), a new organizational structure is now in place in PWC. The
new organization is very effective and has greatly improved the decision
making process in the corporation.
34.      PWC has successfully implemented the Water Supply Engineering and
Technical Assistance Project (Credit S-21 YDR), for which a completion report
was issued on January 24, 1983. All the studies included in that project have
been completed and have already resulted in the formulation of the Greater
Aden Water Supply Project (Credit 1038-YDR) and the Al Mukalla Water Supply
Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1159-YDR). As part of the Greater Aden Water
Supply Project, PWC is receiving technical assistance from advisors for three
years to help it implement organizational recommendations. PWC has also
increased tariffs in Greater Aden and Al Hukalla to make the corporation
fin&ncially viable.  So far, the implementation of the Greater Aden and Al
Mukalla projects has been progressing satisfactorily.
Service Levels
35.      PDRY's estimated population of 1.9 million (mid-1981) is about
one-third urban and two-thirds rural, with about 10 perce:nt being nomads. Of
the estimated 630,000 urban population, almost half is concentrated in the
Greater Aden area. The second largest city, Al Mukalla, has a population of
about 61,000. The remaining urban populatior is distributed in towns with
less than 20,000 people. Of the approximately 1.3 million rural population,
about half lives in scatcered places that are not large enough to warrant the
installation of public water supply and will have to continue to rely on
individual water sources. Given this population distribution, it appears that
about two-thirds of the total popubacion comprising all those who live in
urban areas and about half of triose in rural areas could be served by public
water systems.
36.      Based on recent data provided by PWC, it is estimated that about 47
percent of the population that could be served by public systems already has
access to them. However, only 20 percent of the people served are sunplied
through direct service lines. About 60 percent of the urban population, but
only 20 percent of the rural population, is served by public systems. Most of
the population living in the centers of the towns provided with public water
supply have house connections; but supply through standpipes is very common in
the outskirts.
37.      The current per capita consumption is very low due to supply
shortages, and is inadequate for the harsh dry climate prevailing in PDRY. It
is estimated that the average household in Seiyun consumes less than 8
m3/month (less than one-fourth of the average consumption observed in
countries with similar climate). The quality and safety of water served in
Greater Aden and Al Mukalla are considered acceptable. The same cannot be
said of Seiyun and the surrounding rural areas where the water in open wells
is contaminated by soak pits and latrines and is considered unfit for human
consumption. Villagers living in remote areas must still spend substantial
time to reach the nearest water point to fill a few goat skins. Local
People's Councils, which report to the Ministry of Local Administration, are
responsible for providing basic services, including water supply, to rural
areas. With the assistance of PWC and MAAR, the Local Councils implement and
operate a program of well construction in the rural areas, aiming at
progressively reducing the distances travelled to fetch water. The United



- 12 -
Nations Development Programme (UNDP) has recently made a grant of $1.2 million
to PDRY for the rehabilitation of water wells in the Northern Desert.
38.      Collection and disposal of solid and liquid wastes in PDRY are also
the responsibility of Local People's Councils, whose activities are oriented
and coordinated by the Ministry of Local Administration. Only five of the
eight towns forming Greater Aden and small areas of Al Mukalla have a sewer
system at present, and wastewaters in both Aden and Al Mukalla are now
discharged without treatment in the harbors. The population in other parts of
the country uses septic tanks, dry pits, and in some cases relies on night
soil collection.
Constraints to Sector Development
39.      The lack of adequate financial resources is a major constraint to the
accelerated development of the water supply sector. Because of lack of funds
and the obvious needs of the country, the Government has until now given
priority to the development of agriculture, fisheries and transport
infrastructure. Between 1968 and 1978 investments in potable water supply
amounted to only $14 million (about $9 per capita), and were mostly financed
by government funds. Moreover, PWC had not been able in the past to generate
funds from its operations to finance its maintenance and expansion works,
mainly because of low tariffs and of the small percentage of population served
outside Greater Aden. The Government had in the past sought to charge low
water rates due to the low income levels in the country and the social
character of water supply services. However, the situation greatly improved
during the period 1979-81 when $15.2 million was invested in water supply
works. The tariff policy has also changed. From January 1981 the average
water tariff in Greater Aden was increased from $0.16/m3to $0.37/r3, and
in Al Mukalla in December 1982 from $0.41/m3 to $0.51/m3.  These increases
have substantially improved PWC's financial position.
40.      Another major constraint to the sector development is the scarcity of
convenient water sources, which are already extensively exploited for
agriculture. This situation is further compounded by the remote and
unfavorable location of the urban centers from the major aquifers. As
examples, Greater Aden is located at more than 50 km from the Wadi Bana
aquifer, a possible supply source for the metropolitan area. A potential
water source for Al Mukalla is the Wadi Huwayrah aquifer, though it is at more
than 30 km from this city.
41.      A third constraint stems from the present population distribution in
the country. About 1.2 million people live in small towns and villages, for
which convenient water sources are difficult to find and high per capita
investments are required. The only two towns with sizeable populations are
Greater Aden (with 290,000 inhabitants) and Al Nukalla (with 61,000).
Sector Development Strategy and Program
42.      Given the urgent need to rehabilitate the water systems in the
country's two largest urban agglomerations, Greater Aden and Al Mukalla, the
Government gave them first priority and requested IDA's assistance. As a



- 13 -
first step, IDA provided a credit of $1.2 million (S-21 YDR) in June 1978 to
help finance a Water Supply Engineering and Technical Assistance Project,
whose objectives were to formulate a phased program of works to meet long-term
urban water needs in Greater Aden, Al Mukalla and Laboos. IDA also emphasized
the need for the Government to reorganize PWC and to plan more comprehensively
the use of the country's scarce water resources. The engineering project has
now been completed and the requested work programs established for the three
locations mentioned above.
43.      Based on the recommendations of the engineering study, water supply
projects with a total cost of $42.7 million and partly financed by IDA
(Credits 1038-YDR and 1159-YDR) are under implementation in the Greater Aden
and the Al Mukalla areas. In addition, IDA helped to finance village water
supply systems under the Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Project (Credit
e         615-YDR).  The Government now plans to install water supply systems under the
proposed IDA financed project in Seiyun, the third largest town, and in thirty-
nine surrounding villages. The Government is also planning the improvement of
the sanitation system in Al Mukalla, with assistance from the Arab Fund for
Economic and Social Development. Concurrently with the realization of these
projects, the Government intends to make improvements in other towns and to
pursue its program of well construction in the rural areas, aiming at reducing
the distances travelled to feLch water. To meet the 1995 water demands, It is
estimated that the Government and PWC need to invest (in current prices) about
$53.2 million in water supply works in Greater Aden, $31.5 million in Al
Mukalla, $12.9 million in Seiyun and $67.7 million in the remaining towns and
rural areas. These are indeed large investments for which external financial
assistance is needed.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
44.      The proposed development credit of SDR $6.5 million (about $7 million
equivalent) would be IDA's fourth operation in the sector. The project
concept was first discussed with the Ministry of Planning and PWC during a
preparation mission in November 1980 on the basis of a water supply master
plan for the Wadi Hadramawt area, prepared by consultants for the Government.
The project was appraised in November 1982. Negotiations were held in
Washington in April 1983. The PDRY Delegation was headed by Mr. Khaled Abdul
Wahed, Kanager of PWC, and included representatives of PWC and the Ministry of
Planning. There has been a six-month delay since negotiations while the
Government and IDA determined PDRY's external debt situation following
rescheduling of certain debts (see para. 25). A Staff Appraisal Report
entitled "Seiyun Regional Water Supply Project" (No. 4357a-YDR), dated October
14, 1983 is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. A map of
the project area and a layout of the proposed water supply system are
attached. Special conditions in the Credit and Project Agreements are
summarized in Annex III.
Project Concept and Objectives
45.      The project area, which includes Seiyun, PDRY's third largest town
and thirty-nine nearby villages, with a combined population of about 50,000,
is presently supplied with water from shallow hand-dug wells located within
the limits of the communities. The shallow aquifer has a very limited



- 14 -
capacity and as a result, water shortages are chronic in the Seiyun area. The
present per capita consumption averages only 40 liters/day, which is
considered inadequate. In addition, as no comprehensive sanitation system
exists in the Wadi Hadramawt, many soak pits and latrines have been built
close to production wells, thus contaminating the groundwater which is not
disinfected prior to its distribution. In 1978, a Government financed study
recommended the installation in Seiyun of a waterborne sewer system at an
estimated cost of 11 million (in 1978 prices).
46.      deanwhile, as part of the Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Development
Project (Credit 615-YDR), the Government had undertaken a study of groundwater
resources in the wadi and their use to cover domestic and agricultural water
needs in the area. The study, which was completed at the end of 1980,
determined the capacity of the deep aquifer and recommended sustainable
extraction rates for agricultural and domestic water supply.  The proposed
project constitutes the first construction stage of a long-term water supply
master plan for the Wadi Hadramawt, involving the tapping and distribution of
water from the deep aquifer. The objective of this stage is to provide the
supply required to meet the demand in the Greater Seiyun area up to the year
1995. Under the proposed project, the per capita consumption is projected to
increase progressively to reach 85 liters/day by 1995, or more than double the
current level. As the existing system is almost obsolete, the proposed
project also calls for the installation of a new primary distribution network
in the Seiyun area.
Project Description
47.      The proposed project is composed of two parts and includes:
Part A
(i)   the drilling and equipping of a wellfield in Seiyun to yield a
maximum flow of 100 liters/sec;
(ii)  the construction of a 2,700-m3 reservoir in Seiyun;
(iii)  laying of a primary water distribution system in Seiyun;
(iv)  the supply of about 6,500 water meters and provision of
operational equipment;
(v) water supply studies in other parts of the Wadi Hadramawt, the
detailed design of a second construction stage of the water
supply master plan for Greater Aden, and the detailed design
of sanitation plans for Seiyun; and
(vi) management assistance and training of PWC's staff in the Wadi
Hadramawt.
Part B
(a) provision of secondary water distribution networks in Seiyun;
(b) the construction of transmission pipelines from Seiyun to
neighboring villages;



- 15 -
(c) laying of water distribution networks in the villages; and
(d) the construction of operational facilities for PWC in Seiyun.
48.      In 1980 IDA made a credit of $13.2 million to help finance a first
construction stage of water supply works in Aden (Credit 1038-YDR). This
stage has, however, sufficient capacity only to meet the maximum water demand
up to 1987. The detailed design of a second stage is included in the proposed
project. Also included in the project are studies in other parts of the Wadi
Hadramawt, which are not yet provided with adequate water supply services.
Finally, as water supply to Seiyun increases under the proposed project, it
would become necessary to dispose of wastewaters properly. As part of the
project, it is proposed to review the existing sewerage study and to prepare
4      the detailed design of sanitation systems in Seiyun, whose construction should
start by 1986. Terms of reference for the studies have been completed and
agreed with the Government and PWC.
Project Execution
49.      PWC would be responsible for the execution of the project.  However,
because it has limited numbers of staff who are already absorbed by many
programs of the United Nations Water Decade, PWC has agreed to employ
qualified engineering experts with qualifications, experience, terms and
conditions of employment satisfactory to IDA by January 1, 1984 for
construction supervision, and by January 1, 1985 for the water supply studies
and the sanitation study (Project Agreement, Section 2.02). The
implementation of Part A of the project is scheduled to start in early 1984,
and that of Part B in June 1984.   Bid documents for the full project are now
under preparation and selection of consultants for the project is under way.
The project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1987.
Project Costs and Financing
50.      The estimated total cost of the project, exclusive of duties and
taxes which are not levied on development projects in PDRY, is $16.1 million,
with a foreign exchange component of $13.8 million or about 86 percent of the
total cost. It is based on December 1982 prices. An estimated 218 man-months
of consulting services is required for the water supply and sanitation studies
in the Wadi Hadramawt, the detailed design of the second stage of water supply
works for Greater Aden, management assistance to PWC, staff training and
construction supervision of the proposed works, at an average cost of $10,400
per man-month including salaries, travel and subsistence. This is an
appropriate average cost for PDRY, given the mix of consultant firms and
individual experts required for the project.
51.      The proposed IDA credit of $7.0 million equivalent would finance the
foreign exchange cost of Part A of the project. The Government is discussing
with the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development the provision of $6.8
million to finance the foreign exchange cost of Part B. The balance of $2.3
million equivalent, representing the local cost of the project, would be
financed by the Government. Arrangements for the proposed Arab Fund loan are
expected to be completed only at the end of 1983. This would not, however,
result in delaying the implementation of Part B as its execution is scheduled



- lb -
to start only in June 1984. On the other hand, the execution of Part A is
prograimned to start in January 1984, with the proposed IDA credit becoming
effective before the end of the first quarter of 1984. To avoid delaying the
execution of this part, it was agreed that the Government would finance the
foreign exchange cost of Part B of the project, should the proposed Arab Fund
loan not materialize. The Government would establish and maintain a 90-day
S280.00 revolving fund to pre-finance expenditures for equipment and
materials, foreign consultants and overseas training financed by the IDA
credit. The opening of a special account for this fund on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA would be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed credit (Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.01(b)). The
financing plan was discussed and agreed upon at negotiations.
Onlending Arrangements
52.      The Government would onlend the proceeds of the proposed credit to
PWC at an interest rate of 8 percent for a term of 20 years including a 5-year
grace period (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.01(b)). The foreign
exchange risk on the credit would be borne by the Government. The Government
financing of $2.3 million equivalent is expected to be passed on to PWC as
equity which is appropriate at this stage of PWC's development to keep its
capital structure from becoming overweighted with debt. The execution of a
subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and PWC on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA would be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed credit (Development Credit Agreement, Sections 5.01(a)).
Procurement
53.      Except for the operational equipment, all contracts financed by IDA
will be awarded following international competitive bidding, in accordance
with the Bank Group's Guidelines for Procurement. As a result of the
experience gained in procurement under the Greater Aden Water Supply Project
(1038-YOR) in which very competitive bids were obtained when equipment supply
and civil works installation were combined under the same contract, both
equipment supply and civil works installation for the wellfield and the
primary distribution network would be grouped under a single contract to make
the works more attractive to bidders and obtain competitive bids. Items of
operational equipment costing less than $50,000 each and aggregating to not
more than $650,000, would be procured through quotations from at least four
suppliers in at least two eligible countries (Project Agreement Schedule on
Procurement, C).
Disbursement
54.      The credit would be disbursed for items in Part A of the project
against: (i) the full CIF cost of all direct imports, (ii) 100 percent of



- 17 -
foreign expenditures for civil works construction, which may include the
supply of materials and equipment; (iii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures
for staff training and consulting services other than construction
supervision; and (iv) 50 percent of foreign expenditures for construction
supervision. The closing date of the proposed credit would be December 31,
1988.
PWC's Financial Position and Performance
55.      PWC has improved its financial position continuously during the last
three years. After an operating deficit of about $0.3 million in 1980, PWC's
net income was $1.1 million in 1981 and is expected co be $0.6 million in
1982. Its operating ratio decreased from 108 percent in 1980 to 85 percent in
1982. During the same period, the corporation's effectiveness in revenue
collection improved greatly. Accounts receivable which in 1979 stood at seven
months of water sales, were reduced to three months in 1982. PWC expects to
further decrease them by mid-1983 to two months of sales.
56.      A great deal of the improvement in PWC's finances stemmed from larger
revenues as a result of tariff increases in Aden and Al Mukalla, which
together contribute more than 80 percent of the corporation's revenues. As
part of the Greater Aden Water Supply Project (Credit 1038-YDR), PWC in 1981
more than doubled the tariffs in Aden to $0.37/m3. At the same time it
introduced a progressive rate schedule whereby low-income consumers whose
monthly water usage does not generally exceed 15m3, have continued to be
charged at the previous rate of $0.16/r3, while large consumers such as
industries, public and commercial entities are charged at the highest rate of
$0.57/m3. The average revenue in Al Mukalla was increased at the end of
1982 from $0.41/m3 to $0.51/i3.
57.      Water supply services in the Seiyun area are presently provided by
thirteen small enterprises whose facilities are almost obsolete. PWC intends
to establish an operating branch in the Wadi Hadramawt to replace those
enterprises, once the project has been completed. PWC would employ two
engineers and two accountants with qualifications, experience, terms and
conditions of employment satisfactory to IDA and would also adopt an
appropriate administrative structure for its Seiyun operating branch
satisfactory to IDA (Project Agreement, Sections 2.03 and 3.04). The
administrative structure and the local tariff schedule to be adopted would be
spelled out in the subsidiary loan agreement.
58.      Under the existing agreement in Al Mukalla (Credit 1159-YDR), PWC is
required to collect revenues sufficient to cover its operating and maintenance
costs including depreciation, interest and (to the extent not covered by
depreciation) amortization of its debts. So far, PWC has met this covenant.
However, with a view to strengthening further the sector's financial
viability, PWC would collect revenues sufficient to cover, in addition to its
operating and maintenance costs, debt service and any increase in working
capital other than cash, at least 12 percent of its estimated capital
expenditures to be incurred during each fiscal year and the following two
fiscal years (Project Agreement, Section 4.04). To help it collect adequate
revenues, PWC would review the adequacy of its tariff rates, using forecasts
satisfactory to IDA, before November 30 of each fiscal year. After November 30



- 18 -
of each fiscal year it would, if necessary, adjust its rates in order to meet
the revenue requirements referred to above (Project Agreement, Section 4.05).
The Government would take all the actions required on its part to enable PWC
to meet its financial obligations under the Project Agreement (Development
Credit Agreement, Section 3.02).
59.      Under the existing agreement (Credit 1159-YDR), PWC is committed not
to incur any long-term debt in any year without IDA's prior approval unless
its net revenues, before depreciation and interest, are at leaat 1.2 times the
maximum future annual debt service on the debt to be incurred and existing
debts. Under the proposed project, PWC would not incur any long-term debt
without IDA's prior approval unless a reasonable forecast of PWC's revenues
and expenditures shows that its projected net revenues for each fiscal year
during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.2 times its
projected debt service requirement in such year on all debts incluiding the
debt to be incurred (Project Agreement, Section 4.03). Other technical and
financial performance indicators relating to the efficient operation and
management of the water supply systems would be monitored by PWC, which would
promptly take any remedial action agreed between IDA and PWC to achieve the
agreed level of performance (Project Agreement, Section 3.05). PWC has
submitted its audited accounts and the annual audit reports of the Central
Board of Audit for the years 1980 and 1981. These reports have been of
satisfactory quality. PWC has agreed to submit its audited accounts and the
annual audit reports to IDA not later than nine months after the end of each
fiscal year (Project Agreement, Section 4.02).
Justification
60.      The overriding justification for the proposed project is the
necessity for providing urgently needed potable water supply in PDRY's third
largest agglomeration. The proposed project is the least-cost alternative to
provide that supply. The many health and environmental benefits that the
proposed project would generate, such as reduced expenses for health care,
lower infant mortality, higher worker productivity, improved learning by
children who would have to devote less time for carrying water) housewives'
higher productivity, should produce a high economic return on the proposed
investments. These benefits are rather difficult to quantify, but at an
appropriate discount rate of 10 percent the proposed average tariff of
$1.16/m3 would equal the long-run average incremental cost of providing
water supply services in Seiyun. Because of the progressive tariff structure,
large consumers would pay more than the average incremental cost for their
water. Since differential water rates would be applied for different levels
of consumption, it is estimated that the lowest income customers would spend
not more than 3 percent of their income for water supply services, well below
the Bank's worldwide estimate of 5 percent which is usually considered
affordable.  Therefore the proposed project is economically as well as
socially justified.
Environmental Impact of the Project
61.      The shortage of potable water and inadequate sanitation have resulted
in an extremely unhealthy environment in the Seiyun area. Provision of safe



- 19 -
water in adequate quantity, and later on the installation of an efficient
sanitation system in the area, should help to reduce the incidence of
waterborne diseases and improve living conditions in this part of the Wadi
Hadramawt.
Risks
62.      The proposed project presents no special risks.  With the assistance
of engineering consultants, PWC should be able to supervise the project
execution properly. PWC has acquired experience in the implementation of the
first two projects (Credits 1038-YDR and 1159-YDR), which have been
progressing very satisfactorily. Its supervision of the studies should also
create no problems, as the corporation has gained experience during the
execution of the Engineering Project (Credit S-21 YDR). The implementation of
the other project items is not subject to any special risks.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's
Democratic Republic of Yemen and the Association, the draft Project Agreement
between the Association and PWC, and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
Additional conditions of effectiveness include the execution of a subsidiary
loan agreement between the Borrower and PWC under terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA, and the opening of a special account on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA (Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.01).
64.      I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMKENDATION
65.      1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausexn
President
Attachments
November 1, 1983
Washington, D.C.



20 -                    BEST COPY AVAILABLE
ANNEX I
T^bUT~~~AT IN
9"                         (Mft? lT I(T ISIU4AW) /W
NlPhI "W INCINIE Ia DLK ¢"
Ioowa       I7J      ITNI-          N  AuC      T .,AP,   LA?. puICII   4 CAlifl
as  mTAM IQ. ma
TnTAL                                31.0        2333.0       33                    .
AUIICIILTIIA.                         61.7         93.4        937
ONP PMI CAPITA (fl3)                        * *                  44*1.0            1340.0                     30A33.
K~    C1 "U     G  MN CAPITA
(K1LAOA"  OF COAC. KQuIYlALINT)     4410.0       1304.0      104. n              HIM.4                     1407.3
F5I.ATION AM vTAI. HTATfNTICI
PnOPLATInN     -r3In-PA  (?TIHMANI3M)    126.0n  14"3.0      1967.0
IlNIAN Pll1Il,ATInN I t nr TOTAF.)     MDn         33.1        11.%               47.4                       *6
POPIILA?InN PHNIIIClON3
Plnrll.ATI'N  1N IAN 2000 (HILL.)                             1.
NTArInNAUY PImIM.ATIoN (HILL)                               II.N
VEAR NTATIOINARY POP. ARACNKD                               21 3s
POPIIl.AT1ON IIKNNiT?
PER "Q. Kr.                          I.h        1%.2          S.7               $3.0                       33.4
rKlP M). KM. AURi. 1.A4N            1i2.         4.S         20.a             49.0                         912
POPULATlION AOK nTRIITIClIt (2)
n-A YtN$                           44.3        45.4         45.9               A3.6                       40.1
I-6i. TM Y                          64          531.         3t15               32.0                       335.
2 ANt' ARI1VK                        3.9         2.1          2.t                31                         4.1
PInIUl.ATION uiiltmTI ItATb (2)
TOTAL                                3.0 a.j                                     3.6                        2.3
URBAN                                h.0          3.3         3.t                4.3                        17
CNIIIN NINtH HATR (PRO THNUS)         s0.          43l. l       3.0               42.S                       31.3
cIlrn OXATII RATr (PtRIL tI1OUS)     23.1         24.2        IQ.0i              12.0                        5.1
C:lugt RKPN(W1IJCTION RATN             3.4          3.4         3.d                3.0                        2.0
FAIIILV Pt.ANNINC
ACCKIrTflh  ANNIIAL (THWIJI)          ..
tINKER (2 OP NARRNIE  WOMN)           ..           ..
FM AMDU trttfOlt
lHnEx Fr FonD PROD. PEN CAPTTA
(1969-71-100)                        100.0        92.0         99.0               97.3                      113.0
PEN CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIF.s (2 OF RP)UIRENEN1T        3t 1.0      so. 0        34.0              102.3                      ltl.3
IPROTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)           49.0        31.0         52.0               72.0                       67.9
or WHItCH ANtIAL ANn PULSE         13.0        15.0         23.Oct             17.8                       34.1
CItLD (AMXs 1-4) DEATt RATE           59.4        44.4         29.3               15.2                        3.3
INEALTK
LIFE ErKCT. AT BIRTH (YgARS)          36.0         4D.4        35.5               57.2                       64.6
INFANT MORT. NATE (PER T9DUS0        209.5       177.4        142.9             104.2                        62.6
ACCESS TO SAFE MATER (%POP)
otAL                                  ..           ..        24.01.             59.3                       64.8
URBAN                                 *-           .-        30.0                4.9                       7l
RURAL                                 ..           ..         s. df             37.5                       44.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DIsrosAL
(1 OF POPtLATION)
toTs.                                 .......46
URBAN                                 ..           ..          ..                 ..                       69.3
RtRAL                                 ..           ..          ..                 ..                       29.3
POPnLATION PER PHYSICIAN           13290.0    3s42b.0        7390.0             3536.0                     1776.0
POP. PER NURSINC PERSON                  .           .-       850.0             1320.7                     1012.2
POP. PER HOSPITAL SED
TorAL                             1410.0       980.0        650.0/.            643.3                      477.0
URBAN                                 ..           ..       320.of             345.0                      667.5
RURAL                                 ..           ..      4090.dfl           2462.0                     1921.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..           ..        33.3/.             26.4                       27.2
AVERAG SIZG OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..           ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                                       ..                  ..
AVERAe NO. OP PERSONS/RoOM
TOTAL                                 ..           ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..
aims.                                 ..           ..          .                   ..
ACCESS TO CLGCT. (2 OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..        22.0/f             46.2
URRAN                                 ..           ..        57.6               77.6
RURAL                                 ..           ..         l.7               16.1



BEST COPY AVAILBLE
ANNEX 1
Pago 2 of S
1 A II L it 1$
r~~~~ uIN!|IAL INBIAIllt-FNr .uA NJUrXlTlr|i6
-  - 1141411A1.C19 1011
MONT                         tFIMIT It:K.NI  LITINATLI ft
h  KKCENT               WILE IluMEK               MIDILL  O1N,
141?u tL... KIrTilntAT'         Ni. ASILvA a. miib kALl-   LA. fflkkE:A A. fLAbi
XIIUATIOII
AUIJIURNK  KNNHKtlN.kNT MTION
PEINANYI   TOTAL                       11.0         51.0           I,fj               t flE
VKNALk                      5,           1.11 Jl,ll    nu -lul.l,
IIICINIANYIfi tTAl.                     K,tl.       Ih.ll         31,44/              Al,                          40,1
WALE.K                      N.0U        36U           J,415I1             11.N                          1.1.
FEMALE                     2.o           4.0          I%4uII 
Vul:ATINIAL (t lOV 1ELINDAKV)             u.4,          i. I         I.NIj              141.1                         16.11
PUPIL-TKAIIIIM  IATIO
PINAIIy                                2V.t)        lI.u1         11,u,j              11.41                         444.1
2IECIIHDANY                            *1,1)        .10.4         It,.ti              .1.1                         I,,.,
ADULT LIIENACV NATK (a)                     ..        J7Ij          442.0               41.1                         *19.
auuueIno
PAIINKMUKE CAMMITIOUIANID I For           7.R1          I.E           H.a               1a.n                         45.4
RADIO KtCKIVEW1IT4IuUNAII Fur            hbE.          52.1         %2.4               118.1                           .:
TV  ACXKLVE4/TIOIUJANU POP                2.01A        14.4)        1.4                 45.64                      i24.)
NiXUtPAPEE ("DAILY iENNtJAL
INTKaC%4T") CtRCULATLIN
PKXt hTlOUANAD POPULAp1AUN                ..           t.U          ft.4                1.11                         4.
CINEA ANNUAL ATTKNDANCK/CAPITA             ..                 1.1    1, 1                1.1                          2.9
TOTAL LANWE FORCK (flIOUN)              flu.o        7Y2VD         47N.U
rFMALE (PENCEoNI                         .4           4.9           11.               1 I                          :1 124.1
ACEICULTURE (PKECKNTI                  7U.U         bl.o          45.0                42.1                         32.1
INWI2STNIY (PRCENT)                    15.1          7 1.0        IS.)                2t1.                         21.19
PARTIIta  'om  RATK (PENCKNT)
TOTAL                                  21.3         20.2          24.4                25.6                         31.1
MALK                                   12.0         49.9          4h.4b              45.4                         49.1
VEMALE                                  2.2          2.5           2.H                 5.6                         14.11
ECONOMIC DIPENDENCY NATIO                 1.7           1.8          2.0                 1.1(  I.4
1ULUS KSTEIUITOU
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCIME
RECEtVED SY
HlC011ST )Z o0 HiOUSSBULDS               .
11 IUSE  24u1 ur HOUSEIIOLUS             ..
LOWEST 2UZ oF HOUSEIIULDS                ..
LEWKST 402 uF IOIUSEHoLDS                .
ronTv flLT maWrs
ESTIMATED ABSOLIrI PUVENTY INCOME
LEVEL (05$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                                                276.2                        249.8
RURAL                                                            14 O.U/h            177.1                        104.5
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USE PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                           .                 90./I              4u00.0                       5,I9n
RURAL                                     ..                      57 07              23. 3                        3172:1
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW AJSOLUTE
POVEITY INCOME LEVEL (*)
URBAN                                                                                 22.U
RURAL                                    .             ..         2J0l,               10 r
NOTr AVAILABLL
NOT APPLICABLE
Ni o T F S
Ia  The group aver ages for each IndLcator are population-weIghted arithmetic aens.  Coverage of rcontries anng the
lndLcators depends on availability of date and ts not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, -Data for 1960- refer to any year between 1959 and  9b5i; 'ists rour 1970" hetween 1969 and
1971; and data for -Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 19aI.
kc  Birth and death rates are crude estlates.  The natural rate of increase does not agree with abiserwd population
gtrowth rste; /d I977: I. 17b6; If Percent of population. 1975 data; /L 1963; Ih I78; /A Aae 14 ryear and over. lor
1913.
May 1943



;lsueqsa   a..4    ees  jsss p     , iaexii J.   vs. eqs- a-s. eccishc  smecqiel. hq a s-csvn  Pc. cielac   sAvam
seqeesus ssq   .pe~  p.. al**esal                                       je 'es1 seelo     ns, Nose  'rese4sd-diMq ps   esaga   sql  2P'l          I'e a
p.s  55's   1d5W11-P .  .  CelIbiS          W 5i145   min4.eei   51535 
'5p. des-  .d-eI.'iiac    s  e   q
.IsleS sse SCjpeil5 pal        5l sEM '85'    q  a. -          eu     :...aIecs    'seeee1sd.d-se                                -..Ja-m   5n   M e..ais   sl -eme
euds-a aS  fleMA s  .fas.ae  l.-s lAa -asesl. ....'M 's 'tuds  'e]sqc*So wels.sad  n.j                                                            Sq  5  slt es  pTd.ueuss
- laee -.s c-NJ.l -    P.sh a-  It.hSweer -id         aIS5    euei   .5   ~l54ps.sa  a  eJeete17                                           *`psp.si   e`we yle    .
~~seisi-a  ~~~~ cc~~5~~ Je&cl eacas  iasm  cc leasT   ~~~~~~~~~~ diasact .leps~~~~~p             *s4ep ipil P5  USI 'Gnu  1555a14I "I'lS'a"en psee-qe  54       p  s.dmW EVS .11 
'mPids..q                  '555~~1 let  pee  1 CLS  'le  Iwovqel *.au  s'AN P.auq  semp e.i.__
am  meals 0. esvje-aFe* selS  a  ide..e  *wane   er  ssqal  * esaas                                     v'ads-.sA as ni l-Il 
",_~ L.iiiP  IS_            ant     sesi-'
51 i.e. p.. 5' p..   P asq     NOaesddas55      M        IN 1 fU' hFI aeia  ci   . aid  'm -itm   aea   ie.- rieefa
non-I   #-I''.asn                                  obemaicaas   5   ea  e                       ceCeas  qpeedi  'lcese S   ssss  --.,,jdiu-a
I   p..aace  el  s''suelte   sc  s  ae.s    ase  uiese                             ..a   ~pm  smef  15i  s  ce   m   s   nsen   aa   ee  papes
Sess  s.esdiiei  SmlE -p.sq ci  eeqj   I5P   viipsa'dii  'est                      esla 'eeseidciv  sqopsCs aelansni -5'et   51  e1s
141.1emalo ss 'eel.  sait. e.wa  'v.d.       -.JC Pope lflP                                         Sees J  w  I. A. -eAvs s, le,ater p     ....."c .iise   J. _*5  es .el S.     _ .I.
p.m  biens   'aiasea.  'Sasas.ae~ sews iseq    flTs!L~4~ej3~--m-in IS  spFms  eattsushqd-  p.esq ah sq p.eeeieeA"ISC51..inbC
'e 4aaqs   ci  a.1cisi   a   ae  iqjSe 'JS,eqei,.p vssseee   p.  tise                                                                                 p.sIft    asI ceise'
'55w.s   No i ..-a  M t   'li7il   tCIZ Id                      'NOcpe   eits'ie   cmdce    4e5  mnt5    m   *ee
tile..' ''a'. 'ssep.ais 'scee.sscsq  WiIL..FSSC Is      n...ssad.  s.d p.e... c-v11N                                   ,...11 ea- dda s Upe   so  a"WJ4   a,I.-si   gsee*
.41     PI 24-olilimap  1  eeI .un-sal                                                                       .&-              'so all.ee'
-we"I 4".]    1.1 J.  wel "".  .1    5ci  ee'ji    %-liI55'55                                                    jid   ssaej.ejcs  ees m.samas
,-]-Plost   ' "O    'mimi .14lisedowm  iip.... qasS I-.   seE . sieped mianisImi                           *,se.e  sspe.4 -aF sew    .
'4m    51   ea15i C.-Iam    -11a. IISi.alC.  i'                          e  pJ-    *a-  a   i-I  ePa t'ia m*lJ1 e' owda                  1     a,..
I. iis.mssd C Se 5'~.".I. 'Jad ose     asaaIs.Laiaas!E±!rd..rl  e!C..L--l,lec.t leY  It
alsases eqs  iale - 1.            I.J'e.qsi   hSl.epa.md.luec                                                                          Jl. a-   Cbir          J.'"  "5~5~  " 
'ulaa  e   m   ana  a   Sls,sSs   Ci  e.e  ape'San"   E                              asej'    eCm5sm'    e  si  515  e- l  55cea~f:P.l.   s''
saamaaaispesacls   ~.*a   ls'erse  fefle.  ia  jge  ,seselSsP.e  "aesje                               (acne  -SISI  a-eaaiTfl.-ars4'7j
se avcapaaa4 as, Siiaisal 5.1 ' (idllsIidiC  liamamma~~~~~~~~~..'01 vijd .14                                                                            'matedA-..V..4
-$aoIq,.        '  .iis l  psilI p eia..                                     esai .1at)ifE     IN.~e5 .1S  a.l.15 4 Sf"       .ufJ~  s-'sIJ
lir  cai   imid' qI   amelsaieeOI;                       l5   taal  e  sC-es                         aedca  -an'.in..                             ;~~jil Ii  'siaasz9  
5uda  .mae,sles  "apease  'a    w1. wsijaep-.,   eieaFa, i's.s.i. 'Emi
-e  I ssCa   eie'e    spsceMjaS lASd   CCt'55                                                     s   ci   si           .pS  eeCeissaaSis   sii*IS
P151lEescS    5S.   ~-rrsstdIabiqiC    laii1 1.a.h't   iaad.eiee    i   ipis    .'rlala.f
mialsapaSiceili    ii l5~   lls         5 sSiaCeCI  . as -a'  as... ....         iiWTllal  'aa
'aeas p.c  Isec p  p.s. vcsm oWmdS a    p   m-caWeSesis-C d                                     I'ma  Jsi5trp!5 wes.a'ami                      I..e[seSa!-   e
ii Pcsl'aa viaapcai Peel -  ampiaaa p.mgnov    'ieeuii                                  -vie  esit as  piusi qa-al  get. -  wvlrrliIntbwssssaI1
pie j.pao."     AM  .14lq  "SeP-     -   Wlp.  'esI ee   sa.Sli
P.. ssalI rsseva   Sp.sasI  eseada I.t..              adp                          eslPe5   C.i5v-l(SS  e   ae   s  Pi''C11e
ieeaaalsl  eieuFewA...   1.  ..I.P                    'IU IIT-.;IIsI'.l....%IlIIifl)                                                   I-RAN    TIM-iW Pee sner'sqeg  sale
sls iecAeS-s..eal'aSde.ilSa  'ale aesiesa as -e ii as .ll-I 11oemileda                                     I; lfl 'suerevi  a f'i~L   'e    ej   e
l5A   fe  lCkai slieuse.aii  'f'iaJaS'las  caiwd                                                  s  see   a  el   aasm  isies  e  ejaeeas  ee-1m 
lei aale   aleahpeadea-!4!~~~ MiAals ea tsee s ITIC;t qmC5"tslJ
51Cp.Sin  leaje  C isusiqe. - elevarac e Asm  h-flaPa.  w    &~alj-4-F       .(.                                                 'Pal-sea  cC ILle le.s i        MAi1e
'ee oaaaIliISap      Sal.SS5Cmd   lme    e''E                                               lem54       S    ass4 j m-     -.pi PlTlvai m'Malise I aadsisa
se.aa   r  p..'e owI.a,i Pccma  5iCP lS45i                R41eSiuss                                                                    laa    ecalds'uaelm-s
101lSi5Oip  LeSll  - salac  iiaviis la   ainp.a",saesPa -1                         l  ees  as-II-10 i 4 .c "onel  leess."aiPmeee  eq W   a". i
II'  plesulaia  v'i'l  s ee   Ieeseedea   e.es.seammh                                 iceela.p.aaed  ea a  smssq  -resmaiasi  u i  eaamsse
i.ie'55e4  a. saveesasS  55 liedl il5etit CII IIC -eel   tie    ,amitA.e   aasSCl,Ca  Sej1   'elee                       . oi  sed a   e         a-.iees  ' -is
a5c'   eetec' a-.s"e   lmSpeavdii_ee35IWUeq   ss    .ae..Sls                                                                u.a   51sa.eJees.                   Ci-4sM.
P      nom- ~       ~    v~qlll15r    aarnsaailIu4    el   itpSIa                                               m    not 'aass'  semined  ajmesa
P-owame, - al    I P li           rupwaimshlf                          v   q   al   e    ealsS'es-    t    ieC   e'¶.51
V.-  a I.: 6   --   'a fe-Im a.4.s'  lIC ses pem 'esma4.'   eeaa                            esds   e  .ashiuieCe     i  *ias55I5                           S,  i'.-
alelaae,e i= es  .aa ieb         W'*  -swi         - 'im    s.LamtaaLe .SIseS                       m  asqal a- n'4 iseies  isqe simp  salee  MIe Laaevas   taisse
*I3iil"PeCsfles1 'sPwiel   jiWijVaLPO  m".jj iuu.tlh1         irl,asui                           simd!e"pa "seas:14nl-:I4  almti  l laiieaa   smilE maai "Isa-mties.e
W 4-1     -41              eeedp.                                       I.-a*elsa  ac. m  ass sein  samailille   5       I-asae   ag '
p.. neiaaeese  elaaieces- 55' apaam'ed saelflesq  'elesaacasce  'sleinilnep  ~        '"  a. vlemlissas eccaaaSsS aId  -.P          seas 'I4eam1des-.m  salIs
svsaaa.esSea~~ eq4ssae iels.tksa  'emeje~' Le   we tad esaaeas jil               as. seemsasl. esiepeai asam  -ie    sal    Iltiseeeeu
eama edejse mElsip.e Senselfls    Nul  lit macied je ;emsabieW                        esi ge smasuss'-  ited  simesese "w      sl, ei.eed e1 Iaclce  'mami
'sadac  m-ile  a1  P   Iiadmn itCliiiea                    `e cm meeinsapc   dipc  P  emale 1ss   a..I:
Si  aracI  q es e   faasSaa.ei  s'  aasm  p'alc vat  miui ln            v       "Ie IaS, easseeaeLe' eSisemaSs  meeaee;e a9 UI-aicUi~~
4.d-b#.m 4- Apolied, ... Ill."~~eSmimlde iad                                       a   esi a   5sq mild   eelsuaiselIei  lqa
iSeei'i-aseai ao meesp  I- alS"  *san  I          cwas q  le e       imasli  ce'ii"amm  msi   s (wwiLiL                                                   ~         -
'51 po151aM4 le llem    f '5 iai.11p.p emseelvon  Islie af me mvea da'mmml#a"asirow                                      141W
leifrec' em esi-esad  vasl.as-lc Jea ."qei noees    ssiiaalm   as t"sea a C's                                                                     'i5        see  '5  'Ii   as"
"Gate,.   1  I _mesva   esedinasameaia eae- alsialsali   - 'imsia   Ssemlspma                            ONO5   i   -isI I I m  ivfn   'ia vImmi siaseeVe  see Ca last-
p.cisadvsm  cmems.mmse   eavsvsiime  pm  emqe  S  elsmsci'yaS   eqee  salee   e mivilna  sid'   s                                           I ( IVI IlS.1"T jM
,%-meisem -e I    .Pe 1 ve d5itm jqg&j1-1 Qf jpi .14ePtw:   Lt
'414411-4- 4il-4  PNO IV-IP" my .1.4011.4 1-4-4 I- to-i    so  G-af ~ ~ ~      ~         ~         ~         ~        'eis
lva'   INose  vessa     wes-ie  lUqe1la] P.*jflplil5fesm.ai
..lil              osseaiei   alas                              ei    cia    i   a  eaael  sam    .amss'eass'S.." iSa0
p.c acl'as  sqa  ases  m' e  e  Sesip.msee)-pae  lam  macde   ilaeesescsiis   mq   'aasl.   sel.m'-a   lss    a sell  eo p.4li
Me vlor lasem-esdqacaatam. -.amaas  isaatilP- hoa 'Fp.et Semssp.m  'asos55i - me l.0iaesa'
-     Jmmc   avassa   't   ma a)'aIq.vI              Psaa  geaa'e    iamals  esmia. :i '515 I#lipm.iv                                       q'                  I      I -aeea   lisS
ml caimasmsmsq   n   le  aseasI  reem       es*  eemsI  i 'ms.as  p.  eeqlmaasvv    n   ma  slvsi  iasnciseuee  es   siee   l.  mm  ci  q5aimla  sI
fti-   .61  now. 4 ~         ~           ~           wWul  aiem   iiCi~td
S A" t ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~bot.24 4faW fIJet I J ee.. .l  ..P.J  fI-lo
-   cc                                           318 Vliv...v M OO is



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
- 23 -
ANNC I
Pa 4 of 5
PM:Y; KOEDC ICAMS
1981
US$ mln    Z
QC  at mmret prices           910    100
Gross Do3uestic Imsemnt       310     34
Grss Naticnal Sa&ig            41      5
Eport of goods ani NS        270     30      Anmal Rate of Grth (Z)
IMports of g,ods and NFS      775     85           (anstant prices)
1976/81
GDP at factor CDst            560    10D               4
of which:
Agriclture & Fisberies       77      14               0
IUda3try                     68     12               10
Construction                 76      14              10
TMsport                      66      12              -3
Grveriment Services         146     26               12
-          E1D2:E
Prg. Ent.
(in millions Yenemi Dinars)    1974175   1975211  1976   1977    1978  1979    1980  1981        1982
Total recaipts .                23.6    16.9      32.1   43.4    56.0   68.0   107.2   124.8    137
oC -ent expemitures           27.6    25.6      39.2   47.4    6L4   76.2    96.0   137.5  - 142
Orient deficit                -4.0    -8.7      -7.1   -4.0    -5.4   -8.2    U.2   -12.7         -5
Demloprnst expeulitures      19.6    18.9      39.2   57.3    59.7   52.0    74.2   105.1    137
Oyeral deficit               -23.6   -27.6    -46.3  -61.3   -65.1  -60.2   -63.0  -117.8  -142
BorxUwheg fro Em Banin Systen  10.4    12.5     15.6   18.5    13.2   27.6    19.0    55.7        65
Extrnal Finaoing              13.2    15.1      30.7   42.8    51.9   32.6    44.0    62.1        77
MMEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
Pro. Est.
(Yl.a mil-ion, end period)               1974  1975  1976  1977  1978  1979   1980   1981         1982
*mey andi q,asi-nEey                    55    67    98   140   168    217    286    321          383
Bank credit to Govermt                  24    37    62    72    87    110    12    151          216
Bank credit to en-Govermeat Sector-3    19    24    31    49    59        61      98    106      102
Ixease in Z
;n=mer prices                           24    12      4      5      6     10      10      4       10
1/ Ihe fiscal year was April - March 31 until Marh 31, 1975 len it becse
April 1 - Deucaixe 31, 1975 and thereafter is on a calemdar year basis
2/ Incudes current and development revm*s from domestic sozces and self-finarcuig
of public enterprises.
3/ i*stly public swctor a ies.



BEST COPY AVAILABLE   24 -
pep 5 of 5
Pwv
EAlAZIE (F PAXIFHJS (Tl$ w&IliA3fl) 1974   1975  1976    197  7   97A      197 0     98      1-982
EIA                  $ 5Y         8        8      26       24      17       20      38        28       35
ExIrs                                   -178    -2_8 -365    -386         411    -650       -763     -797
TrteDsfci                      -1        70                      _369    -391    -62        -735     -762
22      14       20      10      17      142      176      199      193
t b 1 rf Bw O  e r i e , n e t7                           6U
t~w Servim ne               48       is      43       76     UI176)    (199                     (193
Fator e  ims                   (7t)     (3)      (6)    (t)       ()3   (11)    (3)         4       (33)
Of ficis                  (41)    ()          )        )     (a)    (2)    (30)    (14)    (1173)
(Oa Disb                    (73)    (3)       (6)     (72:)   (95)    (6)    (8             )    (1C50)
eqr Cal (iu:l. S   U1)           38      42        4       29      45      -B       86      -24        68
izmg.reaIe)                   -8       1     -217    -21      -89 -2     2      -25      -20       -32
Qii   nt  Df  iciOl                                                                   399401
Gznss Official kae?'~s  (evil year)  67      54   81      39    188    210         235      255      271
_____                         U       S           ?iil on Per,I
Fish anl Fis7 Pzo:t ts                      12      38
pgrivat 2       s:2s                          7     217
ocbr                           ~~~~~~~32    100
ErE&  r       EUr (1Decbet 31, 1982)         US$ I~i11
Externl Puibli    a Debt Onets6flIDir8 1,540
of wDiscbu  Disbuems                           8
DebtServic2 Pau4                                      2       45 in 198  40
debt SerCit e Ratio (E p25t3 of
Uo'sb afLl  senrices)                          1D     -e9
1./ s t of EW.Ld Besey
2/ lhrier8' i9Etes.
SE OPE-usiu
1tb/18/2830
D   W(ebr3,92
lOJSB3~~~~~~~~~1,4



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
- 25 -
Annex II
Page 1 of 1 page
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Statement of IDA Credits a/
(As of September 30, 1983)
$ Million
Amount
Credit                                                              (less cancellations)
No.          Year    Borrower        Purpose                     IDA       Undisbursed
Seven credits fully disbursed                                     37.69
768- YDR      1978       PDRY      Wadi Tuban Agric. Proj         5.Z           1.8
829- YDR      1978       PDRY       Power I                       5.0            1.0
865- YDR      1978       PDRY       Education II                  4.0           1.3
932- YDR      1979       PDRY       Fisheries II                 10.0           3.5
1038- YDR      1980       PDRY      Aden Water Supply             13.2           6.2
1050- YDR      1980       PDRY      Petroleum Dev. Assistance    9.0             1.7
1144- YDR      1981       PDRY      Highways III                   12.5          8.0
1145- YDR       1981      PDRY       Wadi Beihan Agric. Proj.      8.0           7.0
1159- YDR      1981       PDRY      Al Hukalla Water Supply        3.5           2.4
1222- YDR      1982       PDRY       Education III                 6.0           5.8
1268- YDR      1982       PDRY      Power II                       7.5           7.1
1274- YDR      1982       PDRY       Fisheries III                 6.0           5.99
1295- YDR      1983       PDRY      Roads Flood Reconstruction   7.0             4.4
1377- YDR      1983       PDRY       Health Development            7.6           7.6
Total                                  142.19 b/ c/  63.79
of which has been repaid                  .10
Total now held by IDA                 142.09 bJ
Total undisbursed                                     63.79
a/  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
b/  Excluding exchange adjustments.
c/  An IDA credit of SDR 8.3 million ($9 million) for a Second Wadi Hadramawt
Agricultural Development Project (1346-YDR) was approved by the Executive
Directors on April 12 and signed on April 28, 1983. It is not yet effective.



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
- 26 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SEIYUN REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I. Timetable of Key Events
(a)    Time taken by PDRY to prepare the project        2 years (January 1977 to
December 1978)
(b)    Agency which prepared the project                Public Water Corporation
(Pwc)
(c)    First IDA mission to consider the project        November 1980
(d)    Appraisal Mission                                November 1982
(e)    Completion of negotiations                       April 1983
(f)    Planned date of effectiveness                    By February, 1984
Section II. Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III. Special Conditions in the Credit Agreement
1.     Additional Conditions of Effectiveness
(i)     the opening by the Government of a Special Account for a
Revolving Fund for project execution on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA (para. 51);
(ii)     the execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the
Government and PWC under terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA (para. 52);
2.     Other Conditions:  The Borrower has agreed to:
(a)      take all the actions required on its part to enable PWC to
meet its financial obligations under the Project Agreement
(para 58).



- 27 -  BEST COPY AVAILABLE
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
PWC has agreed to:
(i)    collect revenues sufficient to cover, in addition to its
operating and maintenance costs, debt service and any increase
in working capital other than cash, at least 12 percent of its
estimated capital expenditures during each fiscal year and the
following two fiscal years (para 58);
(ii)   review the adequacy of its tariff rates, using forecasts
satisfactory to IDA, before November 30 of each fiscal year.
After November 30 of each fiscal year it would, if necessary,
adjust its rates in order to meet the revenue requirements
referred to above (para. 58);
(iii) not incur any long-term debt in any year without IDA's prior
approval, unless a reasonable forecast of its projected net
revenues before depreciation and interest is at least 1.2
times the maximum future annual debt service on all debts
including the debt to be incurred (para. 59);
(iv)   monitor technical and financial performance indicators and to
take appropriate remedial actions to achieve the agreed level
of performance (para. 59); and
Cv)    submit the audited accounts of PWC and the annual audit report
to IDA not later than nine months after the end of each fiscal
year (para. 59).



450                                                     480
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
IDA- ASSISTED PROJECTS BY SECTOR
PROJECT TYPE                      EXISTING FEATURES:
Agriculture                 0    Selected Towns and Villoges
4.   Fisheries                    @    Governorote Capitals
(    Petroleum Exploration        @    National Capital
A 18@   Assistance                --   Airports
A    Educotion                         Ports
PoHighwoys                        Primary Roads
*    Power Stations               Secondary Roads                                  /
Transmission Lines                Tracks
U    Water 5upply                      Wadis
%    Port Development          -- -  Governorate Boundaries                                                     Thaoud_
International Boundaries
___                                                ~~/              f 
ELEVATIONS:
I 2000 mneters                                                     k
1000                                                        /Z::ak         -
200
I Ghnumf
\uro 
YR A E P.
- A    RJ   A     J6BtJ /                                                                            ,  o bF d > --
Ab roizz~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Th  a asbnpo
A0 rai.-Z                         raefers~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~heraer n i shn- 
?I N.126616Fnac Cpiaar                                                                                          T
-                                                             m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d4r,WMOj ant1 wo The
ai NW legal sblus of o,
450                                                       48*



IBRD 17290
JULY 1983
FISCAL
PROJECT:              YEAR APPROVED
pi               kr                          Q >   .  _  63HIGHWAYS r       1971
pP                 7 .                                     (D FISHERIES I                  1973
.         I \  _._   |   /              @ EDUCATION I                  1975
---  _  B   |\   O'- M    A   N  O  HIGHWAYS U      1975
4  ADEN PORT REHABILITATION 1976
:  t;                        WADI HADRAMAWT AGRIC. I 1976
6 WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURE  1978
180 /l  7 WADI HADRAMAWT POWER  1978
ONt  {  @  }    t*,   () WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING  1978
& TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
|               '                          8 EDUCATION n                  1979
9 FISHERIES a                  1979
Thomud                                                                  10 PETROLEUM DEVELOPMENT   1980
A  L                                    ASSISTANCE
11 ADEN WATER SUPPLY           1980
AA  HR A                                   12 HIGHWAYS m                  1981
13 WADI BEIHAN AGRICULTURE  1981
AA                                                                     14 AL MUKALLA WATER SUPPLY  1981
15 EDUCATION m                 1982
16 FISHERIES m                 1982
A!- GiGydh          17 POWER 13                     1982
: _                     g< Ihaydoh 18 ROADS FLOOD RECONSTRUC- 1983
-- >oO. O     \                                  t                                             l *^  TION
19 WADI HADRAMAWT AGRIC. I  1983
'.  >  t1Nishh.'rn   *HEALTH DEVELOPMENT             1983
20 SEIYUN WATER SUPPLY         1984
N   ~~~(Completed projects
Ash~~~~~~~hik                          i ~~~~~~~0Project spread over several or
numerous locations
U.A. E.
SAUDI ARABIA
* ~   ~~~~~~~                                                                     JOMANMX 
0                 100                200                       V     %=
KILOMETERS                                      /EMN        O~E
exckmvdy tar En iuI use of The 14b'l Bank and De *,tamafwi
ni. The dewnonshabs used and Nhe boun,dw,js slow, on fts mW do rat  Dde
)I The wow Bap ad O.  ,,w,aI Fanc Co_epon. W    e
of any tarrov o an andJrsnw, o accsce of osuh boseeoimor
ETHIOPIA            A LIA
\ jSOMAN
o          100                200               ',+  ck gY51E



r:  , ~    . ;   t  _ \   uS 1 ,                        1 6                                   48H
<    SI4IChj  S                2'  
1  .1],% ISLAMIC REP.-
OF IRAN                                       PEOPLE'S  DEMOCRATIC  R-
g,NlILJIIAl:IIN, N L                                   SEIYUN    REGIONAL   WA-
SAUDOI ARIAIIA
Project  Loc
0 V8\           >6~~~(MAjp
z                ~~~~~~SUI)ANo  - iPD  
,'YEMEN/ARAVA           E
/  L#9YelX  -YEEN/ARAIAM A0  50  100            150
I               I
ioLrri ,ttI                                                         MILES
0         50        100       150         200       250
KILOMETERS
Q
J XJ(
YEMEN                                            /   OZamok
6                                                 ARAEPUB LI                                          */ OAibr
)                fJ1. ---REPUBLIC 
- _____   - pMarib   -   o   ~   . . M r -                             H a urV
J c-  \\                  /)SANA'A                                  -             ,Sobv oh        .
odeida                                      Al Ay                                        . .....1
t                     |                                                                                ISObbA    Ar-:WtAt    5  --.-0 
);;:.     :So..;,..       A zzan,:-.
Al Mahf'db-               Mon       >.   ;
-14-                                                                                           . i 4~ =,:yfi:5,.A!i:gabah   MYyofoh
nbowhmbowpmpwwav                                                      'Wa~~m yn    ~Ndi Sgbib.
7Ae%I-rI 1.,  )                                                                 W-Y    iN< 
rmd_. ac am* NW     urn.                    .-                                5 4    BhI.
0,IW UM Of "ae AMb OW*
co  "   ''m        Mo  ha             eh-
pad or flw hlofV u* NWN NW
NftowIa0 F.ne,c C'aI
A-d pff-0w I phafgj ftff
of NW tmm" w A".
endoySwffnm m aGcawjP ot  j.     440
5wh bwd,48



IBRD 1689SR
I      I                                I                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JUNE 1983
480                            5e                                520J
- REPUBLIC OF  YEMEN                                                                                    200
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Location
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
250
Sc..-'.ow                         OMAN
I:obr.to \
P Thamud
* BirTom.                             GH  E IDA  H
~AI-Ghoidah
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~F *    -.  
"'.0-i ' ,. -' -   .1.,, - t              X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~60
:~ ~ ~ C : *- lRc                 *:/,,f   A-hl
.    .                                         L;o  ------
t -  +,H AD KNA M O U T    -                              " -
.  ... ....    ..  ...  ...   .   .   ... - , , .    ........................ . . -.: S y u
r  - - ,,_-~:: -:-:-G-hi7 H    J Hibs   =<
, _  . -- \^- - - -- -Baazg4__ _Ousayir
-ouro.4~ - ^   -  - - - s  -.-    7  J_es';              _      PROJECT AREAS
Al Hib. ::   -:ai -:  - 5   Xa<lluPRIMARY ROADS
~~~Q- . . : :      -                                       - -rRa
...        .             -   - - -                       - --Al Muall  -MAINTRACKS
-oh    .                                          $z wi  INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
7                                           4,    HARBOR                                    140-
Bir All                         -                         GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES
- -   -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
ELEVATIONS:
0- 200 METERS
201 - 100 METERS
3. : t v C / V ..... - .giit- 1001~~~fl               - 2000 MIETERS
2001-3000 METERS
50-






