Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4357a-YDR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SEIYUN REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
October 13, 1983
Water Supply and Sewerage Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of December 1, 1982)
Currency Unit  =  Yemeni Dinar (YD)   = 1,000 Fils
YD 1                = US$2.9
US$1                = YD 0.345
YD 1,000,000        = US$2,900,000
ABBREVIATIONS
ft      =  foot                            m        =  meter
ha      =  hectare                         mm        =  millimeter
Km      =  kilometer                       Mm3       =  million of cubic meters
inh     =  inhabitant                     m3/sec    =  cubic meters per second
lcpd    =  liters per capita per day    min         =  minute
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
Metric System                                 U.K. System
Kilometer (km)                            =  0.62 mile (mi)
Hectare (ha)                              =  2.47 acres (a)
Meter (m)                                 =  3.28 feet (ft)
Cubic meter (3)                           =  220 gallons (g)
Million cubic meters/year (Mm3/year)   =  0.603 million gallons per day (mgd)
Liter (1)                                 =  0.220 gallon (g)
Liters per second (1/sec)                 =  19,000 gallons per day (gd)
Kilogram/cm2                              =  0.981 Bar
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
FAO    =  Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
IDA    =  International Development Association
MAAR   =  Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
PCEP   =  Public Corporation for Electric Power
PDRY   =  People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
PWC    =  Public Water Corporation
UNDP   =  United Nations Development Program
PWC's FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SEIYUN REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  INTRODUCTION .............................................         1
II.  THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR.                              1
Background .1
Water Resources.                                               2
Service Levels .......................................         4
Constraints to Sector Development.                             5
Sector Development Strategy and Program.                       6
The Sewerage Subsector.                                        7
IDA's Objectives-for the Sector.                               7
III. THE PROJECT AREA.                                                   8
General Features.                                              8
Existing.Water Supply.                                         8
Present Organization.                                          9
Waste Disposal System.                                         9
IV. DEMAND AND MARKET ASPECTS.                                          9
Water Production and Consumption ......................        9
Population Forecast .10
Forecast of Consumption .11
V. THE PROPOSED PROJECT .11
Project Genesis and Concept .11
Objectives of the Project .12
Project Description.                                          13
Cost Estimates.                                               15
Project Execution .16
Project Financing .16
Onlending Arrangements .17
Procurement .18
Disbursement .18
This report was prepared and written by Mr. Fritz Rodriguez and Mr. Aziz Kassab.
Mr. Charles Todd provided assistance at headquarters.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (Continued)                                                 Page No.
VI.  THE BENEFICIARY .....................                                     19
Background ...........................................              19
Past Performance .....................................              19
Management and Organization ..........................              20
Staffing .............................................              21
Staff Training .......................................              21
Billing and Collection ...............................              22
Accounting Practices and Procedures ..................              22
Audit ................................................              22
Insurance ......... . . ..............    23
Taxes ...                                                           23
VII.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .......................................                23
Past and Present Financial Position ..................              23
Revenues .............................................              23
Financing of PWC's Investment Program ................              26
Future Financial Performance .........................              27
Monitoring System ....................................               27
VIII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ........................................                28
Objectives of the Proposed Investments ...............              28
Justification ........................................               29
Environmental Impact of the Project ..................              29
Institution Building .................................              30
Risks ................................................               30
IX.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...................                31
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex No.
1. Past and Proposed Investments in Water Supply
2. Villages and Populations in the Project Area
3. Forecast of Population, Number of Service Lines and Water Demand
4. Population and Water Demand
5. Terms of Reference for Detailed Design of the Upper Tuban
Wellfield and Transmission Pipeline to Bir Nasir
6. Terms of Reference for Feasibility Study and Detailed Design
of Water Supply in Tarim
7. Terms of Reference for Detailed Sanitation Studies in Seiyun
8. Detailed Cost Estimates
9. Detailed Annual Project Costs
10. Annual Project Investments



- 111 -
Table of Contents (Continued)
11.  Bar Chart for Bidding and Execution of the Project Activities
12.  Contract Schedule
13.  Allocation of the Credit and Loan Proceeds
14.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
15.  Public Water Corportation - Organization Chart - 1982
16.  PWC's Branch in Seiyun - Proposed Organization Chart - 1986
17.  PWC - Consolidated Income Statements
18.  PWC - Consolidated Table of Sources and Application of Funds
19.  PWC - Balance Sheets
20.  Assumptions for Financial Projections
21.  Total Water Production and Sales and Service Lines, Past and Forecast
22.  Monitoring Indicators
23.  Calculation of the Average Long-run Marginal Cost of Water
24.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Map No:
16898 Project Location
16899 Project Area
16900 General Layout of the Project Facilities



I
i                                                                                           I



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SEIYUN REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     This report appraises a water supply project for forty rural communi-
ties in the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY).  The project covers
the first construction stage of a master plan designed to meet potable water
needs in the town of Seiyun and thirty-nine surrounding villages, through
1995. It basically includes the construction of new water supply production
facilities and distribution systems and the setting up of an operating branch
of the national water supply authority, the Public Water Corporation (PWC), in
the Seiyun Conurbation.  The proposed works and related studies are estimated
to cost US $16.1 million, with a foreign exchange component of US $13.8 mil-
lion, and are programmed to be executed during the years 1983 through 1987.
An IDA credit of US $7.0 million to finance part of the project foreign
exchange cost is proposed.
1.02     The proposed project would be the Association's fourth operation in
the water supply and sewerage sector.  In 1978, the Association made a credit
of US $1.2 million (S-21 YDR) for a water supply engineering and technical
assistance project.  This project was successfully implemented and has led to
the formulation of construction projects (Credits 1038-YDR and 1159-YDR) in
the country's two largest towns, Aden and Al Mukalla.  The implementation of
these two projects is progressing satisfactorily. Meanwhile, the implementing
agency, PWC, for which improved administrative structures were proposed under
the engineering and technical assistance project, has greatly strengthened its
organization and finance, and today is one of the best public utility compa-
nies in PDRY.
1.03     The project concept was first discussed with PWC during a preparation
mission in November 1980. During these discussions, the Association suggested
the adoption of better design criteria and particularly, of reduced per capita
water consumption for the master plan.  This change resulted in substantially
lowering the estimated cost of the plan.  Subsequently, a first stage program
of works in Seiyun and the thirty-nine satellite villages was defined and in-
cluded in the proposed project. A mission composed of Messrs Fritz Rodriguez
and Aziz Kassab appraised the project in November 1982.
II. THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
Background
2.01     Located  in the south-western corner of the Arabian Peninsula,  the
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY) occupies an area of 333,000 km2
and extends nearly 1,400 km along the Gulf of Aden. It is a semi-arid land of
rugged configuration, with sparse vegetation and few natural resources.   The



- 2 -
majority of the population lives in the narrow costal plain along the gulf.
Further inland to the north, the country becomes very mountainous, forming
what is known as the "Yemen Frontier" where the mountain elevations exceed
2,000 meters.  Beyond this frontier, the land flattens again to form the high
plateaux and the Northern Desert, which extend into Yemen Arab Republic and
Saudi Arabia (see Map IBRD No. 16898).
2.02     Overall, a harshly dry climate prevails in PDRY, though it is milder
in the interior plateaux.   In general, temperatures in the coastal areas are
more uniform and humid throughout the year than in the interior.  The hottest
months are May throuRh September; temperatures higher than 430 C have been
recorded  in  June.   Rainfall  in  the  coastal  areas  is  irregular  but  more
frecuent durinR the winter months; the mean annual rainfall in the coastal
plain is about 50 mm.  In the mountainous part of the country,  it is more
regular and occurs in summer months; the average annual rainfall is about 500
mm in this part.  The rate of evaporation is high and runoff is limited even
in the irrigated areas.
2.03     Administratively PDRY is divided into six governorates or provinces.
Only one-third of the estimated total population of 1.9 million (mid-1981) can
be considered urban.  Almost half of the urban population is concentrated in
Greater Aden, the nation's capital and largest agglomeration. The second and
third largest towns, Al Mukalla and Seiyun, have respective populations of
61,000 and 25,000.  The remaining urban population is distributed  in towns
with less than 10,000 people.  About 10% of the total population is nomadic
and more than half of the rural population lives in scattered places that are
not large enough to warrant the installation of public water supply systems.
Water Resources
2.04     PDRY relies essentially on underground water resources for its sup-
plv, as few perennial water streams exist in the country.   There are seven
major catchment areas which drain into wadis of which the most important are
the Hadramawt (where the proposed project is located), with a drainage area of
o0,000 km2, the Bana with 9,600 km2 and the Tuban with  5,000 km2.  Since
1970, various  studies of the major groundwater  aquifers have been made by
FAO.  IDA also assisted in this area by financing a study of the underground
water resources in Wadi Hadramawt as part of an agricultural project 1/
(Credit 615-YDR).   This  study was  completed  at the end of 1979.   The  IDA
financed Wadi Tuban Agricultural Development Project 2/ (Credit 768-YDR) also
included a water management study of the Wadi Tuban Aquifer which supplies
water to Greater Aden and irrigation works in the Tuban Delta.   This study,
which assessed the possibilities of increasing the water extraction rate from
the aquifer, was completed in 1981.
1/  Report No. 847a-YDR,  Appraisal  of Wadi Hadramawt  Agricultural  Project,
Januarv 12, 1976.
2/ Report No. 1727-YDR, Appraisal of Wadi Tuban Agricultural Development
Project, January 25, 1978.



2.05     With  the exception  of Wadi  Hadramawt  where  large  groundwater  re-
sources are still available, adequate water supply sources are scarce in the
rest of the country.  Some of the aquifers along the coastal areas have for
some time been overexploited.  As a result, sea water has gradually started to
intrude into these aquifers, causing continuing deterioration of the quality
of the waters.  A case in point is the Wadi Tuban Delta where some wells have
been abandoned because of the high salinity content of the groundwater. Water
demands for urban and agricultural uses in this delta have already exceeded
the available groundwater resources.   Consequently, water must be brought in
from the adjacent Wadi Bana to meet increasing potable water requirements in
the Greater Aden metropolitan area, a project 3/ which is currently under exe-
cution and partlv financed by an IDA credit of US $13.2 million (Credit
1038-YDR); but even this additional supply is not expected to meet the
long-term demand.  Depending on the reserve capacity of the Wadi Bana Aquifer
and future developement of agriculture in the Bana Delta, it may be necessary,
in order to meet water demands in the Tuban Delta, to resort to desalination
of sea water and recycling of wastewaters as early as 1990.
2.06     But  this  situation  in the areas  adjacent  to Greater  Aden  is not
unique in the country.  Water shortage is chronic in Al Mukalla,  the second
largest town, for which expensive infiltration works are required to increase
the yields of the existing adjacent water sources, a problem that an IDA
financed project 4/ (Credit 1159-YDR)  is currently addressing.  The same can
be said for the remaining agglomerations.   For some of them located  in the
high plateaux, the only source of water is scanty rainfall which is collected
and stored in unsanitary open ditches.   Some fresh water does exist  in the
vallev surrounding the plateaux, but the techniques and cost to elevate the
water to the top of the plateaux  are prohibitive for PDRY.  An example is the
urban agglomeration of Laboos for which fresh water must be elevated more than
1,200 meters.
2.07     The Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MAAR) manages  all
water resources in the country.  PWC, which reports to the Minister of Local
Administration, is responsible for the planning, design, construction and ope-
ration of public water supply systems in the country. 5/  Because of the dry
climate and low and irregular rainfall, agricultural production in PDRY is
mostly dependent on irrigation, most of which relies on groundwater, and in
some cases, on surface water from seasonal floods.  In the past MAAR did not
give adequate attention to the problem of sharing scarce water resources bet-
ween urban and agricultural uses, and in some instances, to -the dire necessity
for limiting agricultural expansion. MAAR has, however, become more conscious
of the limitation of the country's water resources and in this connection has
3/  Report No. 2910a-YDR; Appraisal of the Greater Aden Water Supply Project,
May 7, 1980.
4/  Report No. 3361a-YDR, Appraisal of Al Mukalla Water Supply Rehabilitation
Project, April 24, 1981.
5/  In some small towns, PWC has delegated its operating responsibility to the
towns'  local  councils.   In addition,  some  private water  companies  and
cooperatives still function in the country.



-4-
issued a moratorium on the drilling of wells in Wadi Tuban for irrigation, as
the unrestricted use of water for agriculture in the Tuban Delta was leading
to the complete depletion of the aquifer. A similar moratorium was passed for
Wadi Beihan in the north of PDRY.
2.08     As a first step in assisting towards  the improvement of the water
supply situation in PDRY, the Association provided a credit of US$1.2 million
(S-21 YDR) in June 1978 to help finance a Water Supply Engineering and Tech-
nical Assistance Project, whose objectives were to formulate a phased program
of works to meet urban water needs in Greater Aden, Al Mukalla and Laboos up
to the year 2000.  This engineering project has already led to the formulation
of two projects, the Greater Aden Water Supply (Credit 1038-YDR) and the Al
Mukalla Water Supply Rehabilitation (Credit 1159-YDR).   The Association also
emphasized the need for the Government to plan more comprehensively the use of
the water resources and to set out their usage priority.   The IDA financed
studies, mentioned in paragraph 2.04, were aimed at formulating long range
management programs for the two most important water resources in the country,
the Wadi Hadramawt and the Wadi Tuban.  The Greater Aden and Al Mukalla Pro-
jects include water management studies of other important resources, the Wadi
Bana, the Wadi Buwaysh and the Wadi Khirba.
2.09     In 1981 the Government set up a Water Committee whose functions are
to regulate the collection and allocation of the water resources and to estab-
lish usage priorities.  This Committee is made up of representatives of MAAR,
the Ministry of Planning and PWC.  The Association is assisting the Committee
in the preparation of a water code for the country.
Service Levels
2.10     As indicated earlier in this report, a sizeable segment of the rural
population is nomadic (about 10% of the total population) or scattered in iso-
lated places which are difficult or even uneconomical to provide with public
water supply systems.  Thus, it is logical to assume that these locations will
continue to rely on individual wells for their water supply.   Based on this
assumption, it is estimated that at present about two-thirds of the total
population could be served by public water supply systems.  About 47% of this
population already has  access  to such  systems.   However,  only  20%  of the
people served are supplied through direct service  lines.  About 60% of the
urban population is served by public systems, while only 20% of the rural
population is provided with such services.
2.11     In addition to Greater Aden, PWC provides water supply services in
nine towns along the coast and in the interior:  Al Mukalla, Ghail Bawazir,
Shihir, Lahej, Gaar, Zinzibar, Dhala, Nisab and Saber. Most of the population
living in the inner limits of these towns has house connections, but public
supply through standpipes is very common in the outskirts.   The quality and
safety of water served in Greater Aden and the towns are considered accept-
able.  The same cannot be said of the rural areas where open wells and conta-
minated ponds are still being used  for supply.   Villagers  living in remote
areas must still spend substantial time to reach the nearest water point to
fill a few goat skins with water. Local People's Councils which report to the



- 5 -
Ministry of Local Administration are responsible for providing basic services,
including water supply to rural areas.  With the assistance of PWC and MAAR,
the Local People's Councils have been implementing a program of well construc-
tion in the rural areas, which is progressively reducing the distances travel-
led to fetch water.  The UNDP has recently made a grant of US$ 1.2 million to
PDRY for the rehabilitation of water wells in the Northern Desert. This reha-
bilitation program is implemented by the Ministry of Local Administration..
Constraints to Sector Development
2.12     The lack of adequate financial resources is a major constraint to the
accelerated  development  of  the  sector.   Lacking  the  necessary  funds,  the
Government has until now given priority to the development of agriculture,
fisheries and transportation.   Between 1968 and 1978 investments  in potable
water supply amounted to only US$14.4 million (about $9 per capita) and were
mostly financed by Government funds.  However, the situation greatly improved
during the period 1979-1981 when US$15.2 million was invested in water supply
works.  Moreover, during the same period PWC was not able to generate suffi-
cient funds from its operations to finance its maintenance and expansion
works, mainly because of both low tariffs and the small percentage of popula-
tion served outside Greater Aden.  The Government had in the past sought to
charge low water rates due to the social character of water supply services.
This policy, however,  is being changed.   For example,  in Greater Aden  the
average tariff, which remained unchanged at US$0.16/m3  since 1967, was  in-
creased  to US$0.37/m3  effective  January  1981.   The  average  tariff  in Al
Mukalla was also increased in December 1982 to US t0.51/m3 from Us$o.41/m3.
2.13     Another major constraint to the sector development is the scarcity of
convenient water sources, which are already extensively exploited for agricul-
ture. This situation is further compounded by the remote and unfavorable lo-
cation of the urban centers from the major aquifers.   As examples,  Greater
Aden is located at more than 50 kms from the Wadi Bana Aquifer, a possible
supply source for the metropolitan area.   A potential water source  for Al
Mukalla is the Wadi Huwairah Aquifer, though it is more than 30 km from this
city. Water from the Wadi Bana Aquifer and the Wadi Hadramawt Aquifer needs
to be elevated more than 1,200 meters to reach urban settlements in the high
plateaux.  The country's rugged topography further poses severe difficulties
in developing an expanded road network which is needed for the transportation
of materials, equipment and technical staff, most of which are now concentra-
ted in Aden.
2.14     A third constraint  is  the present  population distribution  in the
country.  Most of the agglomerated population of 1.3 million lives in small
villages of less than 10,000 people, for which adequate water sources are
difficult to find and high per capita investments are required.   There are
only two agglomerations with sizeable populations:  Greater Aden with 290,000
inhabitants and Al Mukalla with 61,000.
2.15     As a result o.f the above constraints, PWC had in the past experienced
serious operational difficulties stemming from the bad condition of the exist-
ing water supply systems, lack of financial resources and management experi-
ence.  The country's overall difficult economic situation, and more precisely



- 6 -
the low living standard of the population and the unavailability of foreign
exchange needed for the purchase of spare parts, had further worsened PWC's
problems.  This situation was particularly critical in Greater Aden where the
existing supply sources were drying up and deterioration of the system was
reaching the point beyond which its rehabilitation would have been impossi-
ble. This is being corrected under Credit 1038-YDR. A somewhat similar situ-
ation also prevails in Al Mukalla and Seiyun where the shortage of water, com-
pounded by the population's lax hygienic habits, has resulted in an extremely
unhealthy environment.  The situation in Al Mukalla is being corrected under
Credit 1159-YDR.
Sector Development Strategy and Program
2.16     Given the urgent need to save the fast deteriorating Aden system, the
Government has decided to give its first priority to Greater Aden where the
infrastructure to some extent already exists and where almost half of the
urban population resides.  A US$39.2 million water supply project,  partially
financed by an IDA Credit of US$13.2 million (Credit 1038-YDR),  is actually
under implementation in the Greater Aden area. The Government's second prior-
ity covers the improvement of water supply and sanitation in Al Mukalla and
Seiyun.  Parallel to that,  it will try to make a few improvements in other
towns and to pursue its program of well construction in the rural areas, aim-
ing at reducing the distances  travelled to fetch water.   To meet the 1995
water demand, it is estimated that the Government and PWC need to invest (in
current prices) about US$53.2 million in water supply works in Greater Aden,
US $31.5 million in Al Mukalla, US$12.9 million in Seiyun and US $67.7 million
in the remaining towns and rural areas.  The Government is actively seeking
the financial assistance of international lenders for these large investments.
2.17     Annex 1 gives a breakdown of the investments which have been made in
water supply works in various locations since the country's independence in
1967. This Annex also shows the proposed investments in the years 1983-1989.
The objective of these investments is to provide the main urban centers and
larger rural agglomerations with the water supply network needed to meet water
requirements by 1995.  This investment plan translates the Government's strong
awareness of the necessity for providing safe water supply within easy reach
of the consumers.  While investments during the period 1979-1981 amounted to
US$15.2 million, those in the period 1982-1985 are projected at US$87.1 mil-
lion or at annual investments (in current terms) more than four times higher
than those of the preceding period.  The projects included in the investment
program, which was reviewed during the appraisal of the proposed project, are
all needed and have generally been prepared on the basis of appropriate design
criteria.
2.18     Equally as important as the above investments, is the reorganization
of PWC, which must continue to be carried out in parallel to the proposed
expansion of public water supply services.   Under  the Association  financed
engineering project (Credit S-21 YDR), management consultants had prepared a
new organizational structure and revised administrative procedures that PWC
has  already introduced  in the corporation.   The Greater Aden Water  Supply
Project  (Credit  1038-YDR)  also  provides  for  the  stationing  of  management
advisors during three years to assist in the operations of PWC.



-7-
The Sewerage Subsector
2.19     Collection and disposal of solid and liquid wastes  in PDRY are the
responsibility of the Local People's Councils whose activities are oriented
and coordinated by the Ministry of Local Administration .  Only five of the
eight towns forming Greater Aden and small areas of Al Mukalla are at present
sewered.  But sewerage charges are not at present levied in these towns and
areas.  The remaining population in the country uses septic tanks, dry pits
and other methods of night soil collection.  The situation of liquid waste and
excreta disposal is difficult in Seivun and the Government is actively review-
ing possible ways to remedy it.  In this regard, the Ministry of Local Admin-
istration has  financed various  studies  of sewerage  in the Governorates  of
Aden, Abyan and Hadramawt.   These  studies were carried  out by consultants,
since the Ministry has no technical capability.
2.20     A study of the sewerage subsector organization, financed by the Arab
Fund for Economic and Social Development, is also being carried out by con-
sultants.  The Association has reviewed a draft of this study and is partici-
pating in the formulation of the final recommendations for the setting up of
the sewerage subsector, since they might affect the organization and finan-
cial viability of the water supply sector and PWC.
2.21     Given the severely limited financial resources, provision of adequate
water supply should remain a first priority. As the country's overall economy
improves, the installation of more reliable waste disposal systems in the ag-
glomerations supplied with water should be planned progressively.  Meanwhile,
the Government, with the assistance of IDA under a Health Development Project,
is expanding its current health education programs to teach the communities
the proper ways to use and maintain the existing systems. Wastewaters in Aden
and Al Mukalla are now discharged without treatment in the harbors.   But in
view of the shortage of water resources, their reuse in agriculture in Aden
was recommended in the studies included in the Wadi Tuban Agricultural Project
(Credit 768-YDR).
IDA's Objectives for the Sector
2.22     One of the Association's major objectives in formulating the proposed
proiect is to increase awareness among other international aid agencies of the
sector's needs and to encourage them to provide badly needed financial assist-
ance to PDRY for the sector's development. There is no doubt that the Govern-
ment has neither the financial means nor the technical capability to carry out
by itself such development. The proposed project would assist the Government
in achieving its priority objective of providing decent water supply services
in the nation's third largest town and a large number of neighboring villages,
and of reducing the risks of epidemics in this agglomeration.
2.23     Through its first lending to the sector, IDA had initially assisted
in the carrying out of studies in other populated areas of the country.   On
the basis of the results of these studies, various projects have been designed
for the expansion of public water supply in these areas and are now under
execution.   There is further the need to start providing smaller towns and



rural areas with better infrastructure, such as water supply and sanitation,
so as to raise the level of public health in the country.   To this end the
proposed project includes the preparation of water supply projects in other
parts of the country, for which the Government could request the financing of
international lenders (paras. 5.09 - 5.11).
III. THE PROJECT AREA
General Features
3.01     Seiyun with a current population of 25,000 is PDRY's third largest
town and the capital of the Hadramawt Sub-Governorate.  The Wadi Hadramawt is
located in the central part of the country and contains some of the rare cul-
tivable land found in PDRY. It is made up of a principal and several tributa-
ry valleys surrounded by plateaux where the mean annual rainfall varies bet-
ween 100 mm and 300 mm. The average annual rainfall in the main valley itself
does not, however, exceed 50mm.  The catchment area of the Wadi Hadramawt is
about  90,000  km2.   Most  of  the  groundwater  in  the  wadi  originates  from
floods running from the limestone plateaux which overlook the valleys. Infil-
tration in the valleys is estimated to account for less than one-third of the
existing groundwater resources in the wadi (para. 5.02).
3.02     The majority  of  the  population  in  the  eastern part  of  the  Wadi
Hadramawt lives in a narrow strip of land which extends for about 45 kms along
the floor of the wadi and includes towns and villages from Seiyun in the east
to Al Qatn in the we-st.  The current population in this part is estimated at
72,000 growing at an average annual rate of 2.6%.  There are two local admin-
istrative centers, one in Seiyun and the other in Al Qatn.  In spite of the
hot  climate  (temperatures  rise  to about 400C.  in  summer  and  300C.  during
winter)  and the high relative humidity  (between 40 and 60%),  the Hadramawt
Wadi is perhaps one of the most livable places in PDRY.
3.03     Annex 2 shows the counties and villages included in the project.  In
addition to Seiyun, the project area covers the settlements of Maryamah,
Madudah, Taris, Al Ghurfah, Qrayo and Al Hawtah, and the villages in the lower
Wadi Bin Ali (see Map 16899).  This area is known as the Seiyun Conurbation.
The current population in this conurbation is estimated at 50,000.
Existing Water Supply
3.04     The present potable water supply in the wadi is derived from shallow
hand-dug wells which terminate in Quaternary deposits. The groundwater in the
shallow aquifer is of poor quality, especially with regard to the salinity
content which is high in some parts of the wadi.  As no comprehensive sani-
tation system exists in the wadi, many soak pits and latrines have been built
close to production wells, thus contaminating the groundwater which is not
desinfected prior to its distribution.   Coliform bacteria were  found to be
present  in all  samples  taken during  the project preparation.   The  shallow
aquifer has a very limited capacity and as a result of the high number of
wells in service, 6/ the water level has continued to fall by about one meter
6/ In 1978 some 2,990 shallow wells were in use for agricultural and domestic
water supply purposes.



- 9 -
per annum. To maintain their normal operation and capacity, the wells have to
be deepened regularly at high costs (see para. 8.05).
3.05     The existing distribution system is a rather sketchy network which
has simply evolved around the different shallow wells and which conveys water
through small pipelines to various groups of customers.  The diameter of the
trunk mains generally does not exceed 2 inches, though some short lengths of 3
and 4 inches are found in the Seiyun area.
Present Organization
3.06     Potable water in the Wadi Hadramawt is actually provided by a large
number of small private enterprises which were established in the thirties,
prior to the country's independence.  There are 13 enterprises in the project
area and seven of them are in Seiyun.  Most of these enterprises own one or
two wells and in most cases serve no more than 500 customers. There is consi-
derable overlapping of supply areas, and very often the water companies seemed
uncertain of the extent of their area.   Their production capacity  is very
limited and as a result, many public entities like hospitals, schools, hotels,
have their own water supply.  Many residential complexes also use individual
shallow wells for their supply.
Waste Disposal System
3.07     There is at present no comprehensive sanitation system for the dispo-
sal of liquid waste and excreta in the project area.  New developments gene-
rally are equipped with septic tanks which drain into soak pits.  Meanwhile,
night soil collection is provided in the more densely populated and old areas
where septic tanks cannot be built.   Some individual houses use latrines for
the disposal of excreta, and nearby small wadis for their wastewaters.
3.08     Like in other towns in PDRY,  the existing sanitation facilities in
Seiyun are very defective and are in addition a source of contamination of the
shallow wells which provide water supply in the towns and villages in the pro-
ject. Severe public health hazards exist in these places as a consequence of
the uncontrolled discharge of wastewaters.  To reduce the risks of contamina-
tion and the possible outbreak of epidemic diseases, a more comprehensive
sanitation system should be put in place.  A feasibility study of such a sys-
tem was prepared by consultants  in 1978.   The proposed project  includes  a
review of this study and the carrying out of detailed design of a sanitation
system in Seiyun (see para 5.11).
IV. DEMAND AND MARKET ASPECTS
Water Production and Consumption
4.01     The current water production in the project area is not precisely
known, as master meters are not installed on the transmission pipelines coming
from the wells.  To estimate water consumption in the towns and villages in-
cluded in the project, some areas of the distribution network were isolated
during the project preparation and meters installed on the feeding pipelines.



- 10 -
On the basis of these trials, it was found that the per capita daily consump-
tion in Seiyun in 1981 averaged 45 liters; in Madudah 30 liters; in Al Ghurfa
and Al Hawtah 42 liters.  In general, water demand in the project area is now
suppressed by shortcomings in the existing sources, storage and distribution
arrangements.   Consequently,  the present consumption cannot be considered a
reliable guide to predict future water demand in the project area.
4.02     Since water production is not metered, the percentage of unaccounted
for water in the system could not be determined. Based on a visual inspection
of the network and the level of maintenance of water supply facilities in
PDRY, it has been estimated, however, that not more than 30% of the water pro-
duced is unaccounted for in the system.  The current percentage of population
served by direct service lines varies from 38% in Taris to 95% in Al Hawtah;
it is about 61% in Seiyun.  The remaining population is served by individual
shallow wells.   There are at present 5,600  service  lines,  each serving on
average 6 persons.
4.03     Water consumed in the Seiyun Conurbation is essentially for domestic
and public uses.   Water  for commercial  and industrial uses  accounts  for a
small percentage of the total consumption.
Population Forecast
4.04     Estimated mid-year populations in the Seiyun Conurbation in the years
1986 through 2010 are given in Annex 3 and illustrated in Annex 4.  They are
based on the only census ever made in PDRY in 1973.  In that year the popula-
tion in the town of Seiyun was recorded to be 19,240 and in the conurbation
39,283. The Central Board of Statistics in PDRY estimates that the overall
population is growing at an average rate of 2.6% per annum.   The rate is
assumed to be higher in larger towns such as Seiyun, due to population migra-
tion to these towns. An annual growth rate of 3.1% was applied for Seiyun and
2.6% for the towns of Madudah, Taris, Al Ghurfa and Al Hawtah. As the nation-
al growth rate was used for the project area, the resulting annual growth rate
for the remaining villages in the project area was assumed to be about 1.6%.
These rates are considered realistic and indicate a moderate population growth
in the project area.
4.05     Based on the foregoing assumptions, the population in Seiyun is fore-
cast to reach 38,000 by 1995 and 60,000 by 2010.  In the Seiyun Conurbation
(or the project area), it is expected to reach 70,000 by 1995 and 103,000 by
2010. The 1973 census recorded a total of 6,621 households in the project
area, i.e. an average occupancy of 5.9 persons per household.  This occupancy
level is assumed to remain unchanged during the next twenty-five years.
Except in Seiyun where the current population density is about 150 inhabitants
per hectare, the density in the remaining project area is low and is not ex-
pected to reach its saturation level by the end of the project design period.
The population in some areas of Seiyun is considered already saturated.



- 11 -
Forecast of Consumption
4.06     Because of the current water shortage in the Seiyun Conurbation,  it
has not been possible  to use the present water  sales  to estimate  the per
capita consumption and future water requirements, as the present potential
demand largely exceeds the available supply.   The estimated per capita con-
sumption is based on the limited measurement of water consumption carried out
during the project preparation (para 4.01), and on actual water demand in
other similar parts of the country, such as Al Mukalla and Al Mansura.   The
ensuing per capita consumption in 1986 has been used for the towns and vil-
lages included in the project:
79 liters/day in Seiyun
64 liters/day in Taris and Al Ghurfah
57 liters/dav in Madudah, Qrayo and Al Hawtah.
4.07     The above per capita consumption includes all types of demand (domes-
tic, public, commercial and industrial). And as increased economic activities
are expected to take place in the Hadramawt valley, the per capita daily
allowances have been assumed to increase progressively in the future and by
1995 to reach 93 liters in Seiyun, 80 liters in Taris and Al Ghurfah and
68 liters in Madudah, Qrayo and Al Hawtah.
4.08     A forecast of water consumption in the project area up to the year
2010 is shown in Annex 3 and illustrated in Annex 4.  It is projected that by
1986 (the first operational year of the proposed project) close to 70% of the
population would be directly connected  to the distribution network  through
some 6,460 service lines.  The average water production in that year is ex-
pected to be about 973,000 m3 and water sales to amount to 681,000 m3.
About 30% of the water production would be unaccounted for.  By 1995 (the end
of the design period of the first construction stage) water production and
sales would more  than double  to  2 Mm3  and  1.5  Mm3  respectively.   Mean-
while, the percentage of unaccounted for water is forecast to be not more than
25% by 1995.   This  is  attainable  since  the water  supply  system would be
entirely new and because PWC would implement an efficient leak detection and
maintenance program similar to the one now in place in Aden.
4.09     As the maximum day demand is assumed to be 50% higher than the yearly
average demand, the required production in 1995 should be about 98 liters/
second or the average production of five boreholes.  The distribution network
is designed to carry, during the peak hour consumption, 2.5 times the annual
average daily demand, with a minimum residual pressure of 14 psi.
V. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
Project Genesis and Concept
5.01     The proposed project originated  from studies undertaken by PWC  in
1978 to improve the potable water supply situation in the Hadramawt valley.
These studies were carried out by consultants, in parallel with those financed
by the Association for the preparation of water supply master plans for Aden
and Al Mukalla, the first and second largest towns in PDRY.  Seiyun, the most



- 12 -
important community in the Wadi Hadramawt, is PDRY's third largest town. With
this exception, the rest of the area is considered rural and agriculture is
the main economic activity in the valley. The consultants submitted in 1978 a
water supply master plan for the Hadramawt Valley, which would mainly consist
of tapping new water sources and installing new primary distribution systems
in the towns and villages along the Wadi.  This plan provided the basis for
the formulation of a small water supply component included in the Wadi
Hadramawt Agricultural Development Project  (Credit 615-YDR).   This component
is now is operation and provides water to a group of villages in the western
part of the Wadi (between Shibam and Al Qatn)(see Map No. 16899).  The pro-
posed project aims at improving water supply services in the eastern part of
the Wadi (between Shibam and Seiyun).
5.02     The Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Development Project also included a
study of groundwater resources in the wadi and their use to cover domestic and
agricultural water needs in this area.  The study which was completed at the
end of 1980 confirmed the existence of a deep aquifer in the cretaceous sand-
stones and alluvial deposits.   An hydrogeological  investigation also showed
that while groundwater in the upper part of the deposits is often brackish, it
is of good quality in the deep aquifer.  The study further concluded that the
current rate of groundwater extraction from the deep aquifer could double up
to 300 Mm3/year over the next fifty years, without any major drop in the
water levels.   Most  of the water would  be used  in agriculture;  less  than
15 Mm3/year would be required for domestic supply.  A second Wadi Hadramawt
Agricultural Project is currently under preparation.
5.03     The upper aquifer which lies into conglomerates is separated from the
deep sandstone aquifer by a thin layer of clay which protects it from contami-
nation by saline water of the shallow formation.  The alluvial deposits are
more than 100-meter deep in some areas of the valley.  The water salinity in
the ~uperficial alluvial deposits is very high, about 4g/liter. In the center
of the valley, fresh groundwater is found about 200 meters below the ground
surface; near the mountains it is somewhat closer to the surface, about 150
meters.
5.04     Based  on  the  results  and  recommendations  of  the  hydrogeological
study, an exploratory well was drilled by PWC and the water supply master plan
reviewed and updated in 1982.  The main thrust of this plan is that the shal-
low aquifer, because of its high salinity and poor bacteriological quality
(para. 3.04), cannot continue to be used for urban supply in the wadi, and
that water from the deep aquifer should be tapped for that purpose.  Annex 3
shows the expected evolution of water demand in the Seiyun Conurbation during
the next twenty-five years.  The first stage of the master plan provides for
an average production of 2 Mm3/year from boreholes, to cover water demand up
to 1995. The primary water network, however, would be built at once to carry
the expected flows up to the year 2010.  A second construction stage of the
production facilities would be undertaken by 1995.
Objectives of the Project
5.05     The proposed project has many objectives.  The first one is to set up
larger centralized production facilities made up of deep boreholes reaching



- 15 -
Cost Estimates
5.12     The estimated total cost of the project is YD 5.5 million (US $16.1
million), with a foreign exchange component of YD 4.8 million (US $13.8 mil-
lion), or 86.0% of the total cost. Detailed estimates and annual costs of the
project are given in Annexes 8 and 9. Scheduled annual investments in Parts A
and B of the project are shown in Annex 10.  A summary of the cost estimates
follows:
Item            Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign Total   %
------(YD '000)------  ------(UsT'000)-----
Water Production Facilities       79       475      554    229   1,378  1,607  11.9
Primary Distribution Works
in Seiyun                    121       773     894    350   2,241  2,591  19.2
Supply of Water Meters             2        65       67      5      190    195   1.4
Operational Equipment             -         69       69      1      200    201   1.5
Water Supply Studies in
Greater Aden                   5        98     103      15      285    300   2.2
Water Supply Studies in
Tarim Area                     6       109     115      17      315    332   2.5
Sanitation Studies in Seiyun       5        95      100     15      275    290   2.1
Training and Technical
Assistance                     3        19      22      10       54     64   0.5
Distribution Works in
Other Towns                  278    1,445   1,723    804   4,190  4,994  37.0
Branch Office, Warehouse,
Workshop                      35       138     173    100       400    500   3.7
Sub-Total                    534    3,286   3,820  1,546   9,528 11,074  82.0
Physical Contingencies            80       493      573    232   1,429  1,661  12.3
Construction Supervision          37       230      267    108      667    775   5.7
Total Cost (End 1982 Prices)   651    4,009   4,660  1,886  11,624 13,510 100.0
Price Escalation                 125       751      876    364   2,176  2,540  18.8
Total Project Cost
(Current Prices)             776    4,760   5,536  2,250  13,800 16,050 118.8
%                14.0      86.0   100.0   14.0    86.0  100.0
5.13     The cost estimates are based on price levels prevailing at the end of
1982 and detailed bills of quantities of the proposed works.  A 15% allowance
for physical contingencies was added to the base costs.  Construction supervi-
sion of the works would account for about 7% of the base costs.  To provide
for price escalation during the project execution, foreign expenditures are
projected to increase annually by 8% in 1983, 7.5% in 1984, 7% in 1985, and 6%
thereafter; local expenditures are assumed to increase by 7.5% in 1983 and
1984, and by 6% thereafter  The estimated price increases appear appropriate
for this type of project in PDRY and are derived from experience obtained from
ongoing contracts for civil works and equipment and materials supply.  Price



- 16 -
escalation would account for about 19% of the base costs plus physical contin-
gencies and construction supervision. The base costs include no provision for
customs duties and taxes which are not applicable to development projects in
PDRY, such as the proposed water supply project.
5.14     The project provides for an estimated 218 man-months of consultant
services for the water supply studies in Greater Aden and Tarim, the sanita-
tion studies in Seiyun, management assistance to PWC, staff training and cons-
truction supervision of the proposed facilities.  The estimated cost of these
services, including salaries, costs, fees, international travel and subsist-
ence, is US $ 2.3 million, i.e. an average of US $10,400 per man-month.
Project Execution
5.15     The project would be implemented by PWC, with the assistance of en-
gineering consultants, during the years 1983 through 1987.  Tender documents
for the project are currently being prepared by consultants.  Construction of
the wells included in Part A of the project would start in early 1984.
Bidding of the remaining items of Part A would be advertised in early 1984.
Meanwhile, the execution of Part B would only begin during the second half of
1984, as its execution requires a shorter period of time. A bar chart for the
project execution is presented in Annex 11.  It was discussed during negotia-
tions and adopted for the project.  PWC also agreed to review and update it
regularly, as part of its quarterly progress reports to the Association.
5.16     PWC would be responsible for the execution of the project.  However,
the corporation's staff is already absorbed by many programs of the United
Nations Water Decade and would not be able by itself to implement the proposed
project.  Consequently, PWC would need the assistance of qualified engineering
experts to carry out the proposed studies and to supervise the construction of
the works.  These experts will be retained in accordance with the Bank Group
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants, and under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, not later than January 1, 1984 for
construction supervision, and January 1, 1985 for the water supply and the
sanitation  studies.    Assurances   to  this  effect  were  obtained  during
negotiations. The project is expected to be completed by the end of 1987.
Project Financing
5.17     An IDA credit of US $7.0 million to finance the foreign exchange cost
of Part A of the project is proposed.  The Arab Fund for Economic and Social
Development has expressed interest in financing the foreign exchange cost of
Part B or US $6.8 million and is expected to process a loan for the project by
the end of 1983.  This timing is not however expected to result in delaying
the execution of Part B, which is scheduled to start only during the second
half of 1984.  As the proposed IDA credit would probably become effective by
the end of the first quarter of 1984, the Association should take the lead in
the project financing and start with the execution of Part A.
5.18     Part A may be considered as an independent sub-project,  though the
wellfield which is included in this part would have the capacity required to



- 17 -
meet demands in the towns and villages included in Part B.  Therefore,  the
construction of Part B should be carried out as scheduled, so that the full
benefits of the project may be achieved beginning in 1988.  However, in view
of its shorter execution period, financing arrangements for Part B may be
completed as late as in early 1984. On its side the Government is prepared to
finance the local costs of the project or US $2.3 million equivalent.  On this
basis, the financing plan for the project is as follows;
------US $ Thousands------
Part A     Part B    Total          %
Requirements:
Local              902     1,348       2,250       14.0
Foreign          7,000     6,800      13,800      86.0
Total            7,902     8,148      16,050      100.0
Financed by:
Government         902     1,348       2,250       14.0
Arab Fund          -       6,800       6,800      42.4
IDA              7,000       -         7,000      43.6
Total        7,902      8,148      16,050     100.0
5.19     The Association has been assured that the Government will finance the
execution of Part B, should the proposed financing of the Arab Fund not
materialize, or should any default or suspension of the Arab Fund loan occur
later. Moreover, if the project is to be completed at greater costs than the
estimates, the Government has agreed to meet the overruns. The financing plan
was discussed and agreed at negotiations.
Onlending Arrangements
5.20     The proposed credit would be made to the Government which would on-
lend it to PWC at an interest rate of 8% for a term of 20 years including a
5-year grace period. The Arab Fund loan is expected to be made to PWC at an
interest rate of 4%, with a repayment period similar to that of the
Association.  The foreign exchange risk on the credit would be borne by the
Government.  It is estimated that the resulting average rate of the overall
lending for the project would be about 6% per annum 7/. The Government finan-
cing of the local costs of US $2.3 million equivalent would be passed on to
PWC as equity.   The execution of a subsidiary  loan agreement between the
Government and PWC, with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed IDA credit.
7/ The current interest rate for long-term loans in PDRY for development
projects is 3%.



- 18 -
Procurement
5.21     Annex 12 gives a list of contracts to be placed for the project.
Apart from the operational equipment and the studies, Part A of the project
will be implemented through two contracts which will be awarded following
international competitive bidding, in accordance with the Bank Group's Guide-
lines for Procurement.   A first contract would be  for construction of the
wells. A second would be for the supply and installation of equipment (pumps,
motor drives, generators, etc.) and primary pipelines, and civil works cons-
truction in Seiyun.  The experience gained in procurement under the Greater
Aden Water Supply Project (Credit 1038-YDR) has shown that very competitive
bids can be obtained when equipment supply and civil works installation are
combined under the same contract.
5.22     Materials  and operational equipment,  costing less  than US  $50,000
each and aggregating to not more than US $650,000, would be procured through
quotations  from at least four suppliers from eligible countries.  With  the
exception of sand and aggregate for concrete, all materials and equipment for
the project would be imported.   Foreign contractors are expected to win the
two main contracts defined in para. 5.21.
5.23     Except for construction supervision, items of Part B of the project
would be procured in accordance with the co-financier's guidelines for pro-
curement. The contract for construction supervision would be jointly financed
by IDA and the co-financier, as the latter's selection rules of engineering
consultants are compatible with those of the Bank Group. Such joint financing
would also ensure a more efficient coordination of the project execution
through a single consulting firm. The Association and the co-financier would
each finance 50% of the foreign expenditures on this contract, reflecting the
pro rata construction costs to be financed respectively by the Association and
the co-financier.
Disbursement
5.24     Annex 13 shows the allocation of the proceeds of the IDA credit and
the proposed Arab Fund loan according to various types of expenditures.  The
credit would be disbursed, for items in Part A of the project, against;   (i)
the full CIF cost of all direct imports; (ii) 100% of foreign expenditures for
civil works construction, which may include the supply of materials and equip-
ment; (iii) 100% of foreign expenditures for staff training and consulting
services other than construction supervision; and (iv) 50% of foreign expendi-
tures for construction supervision.  It is suggested that the proceeds of the
Arab Fund loan for Part B be disbursed against: (a) the full CIF cost of all
direct imports; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures for civil works construction,
which may include the supply of materials and equipment; and (c) 50% of
foreign expenditures for construction supervision.
5.25     Estimated quarterly disbursements of the IDA credit and other funds
are given in Annex 14.  They are based on the very advanced state of the
project preparation and disbursement records for water supply projects in
PDRY, which so far have been good.  The proposed establishment of a revolving



- 19 --
fund in PDRY for the project (para. 5.26) should further ensure that the
credit is promptly disbursed for works executed under the project.
5.26     In order to enable PWC to quickly implement its staff training pro-
gram and to make prompt payments to suppliers and consultants for the project,
the Association has agreed to advance regularly funds for the establishment of
a Revolving Fund in PDRY to cover these payments.   This Fund will be main-
tained at the National Bank of Yemen for a maximum amount of US$ 280,000 which
is expected to cover IDA's share of eligible expenditures for the supply of
equipment and materials and consultants' services over a period of three
months. The Fund will be maintained in US dollars and replenished by reim-
bursement applications from PWC in US dollars.  Applications with appropriate
supporting documentation should be submitted when approximately half the
maximum allowed amount in the Fund has been spent.  The establishment of a
special account for the Fund at the National Bank of Yemen would be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed IDA credit.
5.27     The closing date of the proposed credit would be December 31, 1988.
VI. THE BENEFICIARY
Background
6.01     The beneficiary of the proposed  credit would be the Public Water
Corporation (PWC), created in 1970 by Public Law No. 19 to replace the Aden
Water Authority. This law was amended in 1981 by Ministerial Decision No. 16,
setting out a new organizational structure for PWC.  The Aden Water Authority
was, during the British protectorate, in charge of public water supply ser-
vices which existed only in Greater Aden and Al Mukalla.   PWC  is now the
national water supply authority responsible for providing potable water supply
services in PDRY.  It is owned by the Government and operates under the tutel-
age of the Minister of Local Administration;   but it has the status of an
autonomous public enterprise and functions as a commercial undertaking.   PWC
presently provides water supply services in ten towns and is planning, under
the proposed project, to expand its services to Seiyun and the surrounding
villages.  Most of PWC's activities presently take place in the Greater Aden
area where the corporation collects more than 80 percent of its revenues.
Past Performance
6.02     PWC was the executing agent of the Water Supply Engineering and Tech-
nical Assistance Project (Credit S-21 YDR)81 and is the beneficiary of a
credit of US $13.2 million (Credit 1038-YDR) made in 1980 to finance water
supply works in Greater Aden and of another credit of US$3.5 million (Credit
1159-YDR) made in 1981 to cover the cost of a rehabilitation program of water
supply facilities in Al Mukalla. PWC has successfully implemented the Water
8/ A completion report regarding this project was issued on January 24, 1983.



- 20 -
Supply Engineering and Technical Assistance Project. All the studies included
in this project have been completed and have already resulted in the formula-
tion of construction projects in Greater Aden and Al Mukalla, which are cur-
rently under execution.  In addition, as part of the engineering project, a
review of PWC's administrative and financial policies was undertaken and a new
organizational  structure was  proposed  for PWC.   This  structure  is now  in
place.  PWC has also taken the necessary actions to strengthen its financial
position and has increased the tariffs in Greater Aden and Al Mukalla, with a
view to making the corporation financially viable.
6.03     Meanwhile,  the  execution  of  the  projects  in Greater Aden and Al
Mukalla (Credits 1038-and 1159-YDR) has continued to progress quite satisfact-
orily. Procurement under the first has been completed and the construction of
the proposed facilities is now advancing rapidly.  Under both projects,  im-
provement works were executed in the two cities and as a result, water supply
services have greatly improved in these communities.  So far, there have been
no delays in disbursing the credit amounts.
Management and Organization
6.04     A Board of eight members,  chaired by the General Manager,  manages
PWC's operations.  All the members of the Board are employees of PWC, repre-
senting various activities and organizations inside the company. They are, in
addition to the General Manager, the Planning Director, the Chief Engineer,
the Financial Manager, the Personnel Director, the Chief of Operations, the
Secretary of the Union and the representative of the Party's base organization
in PWC.  The Board exercises  collective management of the company and all
important decisions covering staff appointments and promotions, contract
awards,  approval  of  operational  budgets  and  investment  programs,  must  be
discussed and approved by it.
6.05     The Government exercises much control over the Corporation's activi-
ties. In addition to the appointment of the General Manager and other depart-
mental chiefs, the Government reviews and approves PWC's operational budgets,
investment  programs,  tariff  levels  and  borrowings.   Further,  any  contract
award for civil works exceeding YD 50,000 (US$ 145,000) must be approved by
the Government's Higher Tender Board Committee, which is made up of the
Minister of Planning, the Minister of Construction and the Minister of
Finance.  The Tender Board does not intervene in the award of contracts for
equipment and material  supply.   The General Manager  is responsible  for the
day-to-day operations.  The present General Manager  is very influential and
decisions on most of the managerial problems are taken without delay.
6.06     Annex 15 shows PWC's current organization,  which was proposed under
the engineering project (Credit S-21 YDR) and implemented by Ministerial
Decision No.  16-1981.   The new organizational  structure  is very effective,
with the lines of command and responsibility clearly defined.  As a result,
the decision making process in the corporation is now quicker and the staff
seems to enjoy their work and to be comfortable in their positions.
6.07     A proposed organization for the PWC operating branch in Seiyun is
shown in Annex 16.  At the start of the project preparation in 1979, PWC had
set up an office in Seiyun to control water supply operations in the wadi and



- 21 -
to provide technical and financial assistance to the existing private water
enterprises  (para.  3.06).   This  office  which  is  already  reasonably  well
staffed would be further strengthened to enable it to supervise the project
implementation and later on to become the operating branch of PWC.  At least
one advisor would be permanently attached to the office.   Parallel  to the
construction supervision of the project, the administrative capacity of the
office would be built up to monitor the current water supply operations of the
private enterprises and to take over these operations by the time the proposed
project becomes  operational  in 1986.   During negotiations,  assurances  were
obtained that PWC will strengthen the staff of the project implementation unit
in Seiyun, with the appointment of two engineers and two qualified account-
ants, and that it will adopt an administrative structure for the Seiyun
Branch, acceptable to the Association
Staffing
6.08     At the time of appraisal, PWC had a total of 800 employees, of whom
660 were in Greater Aden and the remainder in the provincial branches.  This
corresponds to a ratio of about 12 employees per 1,000 connections and is con-
sidered too high, compared to the ratio of 8 normally found in well-operated
utilities. PWC's management concurs with this judgment and intends to reduce
by attrition the number of staff.  Salaries offered by PWC are better than
those of other corporations, Government offices and industries and should not
constitute a constraint for hiring competent staff, when necessary.
6.09     A program of technical assistance, and more particularly the appoint-
ment of advisors to PWC, is being financed under the Greater Aden Project
(Credit 1038-YDR). So far, the execution of the program has progressed satis-
factorily, as two technical advisors have already been appointed and six more
are expected to arrive soon in Aden. In addition, the Association has recent-
ly approved the appointment of two more advisors.  A civil engineer has also
been appointed at the Al Mukalla Branch to be responsible for the project
construction  supervision.   All  in all,  the  staff  capability  has  improved
tremendously since the Greater Aden Project began in 1980, and is expected to
be strengthened further with the assistance of the advisors.
Staff Training
6.10     The Greater Aden Water Supply Project also contains a staff training
program whose implementation has made good progress during the last three
years. In 1980 four staff went to technical institutes in foreign countries
to specialize in mechanical engineering, water administration, water distribu-
tion systems and planning;  three more went in 1982.  At the same time PWC's
senior management staff participated in various seminars and specialized
courses on water supply techniques. In addition, since 1980 a dozen employees
each year have been trained in local institutes in basic fields of management,
such as administration, accounting, electrical engineering, etc. More import-
antly, PWC has been organizing various training courses for groups of employ-
ees, which have resulted in high motivation of the staff in their work.   In
all, 93 staff were trained in different fields in 1982, six of them outside
PDRY. In particular, some thirty staff participated in a two-week training
course on pump operations and maintenance, which was successfully completed in
November 1982.



- 22 -
6.11     The execution of the training program has  progressed  in 1983  and
would continue in 1984 and 1985.  More staff would be sent to specialized
courses abroad and more local seminars would be organized for a larger number
of employees.  At the same time in-service training by the advisors and con-
sultants would continue to be provided to the staff during the implementation
of the projects.  Particular attention would be paid to the training needs of
the staff of the Seiyun Branch. To ensure that those needs would be fulfilled
within the overall training program of the corporation, funds have been
allocated under the proposed project to cover the training of the Seiyun
staff. It has been estimated that this training and technical assistance to
the staff would cost US$90,000, with a foreign exchange component of
US$76,000, which has been included in the proposed IDA credit.
Billing and Collection
6.12     PWC bills  its customers on a rotating basis  every  two months  for
water consumed and a fixed charge for meter rental and connection mainte-
nance.   Billing  is  processed  on  an  electronic  accounting  machine  and  is
up-to-date.   However,  collection  from  private  customers  and  Government
agencies recently has been slow.  As of March 30, 1983, accounts receivable
from both classes of consumers stood at three and a half months of water
sales. To lower receivables from both private customers and Government agen-
cies, PWC has decided to disconnect unpaid services more rapidly. Consequent-
ly, PWC expects receivables from private customers and Government agencies, by
the end of 1983, not to exceed 60 and 90 days of billing respectively.
Accounting Practices and Procedures
6.13     PWC uses an accrual  accounting  system which has  considerably  im-
proved since the execution of the Greater Aden Project started in 1980, though
there is still room for more reforms.  The corporation's books and financial
statements are now more accurate, as all past investments have been recorded
in the books, and assets revalued in 1981.  The stores have also been reorga-
nized and the inventory levels, now processed on an electronic accounting
machine, are more reliable.  The Al Mukalla branch maintains its own accounts
and processes all its financial transactions.  However,  the incorporation of
these accounts in the corporation's consolidated statements has been made with
some delays.  The expectation is that, with the assistance of the advisors,
PWC will be able to further redress its accounting practices, so that a still
clearer picture of the corporation's financial situation can be obtained at
any time.
Audit
6.14     The existing agreements between the Association and PWC (1038-YDR and
1159-YDR) provide for the audit by the Central Board of Audit (a state audit
agency) of PWC's annual financial statements and the submission to the
Association of this Board's report within six months after the end of a fiscal
year.  The quality of the audit reports has been acceptable.   The reports,
however, have been submitted to the Association with some delays.  Normally
the Central Board of Audit can start the annual audit only after PWC finalizes
its financial accounts for a preceding year, which by law must take place by



- 23 -
April 30 of a current year or four months after the end of a fiscal year.  The
audit itself is usually carried out in three months and an additional month is
needed for PWC to review the audit report before it can be submitted to the
Association.  Based on the time required for accomplishing the audit of PWC's
financial statements, it was agreed during negotiations that, beginning with
1983, PWC's annual financial statements will be submitted to the Association
not later than five months after the end of a fiscal year, and the audit
report on the statements, not later than nine months after the end of a fiscal
year.
Insurance
6.15     PWC  at  present  carries  insurance  covering  only  motor  vehicles.
Management is expected, however, by the end of 1983, to acquire appropriate
insurance coverage for fire damages and third party liability, as stipulated
in the Project Agreements  1038-YDR and 1159-YDR.  All civil works contracts
for the project will be insured by the National Insurance Company against
accidents, civil liability, fire and property damages; this company is the
only legal insurer in PDRY.  Foreign supplies for the project will be insured
by outside private companies against loss and damage in shipment.
Taxes
6.16     Under existing legislation, PWC's net income is taxed at a rate of
37.5 percent.  Law No.  11-1973 also specifies that 75 percent of PWC's net
profits after tax should be transferred to the government treasury and the
remainder retained for the corporation's capital investments.
VII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Past and Present Financial Position
7.01     PWC's consolidated income statements, cash flow statements and bal-
ance sheets for the years 1980 through 1989, are shown in Annexes 17 through
19. The company's financial position has substantially improved since 1980.
After an operating deficit of about US $0.3 million in 1980, PWC earned a net
income of US $1.1 million in 1981 and is expected to make a net profit of
US$ 0.6 million in 1982.  The average rate of return on its net revalued fixed
assets in operation was 21 percent in 1981 and 11 percent in 1982. Meanwhile,
its operating ratio decreased from 108 percent in 1980 to 85 percent in 1982.
Revenues
7.02     A great deal of the improvement in PWC's financial position stemmed
from higher revenues as a result of tariff increases in Greater Aden and Al
Mukalla. From January 1981 the average revenue in Greater Aden was increased
to  YD  0.128/m3   (US$0.37/m3)   from  YD  0.066/m3   (US$0.16/m3).    At   the
same time a progressive rate structure was introduced to provide a better dis-
tribution of the charges between different classes of customers.  The finan-
cial impact of the rate increase on low-income consumers, whose monthly water
usage does not generally exceed 10 m3, has been minimal as their water bills



- 24 -
have been raised by not more than 20 percent. On the other hand, much higher
tariffs are now charged to industrial, public and commercial consumers whose
water bills have  in some  instances  more  than  tripled.   But  they  are  the
largest consumers and the increased tariffs should induce them to restrict
their water usage.  From December 1982 the average revenue in Al Mukalla was
increased to YD 0.176/m3 (US$0.51/m3) from YD 0.142/m3 (US$0.41/m3).
7.03     Because of low water tariffs9/,  the financial situation of the wa-
ter supply enterprises in the Seiyun area is poor.  But at the same time the
quality of their services is bad, as the existing facilities are almost obso-
lete and major investments have to be made before more decent services can be
provided in the area.  In view of this situation, PWC has since 1979 estab-
lished a Project Unit in the Wadi Hadramawt, which has been providing finan-
cial assistance to the enterprises and assisting them in the day-to-day man-
agement of water supply operations in the wadi (para. 6.07).  This unit would
be strengthened and put in charge of the implementation of the project during
the period 1983-1986.   In addition, during the project execution,  this unit
would continue to collect information on the enterprises' customers and to
follow  their  billing  and  collection  operations.    At  the  end  of  the
construction period, the unit will take over the water supply operations and
services to customers in the project area.
7.04     Prior to the establishment of PWC, each town administered its water
supply system and applied its own tariffs.  PWC has maintained the different
tariff schedules and is proposing to implement in the Seiyun area, by the time
the project becomes operational in 1986, a progressive rate structure which
would take into account the levels of consumption and the customers' ability
to  pay.   To  achieve  economic  efficiency  it  is  further  proposed  that  the
average revenue be at least equal to the long-run average incremental cost of
water supply in the area, discounted at 10%.  This cost is estimated to be
YD 0.400/m3  (US$1.16/m3).   The  following  tariffs  would  be  applied  to  the
different classes of customers:
Usage Block                      Rate
Customer Class                  m3/month                    YD/m3(US$/m3)
Domestic                       First 4 m3                   0.200    0.58
Between 4m3 and 11 m3        0.400    1.16
Any Excess                   0.650    1.88
Public, Commercial,
Industrial               Any Volume                    0.650    1.88
Construction                   Any Volume                   0.800    2.32
7.05     PWC also  intends  to  institute  an  individual  connection  charge  of
YD 5.0 (US$l4.5) to cover the cost of installing a meter and of connecting to
the new network.  Overall the revenues in Seiyun would enable PWC to cover its
operating and maintenance costs in the area and part of the debt service con-
tracted for the project; the remainder would be covered by PWC from its gen-
eral revenues.
9/     Tn general the service lines are not metered and a flat rate of about
YD 0.600/month (US$l.74) is charged per service line.



- 25 -
7.06     Under  the  existing  agreements  for  the  Greater  Aden  Water  Supply
Project (1038-YDR) and the Al Mukalla Water Supply Rehabilitation Project
(1159-YDR), PWC is required, on a consolidated basis, and through charges for
its services, to secure revenues sufficient to cover not less than its oper-
ating and maintenance expenses, including depreciation, interest and (to the
extent not met by depreciation allowances) amortization of its debts.  Since
the formulation of this covenant in 1980, PWC has greatly strengthened its
financial situation and is now in a position to start contributing to its in-
vestment program from its own funds.  However, because of the rural character
of many of its systems and in order to keep the tariffs within acceptable
levels, it is recommended that the proportion of cash generation by PWC for
investment be maintained relatively low during the period 1984-1989.  Thus it
is proposed that PWC be required to generate, starting in 1984, funds from in-
ternal sources sufficient to cover, in addition to operating expenses (exclud-
ing depreciation), debt service and increase in working capital other than
cash, not less than 12% of the average estimated capital expenditures to be
incurred during each fiscal year and the following two fiscal years. Assuran-
ces to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
7.07     Furthermore, in order to achieve the level of cash generation set out
above, during negotiations PWC gave the Association assurances that before
November 30 of each fiscal year, starting in 1983, it will, on the basis of
forecasts satisfactory to the Association, review the adequacy of its tariffs
and if necessary adjust them in order to meet the required percentage of cash
generation for investment during the coming year, and will provide the
Association with a copy of such review and the decision concerning the adjust-
ment of the tariffs.  During negotiations assurances were also obtained from
the Government that it will authorize PWC to implement the tariffs required to
meet its financial obligations under the project.



- 26 -
Financing of PWC's Investment Program
7.08     The following sets out PWC's consolidated financing plan during the
disbursement period of the proposed credit (1983-1988):
Million
YD           US$ 10/
Application of Funds
Proposed Seiyun Project                5.6         16.0         17.7
Greater Aden Project                  10.5         30.5         33.1
Al Mukalla Project                     1.1          3.3          3.5
Other Investments                     14.5         42.0         45.7
Total Application               31.7         91.8        100.0
Sources of Funds
Internal Cash Generation               8.1         23.6         25.6
Increase in Working Capital           (1.1)        (3.3)        (3.5)
Less Debt Service                     (2.7)        (7.9)        (8.5)
Net Cash Generation                    4.3         12.4         13.6
Proposed IDA Credit                    2.4          7.0          7.6
Existing IDA Credit 1038-YDR           2.7          7.7          8.5
Existing IDA Credit 1159-YDR           0.9          2.6          2.8
Other Long-term Loans                  8.8         25.6         27.8
Total Borrowing                 14.8         42.9         46.7
Government Contribution               12.6         36.5         39.7
Total Sources                   31.7         91.8        100.0
7.09     The contemplated requirements  include YD 14.5 million (US$42.0 mil-
lion) of investments in water supply works other than those financed by IDA,
which are shown in Annex 1.  Under the proposed investment plan, the Govern-
ment would finance interest during construction totalling YD 2.4 million
10/ Based on a constant rate of exchange of US$ 1 = YD 0.345.



- 27 -
(US$7.0 million) on its on-lending to PWC of the IDA credits and other
external loans for the Greater Aden Project.   In all,  the Government would
finance about 39.7 percent of PWC's overall investments through an equity
contribution of YD 12.6 million (US$36.5 million), which is essential to keep
PWC's capital structure from becoming overweighted with debt.
Future Financial Performance
7.10     PWC's forecast financial statements in the years  1983 through 1989
are shown in Annexes 17 through 19.  The assumptions made in preparing these
statements are outlined in Annex 20.  The future financial performance of PWC
may  be  conveniently  analyzed  for  two  periods:   the  first  which  covers
1983-1985 and ends with the completion of two of the three IDA financed
projects, and during which period PWC has no debt service; and the second
covering the years 1986-89 when PWC starts servicing the debts incurred for
the Greater Aden Water Supply Project and the Al Mukalla Water Supply
Rehabilitation Project.
7.11     By increasing the current average tariff in accordance with the pro-
jected inflation rates, PWC should earn sufficient revenues during the first
period, to cover its consolidated operating expenses, any increase in working
capital and about 12% of its capital expenditures, and thus to meet the
proposed financial covenant.  On this basis its operating ratio would average
about 83 percent during that period.
7.12     In 1986 PWC will start servicing its debts and consequently will need
a larger increase of its tariffs in that year and the following ones.  Based
on the projected tariffs, PWC should be able to collect sufficient revenues,
during the period 1986-89, to cover its operating expenses, debt service, in-
crease in working capital, and about 14% of its capital expenditures.  As a
result of the larger revenues, its operating ratio would improve to reach
about 69 percent by  1989.   PWC's  debt/equity ratio would  fluctuate around
38:62 during the period 1986-89.   The debt service coverage would drop from
2.4 in 1986 to 1.7 in 1989.
7.13     Under the existing credit agreements, PWC is committed not to incur
any debt with a maturity greater than one year, without the Association's
concurrence, unless its net revenues at the time of incurrence of the debt,
before depreciation and interest, are at least 1.2 times the maximum future
annual debt service on the proposed debt and existing debts.  This commitment
has been maintained under the proposed project, with the change that now PWC
is allowed to compare its projected revenues with the future debt service.
Monitoring System
7.14     Annex 22 shows the technical and financial indicators which would be
monitored during  the project execution.   This Annex also gives  the values
forecast for these indicators in the years 1983 through 1989.  These values
were  discussed  and  agreed  upon  during  negotiations.   Agreement  was  also
reached with PWC that it will:  (i) report the evolution of the indicators to
the Association on a quarterly basis during the project execution, and on an
annual basis for five years after the project completion; and (ii) carry out



- 28 -
any reasonable remedial action suggested by the Association, aiming at meeting
the target values of the indicators.
7.15     During negotiations,  assurances were  secured  that PWC,  within  six
months following the closing date of the credit, will prepare and submit to
the Association a completion report on the execution and initial operation of
the project, its costs and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the
performance and fulfillment by the Government, the Association and PWC of
their respective obligations under the Credit Agreement and the Project Agree-
ment, and the accomplishment of the objectives of the Association's credit.
VIII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Objectives of the Proposed Investments
8.01     The inadequacy of the existing water supply system in Greater Seiyun
was emphasized in Chapter III where it was shown that not only are the volumes
of water served insufficient, but also the water quality is unfit for human
consumption.  The present per capita consumption is estimated to be less than
45 liters/day, which is not enough to cover basic domestic needs for proper
sanitary cleanliness.   Also the chemical and bacteriological  quality of the
water distributed is poor.  In addition to the high content of chlorides, the
nitrate values are just below the level above which the risk of methaemoglo-
binaemia is high for infants.  The nitrate levels suggest possible contamina-
tion from sewage soakaways.  In general, in all water samples taken from the
existing hand-dug wells during the project preparation, total coliform counts
were high, and coliform bacteria, stemming from bacteriological contamination
by seepage from sewage soakaways, were found to be present in the samples.
8.02     Thus, the need to provide more acceptable water supply services, and
the health and environmental benefits  that would result  from such improve-
ments, are obvious.  The proposed works would increase water production to the
levels required to meet basic domestic water needs and to develop commerical
and industrial activities in the Seiyun area.  It is assumed that by 1995 the
per capita consumption would increase to 85 liters/day, from the present 45
liters/day.   To reduce  the present high  incidence of waterborne  infectious
diseases, the deep aquifer would be tapped for domestic consumption in the
town of Seiyun and surrounding villages.  This aquifer is less susceptible to
being polluted by sewage seepage.
8.03     The proposed studies are all needed and urgent.  They are required to
enable PWC to define the composition and cost of the second construction stage
of water supply for Greater Aden.   They will also outline  the works  to be
undertaken in the Tarim area to provide this last unserved part of the Wadi
Hadramawt with potable water supply services.  As water supply is increased in
the Seiyun area, the need to dispose of the wastewaters properly, will arise.
This problem will be addressed in the sanitation studies included in the pro-
ject.
8.04     The proposed project was scaled down to put it in line with other
government priorities.  Yet it would meet the most urgent water supply needs



- 29 -
in  this  important  community.   The  technical  criteria used  in the project
design  were  approved  by  the  Association.   The  proposed  project  is  the
least-cost alternative to provide the area with increased water supply.
Justification
8.05     The  overriding  justification  for  the  proposed  project  is  the
necessity for providing urgently needed potable water supply in the country's
third largest agglomeration.  The benefits that would derive from the proposed
project fall in two categories.  First, there are those which individual con-
sumers would derive from the water supply that would become available and
which would translate in water sales by PWC.  These sales represent a minimum
measure of the direct benefits of the project.   The proposed project would
allow many individual consumers to realize substantial cost savings by
obviating expenditures they now have to incur to get water at all.  Households
now  incur  large  expenditures   for  drilling  private  wells   1l/  (about
US $5,000 per well) and for operating and maintaining the wells (about
US $18/well/month), which would become unnecessary after the project has
become operational in 1986.
8.06     Second, there would be many benefits to society at large from the
proposed increased and improved water supply. The many health and environment
benefits that the proposed project would generate, such as reduced expenses
for health care, lower infant mortality, workers' higher productivity, im-
proved learning by children who would have to devote less time for carrying
water, housewives' higher productivity, should produce a high economic return
on the proposed investments.  Those kinds of benefits are, however, difficult
to quantify and a meaningful economic rate of return cannot be calculated. In
addition, as these external benefits escape traditional economic measure, the
willingness to pay for adequate water supply services and hence the consumers'
surplus becomes difficult to assess.
8.07     The economic justification is clearly implied by the fact that the
proposed average tariff of YD 0.400/m3 is equal to the long-run average in-
cremental cost of water supply in Seiyun, based on 10% discount rate, which is
considered appropriate.   Because of the progressive tariff structure,  large
consumers would pay more than the average incremental cost for their water.
Therefore the proposed project is economically as well as socially justified.
Since differential water rates would be applied for different levels of con-
sumption, it is estimated that the lowest income customers would spend not
more than 3 percent of their income for water supply services, well below the
usually accepted norm of 5 percent.
Environmental Impact of the Project
8.08     The unavailability of potable water in adequate quantity has created
deplorable sanitary conditions in PDRY.  The Government is striving hard to
improve the public health situation by equipping the country's major population
11/ It is estimated that each private well serves on average seven families.



- 30 -
centers with safe water supply and waste disposal systems, and by introducing
integrated primary health care services, which IDA is supporting  through a
Health Development Project, which was approved by the Executive Directors on
May 31, 1983.  The proposed project would help the Government meet this objec-
tive in the Seiyun Conurbation, the country's third largest agglomeration. As
a result of the project, sanitary conditions in this area would substantially
improve and the overall morbidity and mortality rates should decrease.
8.09     The proposed project  includes  feasibility studies  to determine how
wastewaters in the Seiyun area can be eliminated safely.  It is expected that
by the time the water supply works are completed, the implementation of im-
proved sanitation systems would be under way. Meanwhile, the Government, with
the assistance of IDA under the Health Development Project, will expand its
educational programs on preventive measures against infectious waterborne
diseases, and will also formulate regulations for better operation and
maintenance of the existing individual wastewater disposal units.
Institution Building
8.10     The first steps in reorganizing and strengthening PWC were taken with
the Greater Aden and Al Mukalla Water Supply Projects (Credits 1038-YDR and
1159-YDR), which included management assistance to PWC and training of its
staff.  Those two projects also took the necessary actions towards the fin-
ancial viability of PWC by recommending the implementation of adequate tariffs
in these two cities.   These tariffs have been implemented and PWC is now a
financially viable institution.
8.11     The proposed project is conceived to pursue further the above objec-
tive by assisting PWC in its efforts to expand its services to smaller commu-
nities in the country.  For the moment, PWC provides water supply services in
only ten towns.  The limited number of staff and financial resources have so
far restricted PWC's ability to expand its systems more rapidly into the
country's rural areas.  The proposed project includes additional training of
the staff who would operate the PWC's Seiyun branch.
8.12     As previously stated in this report, the Government's objective is to
establish PWC as an effective national authority with the capability to effi-
ciently manage the sector.  Towards this end the Association's involvement in
the sector would certainly help in fostering the implementation of proper
policies and procedures that are necessary to accomplish the improvement and
expansion of public water supply in PDRY.
Risks
8.13     The proposed project presents no special risks.  With the assistance
of engineering consultants, PWC should be able to supervise the project execu-
tion properly. PWC has acquired experience in the implementation of the first
two projects (Credits 1038-YDR and 1159-YDR), which have been progressing very
satisfactorily.   Its supervision of the studies should also confront no prob-
lems, as the corporation has gained experience during the execution of the
Engineering Project (Credit S-21 YDR).  The implementation of the other pro-
iect items is not subject to any special risks.



- 31 -
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01     Agreement having been reached on the issues referred to in Chapters V
through VII, and subject to the conditions of effectiveness set forth in
paras. 5.20 and 5.26, the proposed project is suitable for an IDA Credit of
US$ 7.0 million to the Government of PDRY, which would onlend the proceeds of
the Credit to PWC for a term of 20 years including 5 years of grace.



-32-
ANNEX 1
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC O  YEMEN
SEIYUN REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PAST AND PROPOSED INVESTMENTS IN WATER SUPPLYI/
(YD Thousands)
Project
No.            Project Rame              196S-1978 2/   1979-19S1 3/   1982         1983      1984      1985    1982-19S5    1986        1987      1988    1989  1986-1989
1      Planning, Studies and Design           157              457          10        --       140       318          468        --       210       360      420        990
2      Aden System Improvements            1,122             1,382       1,561       200        --        --        1,761        --        --        --       --         --
3      Greater Aden Master Plan                --              301       2,302    4,900    4,637    1,050          12,889       500    1,600    1,700        650     4,450
4      Hawta/Waht                             132               44          --        --        --        --           --        --        --        --       --         --
5      Saber                                 250                50          --        --        --        --           --        --        --        --       --         --
6      Giaar Zingibar                         365               --          78        30        --        __          108        --        --        --                  --
7      Nisab                                 198                --          46        17        -_        -_           63        --        --        __       __         __
8      Al Mukalla System                      682              446         440       380       560       194        1,574    1,300    1,600    2,800   1,600          7,300
9      Ghail Shihir                          479                --          --        --        --        --           --        80        45        --       --        125
10     Shibam-Al Qatn Area                     90              270          83        --        --        --           83       110       120        80       85        395
il     Shibam-Seiyun-Tarim Area               --               112         190        __    1,610    3,048          4,848       780        98    1,360   1,162       3,400
12     Khala Dhala                            100               42          85        20        --        --          105        --        --        --       --         --
13     Gadeb                                   21               --           5        --        --        --            5        --        --        --       --         --
14     Ghaidah                                 85              279          55        --        --        --           55        --        --        --       --         --
15     Perin Island                            58               --          --        --        --        --           --        --        --        --       --         --
in     Ghail Bawair                           --               112          48        --        -_        __           48        80        --        --       --         80
17     Wadiya                                  72                           ----                            --                        --       --                        --
I8     Modiya                                  85              155         114        --        --        --          114        --        --            --              --
19     North Desert                           110               --          --        --        --        --           --        75        95        --       --        170
20     Chinese Assistance                    445                --          --        --        --        --           --        --        --        --       --         --
21     Rural Syntens                          109            1,032         225        50        --        --          275       290       300       400      400      1,390
22     As. Shihir                              --              209         192       300       200       170          862        --        --        --       --         --
23     Attaq                                   93              231         569       220        --        --          789        --        --        --       --         --
24     Hoabeelain                              --                6          20       106        82        --          208        --        --        --       --         --
25     F-rnhsh                                 --               16          29       175        33                    237        -- _  _  _    _  __ __
2e     Sougrah                                 --                9          27       189        --        --          216             --        --       --              --
27     Al Raidah                               --                7          22       221        60        --          303        --        --        --       --         --
28     Laboon                                  --               --          52       380       480       480        1,392        --        __        __       __         __
29     Alkod                                   --               --            9      146        80        --          235        --        --        --       --         --
30     Ghail Bin Uain                          --               --          20       181        65        --          266        --        --        --       --         --
31     Saihoot                                 --               --          22       225       145        97          489        --        --        --       --         --
32     Hadibo                                  --               --          37       157        56        --          250        --        --        --       --         --
33     Sukayah                                 --               --          66        --        --        --           66        --        --        --       --         --
34     Khor Omerah                             --               --          52        --        --        --           52        --        --        --       --         --
35     Sailat Hardabah                         --               --          96        --        --        --           96        --        --        --       --         --
36     Kiriah                                  --               --          89        --        --        --           89        --        --        --       --         --
37     Mokairaa                                --               --          --       200        --        --          200        --        --        --       --         --
38     Mohei Feef                              --               --          --        55        --        --           55        --        --        --       --         --
39     Di Radam                                --               --         144       155        57        __          356        --        --        __       __         __
40     Jawl Hagar                              --               --          --       174        --        --          174        --        --        --       --         --
41     Amed                                    --               --          --       146        --        --          146        --        --        -        --         --
42     Toor Al Bahs                            --               --           --      210       102        --          312        --        --        --       --         --
43     Shaab                                   --               --          --       221        --        --          221        --        --        --       --         --
44     Mahfed                                  --               --          --       195       137        --          332        --        --        --       -          --
45    .Jawadah                                                                       109        --                     109
46     Aryab                                   --               --           --      150        43        --          193        --        --        --       --         --
47     Other Assistance                       455               --          --        --        --        --           --       150       180       200      210        740
45     Wadi Tban                               --               67         -_                   --       _-             --       85        65        55       50        255
49     GRAND TOTAL                          5,108            5,227       6,688    9,512    8.487    5 357          30,044    3,450    4,313    6,955   4,577         19,295
5     Grand Total in 1,000 US$ I/        14,806            15,151      19,386   27,570   24,600   15.528          87.084    0         12.502   20.159  13,267    55,928
1/ Expresaed in correct pricea.
2/ Corresponds to the first three investment plans since independence.
37 Corresponda to the fourth investment plan.
4/ Based on a connrant rate of exchange of YD 1 = U09 2.9.



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SEIYUN REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
VILLAGES AND POPULATIONS IN THE PROJECT AREA
--------------Population--------------                                             Service      Production
Locality            1973        1982        1995         2010      Water Distribution Units            Lines        m3/day
1981         1981
SEIYUN 1/                    19,243     25,430      38,060       60,590      Seiyun System
Maryamah                        329         380         450          520     Hasat Al Pagia Water Company           469          77.7
Hawtat S Bint Ali               298         340        410          480      A Haawen Water Comapny                 553         105.4
Adideid                         108         120         150          180     Al Qarn National School                488           -
MADUDAH 1/                    1,695      2,140       3,000        4,440      Al Tawfig Water Company                362          53.2
Salileh                         114         130         160         180      Three Partners Water Company           330          42.7
Arch As-Suquair                 222         260         310         350      Abdula Al Amri Water Company           300           -
Ardh Al Oun                     516         590         710         820      Karama Okna Water Company              128           _
Husn Al Munaibari               381         440         520         610
Ardh Al Ala Bin Saed            289         330         400         460      Madudah Water Company                  304           -
Bohairah                        656         740        890        1,030
TARIS 1/                      1,344       1,700      2,380        3,520      Taris Water Corporation                231          43.8
Shuhuh                          576         660         790         920
Hush Al Awanza                  243         280        330          390
Hush Al Fass                    293         340        400          470
Makan Al Mahri                  338         390        460          540
Al Qarain                       181         210        250          290
As Som (Bin Hamman)             113         130         160          180
Al A'as                         167         190         230         270
AL GHURFA 1/                  2,562       3,240      4,540        6,700      Al Ghurfa Water Company                730         160.0
Babakr                          260         300        360          410
Ba Adjrah                       112         130         150          180
Al Mar Ei                        96         110         130          150
Al Baroi                        529         610         730          840
QRAYO 1/                        428        490         550          640      Qrayo Water Company                    157           -
Al Khyam                        232         270         320          370
Ba Amer                         120         140         160          190
De Ashah                        727         260         310          360
Husn Salamah                    429         490         590         680
AL HAWTAH 1/                  4,446       5,620       7,88       11,630      Al Hawtah Water Company              1,341         304.9
Diar Al Omar Bin Saeed           -           -           -            -      Hawtah Suttana Bint Ali                122           -
Sheib Ahmad                     298         340        410          480
Al Hawtat Sharqiah              265         300         360         420
Ba Rafaa                        542         620         750         860
Jerba Al Hemidan                227         260         310          360
A1 Hawi                          -           -           -            -
Al Masila                       214         250         290         340
Ba Maadan                       355         410        490           560
Djifil                          557         640         770          890
Al Gufl                         288         330         400         460
TOTAL              39,283      49,610      69,560      102,760                                           5,515            787.7
1/  Represents a county subdivision of the Hadramawt Governorate.



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SEIYUN REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
FORECAST OF POPULATION, NUMBER OF SERVICE LINES AND WATER DEMAND 1/
Ave. Water    Unaccounted-                              Required            Hlaximum
Total         Population   X of Population       Number of              Demand         for Water        Water Sales        Ave. Production    Day Demand
Year   Population 2/   Connected          Connected       Service Lines 2/    1,000 m3/year         x            1,000 m3/year          liters/sec.        liters/sec.
(1)       (2)             (3)        (4)= (3)x1OO              (5)                 (6)            (7)         (8)= (6)x(100-7)    (9) - (6)xi,000         (10) - (9)x1.5
-F2 -                                                                        100               86,400 x 365
1986     55,070           38,260            69.5               6,460                 973            30                 681                  30.9              46.4
1987     56,500           41,150            72.8               6,960               1,052            29                 747                 33.4               50.1
1988     57,920           44,130            76.2               7,450               1,156            28                 832                  36.7              55.1
1989     59,470           47,310            79.6               7,940               1,266            27                 924                 40.1               60.1
1990     61,010           50,490            82.8               8,490               1,381            26               1,022                 43.8               65.7
1991     62,620            53,830           86.0               9,040               1,497            25               1,123                 47.5               71.2
1992     64,270           57,180            89.0               9,590               1,644            25               1,233                  52.1              78.2
1993     65,960           60,810            92.2              10,190               1,800            25               1,350                  57.1              85.6
1994     67,680           63,710            94.1              10,670               1,930            25               1,448                 61.2               91.8
1995     69,480           66,760            96.1              11,170               2,060            25               1,545                 65.3               98.0        1
1996     71,290           68,660            96.3              11,480               2,182            25               1,637                  69.2             103.8        4'
1997     73,160           70,840            96.8              11,850               2,308            25               1,731                 73.2              109.8        1
1998     75,090            72,940           97.1              12,200               2,443            25               1,832                  77.5             116.2
1999     77,080            75,130           97.5              12,560               2,582            25               1,936                  81.9             122.8
2000     79,100            77,500           98.0              12,960               2,729            25               2,047                  86.5             129.8
2005     90,110            89,320           99.1              14,920               3,545            25               2,658                 112.4             168.6
2010    102,790           102,790          100.0              17,120               4,583            25               3,437                 145.3             218.0
1/ Was projected separately for the individual systems namely
Seiyun, Madudah, Taris, Al Ghurfa, Qrayo and Al Hawtah.
2/ Refer to mid-year populations and service lines.
z
tx



- 35  -                               ANNEX 4
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SEIYUN REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Population and Water Demand
100
TOTAL POPULATION IN GREATER SEIYUN 
0   50
- _          {    POPULATION CONNECTED
200                                                                          __
NEXT STAGE                                    /
MAXIMUM DAY DEMAND   /
0       
LIl 
z                                              10
PROPOSED PROJECT            10
LU100                                01
.000,                ~~~~AVERAGE DEMIAND
1985          1990          1995          2000           2005          2010
YEARS
Wold Bank-24588



- 36 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SEIYUN REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Detailed Design of the Upper Tuban
Wellfield and Transmission Pipeline to Bir Nasir
Background
1.       In  1978  the Government  of PDRY  appointed  consultants  to produce  a
long-term water management plan for the Wadi Tuban Delta with proposals for
meeting the irrigation requirements and increased water supply needs of the
non-agricultural sector.   The Tuban Delta is an alluvial  fan formed by the
Wadi Tuban on the coasta1 plain behind Aden.   The wadi drains a mountainous
catchment of over 5,000 km2 which  extends  in Yemen Arab  Republic.   Ground-
water in the delta is presently extensively used for urban supply and irriga-
tion in the plain.  Aden with a population of about 300,000 and by far the
largest city in PDRY is supplied with water by three wellfields located in the
Tuban Delta and known as Bir Nasir, Bir Ahmed and Sheikh Othman.
2.        Of the three wellfields the most  important  is Bir Nasir which sup-
plies about 12 Mm3/year to Aden.   However,  since 1962 groundwater  levels at
this wellfield have been falling by an average of one meter per year.  Because
the permeability of the Tuban Aquifer decreases with depth, increasing diffi-
culties are being experienced in obtaining acceptable yields from the Bir
Nasir wells.   In addition,  groundwater abstraction at Sheikh Othman needs to
be discontinued because of the poor quality of the water.   Meanwhile,  water
demands in the delta have continued to increase and new water sources need to
be tapped to meet the demands.
3.       As previously mentioned, a water management plan for Wadi Tuban was
issued in 1981.  The plan proposed inter alia the construction of a new well-
field in the upper part of the Tuban Delta to replace the Bir Nasir and Sheikh
Othman Wellfields, either at a site north-west of the village of Habil, or
along the existing main road north of Qurayshi, through Al Husseini Gardens
and Rhurad.   A  final decision regarding  the wellfield  site will  be  taken,
based on the results of a drilling program in the selected area of Wadi
Tuban.   The wellfield would have  a capacity of  10.5 Mm3/year  and would be
connected to the Bir Nasir facilities by a 16 km long gravity pipeline.
Together with other existing water sources, the proposed Lahej Wellfield is
expected to have sufficient capacity to meet potable water demands in Aden up
to the end of this century.
Scope of the Study
4.        The objective of the study is to prepare the detailed design of the
Upper  Tuban  Wellfield  and  the  transmission  pipeline  to  Bir  Nasir.   In



- 37-                                 ANNEX 5
Page 2
conjunction with the design, tender documents for the drilling and equipping
of the wells, and the supply and construction of the pipeline, will be pro-
duced to allow contracting for the works at a later stage.
Selection of Consultants
5.       To attain the above objective,  the Public Water Corporation  (PWC),
which is the national water supply authority, intends to appoint a consulting
firm experienced in the fields of groundwater exploration and water supply
works. On the basis of the present terms of reference, selected firms will be
requested to submit proposals for carrying out the requested design.
Data Collection and Review
6.       All existing relevant data, reports, maps and other information on
the proposed Upper Tuban Wellfield, will be made available to the Consultants,
who will review and reinterpret them.   The Consultants will  in particular
review the feasibility study of the wellfield to determine whether or not the
expected yield can be extracted without long-term adverse effects on the aqui-
fer. The Consultants will supervise the execution of the previously mentioned
drilling program at the two possible wellfield sites, and, based on the re-
sults of this program, will recommend a definite site for the proposed well-
field. The Consultants will further carry out a topographical survey of the
route which the pipeline would follow and which would be indicated by PWC.
Design of the Facilities
7.       Following their review of the feasibility report and the completion
of the drilling program, the Consultants will proceed with the detailed design
of the wellfield and the transmission pipeline.  The Consultants will first
produce a detailed construction plan of the boreholes, indicating the type and
diameter of casings and screens to be used for the wells. They will also sug-
gest the drilling method that should be employed and the sanitary protection
that should be put in place for the boreholes.
8.       The Consultants will prepare detailed plans,  sections and longitu-
dinal profiles of the pump houses, control room, shelter for a standby genera-
tor, and all other structures of the wellfield.  The Consultants will further
produce detailed layouts of the well header and connections and of the pipe-
line. They will in particular detail the pipeline connections with the exist-
ing facilities at Bir Nasir. A storage tank will be required at the wellfield
location.  The well header will discharge into this reservoir.  The Consult-
ants will produce a detailed design of the storage tank.
9.       The  wells  might  be  equipped  with  submersible  pumps,  for  which
electric power might be supplied at 415 V from the existing power lines north
of Lahej.  Standby generators would be provided to supply up to 75% of the
full power requirement.  The Consultants will set out the technical specifica-
tions for the mechanical and electrical equipment of the wellfield and will
indicate the types of pipe, which might be acceptable for the transmission
pipeline.



- 38 -                                ANNEX 5
Page 3
10.      The foregoing plans and drawings will be accompanied by a comprehen-
sive report describing the proposed wellfield and transmission pipeline.  To
facilitate the review and consultation of the report, a summary, in which the
main findings and conclusions will be outlined and discussed, will be inserted
at the beginning of the report.  All calculation notes will also be inserted
in the report.
11.      Once the design and plans have been completed, the Consultants will
prepare a detailed implementation schedule for the execution of the proposed
works.   The schedule should indicate the dates  and times required  for the
bidding, contract award, equipment manufacture and delivery, and civil works
construction of the proposed facilities.
Cost Estimates
12.      The Consultants will first discuss with PWC the unit costs that they
intend to use in preparing the project cost estimates.   They will determine
the total cost of the proposed works at the 1984 prices, specifying sepa-
rately a percentage of physical contingencies that should be added to the base
costs.  They will also forecast future price increases and based on the pro-
ject implementation schedule, will calculate the total project cost in current
prices.  Each item cost will be expressed into its local and foreign compo-
nents. The foreign part will include both direct expenses such as the import
of equipment,  and  indirect  expenses  such  as  the depreciation  of building
equipment.
Contract Documents
13.      PWC will advise the Consultants of the contract schedule it will use
to execute the proposed works.  The Consultants will then prepare and submit
bidding documents  for the scheduled groups of works.   The tender documents
will include particular and general conditions, general and technical specifi-
cations of the proposed works, forms of tender bond and performance bond,
bills of quantities, contract drawings, special instructions and notes, sche-
dules, etc.
Timetable and Reports
14.      The study is envisaged to be carried out in an elapsed time of not
more than 12 months. The Consultants will submit:
(i)    an inception report within 3 months of the start of the
study, summarizing initial findings after review of the
feasibility study and existing data, the drilling and pump
tests, recommending a specific site for the wellfield and
detailing a program of additional data collection, explora-
tion, boring and field work.   PWC will have one month to
review the report and pass its comments to the Consultants;



- 39 -                                ANNEX 5
Page 4
(ii)    progress  reports  at  quarterly  intervals,  describing  work
performed during the quarter and the work program for the
next quarter, and summarizing findings;
(iii)    at  the end of the  12th month  following  the  start  of  the
study, a final report dealing with the detailed design of
the wellfield  and  transmission  pipeline.   A draft  of  the
final report will be submitted for PWC review at least two
months before its scheduled release date.   PWC should give
the Consultants its comments within one month of receipt of
the report; and
(iv)    draft tender documents at the end of the 10th month after
the start of the study.  PWC will have one month to review
the documents and pass its comments to the Consultants. The
documents in their final form will be submitted by the end
of the assignment.
15.      The  inception report  and  progress  reports  are  to be  submitted  in
twenty (20) copies, and the final report and bidding documents in fifty (50)
copies.
Proposals
16.      Proposals  in 5 copies  in the English  language  should be submitted
by                            to  the  Public  Water  Corporation  (PWC),  Crater,
Aden, PDRY.
17.      Proposals should contain, inter alia:
(a)      a description of the consulting firm (or firms) and its areas of
specialism;
(b)      a description of relevant assignments previously carried out by
the firm;
(c)      an explanation of the way  in which  the consultants  propose  to
approach the assignment, including any comment they may wish to
make on the terms of reference or any modifications they may wish
to propose in the interest of better achieving the objectives of
the assignment;
(d)      a brief description of any  special  methodology  to be  employed
(for example, use of computers);
(e)      a staffing chart for the assignment,  showing each specialist to
be employed and indicating the nature and duration of his
involvement (distinguishing time in PDRY from time at the home
office);



-40-                               ANNEX 5
Page 5
(f)      an explanation  of how supervision of  the assignment  is  to be
maintained by the firm's principals;
(g)      curricula vitae of key personnel nominated for the assignment; and
(h)      a statement of any special facilities the Consultants may require
in carrying out the assignment.
18.      Proposals will be judged on technical merit and fees.  The Consult-
ants should indicate in their offers any assistance that should be provided to
them, such as accommodation, local transportation and other facilities.



- 41 -                                 ANNEX  6
Page 1
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SEIYUN REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Terms of Reference for the Carrying out of Feasibility
Studies and Detailed Design of Potable Water Supply in Tarim
Study Area
1.       The study area is located in Wadi Hadramawt in the Hadramawt Gover-
norate and extends over 25 kms eastwards from Seiyun to Tarim, the second
largest town after Seiyun in the Wadi Hadramawt.   Within this area there can
be defined four groups of towns and villages: Tarim and nearby localities;
Ghurfa and the surrounding villages; Tarba and the immediate villages; and Bor
and nearby villages.  The total population in the study area, according to the
1973 census, was 36,900. It is presently estimated at 46,500.
2.        The average altitude in the study area is about 630 meters MSL along
the Wadi floor and about 900 meters MSL in the jawl.  An arid climate prevails
in the area, with temperatures ranging between 300 and 150 C in winter,
and  between  440  and  280  C  in  summer.   Agriculture  is  the  main  economic
activicy.
Existing Water Supply
3.       Water supply is presently provided by various water companies which
were established in the sixties.   They obtain their supply from open shallow
wells.  The water quality in Tarim and Tarba is good.  It is brackish in the
Bor and Ghurfa area, which is in the center of the wadi where the shallow
groundwater is brackish.  The Tarim Water Company is the largest and presently
serves about 28,700 persons in Tarim and nearby villages (Husn Floga, Al
Ramla, Al Jeheil, Al Rahba, Al Fejeir and Dammon), through 3630 metered house
connections.   Its water sales in 1981 amounted to 88.8 x 106 Imp.  gallons.
Recently two boreholes have been drilled for the company and one of them is
now in operation. The Tarim Company is facing a lot of difficulties, because
of shortage of water production and the obsolescence of its facilities.
4.        The water supply systems  in the other locations  (Tarba, Ghurfah and
Bor)  are more  rudimentary.   The  supply  is  extracted  from  shallow hand-dug
wells equipped with diesel driven pumps.  The distribution network itself has
evolved haphazardly without proper design; it includes long galvanised iron
pipelines which are now obsolete and should be replaced as soon as possible.
5.       The Public Water Corporation (PWC) has  recently completed  the con-
struction of new water supply facilities for the Shibam/Al Qatn area and is
now in the process of implementing new water works for the Seiyun/Shibam



- 42-                                  ANNEX 6
Page 2
area. The latter project is scheduled to be completed by 1986. Some agricuL-
tural projects are also under construction in the Wadi.  Also recently a new
power station has been put into operation in the Wadi Hadramawt.   The study
area is linked by a paved road to Al Mukalla and by regular air traffic to Al
Mukalla and Aden.
Scope of Duties
6.       The objective of the study is to produce a feasible scheme of potable
water  supply  in Wadi Hadramawt  east  of Seiyun  from  the  town of  Tarba  to
Tarim.  The feasibility study is to cover water supply needs up to the year
2010.  Also it is required to carry out a detailed design study of the first
construction phase of the scheme.
Selection of ConsulLants
7.       To attain the above objective a consulting engineering firm experi-
enced in the field of groundwater exploration and water supply works, will be
appointed.   On the basis of the present  terms of reference,  selected  firms
will be requested to submit proposals for carrying out the proposed study.
PREPARATION OF THE FEASIBILITY STUDY
Data Collection and Survey
8.       All  existing  relevant  data,  reports,  maps  and  other  information
regarding population, hydrology, geology, groundwater resources and land use
in the study area will be made available to the Consultants who will review
and reinterpret these data and reports. The Consultants will carry out a desk
study of all the data submitted to them by the Public Water Corporation
(PWC). For the purposes of the study, throughout the assignment period, the
Consultants will maintain full liaison with other national authorities con-
cerned by the studies, such as the Ministry of Planning, the Ministry of
Agriculture and Agrarian Reform, the Ministry of Housing, the Ministry of
Industry, the Ministry of Local Administration, and other offices in the Wadi
Hadramawt, so that particular attention is given to local requirements and
circumstances in formulating the requested scheme.
9.       The Consultants  will  undertake  limited  field  surveys  of  potential
sites for wellfields,  transmission mains, reservoirs, etc.  As part of these
surveys, sufficient bench marks will be established to be used later on for
the setting out of the works at the construction stage.
Existing Facilities
10.      An inventory of the existing facilities  in the study area, princi-
pally the water sources, trunk mains and storage, will be provided to the
Consultants by PWC.  The Consultants are to report on the physical condition
of these installations and make recommendations on how they may be incorpora-
ted, either permanently or only temporarily, into any proposed system.



- 43 -                               ANNEX 6
Page 3
Hydrogeological Investigation
II.      The  Consultants  will  review  all  existing  relevant  hydrogeological
data, especially those provided by the Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian
Reform, with particular attention to the deep sandstone aquifer.   They will
recommend any exploratory work necessary to augment the knowledge of the
groundwater aquifer and to calculate its yield.  They will supervise the dril-
ling and testing of proposed exploratory wells.  A water sampling program in
existing wells and boreholes should be undertaken to determine the characte-
ristics of the quifer, as well as the physical, chemical and bacteriological
quality of the groundwater.
Design Parameters
12.      The Consultants will recommend the design parameters to be used in
the preparation of the water supply scheme and the detailed design of the pro-
posed facilities, with water quality related to the permissible limits recom-
mended by the World Health Organization.   On the basis of data provided by
PWC, the Consultants will undertake a study of the population distribution in
the project area and will forecast future population growth and patterns in
the area.
Feasible Alternatives
13.      The Consultants will  investigate all possible alternatives  for the
water supply scheme.  They will review the technical and financial merits of
each of these alternatives on the basis of their capital and operating and
maintenance costs, and will carry out an economic comparison of them.  This
comparison will be made using discount rates varying from 6% to 12%.  Finally,
they will recommend the selection of a specific alternative giving to PWC the
reasons for such a choice.
Feasibility Report
14.      The recommended scheme will be illustrated in maps at the scale of
1/25,000 and of 1/10,000 and in plans with the necessary profiles.  The plans
will be accompanied by a comprehensive report describing the proposed water
supply system  and the design parameters  used in carrying out the studies.
All the basic calculations will be presented in the report.   To  facilitate
the review and consultation of the report, a summary, in which the main find-
ings and conclusions will be outlined and discussed, will be inserted at the
beginning of the report.
FIRST CONSTRUCTION STAGE
Detailed Study
15.      Following PWC's approval of the feasibility report,  the Consultants
will proceed with the detailed design of the first implementation phase of the
scheme. The Consultants will precise the design period of the first phase and
will prepare detailed projections of water demand and sales during that
period. For that purpose the design parameters recommended in the feasibility



- 44                                  ANNEX 6
Page 4
study and approved by PWC will be used for the projections.  A forecast of the
number of house connections will also be made, if possible, separately for do-
mestic, public, commercial and industrial consumption.
16.      Once  the water  demand  has  been  calculated,  the  Consultants  will
proceed with the detailed design of the water production facilities, reser-
voirs, pumping stations and other structures, that would be required to meet
the demand.  The Consultants will prepare detailed plans, sections and longi-
tudinal profiles of the above works.  The Consultants will at the same time
produce a detailed layout of the water transmission system and distribution
network. The transmission pipelines should have sufficient capacity to convey
the maximum day demand. Conditions in the network should be analyzed by com-
puter and determined for the following extreme situations:
i) peak hour demand; and
ii) minimum hour demand and a fire conflagration occuring at the
same time.
For both situations the residual pressures in the network should be satis-
factory and in conformity with the design parameters established during the
feasibility study.   The Consultants  will  submit  the  computer  printouts  to
justify their design of the distribution network.
17.      The Consultants will describe the arrangement  type  that should be
adopted for the secondary distribution network.   They will specify the dia-
meter of the secondary pipes and the distance between the pipelines.   They
will also in particular determine what part of the existing systems can be
recuperated  and  utilized  in  the  proposed  network.   The  location  of  fire
hydrants, valves and any other special equipment will be shown as part of the
distribution network arrangement.
18.      Once the design and plans have been completed, the Consultants will
prepare a detailed implementation schedule for the execution of the proposed
works.  The schedule should indicate the dates and delays for the bidding,
contract award, equipment manufacture and delivery, and civil works construc-
tion of the proposed facilities.  Based on this schedule the Consultants will
later determine the necessary annual investments during the project implemen-
tation period.
Cost Estimates
19.      The Consultants will first discuss with PWC the price schedule that
they intend to use in preparing the project cost estimates.  They will deter-
mine the total cost of the proposed works at the 1984 prices, specifying sepa-
rately a percentage of physical contingencies that should be added to the base
costs.  They will also forecast future price increases and based on the pro-
ject implementation schedule, will calculate the total project cost in current
prices.  Each item cost will be expressed into its local and foreign compo-
nents.  The foreign part will include both direct expenses such as the im-
port of equipment, and indirect expenses such as the depreciation of building
equipment.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
Contract Documents
20.      PWC will advise the Consultants of the contract schedule it will use
to execute the proposed works.   The Consultants will then prepare and sumbit
bidding documents  for the scheduled groups of works.   The tender documents
will include particular and general conditions, general and technical specifi-
cations of the proposed works, forms of tender bond and performance bond,
bills of quantities, contract drawings, special instructions and notes, sche-
dules, etc.
Administrative/Financial Study
21.      The Consultants are requested to suggest  the organization that PWC
should put in place to manage the proposed water supply system in Tarim.  The
Consultants will also specify the staff required for the Tarim organization.
Then assuming that the system will become operational in 1990, the Consultants
will calculate the operating and maintenance costs of the proposed works in
Tarim.  These costs will include staff salaries, energy and fuel, administra-
tive  and  maintenance  expenses,  depreciation,  interest,  taxes,  etc.   The
Consultants will then determine what are the revenues and tariff levels
required to cover the operating and maintenance costs.   In addition to water
sales, the Consultants should consider, as revenues sources, the installation
of new house connections, meter rent, a fee for connection maintenance, and a
special connection fee for new customers.
22.      The Consultants should thoroughly examine and evaluate the following:
(i) the extent to which internally generated funds would cover the
operating expenses including debt service (interest and loan
amortization);
(ii)  the extent to which internally generated funds after payment
of debt service, would finance capital expenditures in the
Tarim area.
(iii) the means of recovering the cost of supplies delivered free,
if any;
(iv)  the economic efficiency of the  levels  and  structure  of the
proposed tariffs in terms of their reflection of the estimated
long-run marginal cost of water supply in the Tarim area;
(v) the extent of cost recovery from the beneficiaries as measured
by:
(a) the internal financial return comparing the revenues to
be derived in the area, to the investment costs;
(b)   the  annual  financial  rate  of  return  which  the  PWC
Branch would realize comparing its net operating income
before interest to the average net revalued fixed assets in
service in the area;
(vi)  the effect (if any) of the proposed tariffs on the forecast of
water sales.



- 46 -                                 ANNEX 6
Page 6
23.       The Consultants may develop alternative tariff proposals  for consi-
deration by PWC. Complete financial projections, including income statements,
balance sheets, and statements of sources and application of funds,should be
prepared for the recommended alternative.
Plans and Reports
24.      Photomosaics  at the scale of 1:25,000 of the study area are  to be
prepared from old photographs.  Photo enlargements at the scale of 1:5,000 of
existing air photographs of the villages and towns in the study area may also
be prepared.   A contour plan at  the scale of  1:2,000 will be  prepared  for
Tarim Town.  Any additional survey work required will be carried out by PWC
under the Consultants' supervision.
25.      The Consultants will  illustrate  the proposed works  on maps  at the
scale of 1:5,000 and on the contour plan at the scale of 1;2,000 for the Tarim
area.  The Consultants will prepare detailed plans, sections and longitudinal
profiles of all structures to be build during the first construction stage.
The foregoing plans will be accompanied by a self-contained report describing
the proposed regional system in the Tarim area and presenting the assumptions
made  in designing  the  proposed  facilities.   All  calculation  notes  will  be
inserted in the report.   The plans should be sufficiently detailed to allow
satisfactory evaluation of the works to be specified in the bidding documents.
Timetable and Reports
26.      The study is envisaged to be carried out in an elapsed time of not
more than 18 months. The Consultants will submit:
(a)    progress reports at quarterly intervals,  describing work per-
formed during a quarter and the work program for the next
quarter, and summarizing findings;
(b)    an inception report within 3 months of the start of the study,
summarizing initial findings after review of existing data,
detailing  the  program  of  data  collection,  exploration  and
field work and dealing with the feasibility of improving pot-
able water supply in the study area.  PWC will have 15 days to
review the report and pass its comments to the Consultants;
(c)    a draft of the feasibility report within 7 months of the start
of the study. PWC's comments on this report should be made to
the Consultants within one month of its submission;
(d)    at the end of the 16th month following the start of the study,
a final report incorporating all the findings and dealing with
the detailed design of the works included in the first con-
struction stage.  A draft of the final report will be submit-
ted for PWC review at least two months before its scheduled
release date.
(e)    draft tender documents at the end of the 16th month after the
start of the study.   PWC will have one month  to review  the
documents  and  pass  its  comments  to  the  Consultants.   The



- 47 -                              ANNEX 6
Page 7
documents in their final form will be submitted by the end of
the 18th month.
27.       The feasibility report,  final report and tender documents are to be
submitted in fifty (50) copies, and the inception report and progress reports
in twenty (20) copies.
Proposals
28.      Proposals  in 5 copies  in the English  language  should be submitted
by                            to  the  Public  Water  Corporation  (PWC),  Crater,
Aden, PDRY.
29.       Proposals should contain, inter alia:
(i)      a description of the consulting firm (or firms) and its areas of
specialism;
(ii)      a description of relevant assignments previously carried out by
the firm;
(iii)       an explanation of  the way in which  the Consultants  propose  to
approach the assignment, including any comment they may wish to
make on the terms of reference or any modifications they may wish
to propose in the interest of better achieving the objectives of
the assignment;
(iv)      a brief description of any  special methodology  to be  employed
(for example, use of computers);
(v)      a staffing chart for the assignment,  showing each  specialist  to
be employed and indicating the nature and duration of his in-
volvement (distinguishing time in PDRY from time at the home
office);
(vi)      an explanation  of how  supervision  of  the  assignment  is  to be
maintained by the firm's principals;
(vii)       curricula vitae of key personnel nominated for the assignment; and
(viii)       a statement of any special facilities the Consultants may require
in carrying out the assignment.
30.       Proposals will be judged on technical merit and fees.   The Consult-
ants should indicate in their offers any assistance that should be provided to
them, such as accommodation, local transportation and other facilities.



-48-                                  ANNEX 6
Page 8
VILLAGES INCLUDED IN THE STUDY AREA
Name                                          1973 Population
Tarba                                              1,243
Al Wady                                              600
Saheil Qebli                                         803
Saheil Shargi                                       691
Diar Al ghargeb                                      807
Sharma and Gadra                                     786
Diar Motrag etc                                      388
Bor                                                  769
Shamekh                                              297
Bir Al Madini                                        164
Al Ssheil                                            613
Al Ryeeda                                            229
Al Rakhya                                             90
Zaher                                                 24
Al Hawi                                               20
Muqbul                                                48
Al Ghurfa                                            862
Al Masila                                            450
Balal                                                855
Al Sawi                                              150
Yash'ar                                               90
Al adeen                                              48
Tarim                                             17,094
Al Ramla                                             246
Al Eis                                               534
Husn flooga                                          349
Dammon                                            2,213
Al Fjeir                                             433
Al Jeheil                                             35
Thibi                                              1,294
Diar Al Yamani                                       198
Husn Al Ezz                                           97
Al Sweiri                                          1,763
Al Reidha                                            443
Diar Al Qasir                                        241
Al Gooz                                              324
Al Kooda                                             385
Khubaya                                              238
Meshta                                               399
Rogha                                                384
Total         36,897



,  -                               ANNEX 7
Page 1
PEOE ,s DEMiOCP.IC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
S-E-I2N,UN REGIONA TWATER SUPPLY PROJECT
TermFs    feence for Detailed Sanitation
Studfes in Seiyun
Background
1.       Seiyun with a cuirent population of 25,000 is PDRY's third largest
town and the capital of the Hadramawt Sub-Governorate.  The town is presently
supplied with groundwater extracted from shallow hand-dug wells which termin-
ate in Quaternary deposits.  The groundwater quality in these wells is poor,
especially with regard to its high salinity content. In addition, as the ave-
rage annual rainfall in the main wadi does not exceed 50 smm, the shallow aqui-
fer has a relatively low yield wi-ich is not sufficient to meet both potable
and agricultural water demands in the wadi.   Consequently,  the Public Water
Corporation (PWC), which is thl  nasional water supply authority, is currently
building a new water supply system which will tap the deep aquifer as a new
water source.
2.       At present, Seiyun is not eqaipped with sewerage.  However, nmost of
the recently built properties have septic tank and soak pit systems which
generally function quite satisfactcrily.  In the old sections of the town, few
houses have waterborne sewerage arrangements.  Many of them have sullage water
disposal  arrangements  with night  soil  collection  of excreta.   The  sullage
water is disposed of into soak pits adjacent to the properties.
'3       in view of the lack of effective sewerage in Seiyun, PWC in 1977 com-
missioneed a feasibility study for the installation of a sewer network and
sewage treatment in Seiy,/un.  This study was carried out by consultants and a
final report w;as issued in January 1979.
Scope of the Study7
4.       The objert ivi -Hr *he -.-eqnasted studies  is to update  the existing
Seiyu n Sewerage  laster P-.-: an-.l to make new proposals to PWC concerning the
collection and disposal  :c sewage  in Seiyun,  with a view to reducing the
previously proposed investe.ita and installing a sanitation system more appro-
priate to the environeen-calm and economic conditions in Seiyun.  In addition,
once the proposals have been accepred by PWC, it is intended to proceed with
the detailed design of the first phase development of the adopted sanitation
scheme for Seiyun.



- 50 -                                A,-izk
Page 2
Selection of Consultants
5.       To attain the above objective,  PWC intends  to appoint a consults- i
engineering firm experienced in the field of sewerage and sanitation works.
On the basis rf the present terms of reference, selected firms will be re-
quested to submit proposals for carrying out the proposed study.
Liaison with Local Authorities
6.       Throughout  the  assignment,  the  Consultants  should  maintain  full
liaison with the authorities concerned by the study such as the Ministries of
Local Administration, Agriculture and Agrarian Reform, Planning, Health,
Housing, Industry, and the administration in the Wadi Hadramawt, so that par-
ticular attention is given to local requirements and circumstances in formu-
lating the proposals.
Data Collection and Survey
7.       All existing relevant data,  reports,  maps  and other  information on
hydrology, geology and land use in Seiyun, will be made available to the
Consultants who will review and reinterpret these data and reports in relation
to the proposed sanitation studies.   The Consultants will undertake a general
survey of the study area to determine suitable locations for treating waste-
waters generated in the town of  Seiyun.   They will  further  investigate  the
existence of arab lands close to the town and the possibility of using treated
sewage to irrigate them.  The Consultants will also carry out a topographical
survey of the old and densely populated areas of the city, where the installa-
tion of a sewer network might be the most convenient way to dispose of waste-
waters.   During the survey,  sufficient bench marks are to be established  to
assist later in the setting out of the works at the construction stage.   A
preliminary soil boring program should be executed in the above areas and the
selected sites for a treatment plant, to determine the mechanical character-
istics of the soils.
Proposed Sanitation System
8. Following their review of the existing Seiyun Sewerage Master Plan Study,
the Consultants will produce and submit an inception report in which they will
make specific proposals for the implementation of an appropriate sanitation
system  in Seiyun.   The proposals  may  include  different  types  of  system  in
different areas of the town, the main objective being to introduce economic
but functional methods of sewage disposal.   The Consultants will also propose
appropriate methods for the treatment of the wastewaters and the disposal of
the treated sewage.



- 51 -                                ANNEX 7
Page 3
Design of the Selected Scheme
9.       Following PWC's approval  of the  inception report,  the Consultants
will proceed with the detailed design of the works included in the proposed
sanitation scheme.  The Consultants will produce detailed plans, sections and
longitudial profiles of the sewers, special structures, pumping stations and
treatment works. In case that individual systems are recommended for certain
areas,  the Consultants will prepare a typical  layout of these systems.   A
general layout of the sanitation scheme will be illustrated in maps at the
scale of l:2000. The plans will be accompanied by a comprehensive report des-
cribing the proposed sanitation works and the design parameters used in sizing
the sewers and other facilities. To facilitate the review and consultation of
the report, a summary, in which the main findings and conclusions will be out-
lined and discussed, will be inserted at the beginning of the report.  All
calculation notes will also be inserted in the report.
10.      Once the design and plans have been completed,  the Consultants will
prepare a detailed implementation schedule for the execution of the proposed
works.   The schedule should indicate the dates  and times required  for the
bidding, contract award, equipment manufacture and delivery, and civil works
construction of the proposed facilities. Based on this schedule, the Consult-
ants will later determine the necessary annual investments during the project
implementation period.
Cost Estimates
11.      The Consultants will first discuss with PWC the price schedule that
they intend to use in preparing the project cost estimates.  They will deter-
mine the total cost of the proposed works at the 1985 prices, specifying sepa-
rately a percentage ot physical contingencies that should be added to the base
costs. They will also forecast future price increases and based on the pro-
ject implementation schedule, will calculate the total project cost in current
prices.  Each item cost will be expressed into its local and foreign compo-
nents. The foreign part will include both direct expenses such as the import
of equipment, and indirect expenses such as the depreciation of building
equipment.
Contract Documents
12.      PWC will advise the Consultants of the contract schedule it will use
to execute the proposed works.  The Consultants will then prepare and submit
bidding documents  for the scheduled groups of works.   The tender documents
will include particular and general conditions, general and technical specifi-
cations of the proposed works, forms of tender bond and performance bond,
bills of quantities, contract drawings, special instructions and notes, sche-
dules, etc.



- 52-                                 ANNEX 7
Page 4
Timetable and Reports
13.      The study is envisaged to be carried out in an elapsed time of not
more than 12 months. The Consultants will submit:
(i) the inception report within 3 months of the start of the
study, summarizing initial findings after review of existing
data, recommending a sanitation scheme for Seiyun, and detail-
ing the program of data collection, exploration, boring and
field work.  PWC will have one month to review the report and
pass its comments to the Consultants;
(ii)  progress reports at quarterly intervals,  describing work per-
formed during the quarter and the work program for the next
quarter, and summarizing findings;
(iii)  at the end of the 12th month following the start of the study,
the final report dealing with the detailed design of the
selected sanitation scheme.  A draft of the final report will
be submitted for PWC review at least two months before its
scheduled release date.   PWC should give the Consultants its
comments within one month of receipt of the report; and
(iv) draft tender documents at the end of the 10th month after the
start of the study.   PWC will have  one month  to review  the
documents and pass its comments to the Consultants.  The docu-
ments in their final form will be submitted, by the end of the
assignment.
14.      The  inception  report  and  progress  reports  are  to be  submitted  in
twenty (20) copies, and the final report and bidding documents in fifty (50)
copies.
Proposals
15.      Proposals  in 5 copies  in the English  language  should be submitted
by                            to  the  Public  Water  Corporation  (PWC),  Crater,
Aden, PDRY.
16.      Proposals should contain, inter alia;
(a)   a description of the consulting firm (or firms) and its areas of
specialism;
(b)   a description of relevant assignments previously carried out by
the firm;



- 53                                ANNEX 7
Page 5
(c)      an explanation of the way in which the Consultants propose to
approach the assignment, including any comment they may wish
to make on the terms of reference or any modifications they
may wish to propose in the interest of better achieving the
objectives of the assignment;
(d)      a brief description of any special methodology to be employed
(for example, use of computers);
(e)      a staffing chart  for the assignment,  showing each specialist
to be employed and indicating the nature and duration of his
involvement (distinguishing time in PDRY from time at the home
office);
(f)      an explanation of how supervision of the assignment is to be
maintained by the firm's principals;
(g)      curricula vitae of key personnel nominated for the assignment;
and
(h)      a  statement  of  any  special  facilities  the  Consultants  may
require in carrying out the assignment.
17.      Proposals will be judged on technical merit and fees.  The Consult-
ants should indicate in their offers any assistance that should be provided to
them, such as accommodation, local transportation and other facilities.



- 54 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 3
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SEIYUN REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
DETAILED COST ESTIMATES
-----  YD Thousands  -----            ----- US$ Thousands 1/----
Item                                      Local    Foreign        Total         Local    Foreign        Total
A.   PRODUCTION FACILITIES
Construction of Boreholes (6 units)                33         191         224             95         555         650
Pumps and Motor Drives                              1           15         16              4          43          47
Borehole Headworks and Wellhouses                   3          20          23              9          58          67
Equipment, Transformers, Cabling                   10          78          88             29         227         256
Wellfield Pipeline (3.1 kmi, 400/300 mm)           21          77          98             62         223         285
Standby Generator                                   2          54          56              4         156         160
Building for Generator                              7          28          35             20          82         102
Chlorination Plant and Building                     2           12         14              6          34          40
Sub-Total A                                  79         475         554            229       1,378       1,607
B.   SEIYUN SYSTEM
Storage Tank - 2700 M3                             31         124         155             90         360        450
Primary Mains (6.2 km, 300mm, 19 km
- 200 mm)               74         495        569            215        1,434      1,649
Replacement of Primary System                      16         154         170            45          447        492
Secondary System                                   74         171        245            215          495        710
Sub-Total B                                 195         944       1,139            565       2,736      3,301
C.   MARYAMAH SYSTEM
Storage Tank (100 M3)                               1           16         17              3          47          50
Primary Distribution System                         8          58          66             23          169        192
Sub-Total C                                   9           74         83             26         216         242
D.   MADUDAH SYSTEM
Seiyun-Madudah Pipeline - 5 km, 150 mm              9          54          63             25         156         181
Madudah-Bohairah Pipeline - 12 km,
150/100mm               18         222        240             52          644        696
Madudah-As-Suquair Pipeline - 4 km, 100mm           5           39         44             15         113         128
Storage Tank at Maaudah - (200 M3)                  2          26          28              4          76          80
Storage Tank at Bohairah - (100 M3)                 1          16          17              3          47          50
Primary Distribution - 5 km, 100/80 mm              6          49          55             19         141         160
Sub-Total D                                  41         406         447            118       1,177       1,295



- 55 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 3
-----  YD Thousands  -----             ----- us$ Thousands 1/ ____
Item                                      Local    Foreign        Total          Local    Foreign         Total
E.   TARIS SYSTEM
Seiyun-Taris Pipeline - 3.5 km - 200 mm              9          77          86             25          222        247
Booster Pumping Station (26.1 lls)                   8          33          41             24           96        120
Storage Tank (200 M3)                                1          26          27              4           76         80
Primary Distribution - 2 km, 150/100/80 mm    3                  19         22              8           56         64
Sub-Total E                                   21         155         176             61          450        511
F.   AL GHURFAH SYSTEM
Taris-Al GhurfahPipeline - 2 km, 200 mm              5          30          35             14           87        101
Booster Pumping Station (11.9 1/s)                   5          26          31             15           75         90
Storage Tank - 200 M3                                2          26          28              4           76         80
Primary Distribution - 6km, 150/100/80 mm            8          93         101             23          269        292
Sub-Total F                                   20         175         195             56          507        563
G.   QRAYO SYSTEM
Ghurfah-Qrayo System - 4.3 km, 200 mm               10           65         75             31          187         218
Storage Tank (100 M3)                                2          16          18              3           47         50
Booster Pumping Station (10.4 l/s)                   5          26          31             15           75         90
Primary Distribution - 3.0 km, 100/80 mm            4           42          46             11          124        135
Sub-Total G                                   21         149         170             60          433        493
H1.   AL HAWTAH SYSTEM
Qrayo-Al HawtahPipeline - 3.0 kmi, 200 mm            7          36          43             21          105         126
Primary Distribution - 7.7 km,
150/100/80 mm                 10         104         114             29         300         329
Sub-Total H                                   17         140         157             50          405        455
I.   SECONDARY SYSTEMS IN ADJACENT
TOWNS AND VILLAGES                                  75         175         250            218          507        725
J.   MISCELLANEOUS
Head Office, Warehouse                              35         138         173            100          400        500
Supply of Water Meters - 6500 Units                 2           65          67              5          190        195
Operational Equipment                                -          69          69              1          200        201
Training and Technical Assistance                    3          19          22             10           54         64



- 56 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 3
-----  YD Thousands  -----           ----- US$ Thousands -/ ----
Item                                    Local    Foreign        Total         Local    Foreign        Total
Engineering Studies in Greater Aden                5          98        103             15         285        300
Engineering Studies in Tarim Area                  6         109        115            17          315        332
Detailed Sanitation Studies in Seiyun             5           95        100            15         275        290
Sub-Total J                                 56         593        649            163       1,719      1,882
Total A - J                                534       3,286      3,820          1,546       9,528    11,074
Physical Contingencies  - 15%                     80         493        573           232       1,429      1,661
Construction Supervision - 7%                    37          230        267           108         667         775
Total Cost (End 1982 Prices)                    651       4,009      4,660          1,886      11,624     13,510
Price Escalation                                 125         751        876           364       2,176      2,540
TOTAL PROJECT COST (Current Prices)             776       4,760       5,536         2,250      13,800    16,050
%                                 14.0       86.0      100.0          14.0        86.0       100.0
1/   Based on a constant exchange rate of US$ 1   YD 0.345



- 57 -
ANNEX 9
PEOPLE' S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SEIYUN REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
DETAILED ANNUAL PROJECT COSTS
(US$ Thousands)
1 9 8 4              1 9 8 5               1 9 8 6              1 9 8 7               Total
Item                                   Local   Foreign    Local   Foreign    Local   Foreign    Local   Foreign    Local   Foreign
A.   PRODUCTION FACILITIES
Construction of Boreholes                               95       555           -         -          -         -           -         -         95       555
Borehole Equipment and Materials                        43       460           -         -          -          -          -         -         43       460
Equipment Installation and Civil Works                   -         -         29        140          _         _           _         _         29       140
Wellfield Pipeline Construction                          -          -         62       223          -          -          -         -         62       223
R.   PRIMARY NETWORK IN SEIYUN
Supply of Pipes aud Materials                          175       877           -         -          _-                              -        175       877
Construction of System                                   -         -         175    1,364           -         -           -         -        175    1,364
C.   PRIMARY SYSTEMS IN OTHER TOWNS
Supply of Pipes and Materials                          185       459           -    1,100           -         -           -         -        185    1,559
Construction of Systems                                  -         -        186        936          -       693           -         -        186    1,629
0.   SECONDARY SYSTEMS
Supply of Pipes and Materials                            -         -          25       501         25       501           -         -         50    1,002
Construction of Systems                                  -         -           -         -        210         -        173          -        383         -
E.   MISCELLANEOUS
Construction of Head Office, Warehouse                   -         -        100       400           -         _-                    -        100       400
Supply of Water Meters                                   -         -           5      190           -         -           -         -          5       190
Operational Equipment                                    1       100           -       100          -         -           -         -          1       200
Training and Technical Assistance                        3        18          4         18          3        18           -         -         10        54
Water Supply Studies in Aden                            15       285           -         -          -         -           -         -         15       285
Water Supply Studies in Tarim Area                       -       148          17       167          -         -           -         -         17       315
Sanitation Studies in Seiyun                            _                     15       275                                                    15       275
Sub-Total                                         517    2,902          618    5,414         238    1,212          173         -      1,546     9,528
Physical Contingencies  - 15%                           77       435         93       812          36       182         26          -        232    1,429
Construction Supervision - 7X                           36       203         43        379         17        85         12          -        108       667
Total Cost (End of 1982 Prices)                        630    3,540         754    6,605          291    1,479         211          -      1,886   11,624
Price Escalation                                        72    - 428         143    1,334          _76    _  414        _73        -          364   _2,176
TOTAL COST (Current Prices)                            702    3,968         897    7,939          367    1,893         284          -      2,250   13,800
TOTAL COST (YD Thousands) 11                           242    1,368          309    2,739         127       653          98         _        776    4,760
1/  Based on a constant exchange rate of US$ 1    YD 0.345



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SEIYUN REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ANNUAL PROJECT INVESTMENTS 1/
(USF Thousands)
1 9 8 4              1 9 8 5              1 9 8 6               1 9 8 7              Total
Item                                  Local   Foreign    LoSal   Foreign    Local   Foreign    Local   Foreign    Local   Foreg
PART A
Seiyun Proluction Facilities                                188      1,388       132         532         -          -         -           -      320      1,920
Seiyun Water Supply System                                  238      1,199       254      2,000          -          -         -          -       492      3,199
Supply of Water Meters                                        -          -          7        279         -          -         -           -         7        279
Operational Equipment                                         1        137          -        147         -          -         -           -         1        284
Training alid Technical Assistance                            4         25          6         26         5         28         -           -        15         79
Water Supply Studies in Aden                                 20        390          -          -         -          -         -           -        20        390
Water Supply Studies in Tarim Area                            -        202         25        245         -          -         -           -        25        447
Sanitation Studies in Seiyun                                             -        22        402                               -           -        22        402
TOTAL COST  -  PART A                                 451      3,341        446      3,631          5         28         -          -       902      7,000
PART 8
Maryamah Water Supply System                                 is         43        19         202         -         73         -           -        37        318
Madudah Water Supply Systenm                                 80        232        86      1,102          -        400         -           -       166      1,734
Taris Water Supply System                                    40         89        45         421         -        153         -           -        85        663
Al Ghurfah Water Supply System                               38        100        41         475         -        172         -           -        79        747
Qrayo Water Supply System                                    41         85        44         406         -        147         -           -        85        638
Al H4awtah Water Suipply System                              34         78        36         380         -        138         -           -        70        596
Secondiary Systems                                            -          -         36        735       362        782       284           -       682      1,517
Construction of Head Office, Warehouse                                    -      144         587         -      _             -           -       144        587
TOTAL COST  -  PART B                                 251         627       451      43308       362      1,865        284          _    1,348       6,800
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                     702          8       897      7,939       367      1,893        284        _       2,250    jj,0
TOTAL PROJECT COST (YD I,000) 2/                       242     1,368        309      2,739       127         653        98          _       776      4,760
li   All costs are expressed in current prices and already include physical
contingencies, construction supervision and price escalation.
2/   Based oni a constant rate of exchange of USI 1 = YD 0.345



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SEIYUN REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Bar Chart for Bidding and Execution of Project Activities
Calendar Yer and Months                                  19b3                                           1954                                           1985                                           17b7 -                                         1
J EMAMJ  JASON   Di  EMAM~~~~~~~j JA                                N    J- FTMAM                     ASO D                        M M A]SNDJFM MJJAS N
Mnffhs Aft.,P,ojot Constluction Star                              1      3          67    B       R(lOjii 12 13 iSrTl            Rl '9 2RSl 22 23 124S5 26 27128 129130 3132 33  34353637 R R4 44                                  43~4 844              A S 55
i. PREPARATION OF TENDERS 1
2. SEIYUJN WELLFIELD
B,dd.ng of Borehoin IDNOl,g -
Constwfction of Borehol e        s - -
ilddling of Eipment--l- -- -                                      -  -   -   -   - 
Lqipmront Supply 
Pump, Switcher Instlfi         --                                   tIIIIIIIli
Weilield Ppelinei Ridding -  --     -                 t   t
Weilfield Pipelne Supply - -    - - -        - --
WeIlfiold Pipeline Cons,tucin- -   -
3. PRIMARY SYSTEM IN SEIYUN
Ridding of Pipes .nd Toe?.~,ol, .-                    -   -      -    - -- -
Supply of Pipe and Moterico  -  -  -
4. SYSTEMS IN OTHER TOWNS
Bidding of Pipe., Reseroirs
IArmpind STtalocs- -- - - -                       
Supply oT Pipes. Mnrte rio cod
EquIpret -               --    -  -- - -- )
Cnsutcssctlon of Sype-   -  -   -   - --  -   -   -   -  -                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
5 SECONDARZY SYSTEMS
Pipe Riiddng-          -- --                                                                                                             
SuPP lY    f P uip es -d  Fltting              -  -  -  -   -   -  -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -   - 
6. MISCELLANEOUS
Bidding 01 Heod Ofic., Woiehnus
Cw.fonstutO  0f Head Office. Watehor.-.---..- - 
SupplpofWoterh.t-tr - -   -    -   -   -  -..j..-
Supply of Opr0tlo,ai Equipnent --
Water SPPeIY StUdies in Aden,  -    -zt?
Woter Supply Studles in TareW    -                                                                                                                                tI
Sonitfhon Studier 0 Seiyn                                                                                      t                    _ -                                                  I   I   I   I L   -     I
Wart d Bank-24467



-60-                            ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 2
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SEIYUN REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CONTRACT SCHEDULE
I. CONTRACTS TO BE FINANCED BY IDA
BID NO. 1: CONSTRUCTION OF SIX BOREHOLES
Group No. 1 - Drilling and Testing of Six Boreholes.
Group No. 2 - Supply and Installation of Well Casings and Screens.
BID NO. 2: SUPPLY OF EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS -
CIVIL WORKS AND EQUIPMENT INSTALLATION
Group No.  3 - Supply and Installation of Pumps, Motor Drives,
Starters, Transformers and Cabling in Seven Boreholes.
Group No.  4 - Supply and Installation of One Generator and
Accessories.
Group No.  5 - Supply and Installation of Two Chlorinators, Two Pump
Injectors, Balances and Accessories.
Group No.  6 - Supply and Laying of:
1,900 meters of 400-mm pipes.
7,400 meters of 300-mm pipes.
19,000 meters of 200-mm pipes.
Group No.  7 - Constructing and Equipping a 2,700-m3 Reservoir.
Group No.  S - Construction of Boreholes Headworks and Wellhouses.
Group No.  9 - Construction of Wellfield Pipeline.
Group No. 10 - Construction of a Generator Shelter and Chlorination
Chamber.
BID NO. 3: SUPPLY OF 6,500 15-mm WATER METERS
BID NO. 4: SUPPLY OF FOUR VEHICLES
BID NO. 5: SUPPLY OF A TRUCK
BID NO. 6: SUPPLY OF A MOBILE CRANE
CONTRACT NO. 1:      DETAILED ENGINEERING STUDIES for the installation of a
new wellfield in Upper Tuban for the supply of Aden.



- 61 -                         ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 2
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SEIYUN REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CONTRACT SCHEDULE
CONTRACT NO. 2:      ENGINEERING STUDIES of water supply systems in the
Tarim Area.
CONTRACT NO. 3:      DETAILED ENGINEERING STUDIES OF SANITATION IN SEIYUN
II. CONTRACTS TO BE FINANCED BY ARAB FUND
BID NO. 2: SUPPLY OF EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS -
CIVIL WORKS AND EQUIPMENT INSTALLATION
Group No. 11   Supply and Laying of:
12,800 meters of 200-mm pipes.
17,500 meters of 150-mm pipes.
24,500 meters of 100-mm pipes.
Group No. 12 - Constructing and Equipping:
Three 200-M3 Reservoirs.
Three 100-M3 Reservoirs.
Group No. 13 - Constructing and Equipping Three Booster Pumping
Stations.
BID NO. 7: SUPPLY OF: 25,000 meters of 100-mm pipes
22,700 meters of 80-mm pipes
BID NO. 8: CONSTRUCTION OF an Office Building and a
Warehouse in Seiyun.



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
S,EIYUN REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ALLOCATION OF THE CREDIT AND LOAN PROCEEDS
(US$ Thousands)
x of Total
1 9 8 4                   1 9 8 5                   1 9 8 6                   1 9 8 7             Total       Total       Investments
Type of Expenditures              Investment Allocation  Investment Allocation  Investment Allocation  Investment Allocation  Investment Allocation  Financed 1/
I. PART A OF PROJECT
Foreign Purchases                     1,827       1,827           459        459              -            -            -            -        2,286        2,286        100.0
Civil Works:
Foreign Expenses                    708         708        2,294      2,294               -           -             -           -        3,002        3,002          86.9
Local Expenses                      200           -           253          -              -           -             -           -           453            -           -
Transport                               196            -          107           -             -            -            -            -          303            -            -
Consulting Services:
Foreign Expenses                    574         574           628        628             26          26             -           -         1,228       1,228          94.2
Local Expenses                       23           -            48          -              5           -             -           -            76            -           -
Construction Supervision 2/
Foreign Expenses                    232         232           250        250              2           2             -           -           484         484          87.4
Local Expenses                       32           -            38          -              -           _             -           -            70   -        -           -
Total Part A                     3,792        3,341        4,077       3,631             33          28             -           -         7,902       7,000 31       88.6 3/
II. PART B OF PROJECT
Foreign Purchases                       583          583        2,184      2,184            728          728            -            -        3,495        3,495         100.0
Civil Works:
Foreign Expenses                      -           -        1,823       1,823          1,006       1,006             -           -        2,829        2,829          74.8
Local Expenses                        -           -           386          -            301           -           264           -           951            -           -
Transport                               233            -           33           -            36            -            -            -          302            -            -
Construction Supervision 2/
Foreign Expenses                     44          44           301        301            131         131             -            -          476         476          83.4
Local Expenses                       18           -            32          -             25           -            20            -           95            -           -
Total Part B                        878         627        4,759       4,308         2,227       1,865            284           _         8,148       6,800 4/       83.5 4/
TOTAL EXPENDITURES               4,670        3,968        8,836       7,939         2 0          1,893           284                    16,050      13,800
1/ Represent the percentages of the total corresponding expenditures financed by the credit and loan proceeds.
2/  Would be jointly financed by the Association and the Arab Fund in the proportion of 50% for IDA and 50% for
the Arab Fund.
3/ IDA's allocation and share of total expenditures for Part A of the project.
4/ Arab Fund's allocation and share of total expenditures for Part B of the project.



- 63 -
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SEIYUN REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ Thousands
IDA FY 1/ and             IDA CREDIT                ARAB FUND LOAN              GOVERNMENT FUNTS
Quarter       In Quarter Cumulative 2/  In Quarter Cumulative 2/  In Quarter Cumulativ2
1984
Fourth            80          80                 -          -               10          10
1985
First            170         250                70         70               20          30
Second           350        600               100         170               70         100
Third            430      1,030                180        350             210          310
Fourth           750      1,780               200         550             220          530
1986
First            800      2,580               410         960             220          750
Second           700      3,280               520      1,480              200          950
Third            720      4,000                730     2,210               100       1,050
Fourth           640      4,640               510      2,720               100       1,150
1987
First            620      5,260               520      3,240               180       1,330
Second           300      5,560               540      3,780              100       1,430
Third            210      5,770               500      4,280              110        1,540
Fourth            170     5,940               440      4,720              110        1,650
1988
First            160      6,100               420      5,140               100       1,750
Second           150      6,250               390      5,530              100       1,850
Third            150      6,400               380      5,910              100        1,950
Fourth           200      6,600               290      6,200               100      2,050
1989
First            200      6,800                300     6,500               100       2,150
Second           200      7,000               300      6,800              100       2,250
1/  Runs from July 1 of a preceding year to June 30 of the current year.
2/  The figures shown under these columns give estimated accumulated disbursements at
the end of the corresponding quarters.



-  ~~~~~~~~~~Fl so]KIos 
                                                      Z96;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V JOO.tZ   IIf~SOlD9   o6)gW<JorSIxO.
(C,nO~d ,~                             e3.nesu[ fl   P4Wt                  [       lE                                        L    i          E
r{l DWXI  Inc   ' IfiIcn,j>uO                                     I n                          J  3  oqjn:.                   E Jo4n
I-  ---j ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~L--- 
| O qFTX{09+'FS                   |    }|,, Dt /pe4
|    l9QD~~PO1                                                                                                                               P lO F9 Hik    f          K C%I 
70- UO4O uoIPZmo8JQ
-w  UO$JDdIoo meIOM o9tcfl
i03tOad AlddflS 831'OA WNOtS3b NrM3S
N3&IJ3A OrWIfd OUV80OW3C S 31dUd



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SEIYUN REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ProJect Implementation Unit
Organization Chart - 1984
|GENERAL MANAGER
PROkJECT MANAGER
2
CONSULTANTS
ADMINISTRATK)N   |SYSTEM
t  WCORKS|    ACCOING   1|XRENEWAL
PERSCNNEL 
TRANSPORT         ACCOUNlINS
8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
SUPERVISION        SURVEY            DIGCSTMR'DISTRIBUTION
DRAWING                                           SEVCSPIPELINES
4                                                                                    5                                    5
Novemer 20 1982                                                                                                             Worad Bank-24465
>9 



ANNEX 16
- 66 -                                                      -Page TTof 2
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SEIYUN REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PWC's Branch In Selyun
PTOPosed Organizatlon Chart -1986
GENERAL MANAGER
,ove~er2  i9I          I
21
ENGIN EERING~                                   ADMlNISRATK)N                                      PRTN
PERSONNEL l lTREASURY II  HLN
TRANSP2T   l  l PAYMASTER                      |CLtlN                  SOE
PROJECTS   WORKS    l  TREATMENT                                       SEES             M~~~~~~~~~~~ F -AINTENANCE   EHNS
Nolwmber 20.1982                                                                                                                         V0060 awm- 244Y-



- 67 -
ANNE 17
PEOPE'S DER1AIC  EPUBLIC OF YEN
SEIYUN REGIONAL WADER SUPPLY PROJECT
P.W.C. - OONSLMA]ED ICE    SrATADS - ACL   (1980-82) AND P80JECTED (1983-89)
ActualProjected
Fiscal Year Ending December 31                  1980      1981     1982      1983      1984      1985      1986      1987     1988      1989
Water Sold (million M3)                         17.2      17.2      17.2     19.3      20.8      22.3      24.5      26.1      27.5     28.8
Water Produced (million n3)                     23.3      23.3      23.2     27.2      28.9      30.5      33.2      34.8      36.6     38.4
Nzbers of Cciections at Year End (000)          62.2      64.4     66.7      69.1      71.2      73.5      82.4     85.3      88.3      91.3
Average Rate (fils/m3)                          58.0    126.0    128.0    128.0    140.0    150.0    175.0    175.0    210.0    230.0
YD Thousand
Operating Revenues
Water Revenues                               998    2,161    2,193    2,458       2,900     3,333    4,288    4,556       5,763    6,612
Meter Rentals                                 25       26        28       57         62        67        76       86        93       101
New Connections                               21        19       13       30         31        33       122       104       57        62
GovernrEnt Contributicns                     252       -         -        -          -         -         -         -        -         -
Miscellaneous                                130        78      138      120        104        90       122        65       45        33
Total Revenues                        1,426     2,284    2,372    2,665      3,097     3,523    4,608    4,811       5,958    6,808
Operating Expnses
Personnel                                    726       806      860      994      1,074     1,159     1,252     1,352     1,461    1,577
Fuel, Energ' and Chemicals                   458      498       622      684        787       810       920     1,045     1,155    1,260
Distribution and Maintenance                  98       100      130      165        172       250       258       302      332       392
General and Administrative Expenses          130       171      162      198        215       232       250       270      292       315
Total Operating Expenses              1,412     1,575     1,774    2,041     2,248     2,451     2,680    2,969     3,240     3,544
Inccme Before Depreciation                        14      709       598      624        849     1,072     1,928    1,842     2,718     3,264
Depreciation                                 125       256      250      256        271       429       914     1,020     1,127    1,135
Irne Before Interest                            (111)     453       348      368        578       643     1,014      822     1,591     2,129
Operational Interests                         -        -                                                409       454      610       796
Incoue Before Tax                              (111)      453       348      368        578       643      605       368       981     1,333
Inccse Tax (37.5%)                           -         83       131      138        217       241       227      138       369       500
Net Incame                             (111)      370       217     230        361       402       378       230       612      833
Operating Ratio (%) /                          107.8     80.2      85.3    86.2        81.3      81.7      78.0      82.9     73.3      68.7
Rate of Return (%)                               -       20.9      11.0    11.8        16.5       4.7       4.3       3.2      5.6       7.6
1/ Including Depreciation.



PEOPLE' S DEMOCRA'rlC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SEIYUN REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
P.W.C - CONSOLIDATED TABLE OF SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS - ACTUAL(1980-82) AND PROJECTED (1983-89)
-------- Actual ----------   ------------------------------- Projected ----------------------
1980         1981     1982        1983       1984        1985       1986       1987        1988       1989
------------------------------------------ YD Thousand ---------------------------------------
1.  SOURCES OF FUNDS
Net Inicome Before Depreciation and After 'Fax                14        626        467         486        632         831      1,70       1,704       2,349      2,764
Government's Contributions                                1,364         183      6,078       3,908      3,028      2,315         234      1,445       1,657        990
Increase in Customers'  Deposits                              13         14         19          48         42          46        178         58          60         60
Increase in Legal Reserve                                     -         216         12        --                                             -           -
Sub-Total                                           1,377        413      6,109       3,95       3,070       2,361        412      1,503       1,717      1,050
Proposed IDA Credit                                           -          -           -          -         310         994        787        238          86          -
Greater Aden IDA Credit                                       -          -       1,482       1,230      1,164         264         -           -          -
Al Mukalla IDA Credit                                         -          -          198        302        445         154         -           -          -
Other Long-Term Loans                                    -1,071         _-                                  59        452      1,500      3           3,614      1,987
Total Loans                                           -1,071          -       1,680      1,532       1,97 8     1          2,287       3,455   3, 700 1,987
TOTAI SOURCES                                            320      1,039       8,256        974           0      5,056      4,400       6,662      7,766       5,801
2. APPLICA'TIONS OF FUNDS 1/
Proposed Project                                              -          -           -          -       1,610       3,048        780          98         -
Greater Aden Water Supply Project                             -         300      2,302       4,900      4,637         971         -           -          _
Al Mukalla Water Supply RehabiliLation Project                -          -          238        380        560         194         -           -          -           -
Other- Inivestments                                           15                    708     _ 247         140         397      2,155    5,200         6,355      3,965
Total Investments                                         15         300      8,248      5,527       6,947      4,610      2,935       5,298      6,355       3,965
Repayment of IDA Proposed Credit                              -          -           -          -          -           -          -           -          98         196
Repayment of IDA Existing Credits                             -          -           -          -           -          -         336         387        438        438
Repaymenit of Other Loans                                     _           _          -       _              -       _             -           -          -         207
Total Amortization                                        -           -          -          -           -          -          336        387         536        841
Interest                                                      -          -          -               -      -           -         409        454         610        796
Total Debt Service                                          _        _ _          _       _  _                                745        841      1,146       1,637
Increase/Decrease in Working Capital                         305        739           8        447     (1,267)        446        720        523         265        199
't'OtAL APPiICATIONS                                     320      1,039       8,256      5,974       5,680      5, 056     4,400       6,662      7,766       5,801
Deot Service Coverage                                                                -          -           -          -         2.4         3.3        2.0         1.7
1/ Interest financed is niot included above.
Values for each vear are:                                   -          -           71        212        377         560        318        454         506        444



- 69 -
PEOPLE'S DHWPATIC           AUC aF  N                                      19
SEIYUN REGION4L WATER SUPPLY P1ITEL'T
PMWC. -   AIE SE'S - ACbIUL (1980-82) and Pa_EC1M (1983-89)
-         Actual                                          Projected
Fiscal Year Ending Dacember 31             1980      1981       1982      1983      1984       1985       1986       1987       1988        1989
-A-SED TSA                                    --
Gross Fixed Assets                    2,270     8,285      8,356    8,689      9,641     29,921     30,445     36,949     37,597     38,092
Less: Accumulated Depreciation        1,189     5,024      5,275    5,531      5,802      6,231      7,145      8,165      9,292     10,427
Nst Fixed Assets                 1,081     3,261      3,081    3,158      3,839     23,690     23,300     28,784     28,305     27,665
Works-in Progress                        -        300      8,477   13,883    20,255       5,145      7,875      7,109     13,322      17,236
TUIL FIXED ASSETS                1,081     3,561     11,558   17,041    24,094      2          31,175     35,893     41,627     44,901
Cash asrd Equivalent                  1,053     1,332      1,477    2,196      1,417      1,270      1,547      2,226      2,593      2,408
Accouants Peceivable                     95       459        577      822        708        652        766        794        983      1,218
Other Peceivables                       706       373        165      275        310        225        320        255        310        350
Inventories                             156       232        409      217       235         740        998      1,019      1,030      1,265
TYIVL cJENr ASSETS               2,010     2,396      2,628    3,510     2,670       2,887      3,631      4,294      4,916      5,241
TlLYL ASSETS                     3,091     5,957     14,186   20,551    26,764      31,722     34,806     40,187     453        50,142
Eqp AW LIABILJrES
Capital                                 929       929        929      929       929         929        929        929        929        929
Gavernt's Countribution               1,364     3,664      9,671   13,579    16,607      18,922     19,156     20,601     22,258     23,248
Bevaluatim Deserve                       -        319        319      319       319         319        319        319        319        319
Legal and Other Reserves                 26       242        253      253       253         253        253        253        253        253
Earned Surplus (Deficit)               (232)      138        355      535       946       1,348      1,726      1,956      2,568     _31
amL EQJY                         2,087     5,292     11,527   15,665    19,054      21,771     22,383     24,058     26,327     28,150
Proposed IDA Credit                      -         -          -        -        322       1,382      2,312      2,646      2,649      2,453
Existing IDA Credits                     -         -       1,751    3,495     5,468       6,033      5,773      5,405      4,967      4,529
Proposed Other Loams                                          -        -         60         523      1,564      2,243      2,398      2,227
Eisting Other Ioans                      43        43         43       43        43          43         43         43         43         43
Other loans                                                            -         -           -         508      3,222    _867         9,262
TOAL La-TEM   DEBr                  43        43      1,794    3,538     5,893       7,981     10,200     13,559     16,924     18,514
Custcners Deposits                      112       126        145      193       235         281        459        517        577        637
Acccxmts Payable                         63       211        499      563        686        595        545        774        873        753
Pension Fmd                             425       285         122       75       40          -
Other Payables                          361        -          99       143      222         246        232        143        374        511
Contract Retentions                                -          -       374       634         512        600        600        627        736
Current Maturities                       -         -          -        -         -          336        387        536        841        841
TOTAL ORJT LIABILrTES             849        496        720    1,155      1,582      1,689      1,764      2,053      2,715      2,841
T1LAJ EQUrrY AMD LIABILXrlIES    3,091     5,957     14,186   20,551    26,764      31,722     34,806     40,187     46,543     50,142
Current Ratio 1/                        2.4       4.8        3.7      3.0        1.7        2.1        2.6        2.8        2.6        2.6
Debt/Equity Ratio 2/                   2:98      1:99      13:87    18.82      24:76      28.72      32.68      37:63      40.60      41:59
1/ Excluding current maturities.
2/ Includes current msaturities.



- 70 -                              ANNEX 20
Page 1 of 2
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SEIYUN REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial Projections
Water Production and Sales
(1)      Projected water production and sales and number of service lines in
the Greater Seiyun area are shown in Annex 3.   Water production and sales in
other areas were projected separately and are given in Annex 21.
Items of the Income Statement
A. Revenues
(2)      PWC's  consolidated  average  revenues  per  m3  are  projected  to
increase in accordance with the rates of inflation during the period 1984-86,
and at a higher pace in the ensuing years to enable PWC to generate enough
revenues  to  service  its  debts.   The  following  revenues  are  forecast:
Year                 1983      1984     1985      1986      1987     1988      1989
Average Revenues
YD/mj               0.128    0.140    0.150    0.175    0.175    0.210    0.230
(3)      Meter Rental - These revenues are calculated on the basis of YD 0.800
per meter per year at the end of  1981 and projected  to increase
annually by 7%.  They are based on the mid-year numbers of service
lines.
(4)      New Connections - They are installed by PWC and paid by customers.
The average cost of a connection in 1982 was YD 12.  This cost in the
ensuing years is assumed to increase annually by about 8%. Regarding
Seiyun, PWC intends to levy a connection fee of YD 5 per customer.
(5)      Miscellaneous - This item includes interest on deposits in banks and
various  fees  levied  for  reconnection  and  maintenance  works.   An
average interest rate of 7% is applied on PWC's projected deposits in
banks.
B. Expenses
(6)      Personnel - Salaries are projected to increase annually by 8%.  It is
further assumed that the number of employees will gradually decrease
to reach a ratio of 10 and 8 employees per 1,000 connections by 1986
and 1989 respectively.



- 71 -                             ANNEX 20
Page 2 of 2
(7)      Fuel,  Energy  and Chemicals  - Fuel cost  is projected  to increase
annually by 7%. Fuel amount used in pumping stations is estimated in
each year in proportion of volume of water produced.   The cost of
electricity of YD 0.035/kwh in 1982 is projected to increase by 10%
in 1983, 15% in 1984 and 1985 and 10% thereafter, as set out in the
latest  Project  Agreement  1268-YDR  between  IDA  and  the  Public
Corporation for Electric Power.   Like fuel, chlorine needs (the only
chemical used) are calculated in proportion of water produced and the
unit cost (YD 455.0/ton) is projected to increase annually by 7%.
(8)      Maintenance  - Provision  for  routine  maintenance  is  estimated  to
average 1.0% of the value of existing gross fixed assets, and 0.4% of
that of facilities put in operation in 1983 and thereafter.
(9)      Depreciation  -  Calculated  at  straight-line  rates  based  on  the
estimated service lives of major assests  in operation.  An annual
average rate of 3.0% is used.
Items of the Balance Sheet
(10)     Cash and Equivalent - Reduced progressively  to reach  the minimum
level required to cover PWC's normal operations.
(11)     Accounts Receivable - Arrears from private customers are expected to
decline progressively from their present level of 3 1/2 months of
sales to 2 months in 1983 and stay at this level in the ensuing
years.   Arrears  from public entities are assumed to decline  to 3
months of sales in 1983 and stay at this level in the following
years.   As  provision  for  bad  debt  as  of  December  31,  1982  is
substantial, only a provision of YD 12,000 per year is made during
the projection period and is deducted from projected sales.
(12)     Other Receivables.   Mainly  comprise  advances  made  by  the  Central
Government to PWC to carry out development projects, and to a lesser
extent, advances to PWC staff and fees due to PWC by other
enterprises for services rendered to them.
(13)     Inventories  - The  level of inventories has been projected at  the
equivalent of 2.5% of gross fixed assets in operation.
(14)     Customers' Deposits:  Based on YD 20.0 per new customer.
(15)     Accounts Payable -  To contractors and suppliers for 1 month of total
capital expenditures and 4 months of inventories.
(16)     Pension Fund - This account will be fully transferred to the National
Pension Fund by the end of 1984.
(17)     Other Payables -  Mainly comprise income tax due to the Government.
(18)     Retention Money - Amounts to 7% of annual investments, which is paid
back at the end of guarantee periods.



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SEIYUN REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
TOTAL WATER PRODUCTION AND SALES AND SERVICE LINES; PAST AND FORECAST!'
Water Production, MM/year              Water Sales, MCI/year                      Service Lines
Other                                Other                                Other
YEAR       Aden    Towns2/    Total             Aden    Towns2/    Total            Aden      Towns2/      Total
1980      19.24      4.10      23.24           14.33      2.87      17.20           38,276    23,887    62,163
1981      20.24     4.35       24.59           14.36      3.05      17.41           39,746    24,651    64,397
1982      21.24      4.61      25.85           14.87      3.23      18.10           41,250    25,440    66,690
1983      22.34     4.89       27.23           15.86      3.47      19.33           42,820    26,250    69,070
1984      23.69      5.16      28.85           17.06      3.72      20.78           44,190    27,000    71,190    *
1985      25.11     5.42       30.53           18.33      3.96      22.29           45,600    27,900    73,500
1986      26.49      6.66      33.15           19.60      4.93      24.53           47,060    35,300    82,360
1987      27.81      7.02      34.83           20.86      5.27      26.13           48,570    36,700    85,270
1988      29.20      7.43      36.63           21.90      5.57      27.47           50,120    38,200    88,320
1989      30.52      7.85      38.37           22.89      5.89      28.78           51,730    39,600    91,330
1/ This Annex gives the expected water production and sales and
service lines in all the towns served by PWC.  Similar
information for the project area is provided in Annex 3.
2/ Include villages in Wadi Tuban, Khalah/Dhalah, Al Mukalla,
Ash-Shihr and Ghail Bawazir.



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SEIYUN REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
MONITORING INDICATORS
Fiscal Year Ending December 31                         1980       1981       1982        1983         1984        1985        1986        1987         1988        1989
Indicators
1.  STAFFING
Number of Employees                                766        766        800         795         783         772          824         810         795          730
Staff per 1,000 Connections                      12.3       11.9       12.0         11.5        11.0        10.5         10.0         9.5         9.0         8.0
Number of Staff Trained                             11         16         93          50          30           12          25          10          --         --
2.  SYSTEM OPERATIONS
Water Sold, 106 m3/Year                           17.2       17.2       17.2        19.3        20.8        22.3         24.5        26.1        27.5         28.8
Water Produced, 106 m3/Year                       23.3       23.3       23.3        27.2        28.9        30.5         33.2        34.8        36.6         38.4
Unaccounted-for Water, x                         26.2       26.2       26.2         29.0        28.0        27.0         26.0        25.0        25.0        25.0
Number of Connections, 103                       62.2        64.4       66.7        69.1        71.2        73.5         82.4        85.3        88.3         91.3
3.  FlNANCE
Operating Ratio, X 1/                           107.8        80.2       85.3        86.2        81.3        81.7         78.0        82.9        73.3         68.7
Rate of Return, x 2/                               --       20.9        11.0        11.8        16.5         4.7          4.3         3.2         5.6         7.6
Current Ratio                                      2.4        4.8        3.7         3.0         1.7          2.1         2.6         2.8         2.6          2.6
Debt/Equity Ratio, X                             2:98        1:99      13:87       18:82       24:76       28:72        32:68       37:63       40.60       41.59
Average Rate in Fils per m3 Sold                    58        126        128         128         140          150         175         175         210          230
Average Revenue in Fils per m3 Produced             61         98        102          98         107          116         139         138          163         177
Operating Expenses in Fils per m3 Sold              82         91        103         106         108          110         109         114         118          123
Operating Effectiveness Index 3/                    73         62         70          64          74           75          72          74          73           72
1/ Total Operating Expenses Divided by Total Operating Revenues x 100.
2/ Income Before Interest Divided by Average Rate Base x 100.
3/ Revenue Collected per m3 Produced Divided by Average Revenue Billed per m3.



- 74 -
ANNEX 23
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SEIYUJN REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CALCULATION OF THE AVERAGE LONG-RUN MARGINAL COST OF WATER-/
Water          Total No.        New             Connection   Capital             0 & M          Total
Year       Sold            of Service       Service         Fees           Costs             Expenses       Costs
1,000 m3       Lines            Lines          ------------------YD Thousands------------------
1983           -                 -            -                  -             -              -                -
1984           -                 -            -                  -          1,277             -             1,277
1985           -                 -            -                  -          2,368             -            2,368
198b          681             6,460         6,460               32            603             93              696
1987          747             6,960           500                3             73            101              174
1988          832             7,450           490                2             -             106              106
1989          924             7,940           490                3             -             111              111
1990        1,022             8,490           550                3             -             122              122
1991        1,123             9,040           550                3             -             126              126
1992        1,233             9,590           550                3             -             131              131
1993        1,350            10,190           600                3             -             136              136
1994        1,448            10,670           480                3            337            140              477
1995        1,545            11,170           500                2            338            143              481
1996        1,637            11,480           310                2            201            157              358
1997        1,731            11,850           370                2            201            161              362
1998        1,832            12,200           350                2            201            165              366
1999        1,936            12,560           360                2             -             169              169
2000        2,047            12,960           400                2             -             174              174
2001        2,157            13,330           370                2             -             188              188
2002        2,272            13,710           380                2             -             193              193
2003        2,394            14,100           390                2             -             198              198
2004        2,523            14,500           400                2             -             203              203
2005        2,658            14,920           420                2             -             208              208
2006        2,798            15,340           420                2             -             214              214
2007        2,946            15,760           420                2             -             220              220
2008        3,101            16,200           440                2             -             226              226
2009        3,265            16,660           460                2             39            233              272
2010-2032  3,437             17,120           460                2             -             240              240
Discount            Volume            Total Cost             Average
Rate, x             Discounted        Discounted             Cost, YD/m3
6                  26,583             6,788                 0.255
7                  21,744             6,275                 0.289
8                  18,030             5,855                 0.325
9                  15,140             5,507                 0.364
10                  12,863             5,212                 0.405
12                   9,579             4,742                 0.495
Note
1) All values in the cost and revenue streams are expressed in terms of the 1983 price levels and in YD Thousands.



- 75 -
ANNEX 24
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SETYUN REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.   Wadi Hadramawt (Seiyun-Al Qatn) Potable Water Supplies-Master Plan Study
(3 Volumes), John Taylor & Sons, Consulting Civil Engineers, January
1979.
2.   Seiyun Water Supply - First Phase Detailed Study (3 Volumes), John
Taylor & Sons, Consulting Civil Engineers, January 1979.
3.   Seiyun Regional Water Supply Project - Master Plan and First Stage
Detailed Design, April 1983.
4.   Wadi Tuban - Water Management Study, Inception Report, Groundwater
Development Consultants, October 1979.
5.   Wadi Tuban - Water Management Study, Plan Report (3 Volumes),
Groundwater Development Consultants, October 1980.
6.  Wadi Tuban - Water Management Study, Feasibiltiy Report, Groundwater
Development Consultants, January 1981.
7.   Wadi Tuban - Water Management Study, Final Report, Groundwater
Development Consultants, July 1981.
8.   Wadi Hadramawt Feasibility Studv (5 Volumes), SOGREAH Consulting
Engineers, December 1981.
Q.   Seiyun Sewerage Master Plan Study (2 Volumes), John Taylor & Sons,
Consulting Civil Engineers, January 1q79.
10.   The Underground Water Resources of the Wadi Hadramawt, Technical Report
No. 1, FAO, 1970.
11.   Five-Year Plan (1981-85), Principal Indicators by Governorate, Ministry
of Planning, PDRY.
12.   Ministerial Decision No. 10, 1981, Ministry of Local Government, PDRY.






IBRD 16898R
460  480                      50"                              520                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JUNE 1983
OFIRN                                          EO LES DEMOCRATIC   fLREUBLIC.  OF    YEENVI20-
0-: uo.oo;o             ~           S E I YU N   REGIONAL  WATER  SUPPLY  PROJECT
SAUWr ARABIA                                                               Pro 2ect   Location
-~~~~~~  *, ~~~~~~~~MILES                                                                                        - -/               /  4
,JFTo lAO'    ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    0                             s     20       250                                                   ,      / /
0                       L-------00                                                  .                   /.18
K I-OMAETE RS                                                                               A 
-    -   ~ /0 2//                OMAN
Cillir~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11111fimm
*000                                                                                    -                   "   //,/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ H   0.-
*  )                      I                                                                                  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0IF
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~8rTm Soh                                              `
-~~            ~                                                    -                        I~~i                              -,da
-~~~~~ ~~~~<  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~        ~           *    H~~~~~~~~~urQ~~~~~~~~ H'A"'Rk'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AMOUTgvg/~//p
'>~~ As $ao     OAIc                      -
REPUBLICMu4a                                                                                        .               AI  RAK
to, tOo ooOolOtoloo 00000   2 -~-S~HA  B ~W   A 
t0000  00001tVO Ho ded                         Al0TaiAytVATON
-  440                                                                                                ..i:)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00l-3000 ME~~~~~~~~~NTEN TEOAARS 
m                                                                                                               Bo          i~ 
0~~~~~~~0.0b0000,t00 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~       ...... WVERN-ORATE -80UNDARI5






_____________________ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD   16899R?
LEBANGMIARJABA,AA                                        IA'                                                                                                ,A                               ~     Aj         ,A       'JUNE 1983
SRAEE,i~P,  AIRAQ    c,                                      ,' ,)                          ' . =..
<-AD8N -\ ..         *     ISLAMIC  REP
JORDAN      ' ~        L        OF IRAN         3A0                                                                           '
t7               )> _U,#--KlJAIf                                                                                                           F    :X#&MS,,%WS3;1,f     t      =   a ;                          Z        ,  
REP'YAACI               A       1A' A                                                                                                   , NIT                      '  N' i!' J
1,0 ~ ~ ~     ~    ~ ~ 0
EGYPT' '-
'  i\    SAU D I   ARABIA >A UAE
SUDAN   A"'yi n 
,/rA -(->/ @ INX S2 D '- A.C    S  ..... 4AN-'>O,,  t/ .  A ........ Mr>? ,                                                                                                                                                                                  Al' 'A - u
P      h EMEN 
'A.  ARAB;
/r ETHI OPA   ;'A                                                                                                                                                                                            -    I        ;43;
-'> OMALIAPA                  S
- -  SIBAM        -
s-ETAOPIA --AIB A' .a -fi   -,;   4   ;:   i:   W   ;   J  A   =   @>BUh  ra;,  ,;;  '  W';:U;'2A;'0'1l':i;'; : :  </ '2Af 5 D < S zr-9; R .1 S;<;:.:;,jza;,; t;;2?;; 't ;0,, :9L:; ; :r
0 l4PPfl1FCTq,- 
ft,  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    mm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  No  mo~~~~~~A  .   .  ~R GQN                   JA       A            '~                A      -
,,,.,  A''       A                                                GENER/I  ;
t X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~e f)i  7 =,laE0 ,;lFukra                                        Hw 9      Ea     7         '   A           ;          ,;2i A ,'11 i' <: A "  ;', *A                                        A'1  QW QE, THE PR                       E  WATE jUPL  SYTM
,   ~~~~~~~                            ~~~~ _hE~& AHBA                  A                ,                         A        A           h         rf :A>M \A A  ,,i-gr;l0fX S b A2   ,'1U Ati At; A; '! ,, ,;; te   peWA
gV   b   b   *;ii,L45rWn4,-';i  X;  W  )E z 5 | 5,SSL;AXX;;,;; i;2.it.'' 'fflA1P;;Al;li;; ,'ttEd!2u Gi}{{1zS{2E<X2gHE =gw>;- SEIA      A t''APA                     A        '       ;        AAA              A       A
::  0  ,  R  1,;  y  ;:  .,  ig!1,l,: iXlli;;; 'i / X 2 ( .# J;:: F3Ss . 251104 :E'!' 5 :E i' ' 0dii::4; 10Ti 1; t: 4 h:5in y ,  A   '    A   A    A                ''          'A                AA
A   l  E  ;.; L HA:                         59E''aT:JW  ,:, / fu1 A h  s DICiM;iii SEW,{!;t  A ,L ;  4                                          A6,;;EY{'DD'    A'SS  A\ZF !C7z            'A AAI;L; ; WT *C      @.:
:   .    BM  ES;   .=;lA :!tD       / /W                  >        EAA       AIW;      A.         A2:U;;;N9 !;;T2;1                    WWNE   ;f         '  A; -E                                A                      A   A A               AAAAA 
;f~ ~~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A !, A:: A1 . X                                                                                                                                       'AA ;VA; A:    :              ;;a ;S ..U;,0           .;;S  R. A  :    E:f ;. <.:
f ! H    =i  ;  E      'J     J           \       X      SE    D=u         (-; .4 \ u      S$: C ,?; E A:     ;S !,::S:.,;       5 ;N        :  ;   WW        X S  ;A S                    C                                                                     L  A  A; A  A  A'C.:
1D,:,:1S::,  e::;  !M;:    \/    /       X      f    '] 2:;f           qU '!!e;DU,   '  N   W5: 9;:. , 2''                W;I                                              +               w                                              EZ       E    W      k       E LA;   A AA;    '  ,'AE
.%  C50  V  W=;;E  )  J   3  S  X  SYS  W  X \  B;  ,;S  I:u4!,  l'.4 ?:w:U1 .;Y,; F: XSA,;Ej !1:g^; :;; SS 21;fA TA; R ! E tM ;; W $; fi f 4W 0 {1A A
:A:%~ ~    ~   ~      A; ;! ; :   A,                     -     A                                                             A                   A 4 W ;  SS ' X X,M :: :,l{,A,                                          ' .1  ,, 41  :El,     1N, 4a;  r 4AA,  A   .A                A   S;:; ;u  ;  \ :E   2 :
lX, :;, St  ;i. 2=    tv:3:                  ;;9       X    k      , te  :01:;;!:lu;wlulm=i;i    -; DA220i;. 1}A   '        i           04;g                                                                  4      40       ,F, S7;;;!,;;ilA,A 'A  A,  '  A  A  ;4    4 !



I



IBRD 169001R
YE   - YRIAT               JY                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ARM                      UN 2
~GU YRAP<  IRA
IY~L S     RO     IRA            ISLAMI  REP.
~~\~LURYNN    >L      OF IRAN
PEUEL C                           1
UPEGYPT  >                                .                                                           1   JIL~ iTLT 
SAUDI
SUDAN  N   YEMEN                                                             4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:jayma  V    1~1Madodab      AMO             <--
j    ~   RA T(N~~Y                     -.                                               7Y
Qorah   ~~~~~~~~~~~~                     0~~~Aron  Vb:
KJETHIOP [A     ULLJA!BIar
BY    N SOMALIA    REf                                                  '0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~: Bu wra                                    imO6IYU
I A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~AHw,AGufl
W,                                                                          SHIBAM,~~IN  l.    -~-~
SE~~YI4N REG4QNAL WATER StA~~~~~~WPt PROJECT6
S~~~~~~~~POETAE
ly,   h'aik ~ ~ ~      ~     ~      ~     ~    C!!vid  EO              COjal  ~ne    n
1 ~~~ ~~~:0   'qWS O
/                                      -  Intooho~Ia  b~Ui~C
00  f ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ !UTRETT                     U        U                   <     E
W  7~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~RAEL 
RSTp~~MEp~~~~  ERR  BR B  YBARRRLLA'~~~~RABALLRAA W
LTART,ERYRTRATM B  TEEMTRflLTJ[LBYD,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ru                                                                     VE
NBABA~~~~~~~~CUAp~~~~~R~~BYG YE  A  EBRRRLERLYTTRLALERRALLA,ARY~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~V=                                             WV
ARRAY. YLTERRTBERC B  ERLYARROTRY BAYRYALASYLAYR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W,                                                     ~W
B RIB RERYANBYR RARYR TRIURYR BA BAA .BYRRBTp5TBA B BLYTE?ABLLRBYRRB# RELYEBBBB                        r :        ::~                                : :~ ;                                                i: 



