OFFICIAL      CREDIT NUMBER 1418 YDR
DOCUMENTS
Project Agreement
(Seiyun Regional Water Supply Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
PUBLIC WATER CORPORATION
Dated                            ,1984


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1984, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT A SOCIATION ( ereinafter called the
Association) and PUBLIC WATER CORPORATION (hereinafter called
PWC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (herein-
after called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to six million five hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,500,000), on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on
condition that PWC agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and PWC, the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available
to PWC on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS PWC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. PWC shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and public utility practices.


﻿- 2 -
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist PWC in (i) the super-
vision of the construction under Part A of the Project, and (ii)
the preparation of the design and studies under Part A.5, 6 and
7, PWC shall employ engineering and management consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association, such consultants to be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satis-
factory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
(b) PWC shall employ: (i) the consultants for the construc-
tion supervision referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of this Section
not later than January 1, 1984; and (ii) the consultants for the
preparation of the design and studies referred to in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section not later than January 1, 1985.
Section 2.03. In order to strengthen the existing project
implementation unit in Seiyun, PWC shall employ two engineers
and two accountants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this
Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) PWC undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by PWC to replace or repair such goods.
(b) PWC shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be
used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) PWC shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement


﻿-3-
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) PWC shall: (i) maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its
cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable the
Association's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association at
regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures
of such proceeds and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by PWC of any contract for goods, works
or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the
Association may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between PWC and the
Association, PWC shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by PWC and the Association of their
respective obligations under the Project Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
(e) PWC shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of PWC and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.07. PWC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, PWC shall not take or concur in any action


﻿which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section  2.08. (a) PWC    shall, at the request of     the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) PWC shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress rf the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by PWC of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.09. PWC shall carry out the design and studies
under Part A.5, 6 and 7 of the Project in accordance with terms
of reference satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of PWC
Section 3.01. PWC shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
engineering and public utility practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. PWC shall at all times operate and maintain
its plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and from
time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and public utility practices.
Section 3.03. PWC shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to
the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. PWC shall adopt an administrative structure
for its Seiyun operating branch acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.05. PWC shall:
(a) monitor the attainment of the objectives of the Project
through a system of technical, financial and administrative
indicators acceptable to the Association;


﻿- 5 -
(b) provide the Association, with quarterly reports during
the period of Project implementation, and thereafter with annual
reports during the following five years, showing the results of
its operations in terms of such indicators and targets; and
(c) promptly   take  all  such  remedial  actions  as  the
Association shall reasonably request to meet the objectives
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. PWC shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. PWC shall:
(a) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(b) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
any case not later than nine months after the end of each such
year, (i) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited, and (ii) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(c) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts, financial statements, records and
expenditures, as well as the audit thereof, as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association may otherwise
agree, PWC shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast
of PWC's revenues and expenditures shows that its projected net
revenues for each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be
incurred shall be at least 1.2 times its pr' acted debt service
requirement in such year on all debt of PW(J, including the debt
to be incurred.


﻿- 6 -
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "debt" means any indebtedness of PWC
maturing by its terms more than one year after the
date on which it is originally incurred;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
loan contract or agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt or further modification of
its terms of payment, on the date of such
contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under a
guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee has been entered into
but only to the extent that the guaranteed debt
shall be outstanding;
(iii) whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of Yemeni Dinars
debt payable in foreign currency, such valuation
shall be made at the prevailing lawful rate of
exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the
time of such valuation, obtainable by PWC for the
purposes of servicing such debt;
(iv) the term "net revenues   means the gross revenues
from  all   sources,  less   all  operating   and
administrative   expenses   (including   adequate
maintenance  and   taxes,  if  any)  but   before
provision covering depreciation and interest and
other charges on debt;
(v) the term "debt service requirement" means the
aggregate  amount   of   amortization  (including
sinking fund payments, if any), and of interest
and other charges on debt; and
(vi) the term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast
prepared by PWC in the fiscal year in which the
debt in question is to be incurred, which both the
Association and PWC accept as reasonable and as to
which the Association has notified PWC of its
acceptability, provided that no event has occurred
since such notification which has, or may reason-
ably be expected in the future to have, a material
adverse affect on the financial condition or
future operating results of PWC.


﻿-7-
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, PWC shall, for each of its fiscal years, starting in 1984,
take all such measures, including adjustments to its tariffs, as
shall be required to enable it to earn revenues sufficient to
cover in addition to operating expenses (excluding depreciation),
debt service requirements and increases in working capital other
than cash, not less than twelve per cent (12%) of the annual
average of PWC's estimated capital expenditures to be Incurred
during each such fiscal year and the two (2) following fiscal
years.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "revenues" means income from water sales
and from the provision of related sales, and
miscellaneous income including income from non-
operating sources;
(ii) the term "operating expenses" means expenses for
operation, maintenance and administration and
related expenses;
(iii) the term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate  amount   of  amortization   (including
sinking fund payments, if any), interest and other
charges on debt;
(iv) the term "working capital other than cash" means
the excess of current assets (accounts receivable,
inventories and current maturities of long-term
advances)  less   current  liabilities  (accounts
payable, deposits payable and short-term loans);
and
(v) the term "capital expenditures" means all expendi-
tures incurred on account of fixed assets.
Section 4.05. Before November 30 of each fiscal year,
starting in 1983, PWC shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared
to the satisfaction of the Association, review the adequacy of
its rates and, if required, shall take all necessary action to
adjust its rates for the next fiscal year, in order to meet the
revenue requirements laid down in Section 4.04 of this Agreement.
Section 4.06. The foregoing provisions of Sections 4.03 and
4.04 supersede the agreements set forth in Sections 4.03 and 4.04


﻿- 8 -
of the Project Agreement (Al Mukalla Water Supply Rehabilitation
Project) dated July 27, 1981 between the Association and PWC.
ARTICE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of PWC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date twenty-five years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
PWC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿- 9-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For PWC:
Public Water Corporation
P.O. Box 4004
Crater, Aden
People's Democratic
Republic of Yemen
Cable address:                   Telex:
MEYAH                            2320 MEYAH AD
Aden
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of PWC may be taken or executed by the
General Manager or such other person or persons as the General
Manager shall designate in writing, and PWC shall furnish to the
Association  sufficient  evidence  of  the  authority  and  the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿- 10 -
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By-
0,7      'Regional Vice President
Europe, Midde East and North Africa
PUBLIC WATER CORPORATION
Byiv
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bid-
ding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, PWC shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notifica-
tion to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the
goods and works in question. PWC shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
or works remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of internatioaal com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.


﻿- 12 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction
of PWC and the Association that the manufacturing
cost of such goods includes a value added in
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen equal to at
least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this


﻿- 13 -
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for the purchase of operational equipment may be
awarded through limited international tendering after obtaining
quotations from at least four suppliers, eligible to bid in
accordance with the Guidelines, from at least two countries;
provided, that contracts so awarded shall not exceed the equiva-
lent of $50,000 each and in the aggregate the equivalent of
$650,000.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, PWC shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, PWC shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Associa-
tion of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time
for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and compari-
son of the bids received, together with the recommendations for


﻿- 14 -
award and such other information as the Association shall reason-
ably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform PWC and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph PWC shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Association of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform PWC and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, PWC shall inform the
Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefore. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform PWC and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of          ,
198 4.
FOR SECRETARY


