Doemient of
The World Bank
FOR OFCLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13627
PROJECT COMPLETION RPORT
SUDAN
POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1624-SU)
OCTOBER 24, 1994
Energy and Infrastructure Division
Country Department II
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and mnav be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
NEC                         National Electricity Corporation
NEA                         National Energy Administration
FINNIDA                     The Finnish International Development Authority
IDA                         International Development Association
kW                          Kilo Watt
kV                          Kilo Volt
MW                          Mega Watt
MWh                         Mega Watt Hour
ERR                         Economic Rate of Return
FY                          Fiscal Year
SDR                         Standard Drawing Rights
SAR                         Staff Appraisal Report
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Octobcr 24,1994
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Sudan
Power Rehabilitation Proiect (Credit 1624-SU)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Sudan: Power Rehabilitation Project
(Credit 1624-SU) prepared by the Africa Region. The Borrower did not contribute to the PCR.
The project objectives were very ambitious.  They were to: ensure efficiency and
reliability of existing power facilities; add generation, transmission and distribution capacity to meet
demand growth; promote institutional development; strengthen sector organization and operation;
establish long-term development policy; reform tariffs; introduce energy conservation and load
management; and interconnect the power system.
The physical objectives were partially met by adding 18 MW in diesel generation units,
rehabilitating selected areas of the transmission and distribution networks, procuring spare parts and
building a training center. About 20% of the physical components were canceled (rehabilitation of a
hydro power station and part of the transmission and distribution network) and funds reallocated to
procure vehicles, spare parts, office equipment, material and supplies, and equipment for the training
center. The efficiency objectives were not met: the National Electricity Corporation, NEC, did not
improve its financial performance, tariff adjustments were neither sufficient nor timely; arrears
amounting to one year of billing continue to be a serious problem, and the number of NEC's employees
remains very large relative to the number of customers served. The least-cost sector expansion studies
and the feasibility study for the Khartoum North thermal power plant -- financed by the Power IV
Project (Credit 1 788-SU) -- contributed partly to the sector development policy. Besides tariff reform,
the project design did not include any component on energy conservation or load management and it
is unclear how much progress has been made towards these objectives.
The project was completed with a 42-month delay at a cost of US$43.4 million, or 23%
cost overrun relative to the cost appraised for those components actually implemented. The appreciation
of the SDR relative to the US dollar by almost 40% during project implementation permitted NEC to
finance the cost overrun from the Credit. A balance of SDR 0.07 million was canceled at Credit
closing.
The outcome of the project is rated as marginally unsatisfactory and its institutional
development impact as negligible. The sustainability of the project is uncertain as long as cost recovery
and sector efficiency do not improve.
The PCR contains a satisfactory account of the project implementation and results.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1624-SU)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE                      ..............................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..i
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE .1
1 Project Identity .1
2 Project Background .1
3 Project Objectives and Description.                                             2
4 Project Design and Organization.                                                3
5 Implementation Experience.                                                      3
6 Project Results.                                                                5
7 Project Sustainability.                                                         7
8 IDA Performance.                                                                7
9 Beneficiary's Performance.                                                      8
10 Project Relationship.                                                          8
11 Consulting Services and Contractors' Performance.                              8
12 Procurement.                                                                   8
13 Disbursement.                                                                  9
14 Project Documentation and Data.                                               9
15 Findings and Lessons Learned.                                                 9
PART H. PROJECT EVALUATION FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  10
PART III. STATISTICAL AND OTHER PROJECT INFORMATION   ...                      ......  11
1 Related Bank Group Loans and/or Credits  ........................  11
2 Project Timetable ........................................   12
3 Credit Disbursements  .....................................  13
4 Project Cost and Financing ..................................  14
5 Status of Compliance with Major Covenants  .......................  15
6 Use of the Association Resources ..............................  16
7 Comparative Balance Sheets (FY87 - FY92)  .......................  18
8 Comparative Income Statements (FY87 - FY92) .....................  19
9 Comparison of NEC's Selected Performance Indicators (FY87 - FY92)  ... ... 20
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1624-SU)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Power Rehabilitation Project (Cr.
1624-SU) in the Sudan. The Credit of SDR 30.3 million was approved on August 27, 1985,
became effective on April 4, 1986, and was closed on June 30, 1993, after allowing for four
extensions (the original closing date was December 31, 1989). Disbursements continued until
November 15, 1993, when the balance of SDR 72,412 in the Credit was cancelled.
Parts I and III of this PCR were prepared by the Energy and Infrastructure Operations
Division of the Eastern Africa Department. During the final supervision mission in November
1992, the Borrower was requested to provide the final project cost estimates and to prepare Part
II. As of May 1994, IDA had not received the Borrower's contribution.
This PCR is based, inter alia, on information available in the Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR), the Memorandum of the President, the Development Credit and Project Agreements,
supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank
memoranda.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1624-SU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
1.    The Power Rehabilitation Project was appraised as part of a possible Power IV Project
which included the major power sub-sector related investments in the period 1985-1990. The
complex co-financing arrangements for the large project could not be finalized due to the difficult
economic situation in Sudan and particularly arrear problems with key donors. The original
Power IV was therefore split into two projects following a post-appraisal mission in August 1984:
(i) the Power Rehabilitation Project; and (ii) the re-designed Power IV Project. The Power
Rehabilitation Project was processed as an interim operation to assist in financing of the most
urgent needs which included the rehabilitation of the existing facilities and urgently needed new
capacity. The re-designed Power IV Project (Cr. 1788-SU) financed the remaining items of
NEC's investment program not included in the Power Rehabilitation Project. A separate PCR is
issued for the Power IV Project.
Project Objectives
2.    The three main objectives of the project were to: (i) ensure the efficient utilization of
existing power facilities and improve power supply reliability through immediately required
rehabilitation works which would yield high economic returns and minimize funds for new
investments; (ii) assist in urgently needed additions of generation, transmission and distribution
capacities to meet the growing demand on the power system; and (iii) promote institutional
development and strengthening of power sub-sector organization and operation, establish long-
term development policy and investment priorities, reform power tariffs, introduce load
management and energy conservation, and contribute to subregional power system
interconnections.
Implementation Experience
3.    The implementation of the project was significantly delayed. It took eight years from
Board approval to closing, compared to the planned four years. Due to slow execution of on-
lending arrangements and the opening of the Special Account, the Credit became effective two
and a half months behind schedule. Further delays were experienced in implementing both the
technical components and planning studies. The delays in the technical components were mainly
caused by the Borrower's slow signing of contracts, difficulties in clearing equipment at Port
Sudan and transport problems. The bankruptcy of the crankcase supplier, delayed payment by
NEC of contractors' advances, and late submission of civil works drawings by the contractor for
the Burri diesel generating units also postponed implementation. The carrying out of the planning
studies was delayed due to the extended time it took for the Borrower to draft the consultants'
terms of reference, inability of the consultants to attend contract meetings as a result of the Gulf
Crisis; non-availability of funds; and the new Government's legislation which made it necessary to
obtain the Attorney General's approval of foreign contracts prior to signature.



-iii-
4.    The National Electricity Corporation (NEC) had the main responsibility for project
implementation and was assisted by consulting engineers in the design, supervision and processing
of bid documents and contracts. Several organizational units of NEC were involved in the
implementation with clearly defined responsibilities and the co-ordination was carried out by a
project implementation unit headed by a Project Manager. It was reported however, that the
implementation unit did not always get the required backing from NEC. Several changes in the
management of NEC were carried out by the Government during Project implementation resulting
in some lack of continuity.
5.    The implementation of the institutional strengthening components was carried out by
engaging consultants to assist NEC Finance Directorate to improve accounting and reporting
systems, and billing and collection procedures. These activities were co-ordinated with the Power
IV Project.
6.    IDA made generally one to two supervision missions per year except in 1991 when no
missions took place due to the reduction of IDA resources for project supervision in Sudan.
Results
7.    Technical. On the technical side the project achieved its objectives, though the two 10
MW diesel generating units at the Burri power plant were commissioned in mid 1990 instead of
1987 as planned. All material and equipment required to complete the rehabilitation of the
Eastern Grid were delivered by 1992. This latter component complemented the linking-up of the
Eastern Grid with the Blue Nile Grid financed by FINNIDA outside the Project. The spare parts
for the rehabilitation of the Sennar hydropower station were delivered and installed as planned.
The Project also provided equipment to reduce transmission and distribution system losses, and
additional scientific equipment for NEC's staff Training Center. The Training Center was
established under the Power III Project and was officially opened in 1990.
8.    Institutional and Financial. The institutional and financial objectives were not fully
achieved. NEC's financial performance was unsatisfactory and it did not comply with the rate of
return covenant of the Credit. Structure of the power tariffs was improved and rates were
increased. However, these changes were not implemented timely and were not sufficient to
reverse NEC's weak financial performance. Although NEC made some improvements in keeping
pace with current billing and collections, it was unable to reduce consumers' past due accounts.
9.    The planning studies were successfully completed, albeit behind schedule: the Merowe
Dam Feasibility Study was completed by consultants by the end of 1992, whereas the Long Term
Power Planning Study was completed by consultants in early 1993.
Sustainability
10.   The main benefit of the project is the prolonging of the life of the existing generating and
transmission facilities and improving system reliability. The project also contributed some new
generating capacity. These benefits will endure for the investments' useful life provided that
NEC operates and maintains the facilities in a proper manner. The project contributed to the
sustainability by providing training for operators and maintenance staff, and especially by
equipping the Training Center with technical equipment for many years to come. The new diesel



-iv-
generating units at Burri are also covered by the contractors' four year service contract.
However, the long term sustainability depends to a large extent on NEC's ability to charge
adequate tariffs and collect revenue to provide funds to cover operation and maintenance
expenditure, to train its staff, and to attract qualified staff. To achieve that NEC should be
allowed to operate autonomously and on commercial basis. At project closing NEC had not yet
achieved such a state.
Findings and Lessons Learned
11.   The main findings from this operation are the following:
(a)    The Bank should have been more decisive in exercising its remedies for non-
compliance with the credit covenants;
(b)    The Project has shown that sustained institutional and financial improvements are
difficult to obtain without major changes in the way the power sub-sector is
managed. The project should have addressed NEC's institutional weaknesses in a
more comprehensive manner, including increased autonomy;
(c)    Future lending to the Sudan power sub-sector (assuming of course resumption of
Bank lending to Sudan) should be contingent on the Government agreeing to
major power sub-sector reforms including the commercialization of NEC and the
encouragement of private sector participation in the financing and management of
power facilities, as discussed in the Bank's Power Sub-Sector Policy Paper,
approved by the Board in October 1992;
(d)    The Project was well designed to include the contractor's four year service
contract for the Burri diesel units. In an environment with limited staff capacity
to carry out plant maintenance, this feature is likely to contribute to the
sustainability of the project; and
(e)    The implementation schedule should have been controlled better, when ever
possible, to avoid cost over-runs.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1624-SU)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANKS'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Project Title:             Power Rehabilitation Project
Credit Number:             1624-SU
Region:                    AFRICA
Country:                   SUDAN
Sector:                    ENERGY
Subsector:                 ELECTRIC POWER
Closing Date:              June 30, 1993
2. Project Background
2.1    The Power Rehabilitation Project was a follow-up on the Bank's strategy to assist the
Government of Sudan to implement its power sector development program, which concentrated on
increasing and improving the power system capacity of the Blue Nile Grid which provides most of
the nation's electricity supply. The Bank made its first loan to Sudan's power sector in 1968. It
was followed by the Power II Project in 1975, and the Power III Project in 1980.
2.2    The Power Rehabilitation Project was branched out of the originally planned Power IV
Project which could not be implemented strictly as envisaged due to major difficulties in obtaining
the required amount of concessionary financing for investment. The preparation of the original
Power IV Project started in 1982, and appraisal took place in July 1983. It was designed to assist
in the financing of the major components of Sudan's Power Development Program for 1986-1990.
The power sector's least-cost expansion plan to meet demand up to the early 1990s was based on
studies prepared by independent consultants in 1979, and on the Power IV Feasibility Study of
1983. The implementation of the identified investments required about US$230 million in foreign
exchange. This necessitated complex co-financing arrangements and a long time for their
finalization due to the difficult economic situation in Sudan and particularly arrears problems with
key donors. Due to difficulties in obtaining co-financing, IDA suspended project processing at
the Green Cover stage and the project was split into two smaller projects: (1) the Power
Rehabilitation Project; and (2) the reduced Power IV Project. Following a post-appraisal mission
in mid 1984, the Power Rehabilitation Project was formulated to assist in financing the most
urgent needs which included the rehabilitation of the existing facilities and a modest generation
and transmission expansion program. The reduced Power IV project was designed to finance
most of the remaining items of NEC's investment program not included in the Power
Rehabilitation Project.



-2-
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1    Objectives. The project had the following three objectives:
(a)    to ensure the efficient utilization of existing power facilities and improve power
supply reliability through immediately required rehabilitation works which would
yield high economic returns and minimize funds for new investments;
(b)    to assist in urgently needed additions of generation, transmission and distribution
capacities to meet the growing demand on the power system; and
(c)    to promote institutional development and strengthening of power subsector
organization and operation, establish long-term development policy and investment
priorities, reform power tariffs, introduce load management and energy
conservation, and contribute to subregional power system interconnections.
3.2    Description. The project originally comprised the following seven components:
(a)    addition of 2*10 MW diesel units at the Burri power station;
(b)    rehabilitation of units I and 2 at Roseires hydro-power station (cancelled during
implementation);
(c)    procurement of spare parts for the Sennar hydro-power station;
(d)    rehabilitation of the Blue Nile transmission network, procurement of transmission
towers and parts, tools and measuring equipment (reduced during
implementation);
(e)    rehabilitation of the Eastern Grid installations, including replacement of circuit
breakers and accessories and addition of distance protection for 66 kV
transmission lines;
(f)    replacement of old circuit breakers at the Burri and Kilo X substations (cancelled
during implementation); and
(g)    consultancy services for supervision of project implementation and coordination of
management improvement and training assistance, and for carrying out studies and
feasibility reports of (i) long-term development and investment priorities,
including the Merowe Dam project; and (ii) possible power system
interconnections.
3.3    The project was modified slightly in early 1988. Components (b) and (f) were cancelled
as it was possible to implement them under the ongoing Power III Project. The freed resources
were instead re-allocated for the supply and installation of equipment for the Training Center
which was established under the Power III Project, and for the acquisition of vehicles, office
equipment, materials and supplies to improve billing and collection. Furthermore, component (d)
was reduced to include the acquisition of spare parts only, since funding for the rehabilitation and
extension of the Blue Nile Grid was provided from bilateral sources.



-3-
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1    Design. The project design was based on several detailed power sector studies, including:
the least-cost power sector development program up to FY90 which was updated by NEC's
consultants in 1982; and the 1983 feasibility study for the original Power IV. The consultancy
studies were reviewed during appraisal and it was confirmed that the addition of two diesel units
'at the Burri power plant and the rehabilitation of the Roseires and Sennar hydro power plants as
well as the rehabilitation of the transmission and distribution networks were components of the
least-cost development plan for the Sudan power system. The project was urgently needed to
increase the reliability of supply and add new capacity. From the technical point of view the
project was well designed based on comprehensive analysis. It was part of the Country
Assistance Strategy which emphasized rehabilitation of existing facilities, and conformed with the
Government's development priorities.
4.2    The scope of the project was modified slightly during implementation by re-allocating
funds from the technical components which could be completed under the Power III Project, to
engage consultants to assist NEC in institutional improvement, and acquire equipment to improve
NEC's revenue collection functions.
4.3    Oranization. NEC had the overall implementation responsibility for the project. Within
NEC the implementation responsibility for the various components was clearly divided between
different organizational units. The extension of the Burri diesel plant, the rehabilitation of the
Roseires hydro plant and the transmission rehabilitation were executed under NEC's Project
Directorate with a Project Manager for each component. The procurement of spare parts for the
rehabilitation of the Sennar hydro plant was carried out by NEC's Operation Department. The
power sector studies were implemented by NEC's Planning Directorate and a senior Manager was
appointed to coordinate the outputs of the studies. The rehabilitation of Eastern Grid was closely
coordinated with the works funded by FINNIDA.
4.4   For the design and supervision of each project component and for preparing bidding and
contract documents NEC appointed international consulting firms, which enhanced NEC's
implementation capacity.
5. Project Implementation
5.1    The credit became effective on April 4, 1986, and was closed on June 30, 1993, i.e three
and a half years later than originally planned. The Credit became effective two and a half months
behind schedule. This was at least in part due to a change at the top of the Ministry of Finance
and Economic Planning which delayed the execution of on-lending arrangements and the opening
of the Special Account. Project implementation was further delayed due to the long tendering
process and the time it took for NEC to award contracts. Additional delays, some of which were
out of the control of the Borrower, were experienced in the installation of the two Burri diesel
units and in the completion of the two planning studies.
5.2    The erection of the Burri diesel units was delayed by about three years. One major
reason for the delay was the bankruptcy of the crankcase manufacturer in 1987. The two almost
completed crankcases could not be recovered despite efforts from all the parties involved, and
new ones had to be manufactured resulting in an additional several months' waiting period.
Further problems reported were: strikes at Port Sudan which hampered the contractor's clearance



-4-
of equipment; transportation difficulties, delayed advance payment to the contractor by NEC,
problems with detailed design of the plant, delayed submission of civil works drawings by the
contractor with effects on progress on site; and other hold-ups caused by the contractor. The late
completion by the Water Department of the rerouting of underground services at the new cooling
tower location also affected the timely completion of the installation. When the generators were
finally commissioned in mid 1990, their performance was not satisfactory and neither unit
delivered its rated output of 10 MW. The main reason quoted for the unsatisfactory performance
was that the engines were of new and unproven design. In addition, there were problems with the
ancillary plant and its controls. The main problems were finally solved by the contractor, but the
output of the generators was reported to have remained limited to some 9 MW each, due to the
demanding operating conditions in Khartoum.
5.3    With regard to the implementation of the other technical components, which constituted
spare parts and equipment for the rehabilitation of the Blue Nile Grid and the Eastern Grid
transmission lines, no major issues were reported.
5.4    NEC's project implementation unit was reported to function competently but not receiving
the required support from NEC's management. The replacement of the original Project Manager
due to a promotion resulted also in some loss of continuity.
5.5    The project also provided for laboratory and other equipment for the Training Center.
Some delays were encountered due to difficulties in transporting the equipment from Port Sudan.
The main delays resulted from a disagreement between NEC, the Consultant, the Supplier and
local transport agents on the contractual obligation for payment of container deposit and inland
freight. Nevertheless, when completed in 1990, the facilities of the Training Center were
considered to be suitable, not solely for NEC's needs, but also for the training requirements of
other similar organizations. Subsequently, NEC was advised to seek bilateral funding for the
recruitment of a qualified Training Manager.
5.6    The implementation of the two studies included in the Project was substantially delayed
mainly due to shortage of funds, but also because of the additional time it took for the Borrower
to draft Terms of reference, and to obtain the Attorney General's clearance of foreign contracts,
in accordance of the new Government's requirements. The Gulf Crisis also prevented the
consultants' travel to Sudan for a period of time. The funds problem was solved through re-
allocation of proceeds within the Project. The Merowe Dam feasibility study was finally
completed in 1992 and the Long-Term Power Plan in 1993.
5.7    Proiect Risk. At appraisal, the physical risks were considered to be small since the
addition of two diesel units was planned already when the Burri extension was originally designed
for 6X10 MW units and only four were installed. In regard of other Project components, the
SAR correctly identified the risks associated with the Borrower not taking timely action in
preparing bid documents, processing tender documents and awarding contracts, all of which
proved to be causes of delay.



-5-
6. Project Results
6.1    Physical Results. Despite various obstacles, the Project achieved its physical objectives to
rehabilitate the Sennar hydropower plant, selected areas of the transmission and distribution
networks, and add new generating capacity at the Burri diesel power plant. However, the works
were carried out behind schedule, for instance the Burri diesel units were installed three years
later than planned. As a result, the benefits in the form of increased power supply were
materialized only in mid 1990 instead of the planned year of 1987. The rehabilitation components
contributed to increased reliability of supply.
6.2    The project also contributed to the establishment of the state-of-the-art Training Center for
technical and maintenance staff with associated equipment and accommodation facilities, which in
addition for training of NEC staff can also be used by other private and public enterprises.
Indeed, the IDA supervision mission considered the facilities be so functional that they could be
used for regional training needs as well, provided funding is found for appropriate staffing.
6.3   Institutional and Financial Results. The institutional development objectives of the Project
were not fully achieved. NEC's institutional and financial performance remained weak, and it did
not comply with the rate of return covenant of the Credit. Partial success was achieved as both
the structure and the level of electricity tariffs were revised during Project implementation. Tariff
adjustments, especially during the initial years, were not implemented expeditiously because of the
Government's reluctance to implement unpopular price increases. Although increases in
electricity tariffs boosted NEC's financial results, they were not adequate to contribute to
sustained improvements as costs increased due to high inflation and the devaluation of the
Sudanese currency.
6.4    Progress in NEC's financial situation was also substantially hampered by its unsatisfactory
performance with respect to billing and collection. By the end of the project NEC established a
task force under a senior manager to monitor billing and collections and made some
improvements in collecting new revenue, for instance through the establishment of additional
collection centers, and through hiring of private collection agents, and using staff members of all
categories to collect. These programs did not, however, enable NEC to reduce its long overdue
accounts and as a result the account receivables remained large but relatively constant throughout
the project. It is estimated that more than half of the arrears are caused by residential consumers
many of which are overdue by several years and which are probably not collectible any more,
because some of these consumers may have moved or passsed out but may still be in NEC's
customer register.
6.5    The staff training provided under the project, reinforced by the consultancy services under
the Power IV Project, substatially improved NEC's management information and reporting
systems, which at Project inception were almost non existent. On the other hand, NEC was not
able to implement the action plan for improving staff efficiency, and the customer to staff ratio
remained below the SAR targets.



-6-
6.6            The actual annual rates of return and accounts receivable are shown in Table 1.
below. 1/
Table 1. Rate of return on average revalued net fixed assets in operation
and Accounts Receivable FY87-92. 2/
Fiscal year     Rate of Return on Average   Account Receivable
Revalued net Fixed Assets in   Days of Sales
Operation
1987                 4.0%                       350
1988                 0.5%                       355
1989                 -0.6%                      458
1990                 2.3%                       334
1991                  1.5%                      361
1992                 0.7%                       345
Source. NEC's financial statements. FY92 data is preliminary.
6.7    Studies. The project achieved its objectives to carry out planning and feasibility studies.
The power sub-sector long-term plan was finalized in 1993. It identified the economic least-cost
expansion plan to meet the projected demand up to the year 2015. According to the report, the
implementation of this plan would require NEC to increase tariffs by some 7 percent per year in
real terms during the period 1997-2001, to achieve financial viability. The Merowe Dam
feasibility study was completed in end 1992. It identified a hydroelectric development at Merowe
with a capacity of about 1,240 MW at an estimated cost of some US$1.4 billion. Another study
was the update of the feasibility study for the Khartoum North power plant expansion, which later
provided the basis for the main component of the Power IV Project.
6.8    Economic Impact. The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the proposed investments
was calculated at 22 percent in the SAR. Benefits were composed of: (i) incremental benefits in
the form of additional demand the system can serve with the Burri diesel units valued at projected
average tariff yields required to meet financial targets; and (ii) estimated fuel savings due to lower
thermal energy production resulting from energy losses due to rehabilitation works to the
transmission and distribution systems. To re-calculate the ERR we would need to have
investment costs, not only for the Power Rehabilitation Project, but for all other projects NEC has
implemented or is planning to implement to meet the demand in the period 1986-2003, which was
the time slice of the investment program used in the SAR calculation of the ERR. In addition, we
would need the operation and maintenance costs for the same period, and an estimate of the
consumers' willingness-to-pay for electricity. Because IDA does not currently have an active
dialogue with the Sudan, IDA has not obtained the required data. Hence, the ERR has not been
The covenanf requiring NEC to reduce its accounts receivables was modified in the Power IV Credit to
include annual targets.
The rate of return covenant was modified in the Power IVprojectfrom the 9 % in the Power Rehabilitation
Project to 10 % from FY89 and onwards.



-7-
recalculated. It is estimated, however, that when using the same methodology as was used in the
SAR, the re-calculated ERR would be lower. The main reasons for the assumed lower ERR are
the loss of benefits in the initial years due to significant delays, higher than expected project cost,
and lower that forecast tariffs in many years. Nevertheless, as pointed out in the SAR, the
average tariff yield may underestimate the consumers' willingness-to-pay.
7. Project Sustainability
7.1    The main benefit of the project is the prolonging of the life of the existing generating and
transmission facilities and improving system reliability. The project also contributed some new
generating capacity. These benefits will endure for the investments' useful life provided that
NEC continues to operate and maintain the facilities in a timely and proper manner. The project
contributed to the sustainability of the investments by providing training for operators and
maintenance staff, and especially by equipping the Training Center with adequate equipment. The
new diesel generating units at Burri are also covered by the contractors' four year service
contract. However, the long term sustainability depends to a large extent on NEC's ability to
charge adequate tariffs and collect revenue to provide funds to cover operation and maintenance
expenditure, continued staff training, and to attract qualified staff, i.e conduct its business on a
commercial basis. This would require granting NEC autonomy and more likely its privatization
in the whole or in part. The Bank's new Power Sector Policy (1992) has identified that
transparent and independent regulatory processes, commercialization and corporatization of power
utilities, and private sector participation in the provision of capital and management, are necessary
conditions for an efficient power sub-sector, which the Bank would support financially.
8. IDA Performance
8.1    The rationale for IDA involvement in this project was to enable IDA to continue and
expand its efforts towards achieving the institution building objectives identified under the
previous lending operations. It was envisaged that the project would enable IDA to promote
structural changes and improvements in the Sudan's power sub-sector, particularly in energy
planning, pricing policies, development of indigenous energy resources and institution building
aspects in accordance with the Country assistance strategy which emphasized rehabilitation. In
the absence of other donors, IDA support was considered crucial to ensure the continuation of
NEC's institutional reform. IDA assistance also aimed at helping NEC and the Government of
Sudan to prepare technically sound and financially and economically viable projects.
8.2   IDA played an important role in project supervision, but it should have made more
energetic representations and used its remedies to enforce financial covenants. During the nine
supervision missions, IDA monitored closely the implementation of the physical components and
NEC's financial situation. The mission teams composed of either a Power Engineer and a
Financial Analyst or a Financial Analyst and Operations Analyst visited Sudan regularly.
Towards the end of the project, IDA's possibilities to monitor and influence the implementation of
the Project were reduced because of the decrease in the Sudan portfolio and the reduction in
supervision resources. As a result, no supervision missions were carried out in 1991. Due to the
long implementation period, there were a number of changes in the staff in charge of the
supervision.



-8-
9. Beneficiary's Performance
9.1    Throughout the project NEC's performance was better in the implementation of the
physical components than on the institutional or financial side. However, the extended time it
took to award contracts, draft Terms of Reference for consultants, and late payment of
contractors' and consultants' claims by NEC and the Borrower resulted in delays. By the end of
the project, NEC made progress in mobilizing a task force led by a senior manager to improve
the issuance and collection of bills. Yet it was not able to implement IDA's recommendations to
substantially improve its revenue collection performance. NEC remained closely tied to the
government, and became perhaps even more tied under the new Government. Staff
rationalization programs and tariff increases were difficult to implement due to the Government
reluctance. NEC did not manage to gain the autonomy required to implement major actions to
enhance its efficiency.
9.2    NEC did not comply with the financial covenants, and as of May 1994, it had not
submitted its audited FY92 and FY93 financial statements.
10. Project Relationship
10.1  The association maintained good working relationship with the NEC and the Borrower
during project preparation and supervision. Adequate communication with the Borrower and
NEC established under previous operations was maintained during implementation. Coordination
with other donors was good. The Bank suspended all disbursements to Sudan in September 14,
1993, due to arrears problems.
11. Consulting Services and Contractors' Performance
11.1   Consulting Services. The performance of the consultants was satisfactory. The
consulting engineers, which assisted NEC in implementing the various project components, were
experienced and had worked previously with NEC in similar projects. The consultants who
undertook the planning studies were known international firms.
11.2   Contractors. The performance of the contractors was generally satisfactory and many of
the encountered problems were out of the control of the contractors themselves. Some problems
were reported with regard to the timeliness in the submission of civil works drawings and
progress reports, as well as in the finalization of the design of the diesel units.
12. Procurement
12.1   Contracts for the major items in the project were procured through International
Competitive Bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines. Eight firms were pre-qualified for the
construction of the Burri diesel units, and negotiations with the successful bidder were completed
in November 1986. The studies and consulting services were procured according to IDA
guidelines for hiring of consultants by Borrowers. Those items which could only be supplied by
the original manufacturers or which were minor quantities were procured by international
shopping procedures as outlined in IDA procurement guidelines. All contracts estimated to cost
over US$250,000 were subject to prior approval of the bid documents by IDA.



-9-
12.2   Two procurement cases were highlighted: (i) the procurement of consulting services for
the Long-Term Power Planning Study took long time due to delay in evaluation of proposals
resulting from the internal restructuring of NEC, and the new legislation requiring all contracts to
be reviewed by the Attorney General; and (ii) transport of the training simulator from Port Sudan
was delayed due to a confusion over the contractual obligation for payment of inland freight.
13. Disbursements
13.1   A total of US$40.2 million (SDR 30.2 million) was disbursed, while the balance of SDR
72,412 was cancelled. The amount disbursed was much higher than the SAR estimate of US$30
million, because of the appreciation of the SDR. Disbursements were much slower than expected
because of the implementation delays; they were completed over a period of seven years as
compared to the appraisal estimate of four and a half years.
14. Project Documentation and Data
14.1   Project documentation in the SAR and project files were adequate to prepare this PCR.
The Borrower and the consulting engineers submitted to the Association fairly timely quarterly
progress reports but the submission of audited financial statements was often delayed. NEC's
quarterly progress reports were detailed and sufficiently described the activities at the Burri site,
but were meager about the other technical components and the implementation of the institutional
components.
15. Findings and Lessons Learned
15.1   The main findings and lessons from this operation are the following:
(a)    The Bank should have been more decisive in exercising its remedies for non-
compliance with the credit covenants;
(b)    The Project has shown that sustained institutional and financial improvements are
difficult to obtain without major changes in the way the power sub-sector is
managed. The project should have addressed NEC's institutional weaknesses in a
more comprehensive manner, including increased autonomy;
(c)    Future lending to the Sudan power sub-sector (assuming of course resumption of
Bank lending to Sudan) should be contingent on the Government agreeing to
major power sub-sector reforms including the commercialization of NEC and the
encouragement of private sector participation in the financing and management of
power facilities, as discussed in the Bank's Power Sub-Sector Policy Paper,
approved by the Board in October 1992;
(d)    The Project was well designed to include the contractor's four year service
contract for the Burri diesel units. In an environment with limited staff capacity
to carry out plant maintenance, this feature is likely to contribute to the
sustainability of the project, as would the operator training provided by
contractors; and
(e)    The implementation schedule should have been controlled better, when ever
possible, to avoid cost over-runs.



-10-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1624-SU)
PART II: PROJECT EVALUATION FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
No comments were received from the Borrowers.



-11-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1624-SU)
PART III: STATISTICAL AND OTHER PROJECT INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Group Loans and/or Credits
Loan/Credit Title      Amount                Purpose                Board       Status
US$                                          Approval
millions
Loan 522-SU (Power I)            24  Provide new generation and          1968        Closed
transmission capacity and consulting
services to assist in the
improvement of the organization
and management of the Borrower.
Credit 564-SU (Power II)         23  Meet the need for additional        1975        Closed
generating capacity in the Blue Nile
Grid and provide assistance for
institutional and operational
improvements.
Credit 1006-SU (Power III)       65  Help in meeting Sudan's power       1980        Closed
requirements up to the end of 1986
and provide for staff training.
Credit 1788-SU (Power IV)        38  Provide new generating capacity to   1987       Closed
meet projected demand up to 1991,
institutional strengthening of NEC
and technical assistance to NEA.



-12-
2. Project Timetable
Project Event                                     Planned Date J                    Acaual Date
Identification                                                                            1982
Preparation                                                                   February 27, 1983
Appraisal Mission                                                                 July 17, 1983
Post-Appraisal                                                                    August, 1984
Credit Negotiation                                                                May 28, 1985
Board Approval                                                                 August 27, 1985
Credit Signing                                                                 October 17, 1985
Credit Effectiveness                          January 15, 1986                    April 4, 1986
Project Completion                               June 30, 1989               December 31, 1992
Credit Closing                              December 31, 1989                     June 30, 1993



-13-
3. Credit Disbursemnents
IDA Fiscal Year and                 A Appraisal     |          Actual            |  Actual as
Semester                      Estimate (Cumulative)    Disbursement (Cumulative) I   Percent
VS mtillion EQ          US$ million EQ 31        o   A     l
FY85 December 31, 1985                         1.10                                          0
June 30, 1986                             4.98                            0              0
FY86 December 31, 1986                        12.24                           0              0
June 30, 1987                            21.19                         4.45           21%
FY87 December 31, 1987                        25.19                        5.64           22%
June30, 1988                           28.00                         8.14           29%
FY89 December 31, 1988                        29.00                       12.52           43%
June 30, 1989                          29.50                        13.46           46%
FY90 December 31, 1989                        30.00                       18.37           61%
June 30, 1990                                                       24.82           83%
FY91 December 31, 1990                                                    26.46           88%
June 30, 1991                                                       28.53           95%
FY92 December 31, 1991                                                    33.39          111%
June 30, 1992                                                       38.38          128%
FY93 December 31, 1992                                                    39.06          130%
June 30, 1993                                                       39.42          131%
FY94 December 31, 1993                                                    40.24          134%
3/     The actual disbursed amount is larger than the SAR estimnate due to the appreciation of thc SAR. The SDR to
USS exchange quoted in the SAR was 0.99, while it was about 1.4 at Credit closing in the end of June, 1993.



-14-
4. Project Cost and Financing
4.1 Comparison of SAR and Actual Project Costs (US$ million)
Project Copnent                    fSA  Esfimraes                        Estimated Actual Costs 4/
._______________________________ .I   Local |  Foreign |    Total         Local |Forein    Totat
Burri Power Station Expansion 2xlO        2.5        12.2       14.7        1.2       25.3    26.5
MW diesel units
Roseires Rehabilitation of units 1 & 2    0.9         1.2        2.1         0           0        0
Rehabilitation of Sennar Power station    0.1         0.5        0.6
Blue Nile transmission Rehabilitation     0.7         2.5        3.2
0.7        4.3      5.0
Eastern Grid Rehabilitation               0.4         1.5        1.9
Distribution System rehabilitation.       0.3         2.1        2.4         0           0        0
Replacement of 33 kV circuit
breakers at Burri & Kuku Substations
6/
Engineering Services                      0.8         2.2        3.0        0.6        3.3      3.9
Technical Assistance & Studies            0.9         2.8        3.7        0.6      7.4 7/     8.0
Total Base Cost                         6.6       25.0       31.6        3.1        40.3    43.4
Physical contingencies                    0.4         1.9        2.3
Price escalation provision                3.2         3.1        6.3
Total Project Cost                     10.2       30.0       40.2        3.1        40.3    43.4
Interest during construction              9.5                   9.5         n/a                 n/a
Total Financing Required               19.7       30.0       49.7        n/a        40.3      n/a
4.2. Project Financing (US$ million)
Source                           Estimate in SAR                    Actual|  Actual as Percent of
I _____________________   j   ______________________ I   SA R     Estim ate
IDA                                         30.0                      40.2           134 %
Co-Financiers                                  0                         0             0
Utility/Government                          19.7                       n/a            n/a
Total Project Cost                       49.7                        n/a            n/a
4/     IDA disbursements only.
5/      Financed under Power 111 Project.
61      Financed under Power III Project.
71     Includes training center equipment and collection improvement program, which were not included in the SAR
estimate.



-15-
5. Status of Compliance with Major Covenants
Descripion of Covenant                           |Status of Conmpliance
1. Borrower shall take, promptly as required, all  NEC's revised tariff structure was approved by the
actions necessary on its part to enable NEC to set  Government of Sudan and made effective in October
and maintain its tariffs at levels sufficient to fulfill  1988. The tariffs were increased in August 1991,
NEC's obligations under section 4.03 of the Project    January 1992, July 1992.
Agreement (DCA 4.02);
2. In order to ensure the timely audit of NEC's   Delayed compliance.
accounts, the Borrower shall cause the auditors
referred to in Section 4.01 of the Project Agreement
to be appointed not later than six months before the
end of each fiscal year (DCA 4.04);
3. The Borrower shall ensure that NEC is provided    In compliance, but funds provided were not always
with foreign exchange funds required for the carrying   sufficient.
out of its investment plan and to obtain essential
imported recurrent inputs, spare parts and machinery
replacement (DCA 4.01 a, b);
4. Borrower shall revise, in accordance with its  A study was carried out by consultants.
ongoing overall pricing review, the fuel oil prices to
reflect the cost of production, transportation and
marketing (DCA 4.03);
5. Borrower shall take all necessary measures to  Partial compliance.
enable NEC to carry out the action program referred
to in Section 3.05 of the Project Agreement (DCA
4.05)
6. NEC shall implement the action program         Partial compliance.
designed to strengthen its personnel management,  Consultants worked with NEC to improve its
staff development, corporate planning and         financial and management reporting and control
management information system, as agreed upon     systems.
among the Borrower, NEC and the Association, in
accordance with an agreed upon timetable (PA 3.05);
7. NEC shall prepare and furnish to the Association    Delayed compliance.
not later than December 31, 1986, its updated     Long-Term Power Plan completed by consultants in
version of the Long-Term Power Plan and the        1993.
feasibility study carried out under part H of the  Merowe Dam feasibility study completed by
Project (PA 2.06);                                consultants in 1992.
8. NEC shall finalize the on-*oing tariff study by  Tariffs were increased in January 1987. A revised
taking into account the Association's comments, and    tariff structure was approved by the Government and
implement the agreed upon recommendations of the  made effective in October 1988. The tariffs were
study within six months of its completion (PA 2.07)    increased in August 1991, January 1992, July 1992.
9. NEC shall continue to review, on a monthly     Not in compliance.
basis, the level of its tariffs relative to fuel and other
operating costs and adjust the tariffs adequately to
cover these increases (PA 2.08).
10. NEC shall undertake, until the completion of the   In compliance.
Project, new investments only after the preparation of
a feasibility study, with respect to investments
exceeding the equivalent of US$25,000,000, only in
accordance with NEC's Long-Term Power Plan, as
agreed upon between the Association and NEC (PA
3.04)



-16-
11. NEC shall (a) have its accounts and financial  Delayed compliance.
statements and the Special Account for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association; (b) furnish to
the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of such year,
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for
such year as so audited, and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (c) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning said accounts as the
Association may reasonably request (PA 4.01);
12. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,   NEC did not take on any new debt, however, its
NEC shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable   estimated net revenues were less than 1.5 times the
forecast of the revenues and expenditures of NEC   estimated debt service requirements.
shows that the estimated revenues of NEC for each
fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred
shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated debt service
re uirements of NEC in such year on all debt of
NPC including the debt to be incurred (PA 4.02)
13. NEC shall prepare and furnish to the           Government accounts up to June 1985 were settled in
Association a plan for gradual reduction of accounts    end 1986. NEC embarked on a special program to
receivable, including a timetable acceptable to the  reduce accounts receivable. However, in FY90
Association and settle at least 25% of its accounts  accounts receivable were equivalent to 323 days of
receivable not later than December 31, 1985 (PA    sales and in FY92 equivalent to about 365 days of
3.06);                                             sales.
14. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,   Not in compliance.
NEC shall earn, for each of its fiscal years, an
annual return of not less than 9% of the average
current net value of its fixed assets in operation.
Within three months after the end of each of its fiscal
year, NEC shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared
by NEC and satisfactory to the Association, review
whether it would meet the requirements set forth in
Section 4.03 (a), of the project Agreement in respect
of such year and the next following fiscal year and
shall furnish to the Association the results of such
review upon its completion (PA 4.03)
6. Use of the Association Resources
6.1 Staff Inputs
Task                                                             Inputs (Staff lWek_) s
Preparation                                                              47.8
Appraisal                                                                84.2
Negotiations                                                              7.5
Supervision                                                              75.0
Total                                                               214.5
Nore:   The Project was supervised together with the Power IV Project.



-17-
6.2 Mission Data
Stage of Project Cycle   Month/Year Specialization    Overall Project I Type of Problems
.  I   I              I ~~~~Perforrnance
Through Appraisal     T           1             1
Identification        1982                                                                   l
Appraisal (Power IV)  Jul 1983
Post-Appraisal        Aug 1984
Supervision
Oct 85      PE                    1         Issuing of bidding
documents, hiring of
_____ _____ _    ___ _____ ____ consultants  delayed.
Jul 1986    PE-PE-FA-OA           2         NEC 2 years behind closing
its books, land not acquired
for Burri diesel units.
Nov 1986   PE-PE-FA               2         Slow progress in site
preparation for Burri diesel
units; need to improve
billing and collection; slow
progress in contract signing.
Dec 1987    PE-PE-Con             2         Accountant not appointed,
unsatisfactory accounts
receivable position
Nov 1988   FA-PE                  2         Generator delivery delayed,
completion of training center
delayed
Jul 1989    FA-OA                 2         Construction delays, study
start-up delayed, m default
with financial covenants.
Mar 1990   FA-OA                  2         In default with financial
covenants
Sep 1990    FA-OA-PE              2         In default with financial
covenants, generator output
below rated output.
Nov 1992   FA-PE-FASS             2         In default with financial
covenants, Availability of
funds.
Notes: Overall performance rating:    I = Problem free or minor problems; 2 = Moderate problems;
3 = Major problems
Specialization:               FA =Financial Analyst,- OA = Operations Analyst; FASS=
Financial Assistant; PE=Power Engineer; Con= Consultant.
The Power Rehabilitation Project was supervised together with the Power IV Project.



-18-
7. Comparative Balance Sheets (FY87 - FY92)
SAN   Actual  SAN   Actual   SAR   Actual  RSA    Actual  S                SRP    P*Tlhn.
Aa"
Fixed Assets
Plant in Operation   1699.7 1439.3 3495.7  2398.6 4891.7  2986.2 6155.2 3391.5 7945.6  3434.6  10320.6  80054.3
Depreciation       470.8  461.8 1021.6   965.9 1447.8  1107.0 1968.9 1221.8 2571.5  1330.5  3212.3  31016.3
Net Plant         1228.9  977.5 2474.1   1441.6 3443.9  1879.2 4186.3 2169.7 5374.1  2104.0  7108.3  49038.0
Works in progress    170.0  190.5  360.0   342.6  618.3   897.0 1461.6  796.2 2022.3  1120.1  1965.0   1852.4
Accounts           205.0          165.0            100            50.0             0               0
Current Assets
Cash & Banks        14.6   17.7   17.7    13.0  27.0    27.1   30.4   33.5   35.8   66.0    39.2    225.2
Accounts receivable   126.2  258.8  102.8   265.9  178.5   290.7  195.5  486.2  240.2  1045.8   246.1   1937.3
Inventory           42.8   49.2   51.0    60.1  104.9    35.2  146.7   96.3  184.7  157.3   238.4    383.6
Other                4.1   10.9    4.6      11.7   5.2    84.4    5.8  140.5    6.5   24.8        7.3    134.7
Total             187.7  336.6  176.1   350.8  315.5   437.4  378.5  757.0  467.2  1293.9   531.1   2680.8
Total Assets        1791.6 1504.6 3175.2  21350.0 4477.7  3213.6 6076.3 3722.9 7863.6  4518.1  9604.4  53571.2
Equity & Liabaities
Equity
Capital              11.2   11.2   11.2    11.2   11.2    11.2   11.2   11.2   11.2    11.2    11.2       11.2
Retained Earnings   67.2  164.5  137.0   120.8  323.0   -46.9  518.3   13.7  764.5  604.4  1041.5   1574.9
Grants:              11.1         155.9          155.9   557.9  155.9  592.9  155.9  672.6   155.9    788.7
Exchange Fluct.     -179           -510          -1046  -369.9  -1506 -401.8  -2079  -401.8   -2658    -524.6
RevaluationRes.    742.4  287.3 1880.9   787.2 2538.1  1317.3 3282.4 1317.3 4024.4  1317.3  4708.5  48072.9
Total            752.9  463.0 1674.8   919.2 1982.7  1469.6 2461.6 1533.3 2876.6  2203.7  3259.0  49896.1
Long-Terrn Debt    596.9  913.6 1093.9   864.1 2041.0  1301.9 3103.5  1468.3 4453.9  1276.9  5837.5   1680.8
Deferred payments   330.3        257.3           223.0          208.8          164.7             10.6
Current Liabilities
Account payable     15.2  127.6   21.6   351.3  38.5   442.1   52.4  721.1   64.3  1037.5    83.4   1994.3
Interest on capital  7.0      0    9.5            15.2       0   24.5           34.3       0    46.6
Other               89.3      0  118.1           177.3           225.5         269.9            367.2
Total             111.5  127.6  149.2   351.3  231.0   442.1  302.5  721.1  368.5  1037.5   497.3   1994.3
Total Liabilities   1791.6 1504.6 3175.2  2135.0 4477.7  3213.6 6076.3 3722.7 7863.6  458.1  9604.4  53571.2
Current Ratio         1.7   2.6    1.2       1.0   1.4      1.0    1.3    1.1    1.3    1.3       1.1       1.3
Debt/Equity Ratio    44:56  66:34  40:60    48:52  51:49   47:53  56:44  49:51  61:39   37:63   64:36     3:97
Receivables (days)    167   350    90     355     90    458       75    334    75    361        60      345
Sources: SAR estimates are based on Power IV SAR prepared in 1987.
Actuals are based on NECs financial statemens.
Capital assets were revalued in FY92 statements.
8/      FY92 data is based on NEC's unauditedfinancial statements. NEC'sfixed assets were revalued in FY92.



-19-
8. Comparative Income Statements (FY87 - FY92)
Ycar tndng Jtm 30        1987         1988          1989          1990          1991          1992
SAR  Actual SAR  Actual SAR  Acrual  SAR  Actual| SAR  Actual  SAR  Preltm
Sales (GWh) 1O/       1174  1217  1326  1096  1463    970   1618  1240  1739   1259   1960  1705
Average Tariff        0.232  0.22  0.31   0.2 0.488    0.2   0.58    0.4  0.663       0.8  0.754    1.2
(Lsd/kWh)
Average tariff        0.093        0.082        0.849          0.082         0.079          0.079 0.058
(US$/kWh)                                                                                            11/
Revenues
Sales Revenues      272.4  267.2 411.1  271.1  713.9  223.8  938.4  520.8  1153. 1034.5  1476.9 2004.9
Other Revenues        5.2   2.7   6.4   2.3   7.5    8.1    8.3   9.8   8.7   22.2    9.1  44.9
Total Revenues     277.6 269.9 417.4  273.4 721.4  232.0  946.7  530.5  1162. 1056.7  1485.9 2049.9
Expensas             =_                         _  _ _
Salaries& Wages      32.1  39.4  35.7  47.5  38.8  111.4   41.0  122.5  43.1  170.9   44.6  368.1
Fuel & Power         65.0  70.0  86.9  88.2  158.3   85.5  218.9  97.2  269.7  197.0  356.9  694.7
Repairs &             12.0  25.6  25.5  35.4  52.4   41.6   73.4  50.1  92.3   65.6  119.2  138.8
Maintenance
Other                 14.2  23.8  17.4  25.5  20.4   41.9   22.6  72.9  23.8  101.5   24.7  192.0
Provision for bad debt   37.0   8.8  0   14.5     0     0.9      0    9.9      0      0       0   85.4
Depreciation         47.7  51.8  114.6  51.8  154.8  107.5  208.2  114.8  253.6  108.7  313.5  118.5
Total Expenses    208.0 219.4 280.0 262.9 424.8  388.8  564.1  467.4  682.5  643.7  858.8 1597.5
Operating Income       69.7  50.5  137.4  10.5 296.6  -156.8  382.7  63.1  479.2  413.0  627.1  452.4
Interest on Loans      36.7  36.7  58.1  43.7  95.4   43.7  162.9  53.0  198.7   46.4  303.5  24.1
Interest on Capital     7.0  11.1   9.5   7.0  15.2        0    24.5   7.0  34.3        0   46.6      0
Net Income             26.0   2.7  69.8  -40.2  186.0  -200.5  195.3   3.1  246.2  366.6  277.0 428.3
Rate of return (%)    7     4      7    0.5    10   -0.6    10    2.3    10    1.5    10    0.7
12/
Sources: SAR estimates are based on Power IV SAR.
Actuals based on NEC'sfinancial statements.
9/      FY92 data is based on NEC s unauditedfinancial statements.
LQ/     Saks (GW) for FY91 and FY92 are estimates.
L/      Average tarJif in US$/kWh in June 1992 as caklulated by NEC's planning consultants.
12/     Rate of Return in the SAR is based on estimated replacement cost values. Actual FY87-FY91 Rate of Return is
based on historical costs, whik the rate of returnfor FY92 reflects asset revaluation.



-20-
9. Comparison of NEC's Selected Performance Indicators (FY87-FY92)
-1i 987           198          J98.0   -                    91.        -
|SAR  Actual SAR Actual I SAR Actual A R   ctsal r                    SAR  Esdmae
Installed Capacity (MW)                 484           484    467  544   474   544   513   634         541   694    584
Peak Demand (MW)                        306    230  330    238  353   270   373   268   396           276   423       n/a
Generation (GWh)                       1479   1379 1637   1378 1768  1365  1853  1515  1948    1575  2179             n/a
Sales (GWh)                            1125   121  1271   1096 1402   970 15522  1240  1634    1259  1844             n/a
Technical Losses % of net gen.          16.0    7.0 16.0   16.0   16   18.0  14.5  12.0  13.5    15.   13.0           n/a
Non-Technical Losses % of net gen.       7.0    5.0  6.3    5.0  4.7    5.0   3.4   5.0   2.7          5.(   2.4      n/a
Fuel Consurnption
Heavy Fuel Oil '000 tona              108      n/a  130    154  150    95   151   128   201         128   235      123
age Oil 'ooo tons                       7      n/a   17     18   32      43    45    32       9      53      1      46
No. of Consumers '000                   276      n/a  282    284  288   332   294   341   300         349   305      409
No. of Employesa'000                    10.1     n/a  9.1   10.1  8.1  10.5   7.1  10.5   6.1         11-.   6.1    11.4
Ratio Consumers/Employee                28    n/a   31    28    36    32    41    32    50          31      51      36
Source: SAR estimates are based on Power IV SAR.
Actuals exstracted from irformaton contained in documents in Project File.



