Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C9. /K; (/-SU
Report No. 5333-SU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SUDAN
POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
June 20, 1985
E:astern and Southern Africa Projects Department
Energy Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVAL1-NTS
US$1.00   = £Sd 2.5
£Sd 1.00  = US$0.4
ESd 1.00  = 100 piasters
ESd 1.00  = 1000 millimes (mms)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
BTU                                 =        British Thermal Unit
1 meter (m)                         =        3.28 feet
1 square meter (m2)                 =        10.75 square feet
1 kilometer (km)                    =        0.621 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)            =        0.386 square miles
1 cubic meter (m3)                  =        35.3 cubic feet
1 cubic meter per second (m3/s)              35.3 cubic feet per second
1 kilovolt (kV)                     =        1000 volts
1 kilowatt (kW)                     =        1000 watts
1 kilowatt hour (kWh)               =        130V watt ho-urs
1 megawatt (14W)                    =        1000 kilowatts
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)                        I 1 million kilowatt hours
I megavolt ampere (MVA)             =        1000 kilovolt ampere
bpd                                 =        barrels per day
mt                                  =        metric tons
mbd                                 =        million barrels per day
mtpa                                =        metric tons per annum
kgoe                                =        kilograms of oil equivalent
toe                                 =        tons of oil equivalent
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
BMZ     -   Ministry of Economic Cooperation of Federal Republic of Germany
(Bundesministerium fuer Wirtschaftliche Zusammenarbeit)
BNG     -   Blue Nile Grid
CFA     -   Central Forest Administration
EG      -   Eastern Grid
ESB     -   Electricity Supply Board of Ireland
GPC     -   General Petroleum Corporation
LSCDC   -   Loan Service Charges During Construction
MAI     -   Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation
MEM     -   Ministry of Energy and Mining
NEA     -   National Energy Administration
NEC     -   National Electricity Corporation
ODA     -   Overseas Development Administration (UK)
USAID   -   United States Agency for International Development
WNPC    -   White Nile Petroleum Corporation
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
SUDAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY                                          i-u
I.  THE ENERGY SECTOR  ....................    I...........**....           1
Energy Resources            I.......................................   l
Biomass Fuels            I...........................................  1
Hydrocarbon Resources  *.........         ... ..  G6Sd*                I
Hydropower Resources  .......                   ....... ........    2
Energy Demand and Supply  ....          3............... .. ...... .    3
Energy Sector Organization         ...........................        5
Energy Pricing  ...............................o.*...........          5
Energy Development Strategy  .-................ ................       7
II.  THE POWER SUBSECTOR  ......................................            8
Management and Staff   ..*.....       ... ..........*....****..        8
Institutional and Manpower Development  .....................    9
Existing Facilities  ....0....O-..*.................   ..........   10
Access to Service  ..........................................   11
Power System Losses  ......    ..........**...   11
Load Forecast  ......                                          ..................... . .   ,   ,., . 12
Power System Interconnection  .............................           13
Nile Waters Study and Long-Term Power Plan  .................         13
Experience with Past Lending           ................................   14
Role of IDA/Bank  **s******s*****s*********.*................         15
III.  THE PROJECT  ...........................................               15
Objectives and Rationale for IDA Involvement            ...............   15
Project Description  ..       .... .   o.oo...........        ....    16
Project Costs .......****.*.*****........................   16
Basis of Cost Estimate ........ ..... ***....................    17
Financing Plan  ........*................ *.......                    18
Consulting Services and Project Implementation   .............    18
Procurement  *******ee*e****************.*...*............            19
Disbursements  ................ .........                             19
Environment  ...................................................      20
Project Risks ,.....................o...................              20
Project Monitoring   ..* ............*.*.....                         20
The report was prepared by Messrs. Javed Shaukat (Mission Leader),
Vukota Mastilovic, and John Besant-Jones. The report was word-processed
by H. Voelker and edited by Ruth Mannino.
Thi document has a retriced distbutjo and may be used by reapents only in the performane of
their ofica duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disdosed without Wodd Bank authorizdn.



Table of Contents (cont'd)
Page No.
IV. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION  *....................................   20
Generating Plant Additions and System Rehabilitation  .......  20
Least Cost Development Program for BNG          .....................  22
V.  FINANCIAL ASPECTS AND COST RECOVERY  ........................  23
Accounting and Audit  .......................................   23
Financial Position and Past Operating Results ................*  24
Tariffs  .....       ...........   26
Future Financial Position and Operations  ...     .................  27
Performance of NEC  ............   ......................*.   28
Proposed Financing Plan                    ...................   29
Insurance and Taxes  ............  .........**.**...* .... .   31
VII.  AGREEDMETS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ......................   31
ANNEXES:
1.1    Energy Balance 1983
1.2   Past Demand on Blue Nile Grid and Eastern Grid
2.1   NEC's Organization Chart
2.2    Public Electricity Installed Capacity
2.3   Forecast Demand on BLue Nile Grid and Eastern Grid
2.4   Power Development Program
2.5   Investment Program Costs
3.1    Description of the Project
3.2   Project Cost Estimate
3.3    Implementation Schedule
3.4    Procurement Program
3.5   Estimated Disbursement Schedule
3.6    Project Monitoring Guidelines
4.1    Evaluation of Installing 2x10 KW Diesel Units
4.2   Economic Rate of Return of Power Rehabilitation Project
5.1    NEC Income Statement
5.2   NEC Funds Flow Statement
5.3    NEC Balance Sheet
5.4    Notes and Assumptions for Financial Statements
5.5   Action Program for Institutional and Operational Performance of
NEC
6.1    Selected Documents and Data Available in the ProjecC File
Map IBRD 17538K



SUDAN
POWEI REHABILITATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:          The Democratic Republic of the Sudan
Amount:             IDA Credit SDR 30.3 million (US$30 million equivalent)
Beneficiary:       National Electricity Corporation (NEC)
Terms:             Standard
Relending Terms:   The Government will relend the proceeds of the Credit to
NEC with annual service charges equivalent te 19 percent
of the outstanding balance, 20 years repayment period,
including five-year grace. The Government will bear the
foreign exchange risk.
Project Description:
Objectives:      The  Project  would  help  to  ensure  the  efficient
utilization of existing power facilities, improve power
supply reliability, and assist in financing of urgently
needed additions of capacities and immediately required
rehabilitation works to meet toe growing power demand at
least cost to economy.  In addition, the Project would
contribute to institution building and strengthening of
power subsector organization, escablishment of long-term
development policy, tariff reforms, load management and
energy conservation, and subregional power system
interconnections.
Components:      The Project would include:  (a) addition of 2 x 10 MW
diesel units at Burri; (b) rehabilitation of Units 1 and
2 at Roseires hydropower station; (c) spare parts for
the Sennar hydropower station; (d) rehabilitation of the
Blue Nile and the Eastern Grid installations; and (e)
consultancy   services   for  supervision  of   project
implementation    and    coordination    of   managemene
improvement,   and   for  carrying   out   studies   and
feasibility reports.
Benefits and
Kisks:           The principal benefits of the proposed Project would be
the provision of a more adequate and reliable power
supply to meet the needs of the economy.   The Project
faces no special risks.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
Local     Foreign      Total
------US$ million---
- Burri Power Station                  2.5        12.2       14.7
(2 x 10 Kw)
- Roseires Rehabilitation              0.9         1.2        2.1
(Units I and 2)
- Sennar Power Station                 0.1         0.5        u.6
(Rehabilitation & Spares)
- Grid Rehabilitation                  1.1         4.0        5.1
- Distribution Rehabilitation          0.3         2.1        2.4
- Engineering Services                 0.8         2.2        3.0
- Technical Assistance and Studies   0.9           2.8        3.7
Total Base Cost                   6.6       Z5.0        31.6
Contingencies:
Physical                             0.4         1.9        2.3
Price                                3.2        3.1         6.3
TOTAL PROJECT COST                    10.2        30.0       40.2
Financing Plan:
- IDA Credit                           -          30.0       30.0
- NEC's Cash Generation               10.2        -          10.2
Total Financing                  10.2       30.0        40.2
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA's FY:              1986     1987      1988      1989     1990
-       -US$ million -        -
- Annual               4.98    16.21      6.81      1.50     0.50
- Cumulative           4.98    21.19    28.00    29.50    30.00
Map: IBRD No. 17538K



I. THE ENERGY SECTOR
nSnergy Resources
1.01      Sudan's main indigenous energy resources are forests, crude oil,
natural gas, and hydropower. Biomass fuels in the form of crop and animal
waste are widely used. Sudan also has a good potential for exploitation of
solar and wind energy.   Prospecting for coal, uranium ore and geothermal
energy has not been carried out to the extent to prove substantial
reserves. I/
Biomass Fuels
1.02          Biomass fuels  (woodfuel,  charcoal and agricultural wastes)
account for about 8U% of total energy consumption. The availabLe forestry
resource is unevenly allocated between the Northern and Southern regions
which Ls the inverse of the pattern of population distribution. About 80%
of ttie country's population is concentrated in the Northern region while
about  70% of the total forestry growing stock occurs in the  Southern
region.   The annual allowable cut from the national forest resource is
about 6U% of estimated annual consumption, the balance representing
overcutting of the resource. There is further loss of growing stock due to
land clearance for mechanized farming schemes.  The deficit between demand
and sustainable supply is increasing.  The problem is particularly acute
around main towns, where denudation of forests has occurred. The fuelvood
resource will continue to be the most importaat energy resource for Sudan
and more managerial effort and a higher budgetary allocation are required
for its preservation.
1.03      Sudan produces considerable quantities of vegetable wastes in the
Form of molasses, bagasse and cotton stalks. Potential output of molasses
from existing sugar complexes is about 250,000 mtpa and this resource could
be used to produce substantial quantities of ethanol for blending with
gasoline  for  domestic  consumption.       The  possibility  for  supplying
electricity to the public power system generated from surplus bagasse is
under consideration. Briquetted cotton stalks are also a potential source
of fuel.
Hydrocarbon Resources
1.04      Exploration for oil in the interior of Sudan has been proceeding
since the mid-1970s by the Chevron (USA), who first discovered oil in
1979.  Although many of the exploratory 'sells have indicated the presence
of oil, to date only one discovery seems to be of commercial interest.
Reliable estimates of the size of recoverable reserves are not available,
and the latest estimate is at least 150 million barrels which are present
in ten separate reservoirs.   This estimate is based on interpretation of
the field's geology and exploratory data from wells tested to date, and it
may be increased in time.   Preliminary survey work has been carried out
also in other sedimentary basins.  The Sudanese crude oil (Unity) is very
If Detailed information on the energy sector in Sudan is given in the
report of the Joint UNDP/World Bank Energy Assessment: Sudan: Issues
and Options in the Energy Sector," July 1983.



waxy with a paraffin base, and it has a high pour point of 80°F that makes
handling difficult.  The oil has a low sulfur content and excellent lube
qualities, but there is no dissolved gas in the oil.  The Government of
Sudan and Chevron have agreed to build an export pipeline to the Red Sea
coast from the Unity field with an initial capacity of 50,000 bpd which can
be increased subsequently to 100,000 bpd by the addition of pumping
stations.  GOS has the option to take up to 5,000 bpd from any point along
the pipeline route.
1.05      Off-shore survey and exploration activity in the Red Sea has been
going on for over two decades without major success to date.  Interest in
this area has been stimulated subsequently by re-interpretation of the
seismic survey and well test data, which indicates that it might contain
reserveL of between 130 and 385 billion cubic feet of gas and up to
30 million barrels of condensate. The discovered gas has a high calorific
content (1,300 BTU per cu.ft.) and no sulfur, which are exceLlent
properties for a fuel.
Hydropower Resources
1.06        The Nile River and its major tributaries represent the most
important  resource  for  hydropower  development  in  the  Sudan.         The
hydrological characteristics of the Nile and its tributaries are well
defined, based on detailed discharge records dating back to 1900.   The
ultimate hydropower potential of Sudan exceeds 2,000 KW, of which only
240 MW has been utilized.   The constraints on development of hydropower
resources in the Sudan are the high investment cost required to realize the
hydropower potential of the Nile River which has a gentle gradient, the
need  to develop  projects  for both power and irrigation benefits,  and
limitations on firm power capacity.  The characteristics of the Blue Nile
and the Main Nile give rise to two critical conditions in determining
potential nydropower output.   Firstly, water availability during the dry
season (March-May) limits the amount   of energy that can be generated.
Secondly, the low reservoir levels during the early part of the flood
season combined with high downstream water levels resulting from large
flood flows severely reduce the head available for power generation.  The
net result is that the maximum power output from a hydropower plant can be
reduced to less than half the installed capacity at the height of the flood
season.
1.0,       Further development of the Blue Nile river potential is limited
to the addition of generation capacity to the existing facilities at
Roseires and Sennar power stations.   Such additions would not contribute
significantly to the firm capacities of these stations due to the
hydrological characteristics of the river.  The potential o.` both stations
could be increased by raising the maximum reservoir retention level through
heightening the existing Koseires dam. The planning of additions to system
capacity in the Blue Nile Grid (B1G) has suffered from lack of timely
initiation of investigations and studies of alternative sources of power
generation, principally hydro, which require a long lead time to develop.



- 3 -
To permit the optimum use of Sudan's energy resources, economic and
technical studies %f the various options should be carried out and the
long-term development plan to the year 2000 should be updated (para. 2.14).
1.08        The best undeveloped sires are located at the major cataracts
along the Main Nile, with potential capacities in the range of 100 to
750 KW.   No efforts have been made to study these projects beyond the
prefeasibility stage.  Preliminary evaluation of this potential indicates
that  the Merowe  site  (600--J50 MW)  is  the most  attractive,  and  its
development  by  the  mid  1990's  could  be  economically  justified.    A
prefeasibility study has been carried out by consultants (SWECO of Sweden),
financed by Sweden, into the timing, capacity and development stages of
this site.
1.09       Apart from the Main Nile, southern Sudan is the only area in the
country where major new hydropower projects might be developed.   On the
White Nile between Nimule and Juba the heads available are suitable for an
installation of about 400 MW.   The principle drawback to development in
this area is its remoteness from major load centers capable of absorbing
the output from the schemes.  Another potential station site on the White
Nile situated about 40 km south of Khartoum is the Jebel Aulia dam which
was completed in 1937 as a storage scheme to reduce flood flows and enhance
dry season flows in the Main Nile. Furthermore, development for irrigation
and power generation on the River Atbara (a tributary of the Main Nile) has
been considered for a number of years.  The Khasm el Girba dam and power
station (12.6 MW) has been supplying the Eastern Grid since 1964.   The
objectives of further developments on the River Atbara and its main
tributary, the River Setit, would be to compensate for the loss of storage
in the Khasm el Girba reservoir due to siltation, to provide additional
storage capacity to permit implementation of new irrigation schemes, and to
generate power for the Eastern Grid (EG).
Energy Demand and Supply
1.10       In FY83, Sudan's final energy consumption was estimated to have
totalled about 5.6 million toe, of which 81% was in the form of biomass
fuel (fuelwood, charcoal and agricultural wastes). Commercial energy forms
accounted for the remaining 19%, principally from imported crude oil (18%),
and also from hydropower (1%).   Per capita consumntion of all forms of
energy amounted to about 0.27 toe.2/  The gross supp;y of primary energy
2/ Comparative per capita consumption of energy (toe) in East Africa are
as follows:
Total           Commercial
Year          Energy             Energy
Ethiopia          1982           0.25               0.02
Kenya             1979           0.43               0.12
Uganda            1980           0.35               0.06



- 4 -
in  1983 was  8.8 million toe.   Most of the difference between final
consumption and total supply of energy is due to losses in the energy
conversion. An estimated energy balance for 1983 is given in Annex 1.1.
1.11       Consumption of commercial energy in Sudan in 1983 averaged 0.06
toe per capita. Petroleum products locally refined from imported crude oil
and directly imported petroleum products accounted for about 94% of
commercial energy consumption, while hydropower accounted for only bZ,
indicating the country's high dependence on imports for commercial energy.
The largest consuming sector was transport (62%), followed by agriculture
(15%), industry (14%), households (7%) and the public sector (4%). The low
level of consumption in households is partly a consequence of restrictions
on the availability of kerosene and limited access to electricity.
1.12        The consumption of petroleum products increased by about 20%
between 1978 and 1983, equivalent to an annual average growth rate of about
6.2%. Consumption of gasoline and gasoil (diesel) increased at about 75%,
reflecting the rapid expansion of the transport sector and the dramatic
shift of freight transportation from rail to road. Consumption of fuel oil
increased by 39% during the same period, reflecting the stagnation in the
industrial sector. Demand for petroleum products was met largely from the
output of the Port Sudan Refinery, and crude oil imports have been running
at about one million mtpa.   Imports of the mix of petroleum products
required to make up the difference between refinery output and domestic
demand has increased from 181,000 mt in 1978 to 490,000 mt in 1983, mainly
in the form of gasoil and gasoline. On the other hand, due to the refinery
configuration, the production of fuel oil in the refinery mix exceeds
domestic demand, and the excess is exported.   The value of net petroleum
imports is equivalent to 70% of all merchandise exports.
1.13        Electricity generation from the main public supply system was
1012 GWh in FY84, and it has increased at an average annual rate of about
6% since FY78 (Annex 1.2).  However, demand for electricity has outgrown
the system supply capability since 1978, due mainly to a surge in
industrial demand and to underinvestment in power facilities in the latter
part of the 1970s. Consequently, at present substantial load shedding has
to be implemented, especially during the summer months (April - August),
which causes major disruption to industrial activity.   In FY84 about 200
GWh of estimated load on the public system was shed, reaching about 20% of
energy demand in the most critical period (April to June).   Some of the
load shedding from the public system is substituted by privately owned
small high-speed diesel generating plants which are a much more expensive
source of electricity than the plants in the public system.  The private
plants use gasoil as fuel, and they are a significant cause of the rapid
increase  in consumption and  import of  gasoil.   Total privately-owned
generating capacity is estimated to be about 100 MW, which is about one
third of the presently installed capacity in the public system.



-5-
Energy Sector Organization
1.14            The  Ministry  of  Energy  and  Mining  (MEM)  has  overall
responsibility for policy formulation in tne energy sector.   The mair.
parastatal organizations in the sector whlch are under MEn are the General
Petroleum Corporation (GPC) and the National Electricity Corporation
(NEC). MEM is also represented on the Boards of two major private sector
companies, namely the Port Sudan Refinery and the White Nile Petroleum
Corporation (WNPC).   The crude oil export pipeline (para. 1.04, will be
owned by WNPC.  However, the Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation (MAI)
controls  reservoir  operations  at  the  major  hydroelectric  stations
(Roseires, Sennar) since irrigation requirements are given priority over
power in water resource utilization.
1.15      One of the major departments in MEM is the Geological and Mineral
Resources Department, which carries out geological studies, prospects for
minerals and monitors exploration activities in the petroleum sector.  A
National Energy Administration (NEA) was created in May 1980 as the
planning organ of HEM. A major instituttonal weakness in the sector is the
lack of an integrated system for controlling activities in the sector-  In
particular, HEM will not have the capability for advising the Government on
aspects of sector planning and policy until NEA is fully established as an
effective organization. United States Agency for International Development
(USAID) is providing assistance to NEA in planning and training. The IDA
is financing a planning and management study to assist the GPC. The IDA is
also providing funds for a substantial technical training program and for
management consultants to NEC.
1.16       Administration of all forest land is the responsibility of the
Central Forest Administration (CFA) which comes under the MAI. Many of the
powers relating to land use, forest conservation and utilization and other
aspects are  devolved  to  the  local  administrations  in  the  provinces.
Consequently, many of the forest operations have become the responsibility
of the provincial Forest Services, which has weikened the coordlaation
exercised at national level. To realize a successr.K forestry development
program, it will be necessary to strengthen the CFA, particularly in the
planning and execution of projects.
Energy Pricing
1.17        The Government regulates prices for petroleum products through
GPC.   A comparison of economic costs and official prices of petroleum
products in Khartoum following the March 1985 price increase is given on
the following page.



- 6 -
Economic Costs and Official Prices of Petroleum Products in Khartoum
(£ Sd/mt)
Z Difference
Economic         Official       Between Prices
Costs   a/       Prices b/       and Costs
Regular gasoline                  1,022             2,310             +126
Premium gasoline                    998             2,464             +147
Gasoil c/                           946               938             -  1
Kerosene                          1,008               846             - 16
Fuel oil-1500 sec.                  508               341             - 33
Note:   a/  Delivered to Khartoum as of March 1985 at LSd 2.5 - US$1.
b/ As of March 1985.
c/ Including diesel fuel for transport, etc.
1.i8      Following the price increase of March 1985, kerosene and fuel oil
consumption remained subsidized.   The price of gasoil (light diesel for
transport, etc.) was equal to the economic cost.  On the other hand, the
official retail prices of gasoline were substantially higher than the
economic cost.   Efforts are underway by NEA (with USAID assistance) to
frame a pricing policy, and a review of transport fuel prices in the
context of transport costs was carried out under the Highways III Project.
The comparison of costs and prices shown above was taken from this review.
Given that its use for power generation will become substantial during the
next few years, it was agreed during negotiations that the Government will
revise fuel oil prices to reflect their cost and that it will continue
NEA's overall energy pricing policy review in periodic consultation with
IDA.



1.19        NEC, with the approval of MEM and the Ministry of Finance and
Economic Planning, is responsible for establishing electricicy tariffs for
the areas served by the BNG and the EG.   Despite rapidly rising costs
electricity tariffs were not revised during the period July 1979 to April
1983.    NEC implemented a major increase in tariffs in two equal steps,
which took effect from April 1 and December 1, 1983. The combined increase
ranges from 143% for domestic consumers to 278% for small irrigation
pumping loads. Tariff rates were again increased by 21Z in December 1984
and 23% in March 1985.  After the increases, the average cariff yield is
now about £Sd 0.21/kWh sold (US cents 9/kWh sold).   Historically, this
level is high in constant price terms although it is not as high as the
tariffs following the two previous increases in FY76 and FY$0. The level
would decline rapidly if domestic inflation continues at present rates
(about 25% per year) unless compensating increases are implemented.
Substantial increases in tariffs during 1983-84 have helped in bringing
tariffs close to appropriate levels.   Further tariff increases, however,
will be needed in the future, and it was agreed with Government and NEC
that they will implement appropriate and timely tariff adjustments.  The
adequacy of the tariff levels from the viewpoints of long-run marginal cost
and rate of return on assets iD. operation is discussed in Chapter V of this
report (para. 5.14). The present tariff structure does not accord with the
marginal costs of meeting demand (para. 5.10).   USAID is financing the
preparation of a tariff study to review the present tariffs and recommend a
suitable tariff structure based on long run marginal cost of supply of
electricity.
Energy Development Strategy
1.20        The emphasis of the Govezament's strategy should be to remedy
energy shortages through appropriate pricing and increased investment in
power, petroleum and fuelvood.   Economic pricing of energy and full cost
recovery are seen as the key means to managing energy demand, allocating
resources, and mobilizing investment resources.  Energy sector management
needs to be strengthened at the level of overall sector planning and the
energy enterprises.   The energy investment priorities in the short-term
are:
(a) rehabilitation of the existing power generation, transmission
and distribution facilities in the BNG, such investment is
vital to improving power system efficiency and reliability,
and offers high returns on investments;
(b) new power generation, transmission and distribution capacity
in  the  BNG  to  meet  FY90  demand  including  fuel  oil
transportation capacity for new thermal power stations in
Khartoum;
(c) the export pipeline for domestic crude oil;
(d) further exploration for oil and gas; and
(e) pilot projects for peri-urban woodfuel plantations.
1.21        Beyond 1989, investment priorities will include further power
generation, transmission and distribution facilities, with greater emphasis



- 8 -
on the development of hydropower potential, and possibly, the import of
power  through  interconnection  with  Ethiopia  (para.  2.13)  and  the
utilization of domestic natural gas in both existing and new generating
capacity, thereby reducing the demand for imported petroleum products for
power generation. Other priorities within the energy sector should include
the further development and utilization of hydrocarbon resources and the
expansion of fuelwood supplies through extensive forest plantation and
agroforestry programs.
II. TIE POWER SUBSECTOR
2.01       Under the National Electricity Corporation Act of 1982, NEC is
responsible for developing and operating the power facilities of the areas
served by the national grids (BNG and EG), electricity sales to regional
electricity  administrations,  determining  of  bulk  tariff  rates  and
establishing standards for electricity installations. It is intended that
the electricity distribution system in the Khartoum Province will be
separated from NEC and taken over by a new regional organization in several
years time so that NEC will then be responsible only for activities
connected with the two national grids. NEC is also expected to provide on
a commercial basis technical assistance including staff training to the
regional electricity organizations which were separated from NEC under the
Act of 1982.
2.02          Implementation of  the power subsector  reorganization  was
undertaken  before  completion  of  some  essential  prerequisites.    The
legal,regulatory, organizational and managerial framework is virtually
non-existent for electricity organizations in the regions.  NEC has now
drafted legislation for enactment by regional governments and is assisting
them in finalizing the preparation of legislation for each region so that
electricity organizations can be established by them.   The Government
has obtained USAID assistance in establishing these organizations.   NEC
estimates that the regional governments will be in a position to take over
the management of almost all of the isolated electricity systems from mid
1986; this appears optimistic, however, considering that substantial work
remains to be done to establish the legal framework and institutional
structure  for  regional  power  organizations.    Delays  in  establishing
regional organizations may result in further deterioration of power supply
service in the regions.
Management and Staff
2.03        NEC has a board of 18 directors appointed by the Government,
which includes officials of government bodies and representatives of NEC
trade unions as well as four representatives of the electricity consumers
in the private sector. The Director General of NEC is an ex-officio member
of the Board.   According to its governing Act, NEC is intended to be an
autonomous corporation. In practice, however, NEC is managed substantially
as a government entity.   The statutory responsibility of NEC's Board of
Directors for policy making is negated by a requirement in the Act that the
Board will carry out ths instructions of the Minister of Energy and Mining,
who has powers to give general or specific directions to the NEC's Board.
This tends to promote confused decision-making procedures, jeopardize the
accouu ability of the NEC's Board of Directors and render them virtually



- 9 -
powerless to manage and plan for the future growth of NEC's operations.
Moreover, NEC is required to follow Government payscales and employment
regulations.   All appointments in NEC at senior and middle management
levels have to be approved by the Government.  Furthermore, NEC's autonomy
is jeopardized because it routinely obtains funds for its expenditures from
the Government rather than providing these funds from its own reveu7-es.  As
long as these conditions remain, NEC will not be able to function
satisfactorily.   Consequently, it was agreed during negotiations that the
Government and NEC will implement an action program designed to strengthen
NEC's managemeat, staff development, corporate planning and management
information system in accordance with an agreed timetable (Annex 5.5).
2.04       The present NEC organizational structure was established in 1982
with the help of management consultants.   Details of NEC's organization
structure  are  shown  in  Annex  2.1.    The Director  General  of NEC is
responsible for the administration of NEC according to directions of the
NEC Board.   NEC's main divisions are headed by senior directors.   The
organizational structure of NEC is considered appropriate in view of
conditions in NEC and in Sudan generally.   NEC needs to employ capable
staff on all managerial positions to achieve an efficient standard of its
operations.  Therefore, during negotiations confirmation was obtained that
NEC shall at all times employ qualified and experienced staff for all
senior and middle level managerial positions.
Institutional and Manpower Development
2.05         NEC presently lacks a systematic management information and
reporting system. Although some basic statistics are recorded, very little
work is done on matching, summarizing, comparing, analyzing and reporting
the results.   The NEC's managers,  the  General Manager,  the  Board of
Directors and the Government receive very little information relating to
the operations of the corporation.   USAID is now providing assistance to
enable NEC to develop a management information system appropriate to its
needs.  USAID has approved a four year program of technical assistance to
NEC.   This program will include  review,  design and implementation of
management and operacional systems and procedures, review of electricity
tariffs, and other assistance.   Consultants for this assignment include
finance, planning and budget, energy efficiency and load management
specialists. Further technical assistance for institutional development is
provided for in the proposed Project to continue the ongoing training
programs under Power III Project and strengthen NEC's institutional
development, including the provision of senior-level management consulting
assistance.  The continued management assistance would also allow IDA to
coordinate the efforts of the various agencies engaged in assistance to
NEC's management.  This would help ensure a coherent institution-building
program.   During negotiations, assurances were obtained from NEC that it
would augment and contirue the coordination of management and training
assistance from various sources by appointing consultants tu monitor and
coordinate such assistance.
2.06       Since the mid-1950s there has been continuous training activity
in the power subsector through the involvement of various consultants. The
benefits from training inputs have been extremely short-lived due
particularly to the rapid loss of staff who find employment in other



- 10 -
neighboring countries where salaries are much higher. NEC with the help of
its consultants, the Electricity Supply Board of Ireland (ESB), is
implementing a comprehensive training and development plan for technical
scaff in the power subsector of Sudan.  Funded under Credit 1006-SU, the
program covers the establishment of a training center, training at ESB in
Ireland for engineering and technician staff and training of instructors
for the training center.   Satisfactory progress is being made with the
training for engineering and technician staff and training center
instructors. Progress on the establishment of the training center has been
slow and the date for opening the center has been delayed from the planned
target of June 1985 to September 1986. The training program of the center
is appropriate for training of low and middle level staff. NEC also has an
agreement with the consultants (ESB) for their assistance (financed by
Credit 1006-SU) in the implementation of a new management structure for
NEC.  In spite of managerial weakness (para. 2.03), the restructuring of
NEC's organization is proceeding satisfactorily.
Existing Facilities
2.07      The present public power installed capacity is 520 MW, of which
240 4W is hydropower and the balance is thermal (Annex 2.2). Taking into
account privately-owned generating capacity (all very small diesel units)
which is estimated to be about 100 MW (para. 1.13), the total installed
capacity in Sudan is about 620 MW. The total installed capacity owned and
operated by NEC is 469 NW of which 240 HW (62.5Z) is hydro. The remainder
of the public electricity capacity (51 MW), all diesel, is made up of a
number of isolated power stations constructed before 1982 and now
transferred  to  regional  governments.    On  its  formation  NEC  assumed
responsibility for power facilities on the two national grids: (a) the BNG
along the Blue Nile with an installed capacity of 442 MW, of which 227 MW
is hydro; and (b) the EG along the River Atbara with an installed capacity
of 27 MW of which 13 KW is hydro.   The BNG facilities produce about
90 pe.rcent of the public electricity systems' total generation. The power
supply in Sudan iz highly unreliable and subject to numerous and persistent
power cuts and long periods of blackouts.   The result has been high
economic costs in the form of lost Lndustrial and agricultural production,
and in the rapid growth of high cost private generation capacity.   The
entire power system operates at severely reduced levels of efficiency and
output due to age, unsatisfactory maintenance and lack of spare parts and
essential equipment and materials, caused in part by unavailability of
foreign exchange for their importation.  This unsatisfactory situation is
compounded by chronic delays in planning for expansion and maintenance of
the power system to meet the growth in electricity demand, a scarcity of
foreign exchange for investment, shortage of local currency funds due to
poor financial performance and management, low level of staff skills and
motivation (partly due to inadequate salary levels) and the power sector's
inability to attract and retain suitably qualified and experienced staff
and managers, and lack of an effective management information system which
inhibits the ability of managers at all levels to obtain timely reports on
progress of operations. The operation of hydropower plants is experiencing
problems of heavy siltation, lack of proper maintenance, and shortage of
skilled manpower.    The output  of existing  thermal plant  is severely
restricted due to lack of spare parts.



- 11 -
2.08      Under a USAID commodity import program of which US$20 million was
allocated to the power subsector, NEC is in the process of importing power
system equipment. These imports will help alleviate NEC's problems on the
transmission system as well as at the Roseires power plant. Additionally,
the USAID technical assistance program will help NEC in carrying out proper
maintenance of its plant.   The Overseas Development Administration (ODA,
UK) has also provided assistance in the rehabilitation of NEC's thermal
power plant as well as in improving its operation and management. The ODA
program includes provision of spare parts and materials and technical staff
for repair, maintenance and operation of NEC's Burri thermal power
station. The IDA provided assistance of US$1 million out of savings from
the Power III Project (Credit 1006-SU) for emergency repairs to the
Roseires power plant during 1983 as well as to NEC's thermal power plant.
Other urgently needed rehabilitation works and spare parts purchases have
been proposed for financing out of Credit 1006-SU funds which are not
expected to be needed to complete Power III Project.  NEC is unlikely to
obtain more than limited external financing for import of spare parts and
therefore would explore all possibilities  to acquire  foreign  exchange
including its purchase from the open market to complete the financing of
such imports, even though this would probably be at rates higher than the
official exchange rate.  It was agreed with the Government and NEC during
negotiations that to the extent necessary NEC will resort to alternative
means to acquire foreign exchange for purchase of its future spare parts
needs.
Access to Service
2.09      The public systems supply electricity to about 276,000 customers
in Sudan, of which about 210,000 are located in the BNG. Although some new
capacity has been added in recent years ro the BNG and isolated systems
(Annex 2.2), severe supply constraints exist throughout the country.  NEC
has had to implement considerable load shedding and load reduction and many
potential consumers remain unconnected to the public electricity system
(about 8% of total population in Sudan have access to electricity). Thus,
in the BNG area, a growing number of consumers have installed their own
generating plant to ensure power supply during the periods that NEC has
been unable to meet fully the demand on its system (para. 1.13).
Power System Losses
2.10       The statistical records of NEC show that since 1977, technical
losses and unbilled consumption have risen from 16% to 27% of generation
(Annex  1.2).    A  power  system  efficiency  study  (financed within  the
UNL)P/World Bank Energy Sector Management Program, 1983) concluded that a
loss of about 15% of the units generated is the maximum that can
realistically be attributable to technical losses so that some 8-12% of
losses is consumption that has not been billed and is attributable mostly
to unmetered or unbilled consumption and pilferage. Such losses represent
siLgnificant loss of revenue to NEC.   Improvements in the metering and
billing systems and an inspection program at all levels of distribution
lines to locate unmetered services could help reduce the non-technical
losses by as much as 50 to 75Z. Technical losses would be reduced through
the installation of static capacitors to improve system power factor. This
will also help to reduce the system peak demand.   It is estimated thac



- 12 -
about 165 KVAR of static capacitors should be installed on the 11 kV
distribution  lines  in  the  Khartoum  area.  3/    In addition  USAID  is
financing the services of an energy efficiency and load management
specialist. Much of the transmission and distribution networks are in need
of repair and rehabilitation, and strengthening of those systems is
required to improve their operational reliability and to reduce technical
losses.    The  proposed  Project  therefore  includes  rehabilitation  and
reliability improvement as important components.   Under USAID assistance
NEC has appointed engineering consultants to carry out follow up action on
load management and energy conservation to implement the recommendations of
the above mentioned NEC-Efficiency Improvement Study.
Load Forecast
2.11          NEC commissioned consultants in early 1982 to carry out a
detailed study of the least cost power sector development program up to
FY90, including a detailed review of the load forecasts. The consultants
forecast that demand on the BNG, including presently unserved demand, would
increase at 12% per year to FY86, thereafter at 9% per year to FY90, and
subsequently  at  8%  per  year.    The  appraisal mission  reviewed  these
forecasts in the light of later information on actual sales and additional
analysis of unserved demand, and concluded that total demand to FY90 in the
BNG area would increase at a lower rate than forecast by the consultants,
which would be equivalent to an average annual rate of 6.9% (Annex 2.3).
This is a lower rate than achieved historically and reflects the
difficulties facing the Sudanese economy for the duration of the 1980s and
the assumption that tariffs would be maintained at a constant leveL in line
with NEC's financing requirements and economic costs (pare. 5.11). 4/
However, total connected demand to BNG is forecast to increase at 9.6%
annually to FY90 as the presently unconnected demand is connected to the
grid. Furthermore, billed consumption (sales) is forecast to increase at
an  average  annual  rate  of  12.6%  to  FY90  as  NEC makes  progress  in
identifying consumption that is presently unbilled and in reducing
chronical power supply cuts and restrictions.
2.12       On the EG, considerable shortfalls have recurred in the supply
capacity due partly to the highly seasonal pattern of output from the
Khashm el Girba hydroelectric plant due to varying river flows.
Residential consumers account for about 25% of the demand on the EG,
commercial and light industrial consumers together account for about 25%,
irrigation takes 23Z, bulk supply 19% and other consumers 8%. NEC prepared
a demand forecast for the EG which has been reviewed and accepted by the
consultants and the appraisal mission. Demand on the EG, including Kassala
which NEC is planning to interconnect with the EG, is forecast to increase
at an average annual rate of 17.2% from FY82 to FY91, with higher growth
3/ About two thirds of the capacitor requirement is expected to be supplied
under the USAID program (para. 2.08).
4/ Historic evidence since 1975 of sensitivity of demand to tariff levels
in Sudan indicates that a 100% increase in tariffs has the equivalent
effect of producing almost zero growth in demand for about a year, but
that if tariffs are not increased subsequently in line with domestic
inflation, growth in demand resumes at the long-term rate.



- 13 -
rates in earlier years and declining rates in later years. This high rate
reflects the meeting a part of existing unserved demand with the addition
of supply capability.
Power System Interconnection
2.13         Apart from the projected study into the heightening of the
Roseires Dam and the feasibility work for the Merowe hydropower scheme,
another option based upon hydroelectricity is the interconnection of the
main power grids of Sudan and Ethiopia, primarily to take advantage of
surplus hydro power in Ethiopia at a lower cost than Sudan can generate
itself. There are a number of options for joint development of the two
national po-wer systems. The option with least investment cost and shortest
implem(ntation period would be a transmission link between the sub-stations
at Rose tres and Finchaa hydropower stations which would allow power from
Ethiopia to be transmitted to the Khartoum area along the transmission line
from Roseires as a supplement to Roseires power, thus eliminating the
highly seasonal nature of power supply to Khartoum from Roseires.   The
benefits to Sndan from such a link, by substituting relatively modest
investments in power transmission for the substantial investment and
operating cost which would otherwise need to be incurred to provide
additional thermal generating capacity, would be considerable. A study of
technical and economic aspects of the interconnection of the power systems
5etween Sudan and neighboring countries would be undertaken by the
Government.
Nile Waters Study and Long-Term Power Plan
2.14      In December 1977 the Nile Waters Study was commissioned with the
objective of preparing a Master Plan for the utilization of the Nile Waters
in the Sudan. The benefits from utilization of these waters accrue to many
sectors, principally irrigation, electricity, mi''±'ipal water supplies,
transportation,  recreation and fishing.   A parallel study covering the
development of a long term power plan for the Sudan was commissioned to
determine the least cost program for generation and transmission
reinforcements to meet the expected power demand during the period
1985-2000.   The Nile Waters  Study and the Long Term Power Plan were
completed in January 1979 and September 1979, respectively. A new study was
commissioned by NEC in March 1982 as part of the preparation of the project
to check whether the projects proposed in the Long Term Power Plan were
still in the least-cost development program for generation and transmission
reinforcements to meet the forecast demand up to FY90.   The final report
was submitted to the Government in June 1983. The program covered NEC's
program for the BNG and EG together with new diesel capacity in Port Sudan
and 91 small diesel units in the regions and associated transmission and
distribution works. NEC had also undertaken a review of the rehabilitation
and development of the Khartoum area transmission and networks. Although
this program represented the least-cost solution to meeting forecast
demand, it is no longer feasible due to major delays and shortcomings in
obtaining the required  foreign exchange  funds  for investment.    NEC's
present power development program (Annex 2.4) is a modified version of the
least-cost program that is in accordance with estimated availability of



- 14 -
investment  resources.    This  reduced  Investment  program  carries  the
probability that load shedding will have to be continued for some years.
The long-term power plan needs to be updated to reflect recent developments
in the power subsector and to take into account a range of investment
scenarios that will be governed by capital availability. Therefore, it was
agreed during negotiations that NEC will employ consultants whose
qualifications and terms of reference shall be satisfactory to IDA, to
update the long-term development program and prepare a feasibility study
for a new hydropower project by December 31, 1986.
2.15      The total cost of the NEC's investment program FY85-91, including
investments following this project, is estimated to be £Sd 2,707 (US$722)
million of which £Sd 1,824 (US$493 million) or 70% is in foreign currency
(Annex 2.5).   The proposed investments in the power subsector represent
about 60% of the original investment program as proposed by the consultants
(para. 2.14) or 15X of the total planned public investment program of
Sudan. The components of the development program of NEC will be financed
by annual aid allocations of the various bilateral sources, and it is
essential that the foreign exchange requirements for these components are
provided to NEC, so that NEC is enabled to make more efficient use of its
power system facilities and prov'de a more reliable service to its
customers.   Therefore, during negotiations assurances were obtained from
the Government that it would provide NEC with adequate foreign exchange
resources to meet NEC's requirements for its development program. It was
also agreed that NEC will undertake, until the completion of the Project,
new investments only after preparation of a feasibility study and, with
respect to investments exceeding US$25 million, only in accordance with the
long-term power plan as agreed upon between IDA and NEC.
Experience with Past Lending
2.16          The World Bank Group has made two loans and three credits to
Sudan related to power developments.  Loan 284-SU and Credit 2-SU in 1961
in the total amount of US$38.8 million (inducing US$6.3 increase in 1963)
were used to finance the Roseires Irrigation Project and substructures of
the Roseires Power Station.  Loan 522-SU in 1967 was used to finance the
first three 30 MW generating sets at the 1oseires Dam, a 15 14W gas turbine,
and transmission facilities.   This project which has been in operation
since 1971 was the subject of a Project Performance Audit Report (No. 1169)
dated May  13,  1976.   The conclusions  of  the report pointed out  the
difficulties of carrying out a large program of expansion and problems in
an attempt to improve the financial management. The project completion was
delayed over a year and institutional improvements did not meet appraisal
expectations.   In 1975 IDA provided to the Government a US$23 million
Credit (564-SU) to help finance a fourth generating set at Roseires, diesel
generators at Burri and Juba, distribution system improvements and
consultant's  services.    The  Second  Power  Project encountered similar
difficulties as the first project. particularly in project implementation
and financial and institutional reforms. A particular difficulty was the
achievement of institutional and financial improvements within a power
entity in the context of an inefficient public sector beset with problems
of autonomy, weak organizational structure, lack of clear responsibilities,
loss of skilled personnel and low salaries.   The project was completed



- 15 -
after about a two year delay with the exception of the Juba diesel power
station which is now included in the Third Power Project, supported by IDA
Credit 1006-SU of US$65 million made in 1980.  (Project Completion Report
for Credit 564-SU was issued in January 1985).   The Third Power Project
includes the addition of fifth and sixth generating sets at Roseires, four
diesel sets at Burri, new power station at Khartoum North with two 30 MW
oil-fired steam generating sets, transmission line extensions, consultants
services and training.   This project is expected to be completed by mid
1985, with a delay of about one year.   The Third Power Project has
encountered few difficulties than the earlier two projects and improvements
have been achieved in NEC organization and management.
Role of IDA/Bank
2.17           The Bank Group lending operations have been instrumental in
separating water and power operations and establishing NEC. IDA has played
a catalytic and constructive role in attracting co-financing in the power
subsector from OPEC Special Fund, ODA and BMZ (West Germany). The proposed
power project would enabie IDA to continue and expand its efforts towards
achieving the institution-building objectives identified under the previous
lending operations.   IDA has assisted NEC and the Government in preparing
projects in a manner that is financially and economically viable and
technically sound. The project would also enable IDA to promote structural
changes and improvements in the country's power subsector, particularly in
energy planning, pricing policies, development of indigenous energy
resources and institution-building aspects.
III. THE PROJECT
Objectives and Rationale for IDA Involvement
3.01        The underlying objectives of IDA's involvement in the Project
are:
(a) to ensure the efficient utilization of existing power facilities
and improve power supply reliability through immediately required
rehabilitation works which will yield high economic returns and
minimize funds for new investments;
(b)  to  assist   in  urgently  needed  additions   of  generation,
transmission and distribution capacities to meet the growing
demand on the power system; and
(c) to promote institutional development and strengthening of power
subsector organization and operation, establish long term
development policy and investment priorities, reform power
tariffs, introduce load management and energy conservation, and
contribute to subregional power system interconnections.



- 16 -
Project Description
3.02         The detailed Project description is given in Annex 3.1.  The
Project components were appraised in 1983 within the Power IV Project which
included all power subsector related investments in the period 1985-90 and
required about US$230 million in foreign exchange. This necessitated very
complex cofinancing arrangements and long time for their finalization due
to the difficult economic situation in Sudan and particularly arrears
problems with key donors.   In view of the above the proposed Project
includes a part of NEC's development program and consists of the highest
priority and most urgent items. It has the following components:
(a) addition of 2xlO MW diesel units at the Burri Power Station where
the installation of 4x10 KW diesel units has just been completed
in a plant designed for 6x10 MW units;
(b) rehabilitation of Units 1 and 2 at Roseires Hydropower Station;
(c) procurement of spare parts for the Sennar Hydropower Station;
Cd) rehabilitation of the Blue Nile transmission network; procurement
of transmission towers and parts, tools and measuring equipment;
Ce) rehabilitation of the Eastern Grid installations, including
replacement of circuit breakers and accessories and addition of
distance protection for 66 kV transmission lines;
Cf) replacement of old circuit breakers at the Burri and Kilo X
substations; and
Cg) consultancy services for supervision of project implementation
and  coordination  of  management   improvement   and   training
assistance, and for carrying out studies and feasibility reports
of (i) long term development and investment priorities, including
?erowe   Dam   Project;   and   (ii)   possible   power   system
interconnections.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1988.
Project Costs
3.03      The details of the cost estimates are given in Annex 3.2 and are
summarized in the following table.   The total Project cost,  excluding
service charges during construction, is US$40.2 million of which US$30
million (75Z) in foreign exchange.



- 17 -
Summary of Project Cost Estimate
Local     Foreign      Total
---(in US$ million)----
1.  Burri Power Station Expansion
(2xlO MW) Diesel Units                        2.5        12.2        14.7
2.  Roseires Rehabilitation of
Units 1 and 2                                 0.9         1.2         2.1
3.  Rehabilitation of Sennar Power Station        0.1         0.5         0.6
4.  Blue Nile Transmission Rehabilitation         0.7         2.5         3.2
5.  Eastern Grid Rehabilitation                   0.4         1.5         1.9
6.  Distribution System Rehabilitation
Replacement of 33 kV Circuit Breakers
at Burri and Kuku Substations                 0.3         2.1         2.4
7.  Engineering Services                          0.8         2.2         3.0
8.  Technical Assistance and Studies              0.9         2.8         3.7
Total Base Cost of Project                    6.6        25.0        31.6
Contingencies:
Physical                                  0.4         1.9        2.3
Price                                     3.2        3.1         6.3
Total                                 3.6        5.0         8.6
9.  Total Project Cost                           10.2        30.0        40.2
- -
Basis of Cost Estimate
3.04       The cost estimate for the major item in the Project, the Burri
Power Station expansion, is based on recent quotations from manufacturers
for similar equipment.   The cost estimate for the Roseires rehabilitation
is the price submitted by consultants and contractors. The cost estimates
of the remaining relatively small items of rehabilitation and spare parts
are based on consultants' estimates and suppliers' quotations.   The base
costs  are  adjusted  to  expected  mid  1985  price  levels.           Physical
contingencies ranging between 3% and 10% have been added to the base costs
of  various  project  components.    Price  contingencies  were  applied  in
accordance with the following annual rates which are considered reasonable
for the Project:
Fiscal Year (FY)             1986    1987    1988       1989      1990
Annual Rate (Z)
Foreign Cost             7.5     8.0      8.0      8.0       8.0
Local Cost             27.0    25.0    20.0       17.5      15.0



- 18 -
The project costs were converted into US dollars at exchange rates
anticipated during the project implementation period (Annex 3.2).
Financing Plan
3.05      A project financing plan is given below:
---Coste
Local    Foreign    Total
(in US$ million equivalent)
A. Project Costs
(i) NEC's cash generation            10.2         -        10.2
(ii) IDA credit                                   30.0      30.0
Subtotal                     10.2         30.0     40.2
B. Service Charges During Construction
(i) NEC and Government               9.5          -         9.5
C. Total Requirements of Funds             19.7         30.0     49.7
Local currency requirements will be provided by NEC from funds generated
from its operations.   The foreign exchange cost of the project would be
financed by the proposed IDA credit of US$30 million equivalent.   The
credit will be made to the Government to be onlent to NEC with annual
service charges equivalent to 19% of the outstanding loan balance, for a
period of 20 years including a grace period of 5 years.   Service charges
during the grace period are expected to be added to the principal amount.
The onlending rate of 19% will ensure that in the long term the service
charge on onlent funds will remain at a positive level in real terms at the
inflation rates in the Sudan projected at 262, 27%, 25% and 20% for FY85 to
FY88 respectively, 17.5% for FY89 and 15% thereafter. The actual inflation
rates  for the years  FY81  through FY83 were  28%,  25% and  40%.   The
disbursements from the proposed credit will be converted into £Sd at the
Bank of Sudan's effective exchange rate on the date of each disbursement
and the total amount of all disbursements from the credit together with
service charges during the grace period will be considered the onlent IDA
loan to NEC.   NEC will not assume the risk of foreign currency rate
fluctuations subsequent to each disbursement from the proposed IDA credit.
During negotiations the onlending terms were agreed with the Government and
NEC and the execution of an onlending ag'eement between them would be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit.
Consulting Services and Project Implementation
3.06      NEC will be responsible for the implementation of the Project and
will be assisted by consulting engineers.   NEC needs consulting engineers
assistance in project design, procurement, supervision of construction and
erection, inspection of works and equipment, and the initial operation of
the project facilities. Furthermore, consultancy services are required for
carrying out studies and preparation of feasibility reports for future



- 19 -
power projects.  Moreover, NEC still needs extensive technical assistance
and  training  in managerial,  technical and  financial matters.    At an
estimated  cost  of  US$11,800  per  manmonth  (including  fees,  travel,
subsistence, reports printing, computer use and other charges), the total
cost of US$9.2 million (of which US$6.4 million in foreign exchange) for
consultants would represent about 780 manmonths, which would be adequate
for the indicated tasks.  It was agreed during negotiations that NEC would
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience, and terms and
conditions of service are satisfactory to IDA.   The consultants will be
appointed according to IDA's guidelines.
3.07       NEC has already had several years of experience in implementing
major power projects and is currently completing the Power III Project. No
major construction problems are foreseen since the Burri extension had
already been planned as an addition to an existing power station.   The
rehabilitation of the Roseires Power Plant will be a continuation of a
project started under the Power III Project, which had been thoroughly
prepared by consultants and the original manufacturers of the equipment.
The re ining items of the rehabilitation involve routine procedures which
will be carried out by NEC with the assistance of consultants and
contractors as required.  Technical assistance and studies will be carried
out  by consultants.   The project  implementation  schedule  is given in
Annex 3.3
Procurement
3.08       Contracts for the major items in the Project will be procured by
international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines for
procurement; they represent about 70% of the Project's foreign cost.  The
studies and  consultants'  services  will  be  provided  according  to  IDA
guidelines and represent about 20% of the Project's foreign cost.   The
remaining 10% of the Project consists of proprietary items that can only be
supplied by the original manufacturers or which are in small quantities and
are to be procured by international shopping procedures as outlined in IDA
procurement guidelines.   Details of the procurement program are given in
Annex 3.4.  All contracts, estimated to cost over US$250,000 equivalent,
would be subject to prior approval of the bid documents by IDA.
Disbursements
3.09       The proceeds of the proposed IDA Credit would be disbursed over
the four-year period 1986-1989 to cover 100% of the foreign component of
the  cost  of  equipment,  engineering,  consulting  services,  technical
assistance and studies.   The proposed closing date would be December 31,
1989, to allow time for the completion of feasibility studies and for
payment of retention money. The expected disbursement schedule (Annex 3.5)
is based on the Project implementation program and follows, in general, the
standard disbursement profile for Sudan.  A special account will be opened
for payments of expenditures in respect of goods and services required for
the Project.



- 20 -
Environment
3.10       The project would not have any adverse impact on the environment
because the components of the Project consist of additions to or
rehabilitation of existing power plants, transmission lines, and substation
installations. NEC continues to pay appropriate attention to the aesthetic
appearance  of  their  facilities  and  their  compatibility  with  the
environment.
Project Risks
3.11      The physical risks of the Project are small.  The installation of
the two diesel units at the Burri Power Station would not impose any major
risk since the addition of units was planned when the Burri extension was
originally designed for 6xlO MW units and only four were installed.
It is essential that consultants be appointed to diesign and engineer the
proposed two new units and the associated cooling system including the
cooling towers as completely separate units to ensure satisfactory
performance.   The other items in the Project do not present any unusual
risks and should be completed on schedule provided delays in preparing bid
documents, processing tender documents and awarding contracts can be
avoided.
Project Monitoring
3.12      During negotiations the reports and records necessary to monitor
the progress of the Project, its evaluation and completion was agreed with
NEC.  Proposed guidelines for the project monitoring system are given in
Annex 3.6.  Major project components to be monitored against target dates
are tendering, contract award, construction stages and commissioning the
two diesel units at- the Burri Power Station and main rehabilitation
contracts, and supply of equipment and materials.   A close monitoring
procedure will also be established to ensure efficient implementation of
the technical assistance and studies. Financial and management monitoring
will be concentrated on rate of return and review of tariffs, collection of
revenues, project costs and financing, number of staff, and progress in
implementing  introduction of management  and financial reports.   After
project completion, NEC will be required to submit a completion report to
IDA.
IV. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
Generating Plant Additions and System Rehabilitation
4.01      The NEC power system fell into a serious condition of disrepair,
capacity shortage and financial difficulties prior to 1980.  Power supply
interruptions and system blackouts were a regular occurrence even as
recently as 1983. These conditions have not been fully corrected but have
shown marked improvement during 1984 as a result of the construction of new
generating facilities and transmission and distribution system improvements
and a major restructuring of the entity's organizational structure. These
activities were initiated and supported under the Power III Project (CR
1006-SU) and substantial assistance from USAID and other agencies. In 1983



- 21 -
IDA appraised the next step in the proposed power system improvement and
expansion, the Power IV Project.   The proposed credit for the Power IV
Project has not moved forward as anticipated due to delays in reaching
agreement with cofinanciers and because of financial difficulties in the
Sudan (para.  3.02).   In the meancime,  there exists an urgent need to
sustain the momentum of improving the power sector and to catch up on
long-neglected maintenance and rehabilitation of existing plant and
transmission and distribution systems, as well as to supply short term
needs for additional generating capacity until the longer-term program
under the Power IV Project can be implemented.
4.02      There is still a substantial shortage in generating capacity and
power supply is being restricted by power rationing and delaying the
connection of new customers (para. 1.13).   In 1983 the appraisal mission
for the Power IV Project reviewed the load forecast made by NEC's
consultants and concluded that annual demand for energy generation and
maximum demand would increase at 9.6%. The system would require generating
plant additions as shown in the following table.
Planned Generating Plant Additions
Commissioning
Generating Plant Addition                  Status                    Date
1. Gas Turbine (30 MW)               Under   discussion   with        Dec 1985
Italy
2. Construction   of   Khartoum    Under construction;
North Steam Station (2x30 MW)    15 months delay                   May 1985
3. Construction of Burri Diesel    Completed   but   derated          Aug 1984
Station (4x10 MW)                 20% due to cooling system
and other problems.
4. Burri Diesel station addition    Now   recommended   under         Feb 1987
(2x1O MW) to bring station to    proposed   Power   System
designed capacity                 Rehabilitation         and
Expansion Credit
5. Long  range   program  under    Under preparation                 1988-1989
proposed Power IV Project
including Roseires Unit 7,
Khartoum extensions by adding
60 KW steam units and other
hydro under study
4.03        Even with the revised comissioning dates shown the preceding
table and the inclusion of the Burri Power Plant addition of 2z10 MW diesel
units now proposed under the Project, there will continue to be some power
restriction. Power generation on the NEC system is vitally affected by the
seasonal variatiLns of the Nile River flow and by irrigation requirements



- 22 -
which take precedence. Under these constraints the availability of thermal
generation during the low hydro-generation months from February to June is
critical.  Hence, if sufficient generating capacity is available to meet
forecast demand during these months, demand for the rest of the year will
also be satisfied.
Least Cost Development Program for BNG
4.04       The least cost development program prepared during the proposed
Power IV project feasibility study contempLated the addition of two 60 MW
steam units at Khartoum North and hydro unit No. 7 (40 MW) at Roseires by
1987. This schedule is no longer possible because of the delays mentioned
above and the difficulties in obtaining cofinancing. It is now considered
more realistic to assume that the 60 MW steam units could not be available
until mid 1990. The addition of 2xlO MW medium speed diesel units at Burri
power station could be accomplished by March 1987, and would reduce load
shedding before the commissioning of the steam units.  The diesel units
would be installed more quickly at lower capital cost than steam units, and
thereafter would provide relatively low cost thermal generating capacity.
In the longer term the steam units have the advantage of higher plant
availability and considerably longer working life than medium speed diesel
units.
4.05      The proposed 2x10 tlW diesel units have been evaluated within the
framework of the least cost development program comprising 60 MW steam
units at Khartoum North and hydro unit No. 7 at Loseires.  This evaluation
consists of a comparison of a power development program with and without
the addition of the 2x10 MW diesel units.  The results of the comparison of
the development programs are summarized in Annex 4.1. The criterion used
for evaluation is the present value of total costs of meeting demand up to
the forecast level for FY95 over the lifetime of the new generating units,
discounted at the estimated opportunity cost of capital in Sudan, which was
taken to be 12%.  Present values were also calculated at various discount
rates to test the sensttivity of the evaluation to this parameter.   All
economic costs are expressed in mid-1985 price terms. Foreign costs have
been converted at a projected exchange rate of US$1 - £Sd 2.5. Local costs
are adjusted by a standard conversion factor of 0.80.   Economic costs
comprise capital costs for new uncommitted investments and the associated
operation and maintenance costs together with fuel coats for the production
of energy from thermal power plants. The economic cost of fuel is derived
from the import parity price for petroleum products and the full economic
cost of transportation to the site.
4.06          The main conclusion of the comparison is that the power
development program with the proposed 2x10 KW diesel units is the
least-cost development program at a discount rate of 12Z in an investment
resources constrained situation.   However, there is little difference in
the economic costs of meeting demand between this program and the program
without the diesel units.   The program with the diesel units remains the
least-cost at discount rates up to and including 15%. The balance between
these programs in economic terms has to be judged according to the degree
of conservatism used in framing assumptions to the evaluation.   In this
respect, the judgment should favor the program with the diesel units,



- 23 -
particularly since the evaluation is based on a conservative valuation of
the economic costs of unserved demand from the NEC system. 5/
4.07      The economic rate of return of the proposed investments in medium
speed diesel units and rehabilitation works on the Blue Nile Grid (BNG) has
been computed to be about 22% (Annex 4.2).   It is the discount rate at
which the present value of the capital and incremental operating costs of
these investments equals the present value of the incremental benefits from
these investments. Benefits are composed of (i) additional demand that the
system can serve with the diesel units compared to without these units,
valued at the projected tariff required to meet financial objectives
(para. 5.11) deflated to mid 1985 price terms, and (ii) estimated fuel
savings due to lower thermal energy production resulting from reduction in
energy losses from hydroelectric production following rehabilitation works
to the transmission and distribution system. Average tariff yield is used
as a measure of the value of benefits from the program although it is
recognized that this method undervalues consumers' willingness to pay and
therefore, an element of consumer surplus is not included in the
benefits. 61
V. FINANCIAL ASPECTS AND COST RECOVERY
Accounting and Audit
5.01        During appraisal of the previous power projects (para. 2.16)
considerable difficulties were experienced in obtaining data required for
evaluating the corporation's finances. These difficulties were (i) lack of
reliable and consistent information on past performance; (ii) long delays
in closing the books of account; and (iii) billing problems caused in part
by equipment failures.  These difficulties still coatinue.  NEC put a new
computer into operation in 1981 but has not been able so far to utilize it
efficiently.   NEC also continues to have difficulty in collection of its
receivables including those  from  the  Government  and  its agencies  and
corporations and at the end of FY83 its receivables were equal to about 15
months sales revenue; at the same time large amounts owed by NEC to them
for customs duties, freight, and other charges remain unreconciled and
unpaid.  The computer and accounting problems are due largely to lack of
competent managerial staff for these two functions. NEC needs to carry out
a reconciliation of the Government agencies' accounts receivables and
payables with NEC and then offset each agency's receivables against its
5/   The economic cost of unserved demand has been valued at the cost of
thermal energy from gas turbines on the basis that this demand would
be met from privately-installed small high-speed diesel units (para.
1.13).  In practice, such units are likely to be less efficient than
the gas turbines in the NEC system.
6/   The existence of consumer surplus at prevailing tariffs during the
last few years in Sudan has been amply demonstrated by the rapid
increase in privately installed generation capacity (para. 1.13),
which has a much higher cost to the consumer than the tariff rate.



- 24 -
payables and settle the remaining balances through cash payment or
collection, so as to reduce the level of receivables to the equivalent of
about two month's sales revenue which is a desirable level to aim for.
A program for gradual reduction of accounts receivable was agreed with NEC
during negotiations and assurances obtained from NEC that it will settle
a substantial part (not less than 25Z) of accounts receivable not later
than December 31, 1985.
5.02       NEC maintains separate accounts for its area offices:  Khartoum,
Blue Nile Grid, Damazin and Eastern Grid. At the head office in Khartoum,
only the accounts of that office are kept.  The regional offices do not
send periodic accounts, income statements, balance sheets or other reports
to Khartoum more often than once every year after the close of financial
year.   Agreement was reached during negotiations that NEC will prepare
accounting information and management reports in respect of all of NEC's
area offices and consolidate them with the head office accounts no less
frequently than at quarterly intervals starting from July 1, 1985.
5.03       NEC's external auditors are appointed by the Auditor General of
Sudan, generally well after the closing of NEC's accounts, and consequently
the auditors' report becomes available Long thereafter. The requirements
of the Credit 1006-SU relating to appointment of auditors acceptable to IDA
no later than six months before the end of financial year, and submission
to IDA of NEC's annual accounts with auditor's report thereon no later than
six months after the end of each financial year have been repeated in the
proposed project.
5.04       NEC's accounts were audited annually by a Sudanese audit firm.
The quality of that firm's reports was unsatisfactory.  Both the audited
accounts and the auditors' report thereon contained errors and unverified
figures.   IDA pointed out these discrepancies to the Auditor-General who
has now appointed for financial year 1983 Sheik Abbas and Co. who are the
Sudanese associates of the international accounting firm, Price Waterhouse
and Co. This is a satisfactory change.
Financial Position and Past Operating Results
5.05      The operating results of NEC for FY82 and FY83 based on audited
accounts are summarized below and shown in detail in Annex 5.1.



- 25 -
Year ending June 30:                  1982                1983
Units Sold (Gwh)                      681.4             659.1
Average revenue per Kwh (£Sd)         0.054             0.067
E(£Sd million) --
Operating Revenue                      38.9              44.7
Operating Expenses
Fuel                        11.5              19.7
Depreciation                 3.8              11.9
Other                       18.2    33.5      25.5    57.1
Operating Income                        5.4             -12.4
Interest on Equity Capital      5.3              13.2
Interest on Loans              0.7      6.0       2.2    15.4
Net Income                             -0.6             -27.8
Rate of Return (X)                      4.1              -9.2
Debt Service Coverage (Times)           0.1               -0.1
5.06       The rate of return achieved during FY82 and FY83 is well below
the 8% per annum on NEC's assets required under IDA Credit 1006-SU. The
unsatisfactory financial performaace resulted mainly from increases in
operating costs, particularly fuel, and inadequate tariffs. It should also
be recognized that the very large difference (27Z) between electricity
generated and that actually billed (para. 2.10) also contributes to the
very  poor  financial  performance.    The  huge  build up  of receivables
(para. 5.09) through non-collection of bills also exacerbates the serious
cash flow situation.    The  Government  has  approved substantial  tariff
increases effective April, December 1983, December 84 and March 85 (para.
1.19).   As a result,  NEC's  financial  performance  is expected  to be
satisfactory in FY85.
5.07           Net income  for  the years  FY82 and FY83 has decreased
significantly in the past due to a levy entitled nIaterest on Equity
Capital imposed by the Goverament in 1980 on income of NEC and similar
public sector organizations.  Interest on equity capital is levied at the
rate of 5X oa the equity capital balance (including reserve for revaluation
of assets) at the start of each financial year. Imposition of the levy has
increased NEC's needs for internally generated funds as well as the level
of rate of return required to generate those funds (para. 5.11).  It is
proposed that the appropriateness of this levy, which in its present form
is neither similar to interest on loans nor to dividend on equity capital,
should be examined in the context of the action program to be prepared to
review the management and financial autonomy of NEC (para.  5.15).   In
addition, NEC's debt service on foreign loans was often paid by the
Government.  To help easure NEC's financial viability, it was agreed with
NEC during negotiations that it will not incur any debt unless a reasonabLe
forecast of its revenues and expenditures shows that the projected internal
cash generation is 1.5 times the projected debt service requirement on all
debt, including the debt to be incurred.  Additionally, an action program
was agreed with the Government to provide greater financiai and
administrative autonomy to NEC (para. 5.15).



- 26 -
5.08       NEC's financial position on June 30, 1982 and June 30, 1983 is
summarized below and shown in detail in Annex 5.3.
June 30:                                          1982            1983
-(ESd million)--
Assets
Net Plant in Operation (revalued)              266.6          269.4
Plant under Construction                        90.1          177.6
356.7          447.0
Current Assets
Cash                                         1.3           -6.5
Receivables                                 39.0           5b.2
Inventory                                   19.4           27.4
Other                                       31.5           58.1
Total Assets                           447.9           582.2
Equity and Liabilities
Equity                                         303.7          290.2
Long-Term Debt                                 101.7           187.2
Current and Other Liabilities                   42.5           104.8
Total Equity and Liabilities           447.9           582.2
Quick Ratio                                      1.7             1.1
C-nrrent Ratio                                   2.2             1.4
Debt Equity Ratio                              25/75          39/61
5.09        The accounts receivable on June 30, 1983, after providing for
doubtful accounts, are equivalent to about 15 months' sales revenue, which
indicates an unsatisfactory situation in billing and collection as
described in para. 5.01.  For FY82 and FY83, the quick ratio was 1.7 and
1.1, respectively. NEC's debt/equity ratio as of June 30, 1983 was 39/61,
indicating that it is conservatively capitalized.   NEC's equity capital
represents the net value of electricity assets contributed by ita
predecessor organizations, grants and advances made by the Government,
retained earnings and the net increase due to revaluation of fixed assets.
Tariffs
5.10         The present tariff structure is out-of-date and a study to
determine the appropriate structure and economic cost of supplying energy
to different consumer categories is being financed by USAID under terms of
reference acceptable to USAID and IDA.   It was agreed with NEC during
negotiations that the views of IDA would be taken into account in
finalizing the tariff study proposals and that the recommendations of the
study as so agreed with IDA will be implemented withiin six months of the
completion of the study.



- 27 -
5.11        NEC's present electricity tariff which was put into effect in
March 1985 is adequate to provide sufficient funds to meet its requirements
for operating expenses, debt service and normal capital expenditures and to
meet the rate of return covenant of IDA Credit 1006-SU. The average tariff
yield is £Sd 0.21 (US cents 9)/kWh which is among the highest in Africa
reflecting mainly the high cost of electricity operation and development in
the country (para. 2.07), but also influenced by the high electricity
losses (para. 2.10) and other inefficiencies, as well as the 5% interest on
capital (para. 5.07).   Over the longer term the need for increases in
tariffs in real terms should be minimal, as losses are reduced and
efficiency is improved. A fuel oil price adjustment clause is included in
the present tariffs.
5.12         As an indication of the correct tariff level according to
economic principles, an estimate of the long-run marginal cost (LRMC) of
power has been derived based on the identified least-cost development
program  (para.  4.05).    The  LRMC has  been calculated  as  the average
incremental cost of meeting increases in demand.   The LRMC of power is
estimated to be £Sd 0.25 (US cents 10)/kWh sold in mid-1985 price terms at
12X discount rate, assuming system losses of 16% (vs. the present 27%) of
generation.  The LRMC is about 20% greater than the present average yield
from tariffs. The present tariff structure is not an accurate reflection
of the structure of costs, particularly the demand charge which is only a
small proportion of the economic cost of providing additional system
capacity. This aspect is being examined in the tariff study, and GOS and
NEC agreed to implement its recommendations (para. 5.10). It is essential
that tariffs are maintained at realistic levels so as to moderate rapidly
growing demand, particularly by non-productive heavy electricity users.
Future Financial Position and Operations
5.13        The projected financial statements of NEC for the years FY84
through FY90 together with notes and assumptions used in these statements
are shown in Annexes 5.1 through 5.4.   Projected balance sheets June 30,
1984 through 1990 show that current assets/current liabilities ratio during
these years varies between 1.1 and 2.3 which are adequate values despite
the unusually large amounts tied up in receivables assumed for the earlier
years. As mentioned in para. 5.01, efforts will be made to reduce the
level of receivables. The debt/equity ratio will vary from 41/59 for FY85
to 44/56 for FY90, which is within acceptable range.
5.14      To meet the operating and debt service requirements and to make a
contribution to its construction program from internally generated funds,
NEC would  require  timely  tariff  revisions.    Based  on  the  financial
projections detailed in Annex 5.1, tariff increases would require to be
implemented at the rates of 20%, 1%, 25%, 23%, and 20% every year from FY86
to FY90 respectively. These increases are needed in part to provide funds
for the substantial requirements of local expenditure of NEC's construction
program and for the increasing requirements of funds for debt service.
Assuming annual local price escalation rates of 26%, 27Z, 20% and 17% for
FY85 to FY88 respectively, and 15% thereafater, the level of electricity
tariffs in real terms would remain close to the mid-1984 level at the end



- 28 -
of FY90. These tariff revisions are expected to produce rates of return on
NEC's average revalued net fixed assets of 12% in FY85, 16% in FY86, and
about 9% in FY87 through FY90.   Loans required by NEC to finance the
foreign exchange cost of its entire development program are assumed to be
at annual loan service charges of 19%; in the event that NEC obtains loans
on terms which cause the average rate of service charges payable by it on
all the loans to decline significantly, then the rate of return required to
be earned by NEC will also be lower than the levels indicated above. NEC
has indicated that it has instituted a system of regular monthly reviews of
its tariffs in relation to the fuel and other operating costs and to adjust
the tariffs to cover increases in such costs. During negotiations NEC and
Government confirmed that whenever increases in operating costs necessitate
an increase in tariffs such increases would be imple=z xted before the
requirement for them exceeds 10% of the then current tariff level.
Additionally NEC will make such further tariff increases necessary to
ensure that it would earn rates of return of 9% on average net fixed assets
in operation revalued in accordance with a price index agreed between NEC
and the Association. The rate of return in Power III Project (Cr 1006-SU)
was 8%.  Increase of the rate to 9% in the proposed Project ,s needed for
the additional requirements of funds to cover the 'Inte est on Equity
Capital' (para. 5.07) which was levied subsequent to the appraisal of Power
III Project.
Performance of NEC
5.15       NEC's institutional and operational performance is subject to a
number of major problems.   These are (a) poor financial performance; (b)
inadequate system capacity; (c) low plant availability; (d) frequent power
breakdowns; (e) excessive power losses; and (f) high cost of power supply.
These problems are caused by (i) shortage of trained staff; (ii) weak
organization and management; (iii) lack of effective management information
system; (iv) chronic delays in planning for expansion and resulting costly
reliance on development of thermal rather than hydro power; (v) shortage of
spare parts and lack of systematic maintenance due to lack of foreign
exchange; (vi) inadequate financial resources to meet NEC's requirements
due to low tariffs and slow collection of electric bills; (vii) unmetered
and unbilled consumption of electricity by a nuamber of consumers; and
(viii) siltation of water intakes at Roseires hydroelectric station. NEC's
institutional and operational problems, their causes, actions underway and
further actions required to improve the situation are tabulated in
Annex 5.5.   Indicators in respect of FY82 for various factors related to
NEC's major problems have been compiled; these and indicators proposed for
gradual improvement in NEC's performance are shown in the following table.
NEC's performance will be compared with the indicators proposed for the
future years to monitor the action program and progress NEC makes in
resolving some of its major problems.



- 29 -
FY82 FY83 FY84 FY85 FY86 PY87 FY88 FY89 FY90
---Actual-          ---Proposed Targets
(a) Financial Performance
(i) Rate of return %    4.1 -9.2    6    11   10    9    9    9         9
(ii) Receivables in
months of sales     12   15   13   10       6    4      3    2      2
(b) Average System
Capacity - X of
maximum demand          80   90   95  14J   135  130  136  146   150
(c) Plant Availability -
Z capacity available    76    76   78   80   81   83   85   87   90
(d) Frequency of Power
Breakdowns
(i) Number of outages
per year           220   220  220  200   100   75   50   30   20
(ii) Average duration
of oatages -
minutes            100  100   100   50   30   20   15   15   15
(e) Power Losses - Z of
generation              27   27    27   20   19   18   17   15   15
Cf) Operating Cost-Vst/kwh
1983 price level       7.0   5.5  4.6  3.8  3.6  3.4  3.3  3.3   3.2
During negotiations, an action program for improving these indicators
including technical assistance for establishing management information
systems, management improvement, and planning studies; improved collection
of accounts receivable; and provision of spare parts was agreed with NEC
and Government (para. 2.03 and Annex 5.5).
Proposed Financing Plan
5.16      A detailed funds flow statement for NEC is shown in Annex 5.2.  A
summary financing plan for FY86 through FY88 follows:



- 30 -
Summary Financing Plan: FY86-88
£Sd      US$      Z
-million-
Application of Funds
Construction Expenditures
Proposed Project                                  128.1      40.2   13
Other Ongoing and Future Works                    671.4    210.3   70
Total                                         799.5    250.5   8_
Loan Service Charges During Construction (LSCDC)
Project                                        32.1       9.5    3
Other                                         140.7      41.8   14
Total LSCDC                                   172.8      51.3   17
Total Requirements                                972.3    301.8  100
Sources of Funds
Internal Generation                                559.4    176.3   58
Less: Debt Service                                 240.8      76.4   25
Interest on Equity Capital                   132.8      41.0   13
Net Internal Generation                      185.8      58.9   __f
Government Grant                                    25.0       9.1    3
Borrowings
The Project - Proposed IPA                         95.1      30.0   10
Ongoing and Future Projects                       487.7    153.8   51
Service Charges Financed by Loans                 172.t      51.3   17
Consumers' Deposits                                  1.2      0.4    -
Total Borrowings                              756.8    235.5   78
Decrease in Working Capital                          4.7      -1.7   -1
Total Sources                                    972.3    301.8  100
5.17          During the Project period FY86  through FY88,  NEC's
construction program is expected to cost US$301.8 million (ESd 972.3
million), including loan service charges during construction (LSCDC)
of US$51.3 million (EI72.8 million). About 13%, US$40.2 million (ESd
128.1 million), of this total construction program relates to the
proposed Project.
5.18        Internal cash generation after covering debt service and
interest on equity would produce 20% of the funds required for
construction expenditure during the FY86/88 period, and Government
grants would provide 3%.  All of the foreign exchange expenditures
would be financed from external financial sources. Borrowing would



- 31 -
provide 78% of NEC's total requirements of funds.   IDA's share of this
financing plan, US$30 million (ESd 95.1 million), would contribute 10% of
the total requirements.
5.19        The total foreign exchange cost of the Project excluding Loan
Service Charges During Construction (LSCDC) is U-`-O.0 million (ESd 95.1
million) which is proposed to be financed entirely by the proposed IDA
Credit, and the local expenditure on the Project is proposed to be financed
by NEC from its internal sources. LSCDC on onlent loans to NEC is proposed
to be financed by the Government by allowing NEC to add LSCDC during the
grace period to the principal amount of the loan.
Insurance and Taxes
5.20       NEC has satisfactory insurance coverage through companies which
insure its plant and equipment against the risks of machinery breakdown,
explosion and collapse of boilers, fire, and loss and damage in transit.
NEC is exempt from the levy of import duties and corporation tax on its
income.   It is subject however,  to a levy called  'Interest on Equity
Capital" at the rate of 5% on its equity capital at the start of each
financial year (para. 5.07).
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached by IDA, the Government
and NEC that:
(a) The Government will revise fuel oil prices to appropriate levels
(paras. 1.18);
(b) The Government would implement an action program to improve NEC's
performance (paras. 2.03 and 5.15);
(c)  NEC shall appoint only persons with suitable qualifications and
experience for all senior and middle level managerial positions
(para. 2.04);
(d) NEC will augment and continue the coordination of management and
training assistance from different sources by requiring a firm of
consultants to carry out that function (para. 2.05), and NEC will
employ consultants for the various components of the Project
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment are satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.06);
(e)  NEC will explore all possibilities to acquire foreign exchange
funds for purchase of its spare parts needs (para. 2.08);
(f) NEC will employ consultants satisfactory to IDA to update the
long-term development program and prepare a feasibility study for
a new hydropower project by December 31, 1986 (para. 2.14);



- 32 -
{g) The Government will provide adequate foreign exchange resources
required for implementation of NEC's development program.
Moreover, NEC agreed to undertake, until the completion of the
Project, new investments only after the preparation of a
feasibility study and, with respect to investments exceeding
US$25 million, only in accordance with the long-term power plan
as agreed upon between IDA and NEC (para. 2.15).
(h) NEC shall prepare accounts statements and management reports in
respect of all of NEC's area offices and consolidate them with
the head office accounts no less frequently than at quarterly
intervals starting from the accounts for periods starting after
July 1, 1985 (para. 5.02);
(i) NEC's external auditors will be appointed by the Government no
later than six months before the end of each financial year and
NEC's annual accounts with auditor's report thereon will be
submitted to the IDA no later than six months after the end of
each financial year (para. 5.03);
(j) NEC will not incur any debt unless the projected internal cash
generation is 1.5 times the projected debt service requirement on
all dabt, including the debt to be incurred (para. 5.07);
(k) On completion of the proposed tariff study NEC will take IDA's
views on it into consideration in implementing the study's
recommendations   within   six  months   after   its   completion
(para. 5.10); and
(1) The Government would permit NEC to set tariffs so as to enable it
to earn a rate of return of 9X. In addition, NEC would continue
to review and revise its tariffs to cover increases in operating
costs including fuel oil prices (para. 5.12).
6.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit shall be that
the Government and NEC would execute an onlending agreement relating to the
proposed credit and open the special account (paras. 3.05 and 3.09).
6.03        With the above agreements, the Project is suitable for an IDA
credit of US$30 million equivalent for a term of fifty years including a
grace period of ten years to be relent to NEC through a subsidiary loan
agreement acceptable to IDA.



STUDAN4
POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
ENEQAGY BALANCE, FY 83
('000 too)
Prliary Energy                                               Petroleum Products
Hydro-    Crude              Electri-         Gaso-  Kero-
Fuslwood  Biomass a/ electricity   Oil   Charcoal    city    LPG   line   sene  Gasoll  Fuel oil  Total
Gross Supply
Production                     6.880       487           197                                                                          7,564
Imports                                                            728                           4   110       23    360              1,225
Stock decrease                                                       (7)                                                                 (7)
(Increase)
rotal available supply        6,880       467            197       721                           4   110       23    360             8,782
Conversion
Petroleum refining                                                 (685)                         4   112       47    242       280        0
Charcoal production b/        lI,539)                                      1,539                                                          0
Electrlcal generation                                   (197)                           287                           (47)      143)      0
Conversion losses C/          (2,806)                               (36)               (199)                                         (3.0411
Transm.ldIstrlbutIon losses                                                             (26)                                            (26)
2,535      487            7           O    1,539         6,2      i   222       7O    555       237   5,715          W
Net Supply Available
Emports                                                                                                                         (95)    (95)
Dlstributor's 5tock                                                                             (1)    7        9    (23)        (6)    (14)
decrease (increase)
Not Consumption                  2,535       487                             1.539         62      1   229       79   532        T36   5o606
Consuming Sectors
Agriculturo                                                                               7                           108       38      153
Industry                          82       59                                           24                            46        89     300
Transport                                                                                            225       47    328         9      609
Household                      2,371       428                             1,446         27      7             22      25             4,326
PublIc/Other                      82                                          93          4             4      10      25               218
!/ Crop residues, animal waste, vag, oill
b/  One ton of charcoal requires 6 tons of tuelwood.
c/  Fuel consumption and conversion losses In thermal electricity generation are based on actual results.
Sourcei  NEA and Status misslon estimates



- 34 -
ANNEX 1.2
Page 1 of 3
PAST DEMAND ON BLUE NILE GRID AND EASTERN GRID
Blue Nile Grid
1.        Demand on the Blue Nile Grid increased at an average annual rate
of 9.5Z between 1970/71 and 1976/77, and system supply capability was
generally adequate  to meet demand during this period.   However,  from
1977/78 onwards there was a surge in the growth of demand primarily due to
heavy investment in new industries and the installation of a large number
of residential air conditioners. The average annual growth rate in demand
between 1977/78 and 1982/83 was 11.6%.   Concurrently, there was little
addition to the eupply capability of the public supply system, and billed
consumption (sales) increased by 5.1%/year during the same period.
Consequently, unserved demand increased rapidly, particularly in the form
of unconnected demand to the public system and also in the form of load
shedding and planned load reduction. In 1982/83 the estimated proportion
of total demand that was served from the public supply cystem had dropped
to about 70.   Unserved demand was either met from privately installed
power generators or was not met at all. The extent of unbilled consumption
has also increased substantially since 1977/78. NEC's consultants estimate
technical system losses to be 16% of generated power at the most.
Estimated unbilled consumption is the difference between 84% of generated
power anid billed consumption. Data for generation and demand in the Blue
Nile Grid for the period 1977/78 to 1982/83 are given in Table 1, and an
analybis of this data is given in Table 2.
Eastern Grid
2.           As with the Blue Nild Grid, sales data are not a reliable
indication of demand on the Eastern Grid during the last few years due to
considerable shortfalls in supply capacity.  This has been due partly to
the highly seasonal pattern of output from the Khass el Girba hydroelectric
plant with little or no output in the periods February to Junc.  (Annex
3.1; page 4).



- 35 -
AUMc 1.2
!Ap 2 of 3
TAE I
Gmvan  Av amm  mt cm              E 3Dm    pY77/78-f!83
L977f8 J97879  1M98D  L980           1981/J2  102/83  RAte Of GCth 8t
GeCat1mi (Ga)
Eld*                           565.1    6Z1.6    723,8    732.4    723.8    772.7           6.4
n11cu1 - stun                   73.5      81.4     86.8     89.0    98.8    121.1)
- Rme.l                  24.6     16.4       6.6      7.8     23.0      5.1)         9.5
- Cm  flbrb               3.8      4.1       4.5      4.8      8.1     3.4)
Tocal aloele cd                6617.0    f3.5    - M           O        O    933.3          6.9
TNAolaStacd                      6.3      5.1       4.7      7.5      3.8       n.-
Tata vlm nile Pqm              673.3    7286    826.4    841.5    871.8
§qMi (GQ)
Risdi-J 11                     2W.6       l1   216.9    219.1    281.9    301.7             8.5
CCM     l & Ug  IM.-            28.2      32.8     3L7      31.6     39.0      39.9         1.2
1#k SoppiLy3f (lrahuy, axe:)  266.3    !91.8       7L2    307.1    286.7    285.6           3.0
frd84t im11 N I                 17.9      17.8     45.3     17.5      18.4     19.0         1.2
Other           31              22.7      22.2     21.8     30.0      293      31.0         6.4
Toa  lueam NfU d               5152    55    S116.9    603    6.3    6772                   5.6
aolabad Lid t                    7.2      5.4       5.6      7.2      5.8       n.e
m,ai mm Mae 59  591.9  6                                25 .         6611
Syvm. Loamms  d lhbiLUsd Coaumtm  an Slam NiLle Orl
(GUh)                   151.8    137.O    234.8    227.7    211.7    256.1         11.0
CZ pamatlcm              22.8     18.9     28.6      273      24.4     27.5
1,I   PsCinmm   am  VW
sow                     126.0    126.9    144.1    11.8    DS.5    157.8            4.6
An.l &Seui toad Fatet Cm EC
CZ)                      60.4     60.3     64.8      60.3     62.4    6U.5
amer of 
AwidenciLY                    117,824  125,640  141,825  166I,54   175.942  1948,621       10.6
-z.1   I G U     Xt,. L /       5,209    6,260    7.327   11,477   13,3ZD   15,023
blk Sply3  a-&tty.   C.)         281      292       306      321      369       we
-rani  gU  kwsq                   961    1,116    1,176    1,519    1,GM5    1,66
rJdwCmerha 3I                              -         -        -             -   -
TWal  SL UM M                 1.24, D5  133,308  150,634  179.866  191,236  211,n3         11.2
Igolated tod                    4,338    3,919   11.947   16,157   18,791    na
%"I mm N. II      iam P2.613  137,2Z7  162,581  196.0   210.a27
toemn amn SC (Gin
omumspcn .                        560      608       690      7M       728       78S        7.0
Ewd  0xmtJax                      515   5S7    587   60    655   677                        5.6
fcUef0d                            45       21       L03       95       73       1D7)
low6                                3        a8       11       13       51        56)      33.7
Lud f.tui7                                   -         7       14       2B        42)
T1              D l               563       616      708      727      810       8S6        9.5
_bald .mA                          18       168      175      245       250      2W3       25.5
To l 1d                          641       784      883      972    1.060    1.129        12.0
n_.. - dn a ot  Dia0ble.
Umap11  lull    oD dojc amrs ad aWply to NM scoff.
InC1iW 1arp  iatim p                 mg o.
3T Cmdm  t     Uldv*q and water _ttddna.
M oIhc 3,00   o(.u( wre _awfad Eras t    e sdmtdA  o the sounertda1 qtwy
ftVvAdz  the 1979 tariff   in
5/ Dved fer. total inwatlm    tedmcal lines estimated ot be 16 of usoatti.
!/      atdrAl      re&mad by clore of plazs dart  pek priod of damdon NaW syatem
8*ad  feom lntuqc.rs best fit oam 1 _ato                   fo de d.
Sotgcet Slaidmiuted s fom   Nata                                     f
.~ ~~~~o% .AL .ayi  fN    aa



-36-                                     ANNEX 1.2
Page 3 of 3
TABLE 2
ANALYSIS OF HISTORIC DAIA FOR NBC BLUE NILE GRID
1977178   1978/79   1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   1982/83
Proportion of Generation (Z)
from hydro                             85        86        88         88        84        83
from therual                           15        14         12        12        16        17
Proportion of Sales (Z)
Residentisl                            39        38         37        36        43         44
Commercial & Light Ind.                 6         5          5         5         6          6
Bulk Supply (Industry, etc.)           48        50        46         51        43        42
Irrigation Small Pamps                  3         3          8         3         3          3
Other Categories                        4         4         4          5         5          5
Sales per Connection (kWh)
Residential                         1,703     1,768      1,529     1,315     1,602      1,550
Commercial & Light  nd.             5,414     5,240     4,326      2,153     2,928     2,656
Bulk Supply (Industry, etc.)      876,512   998,630   886,275   956,698   776,965   700,000
Irrigation Small Pumps             18,626    15,950    38,520    11,521    11,464    11,439
Other Categories                  ___        __
Average                             4,146     4,400     3,896      3,365     3,427      3,199
Tndices (1977/78&100)
Generation
Hydro                                 100       110        128       130       128        13t
Thermal                               100       100         96        99       140        158
Total                                 100       108        123       125       130        140
Sales
Residential                           lOO       ill        108       109       140        150
Commercial & Light Ind.               100       116       112        112       138        141
Bulk Supply (Industry, etc.)          100       118       110        125       116       116
Irrigation Small Pumps                100        99       253         98       103       106
Other Categories                      100        98        96        132       129        137
Total                                 100       114        114       il/       121        131
Number of Connections
Residential                           100       107        lZO       141       149        165
Comercial & Light Ind.                100       120       140        220       256        288
Bulk Supply (Industry, etc.)          100       104        109       114       131        145
Irrigation Small Pumps                100       116       122        158       1b7       173
Other Categories                      -         -         -          -         -         -
Total                                 100       10/        121       148       154        1/0
Sales per Conmection
Residential                           1OO       104        90         /7        94        91
Commercial Light Ind.                 100        9/        80         51        54        49
Bulk Supply (Industry, etc.)          100       114        101       109        89        80
Irrigation Small Pumps                100        86       20/         62        62        61
Other Categories                                                                 
Average                               100       106        94         81        83        77
Source: Mission analysis of NEC data.



- 37 -
ANNEX 2.1
SUDAN
POWER REHABnIITATION PROJECT
NATIONAL ELECMICITY CORPORATION
1~~~~~~1i
-~~~                                   e
Amm            lklmldm,              an                     on n   m m  mb*A
-ahmm. -9_m   -mmm  -ame_ 
_~~~~~~~~A§f                         _IMM                    DIM_ .  .
. r,.n    _ _ 
so_ cb _ as ~~m
X_ -- _L e_* _ _ ~



- 38 -
ANNEK 2.2
Page 1 of 3
SUDAN
POWER IV PROJECT
Public Electricity Installed Capacity
Installed     Actual Sent-Out
Type of            Date of          No. of      Capacity         Capacity
Power Station        Prime Mover       Installation        Sets          (MW)             (MW)
I. Paver Stations Owned and Operated by NEC
A. Blue Nile Grid
Roseires             Hydro           1971 - 72            3           90                go   I1
Hydro           1979 - 84            3          120               90  T/2/
Hydro           1966                 2            2                0   TF/
Diesel          1963 - 82            3            0.5              0.4 T/
Sennar               Hydro           1962                 2            15               14.5 1/
Burri                Steam           1956 - 61             4           26               16  5/
Diesel          1966                 5           15                2   51
Diesel          1981                 3           15               12.5
Diesel          1983 - 84            4           40               32.0
Gas Dirbine     1984                 1           15                14.0
Kilo X               Gas Turbine     1969                 1            14               13   7/
Kuku                 Gas Mrrbine     1984                 2            23               20
Khartoum North       Steam           1985                 2           60                60
Wad Medani 8/        Diesel          1954-55               2            1.0              0
Diesel          1967                 2            5.8               1.5
Total ENG                                                           442.3             365.9
B. Eastern Grid 9/
Thashm el girba 10/  Rydro           1961 -63             5            12.6             10
Diesel          1961                 3            4.2               2
Kassala 11/          Diesel          1956 - 80            15            5.6              _
Diesel          1982                 4            4                 3.6
Total EG                                                              26.4             15.6
TOTAL FOR (I)                                                         468.7            381.5



- 39 -
ANNEX 2.1
Page 2 of 3
Installed     Actual Sent-Ouit
Type of            Date of          ND. of      Capacity         Capacity
Power Station        Prime Mover       Installation        Sets         (MW)             (MW)
II. Power Stations transferred
to Regional Governments
A. Isolated Srations in the Areas served by the BNG
El Gourashi          DLesel          1962                 4           0.7              0.6
Ed Dueim             Diesel          1957                 5           1.4              0.7
DLesel (mobile) 1978                 1           0.5              0.4
Diesel (mobile) 1980 - 82            2           0.4              0.1
Total Isolated Stations in BNG                                       3.2              1.8
B. Northern
Atbara               Diesel          1955 - 78           10          13.0              0.8
Dongola              Diesel          1972 - 82           10           4.7              2
Shendi               Diesel          1959 - 82           10           4.6              3.5
Total Nbrthern                                                      22.3              6.3
C. Southern
Juba                 Diesel          1953 - 65            8           1                0.3
nalakal              Diesel          1961 - 70            5           1                0.03
Wau                  Diesel          1969 - 83           10           1.9              1.5
Total Souther                                                        3.9              1.8
D. Red Sea
Port Sidan           Diesel          1964 - 78            6          10.8              2.0
E. Darfur
El Fasher            Diesel          1958-82              9           2.8              2.1
Nyala                Diesel          1976                 6           1.5              1.3
Total Darfur                                                         4.3              3.4
D. Kardofan
El Obeid             Diesel          1980 - 82            5           5.0              2.7
Um Ruaba             Diesel          1976                 5           1.3              0.8
Total Kardofan                                                       6.3              3.5
TOTAL FUR (II)                                                      50.8             18.8
TOTAL FOR SUDAN (Public Electricity
Installed Capacity)                                                 519.5            400.3



- 40 -
ANNEK 2.2
Page 3 of 3
Private Owned Installed Capacity 12/
Diesel                                                              100.0
TOTAL FOR SUDAN - Installed Capeaity                                   619.5
of which:
Hydro                                                               239.6
Thermal                                                             379.9
- Steam                                                           86.0
- Gas Turbine                                                     52.0
- Diesel                                                         241.9
1/ & 2/ Maxim= rated capacity; during the flood season output is significantly reduced due to
Limited head available.
3/ Small sets installed in the service station could be restored to original rating if conduits were
cleared of silt.
4/ Standby sets for the power station; sometimes called as El Damazin diesel station.
!/ 16 M! was available output in July 1983.
6i Diesel sets at Burri are being overhauled and rehabilitated; in July 1983 only one unit was in
operation and could generate 2 MW.
7/ 13 MW is maxi.du output on peak load; on base load output is limited to 10 MW.
D/ Diesels units at Wad Medani are connected to the BNG.
D/ [uring the crop seasorn 1.8 MW surplus of the New Halfa Sugar Factory is supplied to the Eastern
grid.
IO/ 2 x 3.3 NW Kaplan turbines operate only from June to October;
3 x 2.0 MW pump/turbines generate from October to February and operate as pump from April to
September;
3 x 1.4 MW diesel units operate to make up the demand.
11/ Kassala wilI be connected to the Eastern grid and the power station will contine to be owned and
operated by NEC.
12/ Estimated by NEC and the consultants.



- 41 -
ANNEX 2.3
SUDAN                                Page 1 of 4
POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
FORECAST DEMAND ON BLUE NILE GRID AND EASTERN GRID
Blue Nile Grid
1.         Forecasts by main consumer categories to 1990/91 of total demand
in the Blue Nile Grid area, demand connected to the Blue Nile Grid and
billed consumptions are presented in Table 1. Residential and commercial
demand is forecast to increase at the forecast population growth rate for
urban areas in the Blue Nile Region. Forecast growth in industrial demand
is according to applications for connections received by NEC from existing,
unconnected industrial plants and from committed projects that are
currently in the process of implementation.   Irrigation pumping demand
forecast is based on projected pump electrification schemes and normal
growth.   Forecast load shedding is derived from comparison of forecast
connected demand with system supply capability from existing, committed
Power III and proposed future   generating facilities.  It was assumed that
NEC would be able to reduce the backlog of unconnected demand and to reduce
the amount of unbilled consumption.
2.        Total demand to 1990/91 in the Blue Nile Grid area is forecast by
the appraisal mission to increase at an average annul rate of 7.5%.  This
is a lower rate than achieved historically and reflects the difficulties
facing the Sudanese economy for the duration of the 1980s. However, total
connected demand to the Blue Nile Grid is forecast to increase at 10.1%
annually to 1990/91 as the presently unconnected demand is connected to the
Grid.   Furthermore,  billed consumption is forecast to increase at an
average annual rate of 13.4% as NEC makes progress in identifying and
billing consumption that is presently unbilled.
3.           NEC prepared a demand forecast for the 1980 Development Plan
which has been accepted by the consultants in the Power IV Project
Feasibility Study. Demand on the Eastern Grid, including Kassala which NEC
have firm plans to interconnect with the Eastern Grid under its development
program, is forecast to increase at an average annual rate of 17.2% from
1981/82 to 1990/91, with the growth rate declining over this period. This
high rate reflects the take-up of existing unserved demand.
Seasonal Pattern of Demand
4.        The seasonal patterns of demand on the Blue Nile Grid and Eastern
Grid are shown below, based on historic data for energy generated and
unserved demand.



-42                                ANNEX 2.3
Page 2 of 4
Motih:           Jan.  Feb. Mr. w      M     y Ju .  Jul.  A8.  Se.  kt.  Nov.  D.
Blie NUJ Grid:
Factor (Z) 1/  8.96  7.09  7.69  8.98  8.00  8.39  6.97  6.84  8.14  9.45  9.78  9.72
Eastem Grid
Factor (2) 1/  8.3  7.8  8.1  8.7  8.0  9.2  10.1  8.7  6.8  8.2  8.1  8.0
Note 1/ equal to (mxthly dmr4/arrnl de.nd) x 100.
Source: NEC data and Gbtbf/rz & McIeIlan 'Par 1V Projet Feasibility Study'.
Demand by Consumer Category
5.        The breakdown of forecast demand by consumer category on the Blue
Nile Grid is shown on page 3 of this Annex. The breakdown for the Eastern
Grid is as follows based on analysis of historic sales:
Residential - 25Z;
Bulk Supply - 19X;
Commercial and Light-Industrial - 25%;
Irrigation Small Pumps - 23%;
Other Categories - 8%



- 43 -
ANNEX 2.3
Page 3 of 4
TAI1
smCAsr Dm al usa az
(C|_ tUal)        13485  1965/60  1916/87  1167185  196618   1969/S90  1190/91                of 1 91
hidmstla        - LUi                     302      324      331      430      462       511      548      567      623         34.9             9.5
-Ibilal                    St1      44       43       41       43       30        32       34       35
-a                         30       42       16        -        -        -        -        -         -
- Totsl CoocUd            313      410      440      471      SW5      541     5s        6I       658         35.1              7.0
-Dmom_ tsd 50                       50       49       47       44       41       37       33       35
- Ttasl D_d               433      460      49       518      549     S52       617       65       693
Ca l  &    -LId                            40       41       58        64                77       81       85       91          5.1            10.8
L4Lht Idtcy - hIullld                       7        5        3        7        10                 4        5        5
- Shed                   13       is        6        -        -        -        -        -         -
- DCC ' Carncmee           60       64       67       71       76       8         aS      90                    5.1             6.1
- Ubco.mactd                3        3        4        4        4        4        5         5        5
-  htO  l OWAA             63       67       71       75       so       85       90      9f        101
luRk S4p4ly     - tLlu                    286      303      438      553      635       750      785      862      902         50.6            15.4
(HaW yL ndmatty- U.bad d                   49       42       49       52       58       35        46       45       46
& Laq  icrig. -3Sb                         13       18        6        -        -                  -        -        -
PF1q loamd) -   ductlon                    42       60       21        2        7         9        -        -        -
-    W  Cbo   td          390      423      514      607      700      794      631      SD7       9a          50.7            11.7
- &bhoa ctad              145      127       52        -        -        -         -       -         -
- Toeal  D   d            535      550      5S6      607      700      794      *31       8 7      94
lUtpitio        - KLId                     19       33       53       70       J6       94       101      108      115          6.            25.2
s=L Uouping   -Ibid                         4        6        2         1       2         -        -        -        -
Lomda           -  otal Ccoctad            23       39       55       71       s8       94       101     too       115          6.1            22.3
- bocmaact d               44       33       22       11        -        -        -        -        -
- Total DOM                67       72       77       82       #        94       101      108      115
Otbar           - 7tea12 Cuzd              31       33       36       38       41         4       47       50       54          3.0             7.2
Total ALL       - dluld                   677      736      966    1,155    1.290    1,476    1,562    1,672    1,795         100.0           12.6
cateoclag       - Ufblld                  17        91       95       10O      111       69       82       84       86
-Shd                       6C)
- MadactLon                42)     144       51                 9        9        -        -        -
Total Comcgttd          a6n      969    1,112   1.58    1,410    1.554    1,664    1.756    1,n71         o00.0             9.6
- Dnumacted               243      213      127       64       51       45       42       38       40
- -sotal C_d            1,129    1,112    1,239    1.322    1.461    1.599    1.686    1.79      1,911                         6.9
camam tlou Sjquirud for
tol Conneuecd  emDd a                   1.056    1,154    1.324    1.50    1.682    1.850    1.956   2.090    2,226                             9.6
ixmsu Dwd  on IC 1 m )                    201      220      252       285      319      352      372      396      424                          9.6
If Aadoing trwandauon ad dlUtrtltc   loases. of 16S of mua rutad (Ceut sat) -oor.
2, Asudg ayiti load factor of 6U.
Soux=:  Wasion



- 44 -
ANNEX 2.3
PaRe 4 of 4
SUDAN
POWER REHABILIT&TION PROJECT
ACTUAL AND FORECAST GENERAIION AND DEMAND ON NEC EASTERN GRID FY80 to FY92
FY Combined Demand 1/ -    --Generation Source 21                - - -   - - -   Sales 3/
Rhasm el    Khasm el   Kassala Power IV
Girba Hydro Girba Diesel Diesel Diesel 5/
(MW)                              (Gh)   -  - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Actual:   80             28           20             2          6        -         19.5
81             28           20             2          6        -         20.9
82             30           20             4          6        -         24.0
83             34           20             8          6        -         27.2
Forecast: 84    12.5    49.4          20            10         16        -         36.8
85    15.3     60.5         20            10         16        -         36.8
86    18.6     73.0         20             5          1       47         58.4
87    21.0     83.4         20             1          1       61         66.7
88    23.7     94.2         20             1          1       72         75.4
89   26.7    106.3          20             1          1       84         84.8
90    30.0    120.0         20             1          1       98         96.0
91    33.0   132.0          20             1          1      110        105.6
92    36.2   145.0          20             1          1      123        116.0
Notes: 1/ Combined demand of Eastern Grid. Interconnection with Kassala scheduled for 1985.
Demand is constrained by supply capability up to FY83.
2/ Based on NEC's consultant's recommended development program for EG.
3/ Forecast Sales are Generation less 20X losses; up to FY85 demand exceeds generation
capacity.
4/ Existing diesel units to FY82 when retired; new 4xl MNW diesel units from FY83.
5/ 3x5 MW units Nov 85-Mar 86; 2x5 MW units Jan 87-Mar 87; lx5 MW unit in Mar 89.
Source: "Power IV Feasibility Study - Final Report (Volume 2)`- June 1983,
Sir Alexander Gibb and Partners/Messrs. Mbrz and McLellan.



- 45 -
ANNEX 2.4
Page 1 of 2
SUDAN
POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Power Development Program of Sudan to FY90
Installed   Commis-
Capacity    sioning
Plant                                                     KW        Year
I.  The Blue Nile Grid (NEC)
A. Generation
Completion of Power III Project
- fuel oil-fired thermal                     2 x 30    PY85-86
Power Rehabilitation Project (Burri diesel)   2 x 10    FY87
Extension of the Kilo X gas turbine plant      2 x 15    FY86-87
Roseires Unit No. 7 Hydro                      I x 40    FY87-88
Extension of Khartoum North PS
(fuel oil-fired thermal)                     2 x 60    FY90-91
Future Power Project                                     FY92-93
B. Transmission
BNG Transmission                                         FY89
Transmission projects to improve
reliability of supply                                  FY88
C. Distribution
Development of the BNG distribution networka
(Khartoum and other areas)                             FY86-90
II. Eastern Grid (NEC)
A. Generation
New diesel power station at Khashm el Girba
and Kassala                                  3 x 5     FY88
Extension to Kassala diesel power station      I x 5     FY90
B. Transmission
Extension to Kassala                                     FY87
Extensions to 66 kV substations                          FY88



- 46 -
ANNEX 2.4
Page 2 of 2
II1. Port Sudan (Regional Administration)
A. Generation
New diesel power station                       5 x 10   FY87-91
B. Transmission
Extension to the transmission and
distribution networks                                  FY89-91
IV. Regions (Regional Administration)
A. Generation
91 diesel units of 250 kW and 500 kW
total capacity                               28        FY87-91
B. Transmission and Distribution
Associated transmission and distribution
networks extensions                                    FY87-91
V. Distribution Networks of BNG Outside Khartoum
Strengthening and extension of the 33 kV
networks
Supply of distribution transformers,
switchgear and otber material for an
additional capacity of 100 MVA



- 47 -
ANNEX 2.5
Page 1 of 2
SUDAN
POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
IMSmNT PROGRM COSTS
(LSD MILLION)
TOTAL
1985     1986     1987      1988     1989     1990     1991    1985-91
PORER III
LOCAL                           6.6      3.1      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.(,     9.7
FOREIGN                        30.0     13.2      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0     43.2
POER RIHAB. PRJECr
LOCAL                           0.0      4.8     10.5       7.2      0.0      0.0       0.0     22.5
FOREIGN                         0.0     20.4     43.3      21.1      0.0      0.0       0.0     84.8
POWER IV
LOCAL                           0.0      0.0      0.0       8.1     17.3     21.1      17.4     63.8
FOREIGN IN LSD MILLION          0.0      0.0      0.0      47.0     95.9    120.1     95.2    358.1
RIEB. WORKS
LOCAL                           1.9      2.4      0.8       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      5.1
FOREIGN                        18.5     23.6     25.2       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      67.3
HARMTUM DISTR. I
LOCAL                           0.0      7.9     23.8      24.3      7.9      5.8       0.0     69.7
FORSIGN                         0.0     12.4     34.9      31.2     19.8     19.4       0.0    117.6
OTHER DISTRIB. I
LOCAL                           1.9     10.0      8.1       5.4      0.0      0.0      0.0      25.3
FOREIGN                         3.4     19.3     16.5      12.4      0.0      0.0      0.0      51.5
BNG RELIABILM
LOCAL                           1.2      8.3       5.6      3.2      0.0      0.0       0.0     18.3
FOREIGN                         4.1     28.5     21.8      12.4      0.0      0.0      0.0      66.9
EG EXPANSION
LOCAL                           1.9      6.2      2.0       0.5      0.0      0.0      0.0      10.5
FOREIGN                         9.4     25.3      6.0       1.9      0.0      0.0      0.0      42.7
EG CONNECT. TO KASSAIA
LOCAL                           0.0      2.1       1.6      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       3.7
FOREIGN                         0.0      8.6      8.4     21.1       0.0      0.0      0.0      38.1
KHARTOUM N (5 & 6TH UNITS)
LOCAL                           0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      5.9     11.1     15.6      32.6
FOREIGN                         0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0     23.5     46.6     64.2    134.3
KHARMIUM DISTR. II
LOCAL                           0.0      0.0      0.0       4.1     20.2     22.1     22.6      69.0
FOREIGN                         0.0      0.0      0.0      10.9     33.3     39.2     42.5    125.9
BNG & EG TRANSMISSION
LOCAL                           0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      4.4     10.0      4.6      19.1
FOREIGN                         0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0     17.7     40.9     21.7      80.3
OTHER DISRIBL II
LCAI.                           0.0      0.0      2.4       8.1     10.8     13.7      15.6     50.7
FOREIGN                         0.0      0.0      9.7      14.7     20.6     27.7     32.4    105.1
STUDIES & REPORTS
LOCAL                           0.4      0.3      0.4       0.9      1.5      2.1      2.3       8.0
FOREIGN                         2.1      5.5      1.3       3.0      4.5      4.8       5.8     27.1



- 48 -
ANNEX 2.5
Page 2 of 2
TOTAL
1985    1986     1987    1988    1989    1990    1991   1985-91
NEW fDRO PROJECT
LOCAL                         0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      9.8      9.8
FOREIGN                       0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0    48.3    48.3
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
LOCAL                         0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      4.9      5.8      5.8    16.5
FOREIGN                       0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      4.5      4.8      5.8    15.2
TOTAL
LOCAL                        13.9    45.2    55.2    61.7    73.0    91.7    93.7   434.4
FOREIGN                      67.5   156.8   167.3   175.5   219.8   303.6   315.9  1406.4
ESCALATION FACTOR
LOCAL                                1.135    1.429   1.746   2.072    2.406    2.767
FOREIGN                              1.038   1.118   1.207   1.304    1.408   1.521
TOTAL (INCLUD. ESCALATION)
LOCAL                        13.9    51.3    78.8   107.7   151.2   220.7   259.4   883.0
FOREIGN                      67.5   162.7   187.1   212.0   286.6   427.5   480.5  1823.8
TOTAL                      81.4   213.9   265.9   319.7   437.8   648.2   739.9  2706.9
EFFECrIVE EXCHANGE RATES        1.84    2.74    3.20    3.58    3.92    4.19    4.60
TOTAL (INCLUDING ESCALATION)
IN MILLION US$
LOCAL                         7.6    18.7    24.6    30.1    38.6    52.7    56.4   228.6
FOREIGN                      36.7    59.4    58.5    59.2    73.1   102.0   104.4   493.3
TOTAL                      44.3    78.1    83.1    89.3   111.7   154.7   160.8   722.0



-49-
ANNEX 3.1
Page 1 of 5
SUDAN
POWER SYSTEM REHABILITATION AND EXTENSION P&OJECT
Description of the Project
The Power System Rehabilitation and Extension Project consists
principally of the addition of some diesel generating capacity in Khaxtoum
and various items of rehabilitation in existing generating stations,
transmission and distribution grids and substations and feasibility studies
for major future generating plants.   These items are listed  below and
described in further detail.
(a) Addition of Two 10-MW Diesel Units at Burri Power Station
The addition of two 10-MW diesel generating units to Burri power
station in Khartoum to bring the installation of that station to its full
capacity of 60 MW.
The existing extension of Burri power station was made under
Power III by constructing a new powerhouse to accomodate six 10-11W diesel
units. Only four units were installed under ODA financing due to funding
limitations, but provision was made for common facilities for six units.
Space was left for cooling towers, piping, control room facilities and
panels.
A review of the load forecast made during appraisal shows that
the system would require additional generating capacity in early 1987 and
that the addition of the two remaining units at Burri power station would
be the least cost option to accomplish this in time to meet system demand.
(Project Justification).
The two additional units will be procured by international
competitive bidding, engineering and construction supervision will be done
by consultants acceptable to the Association. The units are scheduled for
completion by early 1987.
On the basis of recent offers for diesel units of similar size
and considering the existing provision for common facilities, the total
estimated cost for the two units completely installed with cooling towers
is US$14.9 million foreign exchange and US$3.7 million local cost
equivalent to US$930 per kilowatt installed (Annex 3.2).



- 50 -
AINEX 3.1
Page 2 of 5
(b) Rehabilitation of Units 1 and 2 at Roseires Power Station
The first three units (Nos. 1, 2 an 3) were installed at Roseires
in the early 1970s and have been the main source of power generation up to
the present time. As a consequence, these machines have suffered more than
normal wear and it has not been possible to take them out of service for
sufficient time to provide full maintenance and replacement of worn parts.
During the annual inspection of the units in early 1984, the consultants
(Merz and McLellan) and representatives of the manufacturers of the
original equipment (Voest - turbines and ASEA - generators) made a complete
inspection of all equipment of the three units and submitted a report
detailing the work to be done, material and spare parts required, time
schedule for the rehabilitation, cost estimate based on the time required
for each of the specialists from the factories who would perform the work.
It was proposed that one unit would be taken out of service between January
and May each year, when hydro generation is at its lowest due to restricted
water availability after meeting irrigation needs.   The unit would be
completed, dismantled and thoroughly rehabilitated including rebuilding aa
required of the turbine buckets; generator insulation repair and revedging;
governor inspection and adjustment; switchgear and transformer overhaul and
inspection and rehabilitation of all auxiliary equipment.
This program of rehabilitation is overdue and has only now become
feasible because of the entry into service of Units 5 and 6 (40 MW each) in
February and July 1984 under Power III. The first unit to be rehabilitated
will be Unit No. 3, which is judged by the consultants to be the most in
need of attention. This work will be done under Power III in 1985 (January
to May). The proposed Power Rehabilitation Project will therefore include
Units I and 2 only, to be done in 1986 and 1987 at a cost of about US$1.2
million each unit foreign exchange and US$0.1 million local cost.
NEC has received firm offers from the manufacturers to supply all
needed materials and spare parts and specialists to carry out the work.
The consultants (Merz and McLellan) will coordinate and supervie the work.
The cost estimate is based on these offers which were approved by the Bank
under Power III.   The funds under Power III included the total cost of
material and spare parts for the three units and the consultants',
specialists' and manpower charges for Unit 3 only.  The proposed project
will include the consultants', specialists' and manpower charges for Units
1 and 2.
(c) Rehabilitation of Sennar Power Station
The two 7.5 MW hydroelectric units at the Sennar power station
have been maintained by NEC's staff since their iastallation in 1964;
however, the shortage of funds has precluded the procurement of spare
parts.   NEC has requested the original consultants for the statioL. (SGI,



- 5: -
ANNEXi 3.1
Page 3 of 5
Switzerland), to review the requirements for spare parts and materials for
the rehabilitation of the station. In the meantime, NEC has requested the
manufacturers of the machines to submit an offer to supply a list of spare
parts which it has drawn up.   It is expected  that the consultant's
recommendations and the quotation for spares from the manufacturer will be
in hand shortly and that the rehabilitation work will be completed by
Dec-mber 1985 under Power III.  The spare parts to be ordered under the
proposed project are for maintenance in 1986 and 1987 only. The estimated
cost of these spares is US$0.6 million foreign exchange.
(d) Reconductoring First 220-kV Transmission Circuit and Spare Parts
Prior to the completion of the second 220-kV transmission circuit
from Roseires to Khartoum in July 1984, the first circuit, constructed in
1971, could not be taken out of service for proper maintenance.  In many
cases dampers had deteriorated or were missing; mid-span line failures were
repaired by temporary joints.   It is now necessary to procure 200 km of
Zebra conductor to restore this circuit to normal reliability. In addition
to the conductor, spare parts and accessories will be required to meet
requirements in 1986 and 1987.
Because of a lack of funds, spare towers for the 110 kV system
have all been used and spares are urgently needed. NEC proposes to order 4
each of the three types of towers used in the 110 kV transmission system
from the original supplier.   This number would be reasonable to meet the
maintenance needs.
Tools and measuring and testing equipment are in need of
replacement.
The estimated foreign exchange cost of the above items are
summarized below:
in USS million
(i)  Zebra conductor - 200 km                                  1.1
Procurement by international competitive bidding
(ii)  Spare parts and accessories                               0.6
Procurement by quotation from suppliers
(iii)  Spare towers procured from original supplier              0.4
(iv)  Tools and measuring equipment                             0.1
(v)  Freight and insurance                                     0.4
Total                                                2.6



- 52 -
ANiEX 3.1
Page 4 of 5
(e) Rehabilitation of the Eastern Grid, including Replacement of Circuit
Breakers and Addition of Line Protection
ti) The twelve 66-kV oil circuit breakers in the Eastern Grid were
installed in 1964 and have now become obsolete, and with the proposed
expansion of the generating capacity of the system to meet forecast demand,
system short circuit levels will exceed the rupturing capacity of the
breakers. It is necessary to change these breakers for safety and service
reliability reasons. Consultants will be engaged to engineer, prepare bid
documents and supervise the installation of new breakers.   Procurement
would  be  by  international  competitive  bidding.    The  estimated  cost
is US$1.2 million in foreign exchange.
(ii) The distance protection for the 66 kV lines in the El Girba to El
Showak to Kilo 3 sections should be installed for improved reliability of
the  system.    The  needed  equipment  would  be  procured  by  requesting
quotations from selected suppliers by NEC. The estimated foreign cost is
US$0.2 million. The equipment would be commissioned by 1986.
'iii)   Existing DC equipment at the New Halfa, Kilo  3, Showak and
Gadarif substations are urgently in need of replacement due to age and
obsolescence. Procurement would be by requesting quotations from selected
bidders. The estimated foreign cost would be US$0.2 million.
(iv)   Rehabilitation of power generating facilities would be also
considered and made to the extent considered appropriate and justified.
(f) Distribution Rehabilitation
In its system studies under Power III, the consultants (Lahmeyer,
Germany), showed that the rupturing capacity of the 33 kV breakers at Kuku
and Burri substations should be upgraded from the present 750 HVA to 1500
MVA rating to be able to handle the increased short-circuit levels of the
system. The replacemct of these breakers is increasingly urgent as new
generating capacity is added and the danger of failure of these breakers
increases. Such a failure could result in a major supply interruption and
endanger life and property at the substations.
NEC proposes to appoint consultants to engineer the project for
the two substations which would be in the form of a turnkey project to be
invited through international competitive bidding. The estimated foreign
cost is US$2.6 million.



- 53 -
ANNEX 3.1
Page 5 of 5
(g) Studies and Feasibility Reports
There are a number of feasibility studies which are essential to
the future long range planning of NEC's system (e.g. long term program,
load management and energy conservation, the interconnection with Ethiopia,
the Merowe Dam Feasibility Report). However, some of these studies may be
financed by other agencies.   Consequently, the amount given below is a
notional amount which could be used for additional studies or investigation
to supplement studies financed by other agencies if this is required or to
initiate studies if these are not undertaken by other agencies.
An amount of US$9.2 million, of which USS6.4 million in foreign
exchange, is estimated for this item over a three-year period.



- 54 -
AN= 3.2
Page 1 of 3
198 --- 86        19a8 7                1987- -B
1ocal   F     Total  Local  ore    Total  tocal.  c      Total  local FEar Total
A. ftnd Pber Stat
(2 x 10 II)
DMP Cast            1.7    7.3   9.0  4.0   20.2  24.2   2.2   11.3  13.5  7.9   38.8  46.7
- Physical        0.2    0.7   0.9   0.4    2.0   2.4  0.2    1.1   1.3  0.8    3.8   4.6
- Price           0.3    0.3   0.6  1.9    2.6   4.5   1.8    2.6   4.4  4.0    5.5   9.5
Total.                       MY1~   -K    T23.   *fT- liT                            T
B. RoeL  Ryrpm
(Units 1 & 2)
Base Cost                                1.1    1.5   2.6  2.0    2.6   4.6   3.1    4.1   7.2
Phy'scal                               0.1    0.1   0.2  0.2    0.3   0.5   0.3    0.4   0.7
=price                                 0.5    0.2   0.7   1.6    0.6   2.2  2.1    0.8   2.9
Total                               L7     1.8   3.5  3.8  -3.5  7-     33 t7             I
(Spare Pat)
Ese cost            0.3    1.5   1.8   -        -      -                         0.3    L.5   1.8
-Ebyacal          -       0.0   0.0   -       -      -                          -      0.0   0.0
-PriE             0.0    0.1   0.1   -        -      -                          0.0    0.1   0.1
Total          03    1.6   1.9   -                                          0.3    1.6   1.9
D. RC 
22D kV Linem  oxict. 0.4    0.9    1.3  L.1    2.5   3.6                         1.5    3.4   4.9
Spwae Parts         -       1.5   1.5                                            -       L5    L5
110 kV Lte Tr8      0.3    0.9   1.2                                             0.3      9    L2
M3ols & Equipmmt    0.3    0.3   0.6                                             0.3    0.3   0.6
Frgt & I1ret,e    -         0.7   0.7                                            -       0.7   0.7
Base OSt         L       4.3   5.3   1-I     2      3.6 S
ebtmds
-EYsi41          0.0    0.0   0.0  0.1    0.3   0.4                           0.1    0.3   0.4
-Price          0.1    0.2   0.3  0.5    0.3   0.8                            0.6    0.5   1.1
Total          1    4.5   5.6  1.7    3.1   4.8                           2.8    7.6  10.4



- 55 -
AMEX 3.2
F*e 2 Er 3
-198-6--49 196-7                 -     198987-8--   --otalsbt-l-, e-
Lol  orel  Total  Local ForeUg  Total  local        Total  local Foreip Total
E. Enteun QOtid
66 kV Qroditc 1e    0.4    0.7   1.1  0.4    2.8   3.2                         0.8    3.5   4.3
Dil    Relays      0.3    0.6   0.9                                            0.3    0.6   0.9
DC E   etzIit      0.0    0.4   0.4                                            0.0    0.4   0.4
BM  aost    2      7  .147    U    0.4    2.8    12
-Frlical        -       0.0   0.0   -      0.0   0.0                        -      0.0   0.0
-Prims          0.1    0.1   0.2  0.2    0.3   0.5                          0.3    0.4   0.7
Total        0.8    1.8   2.6  0.6    3.1   3.7                         1.4    4.9   6.3
F. Watribitim Reahb.
1_st Coat                              1.1    6.8   7.9                        1.1    6.8   7.9
-Physical                             0.1    0.7   0.8                       0.1    0.7   0.8
-Pr'ioe                               0.5    0.9   1.4                       0.5    0.9   1.4
Total                            -1:7                                     17
G. Ernerl  Sav±s
Ba Cost            0.3    1.9   2.2  0.9    2.7   3.6  1.4    2.4   3.8  2.6    7.0   9.6
4reamdes
- Physical        -      0.1   0.1   -       0.0   C.0  0.1    0.2   0.3  0.1    0.3   0.4
- PCIe            0.1    0.1   0.2  0.4    0.3   0.7  1.1    0.5   1.6  1.6    0.9   2.5
Total                              .3            T             1                        T
LTedbvical Ausistus"
and Stuidla
TWhmcal Aeistwce
and 2mirdr        0.1    0.4   0.5  0.1    0.4   0.5  0.3    0,6   0.9  0.5    1.4   1.9
SuDl
- Io19Tez Davt.   0.1    0.4   0.5  0.2    0.6   0.8   -         -      -    0.3    1.0   1.3
- EdropW   imlb. 0.3    1.5   1.8  0.8    2.1   2.9  0.8    2.3   3.1   L9    5.9   7.8
- inter~maotie    -      0.3   0.3  0.1    0.3   0.4   -         -     -    0.1    0.6   0.7
Sme cot       0.5    2.6   -T   1.2    3.4    46   r                      2.8 0 O
Physical     0.1    0.2   0.3   -       0.3   0.3   -       0.3   0.3  0.1    0.8   0.9
PricM        0.1    0.1   0.2  0.5    0.6   1.1  0.9    0.6   1.5  1.5    1.3   2.8
Total             0.7    2.9                  3                     43B             TO   TIT



- 56 -
MAN 3.2
- 985-86l91         -     198687     -  -   987-8            -    Itas
Lca  F         Tol  Local Fore     Toal  lcal FForeil  Toaal    Al Frel  Tol
Base Cost            4.5   19.4  23.9   9.8   39.9  49.7  6.7   19.2  25.9  21.0   78.5  99.5
- fiysiw.l         0.3    1.0   1.3  0.7    3.4   4.1  0.5           L9    2.4   1.5    6.3   7.8
- Price            0.7    0.8   1.5   4.5    5.2   9.7   5.4    4.3   9.7  10.6   10.3  20.9
Total           3       I       7  TOOY       3      5 26 63.5  12.6    25.4   38.0    3 3. 95.1  128.2
J. Project Gast in
UW$ uIJlI
BMW Cost             1.6    7.1   8.7   3.1   12.5  15.6  1.9    5.4   7.3   6.6   25.0   31.6
- PThs.cal         0.1    0.3   0.4   0.2    1.1   1.3  0.1    0.5   0.6   0.4    1.9   2.3
- Price            0.3    0.3   0.6   1.4    1.6   3.0   1.5    1.2   2.7   3.2    3.1   6.3
Total           2.0    7.7   9.7   4.7   15.2  19.9   3.5    7.1   10.6  1-0    W.0    MT
Effective Eads lates:
FY                    1985-86  1986-87  1987-88
ESd/US$                 2.74    3.20     3.58



- 57 -
ANNEX 3.3
SUDAN
POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
|  t        I   -       t                        * I
Calendar Year                  1985        1986         1987        1988
Burri Power Station           E  P  C                  C
(2x10 MW)
Roseires Rehabilitation                  No. 1        No. 2
(1 and 2)
Sennar Rehabilitation               -      -
E P C
Blue Nile Transmission
Eastern Grid
Distribution Rehab.              E  P   C
Studies                                                            -
E - Engineering
P - Procurement
C - Construction/Erection



- 58 -
ANNEX 3.4
SUDAN
POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Procurement PrLogram
(in US$ dm1llion)
IDA Giidel-
lines for     Total
Other   Use of       Estimated
ICB       ethods   Consultants   Costs
1.  Burri Power Station
(2x10 Mw units)
- Supply & Installation         18.6 (14.9)                          18.6 (14.9)
2.  Roseires Hydro Rehab.
- Equipment and Works                        2.3 (1.2)                2.3 (1.2)
3.  Sennar Hydro
- Spare Parts                                0.7 (0.6)                0.7 (0.6)
4.  EN Transmission
- oDnductors                     1.8 (1.3)                            1.8 (1.3)
- Spare Parts                                0.8 (0.7)                0.8 (0.7)
- Spare Towers                               0.7 (0.6)                0.7 (0.6)
- Tools & Equipment                          0.2 (0.1)                0.2 (0.1)
1.7 (1.4)               3.5 (2.7)
5. EG Grid
- iWV Breakers                   1.6 (1.2)                            1.6 (1.2)
- Distance Belays                            0.3 (0.2)                0.3 (0.2)
0.3 (0.2)               0.3 (0.2)
0.6 (0.4)               2.0 (1.6)
6. Distribution Rehab.
- Equipmnent and Erection        3.1 (2.6)                            3.1 (2.6)
7.  Consultant Services & Studies                            9.2 (6.4)   9.2 (6.4)
Total                      25.1 (20.0)  5.3 (3.6)   9.2 (6.4)  39.6 (30)
Figures in parentheses are amounts financed by IDA.



- 59 -
ANEX 3.5
SUDAN
POWER SYSTEM REHABILITATION
Estimated Distursemnt Schedule for the Proposed Credit
(US$ ELIlions)
Cumulative        IUdisbursed
IDA Fiscal Year                 Quarterly           Disbursemeats          End of
And Qaarter Ending             ILsbursements         End of Quarter         Quarter
FY 86
September 30, 1985                  -                     -                  30.00
December 31, 1985                   1.10                  1.10               28.90
March 31, 1986                      1.60                  2.70               27.30
June 30, 1986                       2.28                  4.98               25.02
FY 87
September 30, 1986                  2.46                  7.44               22.56
December 31, 1986                   4.80                 12.24               17.76
March 31, 1987                      5.14                 17.38               12.62
June 30, 1987                       3.81                 21.19                8.81
FY 88
September 30, 1987                  2.5                  23.69                6.31
December 31, 1987                   1.5                  25.19                4.81
March 31, 1988                      0.5                  25.69                4.31
June 30, 1988                       2.31                 28.00                2.00
FY 89
September 30, 1988                  0.50                 28.50                1.50
December 31, 1988                   0.50                 29.00                1.00
March 31, 1989                      0.30                 29.30                0.70
June 30, 1989                       0.20                 29.50                0.50
FY 90
September 30, 1989                  0.20                 29.70                0.30
December 31, 1989                   0.30                 30.00                0.00
Closing Date of Credit: December 31, 1989



- 60 -
ANNEX 3.6
Page 1 of 2
SUDAN
POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Monitoring Guidelines
Guidelines for monitoring the Project have been discussed with
NEC.   Monitoring will take the form of a series of target dates for the
major events in the project implementation program and indicators of NEC's
performance against projected standards.
The principal implementation targets to be compared monthly with
planned targets are as follows:
A.  Burri Diesel Station                         Target Dates
Appointment of consultants                  September 1985
Call for tenders                            November 1985
Receive tenders                             March 1986
Award of contracts                          May 1986
Erection of starts                          June 1986
Commissioning                               March 1987
B.  Roseires Hydro
Appointment of consultants                   September 1985
Rehabilitation starts                       January 1986
C.  Sennar Hydro
Award of contract for spares                 December 1985
Delivery starts                             March 1986
D.  Transmission and Distribution
Rehabilitation
Invitation to bids                          September 1985
Receive tenders                             January 1986
Award of contracts                          April 1986
Completion                                  March 1987
E. Techniical Assistance and Studies
for Management Development and
Training
Start selection process                     September 1985
Completion                                  June 1988



- 61 -
ANNEX 3.6
Page 2 of 2
Records will be daintained comparing the forecast against actual
results for:
(a) hydro production by plants (in GWh);
(b) thermal production by plants (in GWh);
(c) electricity consumption (in GWh) by grids, towns, consumer
categories and sectors;
(d) maximum demand (in MW) in substations, grids;
(e) fuel oil consumption in power plants;
(f) number of outages and their duration;
(g) number of staff, classified by education standard and function in
the sector;
(h) average tariff level (in piasteslkWh) classified in total and by
consumer category;
(i) rate of return on average revalued net fixed assets in operation;
(j) self generated funds contributions to construction costs;
(k) operating ratios;
(1) number of days energy revenues outstanding;
(i) debt/equity ratios; and
(n) revisions to project cost estimates and related financing.



- 62 -
ANNEX 4.1
Page 1 of 2
SUDAN
POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
NEC's Blue Nile Grid
Evaluation of Installing 2x10 MW Diesel Units
Basic Data for One 10 MW Medium-Speed Diesel Units
Capital Cost 1/ Foreign exchange                     US$6.9
Local cost                          £Sd 3.1
Economic Plant Life:                                  15 years
Annual O&M costs (% capital cost)                     7%
Specific Fuel Consumption (3,500 sec fuel oil)3/    215 gms/kWh
Export opportunity cost of heavy fuel oil:           US$130/ton
Inland fuel transport and distribution costs         ESd 90/ton
Projected exchange rate:                              ESd 2.5/US$
Standard Conversion Factor:                          0.8
Investment Programs Evaluated 2/ (Commissioning dates):
With Project    Without Project
Program           Program
2x10 MW medium speed diesel units          March 1987
Roseires Set 7                             June 1988            June 1988
Khartoum North 60 KW Steam Units: Unit 3: March 1990            March 1990
Unit 4: June 1990            June 1990
Subsequent 60 MW Steam Units:              December 1991        December 1991
December 1992       December 1992
December 1993       December 1993
December 1994       December 1994
1/   In mid-1985 price terms including the cost of engineering services
and an allowance for physical contingencies.
2/   In both programs it is assumed that committed investments in
generating plant will be commissioned according to schedule
(para. 4.02).
3/   Specific Fuel Consumption of 60 MW steam units - 335 gns/kWh; 30 MW
steam units - 360 gmslkWh (heavy fuel oil).



-63 -                             ANNEX 4.1
Page 2 of 2
EnryContributions from Genertion Sources to meet Forecast Demand (GWhs.o.)
Hydro             Thermal            Unserved   Total
Diesel  Steam   Ewdsting     Demand
COmitted
With Proposed 2xdO MW Diesel Unlits
FY85          1,082     105     -         97          40       1,324
86          1,148     129    127        92           3      1,499
87          1,230     183    194        71           1      1,679
88          1,258     246    217        112         18      1,851
89          1,343    243     204        127         39      1,956
90          1,363    251    290         137         49      2,090
91          1,380    251    553         43           0      2,227
Without Proposed 2x10 W Diesl Units
FY85          1,082     105     -         97          40      1,324
86          1,148     129    127        93           3      1,499
87          1,230    151    202         87           9      1,679
88          1,258     168    248        143         34      1,851
89          1,343     162    238        151         62      1,956
90          1,363     168    319        167         73      2,090
91          1,380    166    622         59           0      2,227
Pteset Values of the Costs of Meettig Foeat Demand to FY1995 Level (ESd milMlons)
'With 2x10 M! Diesel Units Without 2x10 MW Diesel Units
Discomt Rate: 1  8%                2,369                    2,389
@ 12%               1,681                    1,688
@ 16%               1,242                    1,240



ANNEX 4.2
SUDAN
POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return on Project Investments in the Blue Nile Grid 1/
Capital and OEM Costs /
Roseires                       Attributable
Station       Attributable   Thermal Energy
Transmission       Energy to       Savings to
New Diesel  & Distribution    New Diesel       Roseires, T&D   Incremental       Incremental       Net
FY       Units      Rehabilitation       Units  /   Rehabilitation !/Fuel Savings ki  Benefits ./    Benefits
-  (f Sd million)          - -            (( hs.o.)          -(ESd million)
86         10.4          8.9                                                                             -19.30
87         28.2         17.5               32              -             -3.14              5.31         -43.53
88         18.3          5.7               78              88             5.91             13.26         - 4.83
89          1.4           -                81              94             6.54             14.26         +19.40
90           1.4          -                83              95             6.50             15.11         +20.21
91          1.4           -                85              97             6.61             15.47         +20.68
1992-2003       1.4          -                87              98             6.57             15.83         +21.00
Economic Rate of Return    22.5%
Notes:  1/  All costs are expressed in mid-1983 price terms.
2t  Sources  Annex 3.2 for capital costs.  Incremental OWM costs assumed to be 7%/year of capital cost
of new diesel units (capital cost £Sd 13.4 million). No incremental O&M costs associated with
rehabilitation components.
3/ Based on with and without diesel units cases (Annex 4.1)
4/  Attributable energy to rehabilitation of Roseires Sets 2 and 3, Sennar hydroelectric units and to
loss reduction on transmission and distribution system rehabilitation is estimated to be
equivalent to 0.7% of usable output from hydroelectric Stations (Annex 4.1).
5/ Difference between equlvalent thermal energy Paving from loss reduction from rehabilitation,
valued at steam unit specific fuel cost of £Sd 9.154/kWhs.o., and cost of fuel consumption from
diesel units based on medium speed diesel specific fuel cost £Sd 0.098/kWhs.o.
6/  Incremental benefits valued at projected average tariff yields required to meet financial
objectives (Annex 5.1) deflated to mid 1985 price terus, and adjusted for 9% system technical
losses. Diesel units are assumed to have an economic life of 15 years.



-65-                                  ANNEX 5.1
SUDN
POWER REABIITATI0N PROJECT
NM S 5T
FOR THE YEARS ENDING JUNE 30, 1982-1990
--ACrUAL---rn'
1982    1983   1984   1985    1986   1987   1988    1989   1990
SAlES iN GM
C(HERCIAL                  45.5   46.5   50.3   67.3   78.5   82.8   95.8   102.3  .109.0
INDUSTRIAL                290.7   271.6  303.0  438.0   553.0  635.0  750.0   785.0  842.0
DOMESTIC                  291.6  281.1   333.3   390.3  444.5  478.8  529.8  569.3  611.0
AMRICULTURE                23.6   22.6   48.5   68.5   94.4   114.1   125.5   136.7   148.3
OTHER                      30.0   37.3   36.0   39.0   42.6   46.4   50.0   53.8   57.7
TOTAL SALES           681.4  659.1   771.0  1003.0  1213.0  1357.0  1551.0  1647.0  1768.0
(ISd MILLION)
OPING REVENUES
C014ERCIAL                  3.1    3.9    7.7   14.1   20.8   21.9   25.4   27.1   28.9
INDUSTRIAL                 13.7   17.4   33.3   68.8   110.0   126.4  149.3   156.2   167.6
DOMESTIC                   18.6   20.6   42.7   71.8   104.0   112.0   124.0   133.2   143.0
AGRInCLTURE                 1.3    1.2    5.2    9.3    16.1   19.5    21.5   23.4   25.4
aTHER                       0.4     1.5    3.5    7.2    10.0   10.8   11.7   12.6   13.5
TOTAL SALES REVENUE    37.1   44.6   92.4   171.0   261.0  290.7   331.7   352.5   378.3
OTHER                       1.8    0.1     1.5    3.5    4.2    4.8    5.6    6.4    7.4
TARIFF INCREASE             0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    52.2   63.6   175.5   311.5  478.0
TOTAL OPERATGIM REVENUES  38.9   .7   93.9   174.5   317.4   359.1   512.8   670.4  863.7
EATI  EXPENSES
SALARIES                    8.3   11.5   13.5   16.3   18.5   20.8   22.9   24.9   26.8
FUEL                       11.5   19.7   32.6   38.3   88.6   135.4  204.6   256.4  343.4
MATERIALS                   1.0    1.2    1.5    2.8    3.6    4.4    5.3    6.3    7.2
REPAIRS & MAINTENANCE       4.1    6.3    9.9   20.3   25.8   32.2   38.7   45.4   52.3
OTHER                       4.8    6.5    5.5    6.1    7.7    9.7    11.6   13.7   15.7
ITEPRECIATION               3.8    11.9   15.0   19.0    29.0   40.9   58.7   85.9   113.1
MMTAL OPERATING EXPENSES  33.5   57.1   78.0   102.8   173.2  243.5  341.8  432.5   558.5
OPERATING INCOME             5.4  -12.4    15.9   71.8   144.1   115.6   171.0  237.9  305.2
LESS: INTEREST ON EQUITY CAPITAL 5.3    13.2   14.5   19.3   29.1   43.9   60.7   82.2   109.1
NET INCOME BEFORE
LOAN SERVICE CHARGES        0.1  -25.6      1.4   52.4   115.0   71.6   110.4   155.6  196.1
LESS: LOAN SERVICE CHARGES   0.7    2.2    7.4   21.2   47.4   51.1    51.0   74.2   72.5
NET INoME                   -0.6  -27.8   -6.0    31.3   67.6   20.6   59.3   81.4   123.5
RATE OF RETURN Z             4.1   -9.2    4.3   11.8   16.1    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0
OPERATING RATIO %            0.9    1.3    0.8    0.6    0.5    0.7    0.7    0.6    0.6
AVERAGE TARIFF (LSd/XWh)    0.054   0.068   0.120   0.171   0.258   0.261   0.327   0.403   0.484
- .  



- 66 -
ANNEK 5.2
POR TRE YEARS ENDING JUNE 30, 1983-1990
(tSd MUOMN)
ACTUAL       -          .-rFO     R     r
1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
SOURCES OF FUNDS
CENERA3RD FROM OPERATIOS
OPERATICNG INCOKE                 -12.4    15.9    71.8   144.1   115.6   171.0   237.9   305.2
mEPRECIAlotN                       11.9    15.0    19.0    29.0    40.9    58.7    85.9   113.1
TOTAL                            -0.5    30.9    90.8   173.2   156.5   229.7   323.7   418.3
ODNSUMER DEPosm                       0.4     0.4      0.4      0.4     0.4      0.4     0.5      0.5
GOVERNMtENT GRANIS                   13.0    16.7    20.0    25.0       0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
BORROWINGS UICLUD. FINANCED LSCDC 1/  98.0    55.4   104.9   184.2   246.6   324.8   439.8   687.8
TOTAL SOURCES                   110.9   103.4   216.1   382.7   403.5   554.9   764.0  1106.7
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
OtNSThFDCTOR EXPENDITURES
PROPOSED PRDJECr                    0.0     0.0      0.0    26.7    63.4    38.0        0.0     0.0
0IlHER WORKS                       91.7    80.7    81.4   187.3   202.5   281.7   437.8   648.2
ISCDC  1/                           0.0    16.5    15.8    14.9    52.5   105.4   153.2   260.3
TOTAL CONSITRICION EXPENDITURES   91.7    97.2    97.2   228.8   318.4   425.1   591.0   908.5
DEBT SERVICE
REPADKENT                          12.6      2.8    11.4    26.9    31.4    33.0    34.6    34.3
LOAN SERVICE CHARGED OPERATIONS     2.2      7.4    21.2    47.4    51.1    51.0    74.2    72.5
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE               14.8    10.2    32.6    74.3    82.5    84.0   108.8   106.8
INTEREST ON EQUrTY CAPITAL           21.1    14.2    19.0    28.8    43.6    60.4    81.9   108.8
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS      127.6   121.6   148.8   331.9   444.5   569.5   781.8  1124.2
INCREASE IN WORKING CAPITAL
CASI/BANKS                           -7.8   -26.5    35.3    15.4    -7.7    -2.3    24.4   -19.4
RECEIVABLES                          17.2    28.8    45.9       1.3   -12.5      8.5   -16.5    32.2
INWENTORY                             8.0     0.6      1.0    11.9    17.8    27.1    27.3    30.1
OTHER                               -34.1   -21.0   -14.9    22.2   -38.5   -47.9   -52.9   -60.5
TOTAL INCREASE                  -16.7   -18.1    67.3    50.8   -41.0   -14.5   -17.7   -17.5
ACCUMULATED CASH                 -6.5   -33.0      2.2    17.6      9.9      7.7    32.1    12.7
DEMT SERVICE COVERAGE                  .0     3.0      2.8      2.3     1.9      2.7      3.0     3.9
1/ loan Service Charges during Construction-



- 67 -
JUIBX 5.3
SUDAN
PWUR        I   PROJECT
BAtNC SHOT
(LM dNILON)
1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    lYP
FIUD ASSTS
PLANT It OPERATIN       362.7   384.6   634.0   967.6  1364.4  1957.2  2862.1  3770.8  4775.2
LSS: 1PRECIATION         96.1   115.2   163.3   224.4   314.0   433.5   578.9   766.0   994.1
NE: PLANT               266.6   269.4   470.7   743.2  1050.4  1523.8  2283.3  3004.8  3781.1
wo   IN PNRESS             90.1   177.6   186.8   162.1   299.1   440.5   440.3   700.6  1275.5
CURRET ASSETS
CASH AND BAM15            1.3   -6.5   -33.0      2.2    17.6    9.9      7.7    32.1    12.7
ACCOUNTS RICEIVAJLE      39.0   56.2    85.0   130.9   132.2   119.7   128.2   111.7   143.9
iNVEBINRES               19.4   27.4    28.0    29.0   40.9   587    85.9   113.1   143.3
REGIONAL P0=5K CORP.     30.4    57.1    56.5   50.0    40.0   30.0    20.0    10.0    0.0
armEt                     1.1     1.0     3.0     4.0     4.5     5.0     5.5     6.0     6.5
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS   91.2   135.2   139.5   216.2   235.3   223.4   247.3   272.9   306.4
TOTAL ASSETS              447.9   582.2   796.9  1121.5  1584.8  2187.7  2970.8  3978.3  5363.0
LIAILr LES AID EQI
EQUITY
CAPTAlL                  11.2    11.2    11.2    11.2    11.2    11.2    11.2    11.2    11.2
REiED EARNINGS           28.9   -8.1   -14.1    17.1    84.7   105.3   164.6   246.0   369.6
GRANTS                   44.8    57.8    74.5    94.5   119.5   119.5   l19.5   119.5   119.5
REVALUATIOE RESERVE     218.8   229.3   314.8   459.7   663.4   977.4  1349.4  1805.8  2343.0
TOTAIL QUITY          303.7   290.2   386.3   582.6   878.8  1213.4  1644.7  2182.5  2843.3
LONG TERK DEBT            101.7   187.2   282.7   400.8   598.9  837.5  1150.2  1575.7  2247.8
PENSON a RETLRMIENr FUNBS           1.2     1.5     1.8    2.1      2.4    2.7      3.0     3.3
cusTRm,S DEPosIS            1.5     1.9     2.3     2.7    3.1      3.5    3. 9     4.4     4.9
CURRENT LIMILITIES
ACCOUNTS PAYA8LE         20.0    22.8    32.1    23.2    32.7    47.0    68.7    90.5   114.6
INTUSST PAY. ON CAPITAL   13.4    26.5    41.0    60.3    29.1    43.9    60.7    82.2   109.1
OIHER CURRENT LIABILTIrES   7.6    52.4    51.0    50.0    40.0    40.0    40.0    40.0    40.0
TOTAL CURRENT LIBIL.    41.0   101.7   124.1   133.5   101.9   130.9   169.4   212.7   263.7
TOTAL LIABILITlES          447.9   582.2   796.9  1121.4  1584.8  2187.7  2970.9  3978.3  5363.0
CURRENT RATIO                2.2     1.3      1.1     1.6    2.3      1.7     1.5     1.3     1.2
DEBT/EQUITY RATIO           25/75   39161   42/58   41/59   41/59   41/59   41/59   42/58  44/56
REVENUE -MONIS OF SALES      12      15      11      9       5       4        3        2       2



- 68 -
ANNEX 5.4
Page 1 of 2
SUDAN
NATIONAL ELECTRICITY CORPORATION
Notes and Assumptions for Financial Statements
Sales and Revenues
1.         NEC's energy projections for each customer category appear in
Annex 5.1. Revenues are based on yearly tariff increases of 20%, 1%, 25%,
23%, and 20% implemented in FY86 to FY90 respectively.
Fuel Costs
2.        Estimated requirement of fuel for energy generation is assumed to
increase with the installation of new plant,  and  the following fuel
consumption forecast was prepared:
(Thousand Tons)           FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90
3500 sec                     23     73    108    131    126    157
1500 sec                     33     30     23      34     38     43
Gas oil                      16     29     33      42     50     54
Total                        72    132    164    207    214    254
The current fuel oil prices were used for FY85 and adjusted to their
economic  cost where  necessary  for  FY86.    Provision  for  local  price
escalation of 27%, 25%, 20%, 17.5% and 15% for FY86, FY87, FY88, FY89 and
FY90 respectively was made in fuel prices used for those years.
Other Operating Costs
3.         These have been increased at various annual rates which provide
for increases in activity as well as price escalation.   Operation and
maintenance costs, for example, were estimated with reference to the plant
in operation each year and increased at different annual inflation rates.
Materials are also estimated in relation to plant in operation including
transmission and distribution. Increases in salaries have been related to
increase in installed capacity and increased at 6% annually. Other costs
have been increased only for local price escalations.
Depreciation
4.        Depreciation is charged at 3Z of the revalued fixed assets value
at the beginning of each year.



- 69 -
ANNEX 5.4
Page 2 of 2
Interest on Capital
5.          In FY80 the Government imposed a levy entitled  -interest on
capital' on income of NEC and similar public sector organizations.   The
interest on capital is levied at the rate of 5% on the equity capital
balance at the start of ech financial year.
Fixed Assets
6.         Fixed asset values have been increased by local inflation rates
every year to reflect estimated replacement costs.
Accounts Receivable
7.        Improvement in NEC's billing and collection is assumed after FY84
and the accounts receivable are assumed to decline gradually to the
equivalent of two months' sales after FY88.
Inventories
8.         These are calculated at 3% of gross revalued plant in operation
in accordance with past experience.
Long-Term Debt
9.         The future foreign exchange loans and credits, including the IDA
credit of US$30 millon, are assumed to finance the foreign exchange cost.
The future foreign exchange debt is assumed to be provided through loans,
credits and grants to the Government and onlent to NEC at average loan
service charges of 19%. The loans are assumed to be repayable in 20 years
including 5 years grace period at equal installments of principal only.



- 70 -
ANNEX 5.5
Page 1 of 2
POWER REHABILRATION PROJECr
Action Program for
Institutional and Operational Performance of NEC
Problems:
(a) Poor Financial Performance
(b)  Inadeciuate System Capacity
(c) Low Plant Availability
(d)  Frequent Power Breakdo%.s
(e)  Excessive Pbuer losses
(f) High Cost of Supply
Causes                      Actions - Underway            Actions - Agreed in the Project
(1) Shortage of trained staff,      - Training of engineers and      - NEC should have authority to
high staff turnover, inability    technicians provided by plant   establish own pay scales and revise
to retain skilled staff, low      suppliers and consultants        them to realistic levels.
level of staff skills and         (ESB).                         - Government authorization to NEC to
motivation due in part to       - Training center for              establish omn payscales by Dec. 85.
inadequate salary levels.         technicians and operators      - Revision of pay scales by Nar. 86
being established under Power   after carrying oat a study to
iIL .                            establish new pay scales.
- Increased fringe benefits.
(2) Weak organization, weak         - Nanagement consultant          - NEC Board should be provided
minage nt, virtual abseace of   assistance (USAID).                greater astonooy.
mana ement accountability and   - NEC organizational structure   - Amendment of NEC Act to elirinate
authority due in part to lack     completed.                       constraints by December 85.
of autonomy of NEC.             - Job descriptions for senior
staff prepared.
- Maaagement training provided
under Power III.
(3) Lack of an effective            - USAID financing technical      - Procedural manuls to be completed
maagement Inforiation system      assistance to develop a          by December 86.
and inabi}ity of umnagers at      imnagemant information system  - ImplemetatiLon of systems and
all levels to obtain timely       and the required procedures      procedures and HIS by Decrm! er 86.
reports on progress of            and system.                    - Qiarterly accounts statements to be
operations and activities                                          prepared from July 85.
which they supervise and                                         - Monthly operational and sales data
manage.                                                            to be compiled from December 85.



- 71 -
ANNEX 5.5
Page 2 of 2
causes                      Actions - Underway           Actions - Agreed in the Project
(4) Chronic delays in planning for - Planning Department of NBC    - Planning studlies to be prepared,
expansion, and resulting         being strengthened.              i.e. long term plan update, Sennar,
costly reliance on development - USAID assisting in               by December 86.
of thermal rather than hydro      establishing corporate        - Merowe dam study included in
power.                           planning framework.              project to start September 85 and
complete by Decenber 86.
(5) Past technical assistance not  - Harza consutants to
properly coordinated with         coordinate.
gaps.
(6) Shortage of spare parts due to - OD, USAID have provided        - $3.5 million for spare parts
lack of foreign exchange and     financing for spare parts.       included in project.
ladc of proper maintenance and - ODA providing assistance for  - Traiing of operational and
operational schedules.            improved maintenance and        maintenance staff included in
operations.                     project.
-$1 milLodn provided from
Pbwer III funds for emergency
repairs.
(7) Inadequate financial resources - Tariffs increased by 200% in   - Completion and updating of billing
for NEC to purchase goods and    CY83, 21% Decesber 84 and 23Z   and customers' accounts, June 85.
services due to low tariffs      March 85.                      - Reconciliation of Government
and slow collection of         - Expatriate computer adviser      accounts, August 85.
electric bills and its            recruited under USAID to help - Settlement of Government accounts,
dependence on Ministry of         improve billing and             September 85.
Finance for its cash needs,      collection.                    - Authority to disconnect delinquent
- Tariff studies being financed   consumers:  Government Sept. 85;
by USAID.                               Other, already authorized.
- Finance Manager being         - Carrying out disconnection on a
recruited locally.              regular basis:  Government
consuaers, September 85; Other,
June 85.
- NEC will settle more than 25% of
accounts receivable by December 85.
(8) Unmetered and unbilled         - A UNDP/WB study prepared for  - Project includes equipment to
consumption of electricity by    power system loss reduction.    Implement improvements identified
a number of consumers and      - USAID assisting in               in UNDP/RB study and under USAID
excessive losses,                determining load management      assistnce.
and energy conservation
meaures and providing
capacitors and related
equipment.
(9) Siltation of water intakes at - USAID has provided equipment
Roseires hydroelectric           to remove silt and debris.
station.



- 72 -
ANNEX 6.1
SUDAN
POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1. Power IV Project Feasibility Study, Sir Alexander Gibb and Partners
and Merz and McLellan, July 1983
2. Addendum to Power IV Feasibility Study - Fuel Oil Transportation, Sir
Alexander Gibb and Partners and Herz and McLellan, July 1983
3.  NEC Organizational Manual, Electricity Supply Board of Ireland, July
1983
4. NEC Annual Audited Accounts, June 30, 1982
5. Rehabilitation and Reinforcement Program for Khartoum Area
Transmission and Distribution Net Work, Motor Columbus, December 1983
6. Blue Nile Grid Rehabilitation Program, Bechtel National Inc., March
1984
7. Report on Annual Inspection and Recounendations for Overhaul and
Rehabilitation of Roseires Power Station, Herz and McLellan, August
1984
8. Fuel Transportation Study, Alexander Gibb and Partners, June 1984
9. Feasibility Study on Feeding National Electricity Systems with Excess
Power from Existing Sugar Factories, Merz and McLellan, December 1983
10. Sudan Power Rehabilitation Project, NEC, August 1984
11. Appraisal Mission Working Papers, 1984



11_Mn 175384
Sabalaiw ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~LIBYA                                               Y RP'I    SAUDI
SUDAN                                                          I         ARUI
160             }POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT                                                       it /
THE BWE NILE AND EASTERN GRIDS                                   JCHA
KJAR7UM NORTH M                                     *                                              SUDAN'1'
_  KUKU                     O___________ 40 60    8                                                        (1       1
KHoWO0t@WRRI  KILOMETERES                                 ,
mOREg %sa B4GER
3      _                                                                                    w t. E    ...........PaZAIRE  KENA 
NEW HWLA*            ' 360
.,  AULIA          -t                                                                       A                       ,KASAL
DAM                                                                                                                       L
)i                1c50
A" ~~~~~MSAELECTRiCALbKASELGN
4                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GRID 
:               m           wU   A~~~ir                                                         SHOWAK-y
Wad Mad       MERINGAN
EL FAU                                   tM'
E d   D w i m     = , 3  H ^   A l l D A t U   '   -                                 / G     D A R E F                      1
Ed Dusim                       HAG AfOALLAH jW
C-'
4,                       -  4)'/                           'S            
o}          Ds~r /{'%,¢y                                   X 
Kasti/
Toe Wu                                                     EL S
j) <> > 2 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~13'
PROJECT:'
Hydra Skttion Rehobilitation
Diesel Station Extesion
Tranmasion Line Rehobililation
Substation Rehabilitation                                                                             /
Distribution Network Rehabilitation
ETHIOPIA
UNDER CONSTRUCTION:                                                                                I
66kV. Transmission Line
EXISTING:                                                                                                   T WOOD.*-# -.  .J3.
-   Hydro Station                 -    Dams                                                                            SW 5/  =  o,, P.
12T    S  Thermal/Gs TurbineI                Roilwys                                                                                      12'
Diesel Stations                 r
220kV. Tronsinission Lines                                                               eW MSEdS ;O1 4 -                     hNA
*    5~~flions                                  Dam          RQSEIRESeratioDAM       Ja  "uS way. 4*~M
I 10kV. Tronrsniission Lines       Bounonlrie -so                                                           eAan_avawao
66kV. Tramirssion Lines                                                             IMu-" -; £Swausn
0    Subsmtaionls                                                RLIMES DAM                                afl amw     d
330                             34                               I,                               36I
NOVEMBER 1964






