Doument of
The World Bank
FOR OMFIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. P-3989-SU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN ThE AMOUNT OF SDR 30.0 MILLION
TO
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR A
POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
July 11, 1985
lThis docmd han  ra&i8d uIbWm  nd My be used by redp_ut 1a ly In Ie peduafunz  of
thir oScial dutlaL. Ils mteekm  a St uthwbe be disdod wItiut Wold Bonk othoriii.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
USs 1.00       -       £Sd 2.5
£Sd 1.00              US$ 0.4
£Sd 1.00       a       100 piasters
£SD 1.00       a       1000 millions (mms)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
BTU                                 -      British Thermal Unit
1 meter (m)                                3.28 feet
1 square meter (m2)                 -      10.75 square feet
1 kilometer (km)                    -      0.621 miles
1 sq. kilometer Skm2)               -      0.386 square miles
1 cubic meter (m )                  -      35.3 cubic feet
1 cubic meter per second (m3/s)    -       35.3 cubic feet per second
1 kilovolt (kV)                            1000 volts
1 kilowatt (kw)                            1000 watts
1 kilowatt hour (kWh)               a      1000 watt hours
1 megawatt (MH)                     =      1000 kilowatts
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)               =      1 million kilowatt hours
1 megavolt ampere (MVA)                    1000 kilovol- ampere
bpd                                 =      barrels per day
Mt                                         million tons
mbd                                        million barrels per day
mtpa                                =      million tons per annum
kgoe                                       kilograms of oil equivalent
toe                                 -      tons of oil equivalent
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB              -       African Development Bank
Germany (BMZ)     -       Federal Republic of Germany (Bundesministerium
Fur Wirtschaftliche Zusammenarbeit) Ministry
of Economic Cooperation
BNG               -       Blue Nile Grid
EG                -       Eastern Grid
GOS               -       Government of the Democratic Republic of the
Sudan
GPC               -       General Petroleum Corporation
IDC               -      Interest during Construction
MAI               -       Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation
MEM               -       Ministry of Energy and Mining
NEA               -       National Energy Administration
NEC               -       National Electricity Corporation
ODA               -       Overseas Development Llministration (UK)
ESB               -       Electricity Supply Board of Ireland
USAID             -       United States Agency for International Development
WNPC              -      White Nile Petroleum Corporation
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SUDAN
POWER RERABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Democratic Republic of Sudan
Aoount:             IDA Credit SDR 30.3 Million (USS30.0 million equivalent)
Beneficiary:       National Electricity Corporation (NEC)
Terms:              Standard
Relending Terms:   The Government will relend the proceeds of the Credit to
the NEC with annual service charges equivalent to 19
percent of the outstanding balance, 20 years repayment
period, including five years grace. The Government will
bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project Description:
Objectives:      The project would help to ensure the efficient
utilization of existing power facilities and improve
power supply reliability through urgently needed
additions of capacities and immediately required
rehabilitation works to meet the growing power demand at
least cost to economy. In addition, the project would
contribute in the institution building and strengthening
of power subsector organization, establishment of
long-term development policy, tariff reforms, load
management and energy conservation, and subregional
power system interconnections.
Corponents:      The project would include: (a) addition of 2X10 MW
diesel units at Burri; (b) rehabilitation of Units I and
2 at Roseires hydropower station; (c) spare parts for
the Sennar hydropower station; (d) rehabilitation of
transmission and distribution networks; and (e)
consultancy services for supervision of project
implementation and coordination of management
improvement, and for studies and feasibility reports.
Benefits and
Risks:           The principal benefits of the proposed project would
be the provision of a more adequate and reliable power
supply to meet the needs of the economy. The project
faces no special risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its oDntents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:
Local   Foreign      Total
--     -US$ Million---
-  Burni Power Station                    2.5      12.2        14.7
(2 X 10 NW) Diesel Units
-  Roseires Rehabilitation                0.9       1.2         2.1
(Units 1 and 2)
-  Sennar Pover Station                   0.1       0.5         0.6
(Rehabilitation and Spares)
-  Grid Rehabilitation                    1.1       4.0         5.1
-  Distribution Rehabilitation            0.3       2.1         2.4
-  Engineering Services                   0.8       2.2         3.0
-  Studies                                0.9       2.8         3.7
Total Base Cost                 6.6       25.0       31.6
Contingencies:
Physical                           0.4        1.9         2.3
Price                               3.2       3.1         6.3
Total Project Cost             10.2       30.0       40.2
Financing Plan:
-  IDA Credit                              -       30.0        30.0
-  NEC's Cash Generation                 10.2        -         10.2
Total Financing                10.2       30.0       40.2
-   ~   m
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY:                         1986      1987     1988      1989     1990
-US$ Million-              -
-  Annual                       5.0       16.2      6.8       1.5      0.5
-  Cumulative                   5.0       21.2     28.0      29.5     30.0
Map No. 17538R



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SUDAN
FOR A POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Democraftic Republic of Sudan (the Borrower) for SDR 30.3
million (US$30.0 million equivalent) to help finance a Power Rehabilitation
Project. The credit will be on standard IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited Sudan in January 1983.  Its report
("Pricing Policies and Structural Balances") No.4528a-SU of November 10,
1983 has been distributed to the Executive Directors. A more recent
economic mission visited Sudan in May 1984 and its report is expected to ue
distributed in July 1985. The findings of the missions are reflected
below. Summary tables of social, economic and financial data are presented
in Annex I.
Background
3.        Sudan, with an area of 2.5 million square kilometers, is the
largest country in Africa. It has a population of about 19.8 million (1982
estimate) and is classified by the UN as a least developed country. Per
capita GNP is estimated at about US$400. Much of the country is unoccupied
or very sparsely populated. Although about one-third of the country is
desert or semi-desert, Sudan has considerable untapped potential for
agricultural development. About two-thirds of the total land area is
suitable for crop or pastoral production, but only a small fraction of this
land is under intensive use. The economy is heavily dependent on exports
of cotton, the major commodity from irrigated land, and on groundnuts,
sesame and gum arabic. The manufacturing sector is relatively small and is
limited to processing agricultural commodities such as cotton, oil seeds
and sugar and to the production of consumer goods and building materials.
A development of potential significance to Sudan's prospects is the
discovery of oil reserves in the southwestern part of the country. An
export pipeline carrying around 50,000 b/d is planned, but construction has
been interrupted by the unsettled security situation in the southern part
of the country. The public sector has long been important in the Sudanese
economy. It embraces all modern irrigation facilities, the railways,
virtually all power and water supplies, and a significant proportion of
industry, commerce and finance. Although some industrial enterprises have
been returned to the private sector in recent years, about half of the GDP
is still generated within the public sector.
4.        Between 1972/73 and 1974/75, the deficit on the current account
of the balance of payments increased from US$11 million equivalent to about



-2-
US$470 million and remained between US$450 and US$550 million until
1979/80, when the combination of a doubling of oil prices and a serious
decline in cotton production pushed the deficit to US$809 million in
1980/81 and US$1.3 billion in 1981/82. Gross official reserves fell to
only a few days worth of imports. By end 1982, external payments arrears
had accumulated to above $2.2 billion.
5.        The crisis came about largely as the consequence of inadequate
economic management policies compounded by external factors, such as the
sharply increased cost of petroleum imports, which constrained the
Government's ability to respond quickly with effective remedial action.
Adverse developments in foreign trade were accompanied by other adverse
forces - reduced flows of external capital after 1976, mounting debt
problems, and absorptive capacity constraints.
6.        The rapid increase in the value of imports came about partially
because of the sharp increase in oil prices and the steep rate of
international inflation, particularly in 1973/74 and 1974/75. There was,
however, a sharp rise in the volume of imports between 1974/75 and 1977/78;
since then, imports have actually declined in real terms.  Exorts declined
in real terms by nearly 50 percent between 1972/73 and 19812.  The
decline was concentrated in cotton, which occurred because of a shift from
cotton to other crops and also because of falling cotton yields. The
volume of cotton exports in 1981/82 was less than 15 percent of the 1971/72
level. Transport difficulties and other infrastructural problems
contributed to this decline, as did declining maintenance in many public
irrigation schemes.
7.        The rise in development expenditures after 1973 was financed in
large measure by externa± capital, but because of absorptive capacity
problems, disbursements of this capital declined unexpectedly in the
mid-1970s, dropping from $465 million in 1974 to $332 million in 1977 and
1978. Because of the slow disbursements and accumulating arrears, external
donors became less willing to make new commitments. Sudan faced a
difficult choice: either to cut back on projects just started or to
maintain the projects by running down foreign exchange reserves and
borrowing from banks or other sources abroad. The Government decided to
try to sustain the development effort by using reserves and by borrowing
heavily on relatively hard terms. Annual external public debt service
payments falling due increased from $55 million in 1972/73 to more than
$800 million in 1982/83. The debt service burden as a proportion of
exports of goods and services increased from 12 percent in 1972/73 to
over 100 percent in 1982/83. This unfavorable debt profile led not only to
a heavy current debt service burden, but also has critical implications for
future debt service obligations.
8.        The structural weakness in Sudan's public sector finances became
increasingly pronounced during the course of the 1970s. Sharp increases in
expenditures were not matched by increases in revenue. The consequent
sharp rise in public sector demands on the domestic banking system led to a
rapid acceleration in the growth of money supply, which reached 44 percent
in 1976/77. Although the monetary expansion slowed in succeeding years,
the growth rate over the period 1977/78-1980/81 still averaged nearly 25



- 3 -
percent per year; during 1980/81, the rate of expanbion again rose to
around 50 percent and, after a slowdown-in 1981/82, rose again in 1982/83
by around 30 percent. This contributed to an acceleration in annual price
increases from 6 percent in the early 1970S to over 30 percent in 1962,
1983 and 1984.
9.        Against this background of serious payments imbalances and
general economic crisis stemming from structural maladjustments in
production and trade, starting in 1978 the Government undertook significant
policy changes to establish financial equilibrium, to restore export growth
*          through appropriate policies and public investments, to improve the
performance of the public corporations, and to install an adequate system
for management of the nation's external debt.
Export Promotion and Public Investment Programs.
10.       An essential aspect of the Government's recovery program since
1979 was a concerted drive to increase foreign exchange earnings through
increased exports. This was carried out under the Export Action Program
(EAP), initiated in mid-1979. The EAP was designed to raise the volume of
cotton exports at an average rate of 7 percent per annum during the period
1979-91. By mid-1981 the actual production of seed cotton had in fact
declined further, but 1981/82 saw a substantial recovery with a 51 percent
increase in production volume. This improving trend was continued in
1982/83 with a further 23 percent increase, and in 1983/84 another 10
percent increase was realized. Several investments in the irrigated
subsector are supporting this export recovery. Under the Agricultural
Rehabilitation Program (Credit No. 1000-SU of US$65 million and EEC Special
Action Fund Credit of about US$11 million), funds were made available for
urgently needed spare parts and equipment. Several rehabilitation projects
are being carried out in the 1980s. The New Halfa Rehabilitation Project,
Credit 1022-SU. approved in May 1980, was .'.e first of thcee, followed bv
projects for the Blue and White Nile. A rehabilitation project for the
largest irrigation scheme, the Gezira, was approved in June, 1983. The
Agricultural Rehabilitation Program II (Credit No. 1389-SU) provided much
needed foreign exchange for purchases of agricultural inputs in the
sub-sector in 1984. In addition, important policy measures were taken in
the areas of cost recovery, cotton pricing and marketing, and institutional
reform. Simultaneously with the EAP, the Government reduced the size of
its overall development program, as reflected in the Six-Year Plan, to a
realistic level consistent with expected external and domestic financial
resources.
Financial Stabilization and IMF Agreements.
11.       In June 1978, a stabilization program was announced as part of a
Stand-by Agreement with the IMF. The Agreement included a variety of
measures to establish a more realistic exchange rate, reduce deficit
financing, control foreign borrowing, and improve production incentives,
particularly in the irrigated agricultural sector. In May 1979, agreement
was reached on similar policy actions that allowed access to a three-year
Extended Fund Facility (EFF).



12.       In November 1980, the Fund Board approved a second year program
under the EFF. Because of non-compliance with agreed targets, the
Government was not able to make drawings in the third and fourth quarters
of 1980/81. Subsequently, further measures, together with pledges at a
special Donors Meeting in January 1982 that closed the financing gap in the
program, made it possible in the following month for the IMF to approve a
one-year Stand-by Arrangement for Sudan. However, this program also lapsed
in mid-term because of the Government's inability to comply with all of its
conditions.
13.       Further policy measures were taken in December 1982, including a
44 percent devaluation of the Sudanese Pound. The Government also prepared
a comprehensive medium-term recovery program, Prospects, Programmes and
Policies for Economic Development, 1982/83-1984/85 (PPPED); this document
formed the basis for discussions at the Consultative Group Meeting in Paris
in January 1983. The outcome of this meeting, together with a new debt
restructuring package obtained from the Paris Club in February 1983 enabled
the IMF to approve a Stand-by Program for 1983 for a total amount of SDR
170 million, which Sudan completed satisfactorily on February 22, 1984.
14.       At a subsequent Consultative Group Meeting held in Paris on
December 14-16, 1983, the Government presented its updated version of the
medium-term recovery program document, and requested program and project
aid to support the recovery program. At this meeting, the Government was
commended by many donors for the actions taken during 1983 to implement its
recovery program, and donor assistance in the form of commodity and project
aid was indicated as likely to be forthcoming at a level which would be
almost adequate to support it. Subsequently additional commodity aid was
promised at a level which the IMF considered to be adequate to close the
financing gap for 1984.
15.       In May 1984, following the December 1983 Consultative Group
Meeting, the Paris Club agreed to reschedule Sudan's official external
debts falling due in 1984 on terms which were consistent with the proposed
IMP Standby Arrangement for 1984, and the new Standby Arrangement was
entered into on June 25, 1984. The first tranche was drawn down soon
thereafter. However, Sudan was not able to discharge repayments to the IMF
which fell due in July 1984, and exchange rate adjustments scheduled for
July were not made. Therefore, the IMF Standby Arrangement lapsed shortly
after it had gone into effect, and no further IMF drawings were made
available during 1984.
16.       As a result of the uncertainties regarding the IMF Standby, donor
commodity aid in 1984 lagged well behind the levels anticipated at the
December 1983 Consultative Group Meeting (estimated actual of about $270
million compared to an anticipated $470 million). Also, while export
receipts from irrigated agriculture (i.e. cotton) met expectations in 1984,
drought in the rainfed areas reduced the export of sorghum, groundnuts, and
gum Arabic. With foreign exchange receipts lagging behind expectations due
to the lag in donor aid, IMF drawings, and reduced exports of rainfed
crops, the Government fell behind in its debt service obligations to the
IMF, the Paris Club, and to other bi-lateral creditors. By the end of
December 1984, Sudan was about $260 million in arrears on its official long
term debt obligations.



-5-
Other Developments
17.       In 1983 the Southern Region, which had previously had a semi-
autonomous status, was divided into three separate regions. Armed
resistance forces emerged in the south, and attacks on the Chevron oil
exploration activities and construction work on the Jonglei Canal caused
these operations to shut down. More recently, Chevron has partially
resumed its operations in Sudan but on a very limited basis.
18.       In August 1983 three measures were enacted into law based on the
Koran, called Sharia laws.  These included changes in the penal code,
banning of the sale of alcohol, and a prohibition on the collection of
interest in courts of law. The civil code was extensively revised in March
1984. Early in 1984 direct taxes and some excise taxes were abolished and
replaced with a traditional Islamic tax and welfare system called "Zakat"
to be administered by a separate Zakat organization and levied at the local
level for use in part for social welfare purposes.
19.       Starting in September 1984, the Government took steps to reduce
the adverse budgetary effects of the Sharia changes. Most of the direct
taxes which were abolished were restored, sugar retail prices were
increased (from 26 to 30 piasters/lb.), and electric power tariffs were
increased 21 percent in November 1984 and 23 percent in March 1985. Also,
the exchange rate applicable to most exports and to commercial bank and
commodity aid imports was increased in February 1985 to LS 2.5/US$ (from
1.42 for exports and 1.8 for imports in October 1984) in order to provide
an adequate incentive to exports and to restrain demand for imports. In
November, the Government requested that the IMF send a technical assistance
mission to Sudan to assist in working out a comprehensive adjustment
program which the IMF would find acceptable. A Fund mission went to
Khartoum for this purpose in December and January, and a follow-up mission
in March of this year was able to confirm that the Government had
substantially implemented the recommendations of the December and January
missions, including price increases for petroleum products, bread and wheat
flour, soap, edible oil, pharmaceuticals and electric power tariffs.
Recent Political and Economic Developments
20.       Demonstrations and strikes in the public services began on March
30 in response to the price increases which were put into effect in March.
The demonstrations gained force as the demonstrators broadened their
complaints to include the rough treatment used by the security forces,
mismanagement of the economy, corruption, and the severe punishments
imposed under the Sharia laws. Support for the demonstrations came from
the professional syndicates, the labor unions, and the political parties.
The Government rescinded the price increases for bread, soap and edible oil
but this did little to appease the demonstrators. On April 6, 1985 a group
of senior military officers led by the Minister of Defence took over the
Government. Decrees were issued, after consultation with the demonstrating
groups, calling for the unification of the country, a guarantee of human
rights and basic freedoms, the creation of a constitution established
through a democratic process, and return to civilian rule after a limited
transition period. All existing Ministers of Government and Regional



- 6 -
Governors were dismissed, Parliament and the Government-supported political
party SSU were dissolved, and a Transitional Military Council consisting of
15 senior military officers was established to act as a legislative and
policy making body for the country. The Council in turn appointed a
cabinet consisting mainly of civilians to administer the Government during
the transition period.
21.       The new Government is in effective control and enjoys a
reasonable degree of stability and public acceptance. Its statements and
actions, including servicing outstanding Bank loans and IDA credits, show
that it recognizes the past obligations undertaken to the World Bank Group
and, in general, the country's international obligations. It has so far
acted with caution and restraint regarding economic policies. The Minister
of Finance and the President of the Bank of Sudan visited Washington in May
1985, and they expressed their appreciation and hopes for the continuation
of donor support which has been assisting in drought relief and support for
the economy. While it is too early to have a clear indication of future
economic policies, it is encouraging that the new Government has not
rescinded any further measures put in place by the previous Government in
February and March. While there is still no resolution of the difficult
arrears situation, non-project aid flows have increased substantially since
the change of Government and the shortage of petroleum, which was hampering
transport activities, has at least temporarily been relieved.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SUDAN
22.       World Bank Group gross commitments to Sudan to date total
US$1,009.5 million. Of this, US$33.0 million are IFC commitments. There
have been eight loans (two on Third Window terms) and 37 credits for a
total of 39 projects. Twenty projects are under implementation. Over
50 percent of total Bank/IDA lending has been for agricultural development:
seven irrigation projects, three rainfed mechanized farming projects, four
smallholder development projects; two livestock marketing projects; an
agricultural research project; two Agricultural Rehabilitation Program
Credits, an agricultural credit project; and a sugar rehabilitation
project. Projects in other sectors include: three power projects, three
education projects, three highway projects, a domestic aviation project,
four railway projects, two port projects, two technical assistance
projects, two industrial credit projects,and a petroleum development
project. Over the past two years, IFC has been assisting the Government
and White Nile Petroleum Company in preparing and mobilizing funds for a
major export pipeline project as part of the development of the Unity and
Heglig oil fields. Annex II contains a suimmary statement of Bank loans,
IDA credits and IFC investments as of March 31, 1985.
23.       Physical progress in implementing development projects in Sudan
has been mixed. Many projects have difficulty in getting key materials -
cement, fuel and timber of which there are periodic shortages. Belated
delivery of equipment and supplies due to transportation difficulties also
affects most projects. The continuing drain of skilled manpower to the
Middle East oil rich countries takes its toll on effective preparation and
implementation of projects. There have also been lengthy delays in meeting



effectiveness conditions, mainly because of problems in establishing new
institutions or project accounts, hiring key staff, completing necessary
legal documentation, or concluding required co-financing arrangements.
These problems have been brought to the attention of Government
authorities, both through supervision missions and annual Country
Implementation Reviews, and steps have been taken to resolve some of them
such as in procurement and obtaining legal opinions.
24.       The disbursement rate, i.e., actual disbursements during the year
as a percentage of the undisbursed balance at the beginning of the year,
declined from 23.4 percent in FY78 to 12.1 percent in FY81, but the rate
improved markedly to 27.7 percent in FY82 and 25.8 percent in FY83. The
FY84 disbursement rate declined to 10.0 percent, as compared to 23.0
percent for Eastern Africa and 23.4 percent Bank-wide, as the result of
delays in implementation of several large projects and the completion of
disbursements of the Agricultural Rehabilitation Program (IDA Credit
1000-SU). However, disbursements have increased substantially in FY85 due
to the disbursement of the entire proceeds of ARP II (IDA Credit 1389-SU)
in this fiscal year.
Relationship to Other Aid Flows
25.       Bank and IDA lending - both new commitments and disbursements -
represent about 10 to 15 percent of total aid flows to the Sudan. We
expect that this relationship will continue at about the same level during
the next several years. Bank and IDA obligations represent about 6 percent
of Sudan's total outstanding and disbursed debt. Bank/IDA debt service was
only about 1 percent of Sudan's total external debt service falling due in
1983. While this may rise slightly in the next several years, it will
remain a very small portion of Sudan's total debt service obligations.
Assistance Strategy
26.       The Bank Group assistance strategy has been to encourage the
Government to undertake a broad program of economic reform aimed at
addressing the structural imbalances in the economy. We have been working
very closely with the Government and the IMF in the development and
implementation of Sudan's economic recovery program, which formed the basis
for Consultative Group meetings in January and December, 1983 and Standby
Arrangements with the IMF. This was followed by the creation of a Joint
Monitoring Committee (JMC), where the aid donors and the Government jointly
monitor progress in carrying out the program, and continued Bank
involvement in reviewing updated versions of the recovery program. The key
elements of the strategy are:
-    Improved Balance of Payments:  support for development projects
and policy actions which help the country to generate or save
foreign exchange, with investment priority given to
rehabilitation of existing capital investments.
-    Key Infrastructure:  support for infrastructure projects which
relieve the most critical bottlenecks inhibiting productive
output (power, transport).



-8-
Resource Mobilization:  encouragement to Government to increase
the level of domestic resource mobilization as the basis for
sustained increases in output.
-    Longer-Term Development:  assistance to Government to prepare the
way for longer term development activities through improving
research and extension, and studies of irrigated water use
priorities and rainfed agricultural potential.
27.       At the sector level, IDA has continued to emphasize the
rehabilitation of irrigated agriculture, Sudan's major export earner, plus
improvements in infrastructure needed to service the agricultural sector.
The Agricultural Rehabilitation Program I was effective in providing badly
needed spare parts and replacement machinery for the irrigated sector, as
well as encouraging the Government to take some important steps toward
improving incentives to farmers through better cotton prices and costing
arrangements for the irrigated schemes, and the Agricultural Rehabilitation
Program II (IDA Credit 1389-SU) followed up this earlier effort with the
financing of recurrent agricultural inputs. A mission is currently in the
field appraising ARP III which is designed along the lines of ARP I and II
to meet the critical input needs of the irrigated sector.
28.       On the whole, the Bank's assistance strategy has been effective
in encouraging the Government to undertake measures which have restored
cotton production to the levels achieved in the early 1970s. During the
past three years, exports have expanded and the foreign exchange gap has
been reduced, the Public Investment Program has been appropriate, and some
internal production (i.e. sugar and cement) has expanded. No progress was
made, however, in increasing the proportionate level of resource
mobilization, and parastatal financial losses remain at a high level.
During 1984, in part because of the uncertainties caused by the Sharia law
changes and the insurgency in the south, the recovery program seemed to be
coming off the track. The actions taken in February and March to put the
program back on a sound basis caused a political reaction as described in
para. 19, but nevertheless most of these measures remain in place. An Mff
mission is currently in the field to assist the Government in the
formulation of a set of economic policies to be pursued in the short and
medium term. Successful outcome of these discussions could led to a donor
conference later in the year.
Relationship to Other Aid Flows
29.       Bank and IDA lending - both new commitments and disbursements -
represent about 10 to 15 percent of total aid flows to the Sudan.  We
expect that this relationship will continue at about the same level during
the next several years. Bank and IDA obligations represent about 6 percent
of Sudan's total outstanding and disbursed debt. Bank/IDA debt service was
only about 1 percent of Sudan's total external debt service falling due in
1983. While this may rise slightly in the next several years, it will
remain a very small portion of Sudan's total debt service obligations.



- 9 -
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR AND THE POWER SUBSECTOR
A. ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Resources
30.       Sudan's main indigenous energy resources are forests, crude oil,
natural gas, and hydropower. Biomass fuels in the form of crop and animal
waste are widely used. Sudan also has a good potential for exploitation of
solar and wind energy. Prospecting for coal, uranium ore and geothermal
energy has not been carried out sufficiently to prove substantial
reserves. 1/
31.       Biomass.  Woodfuel, charcoal and agricultural wastes account for
about 80 percent of total energy consumption. The available forestry
resource is unevenly allocated between the Northern and Southerm regions
which is the inverse of the pattern of population distribution. The annual
allowable cut from the national forest resource is about 60 percent of
estimated annual consumption, the balance representing overcutting of the
resource. The deficit between demand and sustainable supply is
increasing. The problem is particularly acute arourd main towns, where
denudation of forests has occurred. The fuelwood resource will continue to
be the most important energy resource for Sudan.
32.       Hydrocarbons.  Exploration for oil in the interior of Sudan has
been proceeding since the mid-1970s. Although many of the exploratory
wells have indicated the presence of oil, to date only one discovery seems
to be of commercial interest. Reliable estimates of the size of
recoverable reserves are not available, and the latest estimate is at least
150 million barrels. The Government of Sudan (GOS) and Chevron (USA) have
agreed to build an export pipeline from the oil field to the Red Sea coast
with an initial capacity of 50,000 barrels per day (bpd) which can be
iacreased subsequently to 100,000 bpd by the addition of pumping stations.
The pipeline was scheduled to be completed by end 1985. Off-shore survey
and exploration activity in the Red Sea has been going on for over two
decades without major success to date. Interest in this area has been
stimulated recently by seismic survey and well test data which indicate
that Sudan might have reserves of between 130 and 385 billion cubic feet of
gas and up to 30 million barrels of condensate. Studies of the use of oil
and gas for power generation and for production of fertilizers are included
in the recently approved Petroleum Technical Assistance Project.
33.       Hydropower.  The Nile River and its major tributaries represent
the most important resource for hydropower development in the Sudan. The
ultimate hydropower potential of Sudan exceeds 2,000 14W, compared with an
actual installed capacity of 311 MW in the public systems. The constraints
on development of hydropower resources in Sudan are the high investment
cost required to realize the hydropower potential of the Nile River which



- 10 -
has a gentle gradient, the need to develop projects for both power and
irrigation benefits, and limitations on firm power capacity. The planning
of additions to system capacity has suffered from lack of timely initiation
of investigations and studies of alternative sources of power generation,
principally hydro, which require a long lead time to develop. To permit
the optimum use of Sudan's energy resources, economic and technical studies
of the various options should be carried out and the long-term development
plan to the year 2000 should be updated (pare. 42).
Energy Demand and Supply
34.       In FY83, Sudan's final energy consumption was estimated to have
totalled about 5.6 million tons of oil equivalent (toe). Commercial energy
forms accounted for 19 percent of total energy consumption, principally
from imported crude oil (18 percent), and also from hydropower (one
percent). Per capita consumption of all forms of energy amounted to 0.27
toe, while consumption of commercial energy in Sudan in 1983 averaged 0.06
toe per capita. Petroleum products locally refined from imported crude oil
and directly imported petroleum products accounted for about 94 percent of
commercial energy consumption, while hydropower accounted for only 5
percent indicating the country's high dependence on imports for commercial
energy. The largest consuming sector was transport (62 percent), followed
by agriculture (15 percent), industry (14 percent), households (7 percent)
and the public sector (4 percent). The low level of consumption in
households is partly a consequence of restrictions on the availability of
kerosene and limited access to electricity.
35.       The consumption of petroleum products increased by about 20
percent between 1978 and 1983, equivalent to ar annual average growth rate
of about 6.2 percent. Consumption of gasoline and gasoil (diesel)
increased about 75 percent, reflecting the rapid expansion of the transport
sector and the dramatic shift of freight transportation from rail to road.
Consumption of fuel oil increased by 39 percent during the same period,
reflecting the stagnation in the industrial sector. Demand for petroleum
products was met largely from the output of the Port Sudan Refinery, and
crude oil imports have been running at about one million tons per annum.
Imports of the mix of petroleum products required to make up the difference
between refinery output and domestic demand has increased from 181,000
million tons (mt) in 1978 to 490,000 mt in 1983, mainly in the form of
gasoil and gasoline. On the other hand, due to the refinery configuration,
the production of fuel oil in the refinery mix exceeds domestic demand, and
the excess is exported. The value of net petroleum imports is equivalent
to 70 percent of all merchandise exports.
Energy Sector Organization
36.       The Ministry of Energy and Mining (MEN) has overall
responsibility for policy formulation in the energy sector. The main
parastatal organizations in the sector are the General I-etroleum
Corporation (GPC) and the National Electricity Corporation (NEC). However,
the Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation controls reservoir operations at
the major hydroelectric stations (Roseires, Sennar) since irrigation
requirements are given priority over power in water resource utilization.



- 11 -
The Geological and Mineral Resources Department of MEM carries out
geological studies, prospects for minerals and monitors exploration
activities in the petroleum sector. A National Energy Administration (NEA)
was created in May 1980 as the planning organ of MEM. A major
institutional weakneso in the sector is the lack of an integrated system
for controlling activities in the sector. In particular MEM will not have
the capability for advising the Government on aspects of sector planning
and policy until NEA is fully established as an effective organization.
USAID is providing assistance to NEA in planning and training. IDA is
financlg a planning and management study to assist the GPC, and the IDA is
also providing funds for a substantial technical training program and for
management consultants to NEC under IDA Credit 1006-SU (Power III Project).
Energy Pricing
37.       The Government regulates prices for petroleum products through
GPC. At the beginning of 1983, kerosene, heavy diesel and fuel oil were
heavily subsidized and the official price of diesel was below even the cif
import value. The price of gasoil was higher than the import value but was
inadequate to cover also the costs of transportation and marketing. On the
other hand, the official retail prices of gasoline were substantially
higher than the economic cost. The price structure for petroleum products
imposes severe distortions on utilization by artificially boosting demand
for gasoil which has to be imported, and acting as a disincentive to
petroleum conservation in the industrial and transport sectors. The
underpricing of diesel partirilarly has exacerbated the trend from rail to
road transport. In March 1985, the Government has made substantial
revisions in prices of petroleum products. Following the price increase,
kerosene and fuel oil consumption remain subsidized. The price of gasoil
(light diesel for transport, etc.) was equal to the economic cost. On the
other hand, the official retail prices of gasoline were substantially
higher than the economic cost. Efforts are also underway by NEA (with
USAID assistance) to frame a pricing policy, and a review of transport fuel
prices in the context of transport costs is being carried out under the
Highways III Project. Given that its use for power generation will become
substantial during the next few years, the Government will revise fuel oil
prices, in accordance with its ongoing overall pricing review, to reflect
their full cost of production, importation, transportation and marketing
(Section 4.03, draft Development Credit Agreement).
38.       NEC, with the approval of MEM and the Ministry of Finance and
Economic Planning, is responsible for establishing electricity tariffs for
the areas served by the Blue Nile Grid (BNG) and the Eastern Grid (EG).
NEC has implemented a major increase in tariffs in two equal steps, which
took effect from April 1 and December 1, 1983. The combined increase
ranges from 143 percent for domestic consumers to 278 percent for small
irrigation pumping loads. Tariff rates were again increased by 21 percent
in December 1984 and 23 percent in March 1985. After the increases, the
average tariff yield is about LS 0.21/kWh (US cents 9/kWh). Historically,
this level is high in constant price terms although it is not as ;iigh as
the tariffs following the two previous increases in FY76 and FY80. The
level would decline rapidly if domestic inflation continues at present
rates (about 25 percent a year) unless compensating increases are



- 12 -
implemented. Substantial increases in tariffs during 1983-84 have helped
in bringing tariffs close to appropriate levels. However, the present
tariff structure does not accord with the marginal costs of meeting
demand. USAID is financing the preparation of a tariff study to review the
present tariffs and recommend a suitable tariff structure based on long run
marginal cost of supply of electricity. The Government and NEC will
implement appropriate and timely tariff adjustments (para. 60) (Sections
4.02, draft Development Credit Agreement, and 4.03, draft Project
Agreement).
Energy Development Strategy
39.       The Government's strategy in the ene-rgy sector is primarily to
remedy energy shortages through appropriate pricing and increased
investment in power, petroleum, and fuelvood. Economic pricing of energy
and full cost recovery are seen as the key means to manage energy demand
and mobilize investment resources. Energy sector management needs to be
strengthened at the level of overall sector planning and the energy
enterprises. Energy investment priorities include further power
generation, transmission and distribution facilities, with greater emphasis
on the development of hydropower potential. The importation of power
through interconnection with Ethiopia and the utilization of domestic
natural gas in both existing and new generating capacity might also be
possible, and would help to reduce the demand for imported petroleum
products for power generation. Other priorities within the energy sector
would include the further development and utilization of hydrocarbon
resources and the expansion of fuelwood supplies through extensive forest
plantation and agroforestry programs.
B. POWER SUBSECTOR
40.       Power Consumption.  Public electricity generation was 1012 GWh in
FY84, and it has increased at an average annual rate of 6 percent since
1978. However, since 1978, demand for electricity has outgrown the system
supply capability due mainly to a surge in industrial demand and to
underinvestment in power facilities. Consequently, there is often
substantial load shedding, especially during the summer months
(April-August), which causes major disruption to industrial activity. In
FY84 about 200 GWh of estimated load on the public system was shed,
reaching about 20 percent of energy demand in the most critical period
(April to June). Many potential consumers remain unconnected to the public
electricity system and only 8 percent of total population in Sudan have
access to power supply. The entire power system operates at severely
reduced levels of efficiency and output due to age, unsatisfactory
maintenance and lack of spare parts and essential equipment and materials,
caused in part by unavailability of foreign exchange for their
importation. These difficulties are likely to be aggravated during FY1985
due to a drop in hydropower output caused by exceptionally low flows in the
Blue Nile river. Technical losses and unbilled consumption have risen from
16 percent to 27 percent of generation. A power system efficiency study
(financed within the UNDP/World Bank Energy Sector Management Program,
1983) concluded that a loss of about 15 percent of the units generated is
the maximum that can realistically be attributable to technical losses so



- 13 -
that some 8-12 percent of losses is consumption that has not been billed
and is attributable mostly to unmetered or unbilled consumption and
pilferage. The transmission and distribution networks are in need of
repair and rehabilitation, and strengthening of those systems is required
to improve their operational reliability and to reduce technical losses.
The proposed project, therefore, includes rehabilitation and reliability
improvement as important components.
41.       Subsector Institutions.  Under the National Electricity
Corporation Act of 1982, NEC is responsible for developing and operating
the power facilities of the areas served by the national grids (BNG and
EG), for electricity sales to regional electricity administrations, and for
determining bulk tariff rates and establishing standards for electricity
installations. Implementation of the power subsector reorganization was
undertaken before completion of some essential prerequisites. The legal,
regulatory, organizational and managerial framework is virtually
non-existent for electricity organizations in the regions. NEC has drafted
legislation for enactment by regional governments and is assisting them in
finalizing the preparation of legislation for each region so that
electricity organizations can be established by them. The Government has
obtained USAID assistance in establishing these organizations. NEC
estimates that the regional governments will be in a position to take over
the management of almost all of the isolated electricity systems during CY
1985. Delays in establishing regional organizations may result in further
deterioration of power supply service in the regions.
42.       Development Program.  NEC commissioned consultants in early 1982
to carry out a detailed study of the least cost power sector development
program up to FY90, including a detailed review of the load forecasts. The
Bank reviewed these forecasts in the light of later information on actual
sales and additional analysis of unserved demand, and concluded that total
demand would probably increase at an average annual rate of 6.9 percent,
which is lower than the rate forecast by the consultants. The 6.9 percent
rate is lower than that achieved historically and reflects the difficulties
facing the Sudanese economy for the duration of the 1980s and the
assumption that tariffs would be maintained at a level in line with NEC's
financing requirements and economic costs. In 1977 the Nile Waters Study
was commissioned with the objective of preparing a Master Plan for the
utilization of the Nile Waters in the Sudan. The benefits from utilization
of these waters accrue to many sectors, principally irrigation,
electricity, municipal water supplies, transportation, recreation and
fishing. A parallel study covering the development of a long term power
plan for Sudan was commissioned to determine the least cost program for
generation and transmission reinforcements to meet the expected power
demand during the period 1985-2000. NEC had also undertaken a review of
the rehabilitation and development of the Khartoum area transmission and
networks. The previously prepared development program is no longer
feasible due to major delays and shortcomings in obtaining the required
foreign exchange funds for investment. The power development program needs
to be updated to reflect recent developments in the power subsector and to
take into account a range of investment scenarios that will be governed by
capital availability. Therefore, NEC will employ consultants satisfactory
to IDA to update the long-term development program and prepare a



- 14 -
feasibility study for a new hydropower project by December 31, 1986
(Section 2.06 and Section II, Schedule 1, draft Project Agreement).
43.       Development Program Financing.  The total cost of the NEC's
investment program FY85-91 is estimated to be LSd 2,707 (US$722) million of
which LSd 1,824 (US$493 million) or 70 percent is in foreign currency. The
proposed investments in the power sub-sector of Sudan represent about 15
percent of the total planned public investment program of Sudan. It is
essential that the foreign exchange requirements for these investments be
provided to NEC, so that NEC is able to make more efficient use of its
power system facilities and provide more reliable service to its
customers. The Government will therefore provide NEC with adequate foreign
exchange resources to meet NFC's requirements for its development program
(Section 4.01(a), draft Development Credit Agreement). NEC is unlikely to
obtain more than limited external financing for import of spare parts and
therefore should explore all possibilities to acquire foreign exchange
including its purchase from the open market even though financing of such
imports may be at rates higher than the official exchange rate. The
Government will therefore ensure that NEC has access to foreign exchange,
including if necessary access to commercial bank borrowing, to purchase
essential imported recurrent inputs, spare parts and machinery replacement
(Section 4.01(b), draft Development Credit Agreement). NEC will also
undertake, until the completion of the project, new investments only after
preparation of a feasibility study and, with respect to investments
exceeding US$25 million equivalent only in accordance with a long-term
power plan satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.04, draft Project
Agreement).
44.       Power System Interconnection.  The interconnection of the main
power grids of Sudan and Ethiopia would offer various benefits, including
the import of surplus low-cost hydropower from Ethiopia. The
interconnection with least investment cost and shortest implementation
period would be a transmission link between the Roseires and Finchaa
hydropower stations which would allow power from Ethiopia to be transmitted
to the Khartoum area along the transmission line from Roseires, thus
supplementing the highly seasonal nature of power supply to Khartoum from
Roseires. The benefits to Sudan from such a link, by substituting
relatively modest investments in power transmission for the substantial
investment and operating cost which will otherwise need to be incurred to
provide additional thermal generating capacity, would be considerable. A
study of technical and economic aspects of the interconnection of the power
systems between Sudan and neighboring countries is included in the project.
45.          Role of IDA/Bank.  The World Bank Group has made two loans and
three credits to Sudan related to power developments. Loan 284-SU and
Credit 2-SU in 1961 in the total amount of US$38.8 million (inducing US$6-3
increase in 1963) were used to finance the Roseires irrigation project and
substructures of the Roseires power station. Loan 522-SU in 1967 was used
to finance the first three 30-MW generating sets at the Roseires dam, a
15-MW gas turbine, and transmission facilities. This project which has
been in operation since 1971 was the subject of a Project Performance Audit
Report (No. 1169) dated May 13, 1976. The report pointed out the
difficulties of carrying out a large program of expansion and problems in



- 15 -
improving the financial managmient. The project completion was delayed
over a year and institutional improvements did not meet appraisal
expectations. In 1975 IDA provided to the Government a US$23 million
Credit (564-SU) to help finance a fourth generating set at Roseires, diesel
generators at Burri and Juba, distribution system Improvements and
consultant's services. The second power project encountered similar
difficulties as the first project, particularly in project implementation
and financial and institutional reforms. The project was completed after
about a two year delay with the exception of the diesel power station at
Juba which is now included in the third power project, supported by
supplemental financing from the MDA Credit (No. 1006-SU) for the Third
Power Project of April 1980. The Third Power Project includes the addition
of fifth and sixth generating sets at Roseires, four diesel sets at Burri,
a new power station at Khartoum North with two 30 MW oil-fired steam
generating sets, transmission line extensions, consultants services and
training. This project is expected to be completed during 1985, with a
delay of about one year. The Third Power Project has encountered fewer
difficulties than the earlier two projects and improvements have been
achieved in NEC's organization and management. Bank Group lending
operations have been instrumental in separating water and power operations
and establishing NEC. IDA has played a catalytic and constructive role in
attracting co-financing in the power subsector from the OPEC Special Fund,
Overseas Development Administration and the Federal Republic of Germany.
The proposed power rehabilitation project will enable IDA to continue and
expand its efforts towards achieving the institution-building objectives
identified under the previous lending operations. The proposed project
will also enable IDA to promote structural changes and improvements in the
country's power subsector, particularly in energy planning, pricing
policies, development of indigenous energy resources and
institution-building aspects.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
46.       The proposed project was prepared by NEC with the assistance of
consultants and IDA. It was identified in 1982, prepared during late 1983
and in early 1984, and appraised as a part of a possible Power IV Project
which included the major power subsector related investments in the period
1985-90 and required about US$230 million in foreign exchange. This
necessitated complex cofinancing arrangements and a long time for their
finalization due to the difficult economic situation in Sudan and
particularly arrear problems with key donors. The proposed project was
reformulated following a post-appraisal mission in August 1984. The Bank
is also assisting NEC prepare a possible fourth power project which would
finance the remaining items in NEC's investment program not included in
this project. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled -Sudan - Power
Rehabilitation Project", dated June 20, 1985 (No. 5383-SU), is being
distributed separately. The main features of the Credit and project are
given in the Summary at the beginning of this report. Negotiations were
held in Washington, DC from May 28-30, 1985. The Sudanese delegation was
led by Mr. Yousri Gabr, Deputy Under Secretary, Ministry of Finance and
Economic Planning.



- 16 -
Objectives and Rationale for IDA Involvement.
47.       The objectives of IDA's involvement in the Project are:
(a)  to ensure the efficient utilization of existing power facilities
and improve power supply reliability through immediately required
rehabilitation works which will yield high economic returns and
minimize required funding for new investments;
(b) to assist in urgently needed additions of generation,
transmission and distribution capacities to meet the growing
demand on the power system; and
(c) to promote institutional development and strengthen the power
subsector organization and operation, establish long term
development policy and investment priorities, reform power
tariffs, introduce load management and energy conservation, and
contribute to the power system interconnections.
48.       These objectives are consistert with the Bank's strategy for
Sudan, which is to assist the country's balance of payments situation
through improvements in existing capital investments and support for key
infrastructure needed to increase output and inputs. The project's
emphasis on ensuring the efficient utilization of existing power facilities
and improving power supply reliability, expanding system capacity to meet
the growing demand for electricity, and strengthening institutional
capacity within the power subsector, will underpin Sudan's economic
rehabilitation program and provide the basis for further expansion of the
productive sectors.
Project Description
49.       The project is a part of NEC's development program for 1985-90
and consists of the addition of new generation capacity and the
continuation of rehabilitation works started under the Power III Project.
It has the following components:
(a) addition of two 10 MW diesel units at the Burri Power Station
where the installation of four 10 MW diesel units has just been
completed in a plant designed for six 10 MW units;
(b) rehabilitation of Units 1 and 2 at Roseires Hydropower Station;
(c) procurement of spare parts for the Sennar Hydropower Station;
(d) rehabilitation of the Blue Nile transmission network, including
the procurement of transmission towers and parts, tools and
measuring equipment;
(e) replacement of circuit breakers and accessories in the Eastern
Grid, and installation of protection relays for 66 kv
transmission lines;



- 17 -
(f) replacement of old circuit breakers at the Burri and Kilo X
substations; and
(g) consultancy services for supervision of project implementation
and coordination of management improvement and training
assistance, and for carrying out studies and preparing
feasibility reports on (i) long term development and investment
priorities, including new hydropower developments; and (ii)
possible power system interconnections.
50.       The total cost of the project (excluding service charges during
construction) is estimated at about US$40.2 million equivalent. The
foreign exchange component is estimated at US$30 million, or 75 percent of
the total project cost. Cost estimates exclude import duties and taxes as
NEC is exempt from these. A detailed breakdown of costs is given in the
credit and project summary.
51.       The cost estimate for the major item in the Project, the Burri
Power Station expansion, is based on quotations received by NEC from
manufacturers for similar equipment. The cost estimate for the Roseires
Rehabilitation is based on the estimates and quotations submitted by
consultants and contractors. The cost estimates of the small items of
rehabilitation and spare parts are based on consultants' estimates and
suppliers' quotations. The base costs are adjusted to expected mid-1985
price levels. Physical contingencies have been computed at the average
rate of 10 percent for both works and materials. Price contingencies for
foreign costs have been calculated at 7.5 percent in 1985 and 8.0 percent
thereafter. The rates for local costs were projected at 27 percent for
FY86, 25 percent for FY87, 20 percent for FY88, 17.5 percent for FY89, and
15 percent thereafter.
-2.       The proposea IDA credit of SDR 30.3 million (US$30.0 million
equivalent) will finance 100 percent of the foreign exchange costs, or 75
percent of the total project cost. NEC will finance the local costs of the
project, estimated at US$10.2 million equivalent, through internal cash
generation.
53.       The Government will relend the proceeds of the IDA Credit to NEC,
with an annual service charge equivalent to 19 percent of the outstanding
balance, and a repayment period of 20 years including five years' grace.
The onlending rate of 19 percent will ensure that in the long term, the
service charge on onlent funds will remain at a positive level in real
terms as the inflation rate in Sudan is projected to decline steadily from
around 26 percent in FY85 to about 15 percent in FY90. The Government will
bear the foreign exchange risk. The execution of a subsidiary agreement
satisfactory to the Association between the Government and NEC will be a
condition of effectiveness (Sections 3.01(b) and 6.01(a), draft Development
Credit Agreement).



- 18 -
Project Implementation
54.       NEC will be responsible for the implementation of the project and
will be assisted by consulting engineers in project design, procurement,
supervision of construction and erection, inspection of works and
equipment, and the initial operation of the project facilities. NEC has
already had several years of experience in implementing major power
projects and is currently completing the Power III Project. No major
construction problems are foreseen since the Burri extension had already
been planned as an addition to an existing power station. The
rehabilitation of the Roseires Power Plant will be a continuation of a
project started under the Power III Project, which had been thoroughly
prepared by consultants and the original manufacturers of the equipment.
The remaining items of the rehabilitation involve routine procedures which
will be carried out by NEC with the assistance of consultants and
contractors as required. Technical assistance and studies will be carried
out by consultants. The project is expected to be completed by December
31, 1988.
55.       The records and performance indicators to assist NEC and the
Association to monitor and evaluate project implementation have been
agreed upon by the Government and the Association. A close monitoring
procedure will also be established to ensure efficient implementation of
the technical assistance and studies. Financial and management monitoring
will be concentrated on rate of return and review of tariffs, collection of
revenues, project costs and financing, number of staff, and progress in
implementing introduction of management and financial reports. Major
project components to be monitored against target dates are tendering,
contract award, construction stages, commissioning of the two diesel units
and main rehabilitation works, and supply of equipment and materials.
National Electricity Corporation (NEC)
56.       NEC was established in 1982 as a successor organization to the
Public Electricity and Water Corporation (PEWC), with the help of
management consultants. It has a board of directors appointed by the
Government, with the State Minister of Energy and Mining as the Chairman of
the Board. The Board includes officials of government bodies and
representatives of NEC trade unions as well as representatives of the
electricity consumers in the private sector. According to its governing
Act, NEC is intended to be an autonomous corporation. The Director General
of NEC is responsible for the administration of NEC according to directions
of the NEC Board. NEC's main divisions are headed by senior directors.
The organizational structure of NEC is considered appropriate.
57.       NEC needs to employ capable staff on all managerial positions to
achieve an efficient standard of its operations. Therefore, NEC shall at
all times employ qualified and experienced staff for all senior and middle
level managerial positions (Section 3.01, draft Project Agreement). NEC is
required to follow Government pay scales and employment regulations. All
appointments in NEC at senior and middle management levels have to be
approved by the Government. As long as these conditions remain, NEC will
not be able to function satisfactorily. NEC presently lacks a systematic



- 19 -
uanagement information and reporting system. USAID is now providing
assistance to enable NEC to develop a management information system
appropriate to its needs. The continued management assistance under the
project will also allow IDA to assist in coordinating the efforts of the
various agencies engaged in support to NEC's management. NEC will continue
to employ management and training consultants to strengthen and coordinate
NEC's manpower development and training (Section II, Schedule 1, draft
Project Agreement).
Performance of NEC
58.       NEC's institutional and operational performance has been affected
by a number of major difficulties. These are (a) poor financial
performance; (b) inadequate system capacity; (c) low plant availability;
(d) frequent power breakdowns; (e) excessive power losses; and (f) high
cost of power supply. These problems are caused by (i) shortage of trained
staff; (ii) weak organization and management; (iii) lack of effective
management information system; (iv) chronic delays in planning for
expansion and resulting costly reliance on development of thermal rather
than hydro-power; (v) shortage of spare parts and lack of systematic
maintenance due to lack of foreign exchange; (vi) inadequate financial
resources to meet NEC's requirements due to low tariffs and slow collection
of electric bills; (vii) unmetered and unbilled consumption of electricity
by a number of consumers; and (viii) siltation of water intakes at Roseires
Hydroelectric Station. Indicators in respect of FY82 for various factors
related to NEC's major problems have been compiled, and other indicators
have been agreed for gradual improvement in NEC's performance. To assist
NEC in improving its performance, NEC will implement an action program
designed, inter alia, to strengthen NEC's personnel management, including
compensation and staff development and to strengthen corporate planning and
management information system (Sections 3.05, draft Project Agreement and
4.05, draft Development Credit Agreement). NEC's nerformance in resolving
these difficulties will be monitored on the basis of the indicators agreed
for the future years (para. 55).
Financial Position
59.       NEC's financial position is unsatisfactory mainly because of
increases in operating costs, particularly fuel and inadequate tariffs.
The very large difference (27 percent) between electricity generated and
actually billed also contributes to very poor financial performance. The
huge build up of receivables through non-collection of bills also
exacerbates the serious cash flow situation. The rate of return achieved
during FY82 and FY83 is well below the 8 percent per annum on NEC's assets
required under IDA Credit 1006-SU. NEC's debt service on foreign credits
has been often paid by the Government. To help ensure NEC's financial
viability, NEC will not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the
revenues and expenditures shows that tae projected internal cash generation
is 1.5 times the projected debt service requirements on all debt, including
debt to be incurred (Section 4.02, draft Project Agreement).
60.       NEC's present electricity tariffs, whiLh were put into effect in
March 1985, are adequate to provide sufficient funds to meet its



- 20 -
requirements for operating expenses, debt service and normal capital
expenditures, and to meet the rate of return covenant of IDA Credit
1006-SD. NEC has informed the Association that it has instituted a system
of regular monthly reviews of its tariffs in relation to the fuel and other
operating ccsts and to adjust the tariffs to cover increases in such
costs. NEC and the Government confirmed that whenever increases in
operating costs necessitate an increase in tariffs, such tariff increases
would be implemented before the requirement for them exceeds 10 percent of
the current tariff level. In addition, NEC will make tariff increases
necessary to ensure that it earns rates of return of not less than 9
percent on average net fixed assets in operation revalued in accordance
with a price index agreed between NEC and the Association (Section 4.03,
draft Project Agreement). The draft report of the tariff study based on
long-run marginal costs financed by USAID is scheduled for CY 1985 and that
the views of the Association will be taken into account in finalizing the
tariff proposals and in the timing of their implementation (Section 2.07,
draft Project Agreement).
61.       During the project period FY86 through FY88, NEC's total
construction program is expected to cost about US$301.8 million, including
loan service charges during construction (LSCDC) of US$51.3 million. About
13 percent, or US$40.2 million, of this total construction program relates
to the proposed project. Internal cash generation after covering debt
service will produce an estimated 20 percent of the funds required for
construction expenditure during the FY86/88 period. All of the foreign
exchange expenditures will be financed from external financial sources.
Borrowing will provide 78 percent of NEC's total requirements of funds.
The Association's share of this financing plan would contribute 10 percent
of the total requirements.
Procurement and Disbursement
62.       Contracts for the major items in the project will be procured by
international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines for
procurement; they represent over 70 percent of the project's foreign cost.
The studies and consultants' services will be provided according to IDA
guidelines and represent about 20 percent of the project's foreign cost.
The remaining 10 percent of the project consists of proprietary items that
can only be supplied by the original manufacturers or which are in small
quantities and are to be procured by international shopping procedures as
outlined in IDA procurement guidelines. All contracts estimated to cost
over US$250,000 equivalent will be subject to prior approval of the bid
documerts by the Association.
63.       The proceeds of the proposed IDA Credit will be disbursed over
the four-year period 1986-1989. IDA disbursements will be made to meet 100
percent of foreign exchange costs of the project. The foreign exchange
costs will include civil works, equipment, materials, engineering services,
technical assistance and studies. Disbursement will be fully documented.
The expected disbursement schedule is based on the project implementation
program and follows, in general, the standard disbursement profiles for
Bank loans and IDA credits for power projects in the Eastern and Southern
Africa region. Disbursements are expected to be completed by December
31,1989.



- 21 -
64.       To facilitate timely disbursements, the Government will establish
an IDA Special Account in the Bank of Sudan. The Association, at the
request of the Government, will deposit into that account an initial sum of
US$1.0 million equivalent, which will be used to advance IDA disbursements
in respect of eligible expenditures under the project. The account will be
replenished by the Association on the basis of documentation evidencing
eligible expenditures. The opening of the special account will be a
condition for credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(b), draft Development
Credit Agreement).
Accounts and Audit
65.       During appraisal of the first three power projects (Loan 522-SU
and Credits 564-SU and 1006-SU) in 1967, 1974 and 1980 respectively,
considerable difficulties were experienced in obtaining data required for
evaluating the corporation's finances. These difficulties were (i) lack of
reliable and consistent information on past performancq; (ii) long delays
in closing the books of account; and (iii) billing problems caused in part
by equipment failures. NEC placed a new computer into operation in 1981
but has not been able so far to utilize it efficiently. NEC also continues
to have difficulty in collection of its receivables including those from
the Government and its agencies and corporations and at the end of FY83 its
receivables were equal to about 15 months' sales revenue. NEC needs to
carry out a reconciliation of the Government agencies' accounts receivables
against its payables and settle the remaining balance through cash payment
or collection so as to reduce the level of receivables to the equivalent of
about two months' sales revenue. The program for gradual reduction of
accounts receivable was agreed with NEC and NEC will settle a substantial
part (not less than 25 percent) of accounts receivable by not later than
December 31, 1985 (Section 3.06, draft Project Agreement).
66.       NEC's accounts are decentralized and maintained at various area
offices. At the Head Office, only the accounts of that office are kept.
The regional offices do not send periodic accounts, income statements,
balance sheets or other reports to Khartoum more often than once every year
after the close of the fiscal year. Accounts information and management
reports will be prepared in respect of all NEC's area offices and
consolidated with Head Office accounts no less frequently than at quarterly
intervals starting from July 1, 1985 (Section 4.01 (b), draft Project
Agreement).
67.       NEC's external auditors are appointed by the Auditor General of
Sudan, generally well after the closing of NEC's accounts and consequently
the auditor's report becomes available long thereafter. To resolve this
problem, the Government will appoint the auditors no later than six months
before the end of the fiscal year so that they can report on the accounts
immediately after the closing of the Annual Accounts (Section 4.04, draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Environmental ImpaL:
68.       The project will not have any adverse impact on the envirLnment
because the components of the project consist of additions to or



- 22 -
-ehabilitation of existing power plants, transmission lines, and substation
installations. NEC continues to pay appropriate attention to the aesthetic
appearance of its facilities and compatibility with the environment.
International Water Rights
69.       It is the Association's judgment that the project will not
adversely change the quality or quantity of water flows and that the
Project will not be adversely affected by the uses of water that the other
riparians might have. The Government has assured the Association that with
respect to the consultation mechanism under the Nile Waters Agreement of
1959 and the African Convention on the Conservation of Nature and Natural
Resources of 1968, the Joint Commission of Egyptian and Sudanese experts is
dealing with all issues affecting the Nile on a continuous basis.
Benefits and Risks
70.       Power supply interruptions and system blackouts are a regular
occurrence in Sudan causing enormous damage to the national economy and the
country's population. Sudan also must meet the growing power demand.
Furthermore, there exist an urgent need to improve long-neglected
maintenance and rehabilitation of existing plant. Power supply is being
restricted by power rationing and delaying the connection of new
customers. Moreover, power generation on the NEC system is strongly
affected by the seasonal variations of the Nile River flow and by
irrigation requirements which take precedence. The proposed two 10 MW
diesel units have been evaluated within the framework of the least cost
development program comprising 60 NW steam units at Khartoum North and
hydro unit No. 7 at Roseires. This evaluation consists of a comparison of
a power development program with and without the addition of the two 10 MW
diesel units.
71.       The criterion used for evaluation is the present value of total
costs of meeting demand up to the forecast level for FY95 over the lifetime
of the new generating units. The main conclusion of the comparison is that
the power development program with the proposed two 10 MW diesel units is
the least-cost development program at discount rates up to and including 16
percent (the opportunity cost of capital in Sudan is estimated at 12
percent) in an investment resource-constrained situation . The economic
rate of return of the proposed investment in medium speed diesel units is
the discount rate at which the present value of the capital and operating
costs of the rehabilitation program equals the present value of the
incremental benefits from the program. Costs are economic values based on
the assumptions used to derive the least-cost generation program and the
transmission rehabilitation program. Average tariff yield is used as a
measure of the value of benefits from the program although it is recognized
that this method undervalues consumers' willingness to pay and therefore,
an element of consumer surplus is not included in the benefits. At the
average tariff yield projected to be in force after the December 1984
increase equal to LS 0.18/kWh, the economic rate of return of the BNG
generation and transmission development program is estimated at about 19
percent.



- 23 -
72.       The physical risks of the project are small.  The installation of
the two diesel units at the Burri Power Station will not impose any major
risk since the addition of Burri units was planned when the extension was
originally designed for six 10 MW units and only four were installed. The
other items in the project do not present any unusual risks and shall be
completed on schedule provided delays in preparing bid documents,
processing tender documents and awarding contracts are avoided. There is
also a risk of continued drain of skilled manpower to the Middle East oil
rich countries, but in recent months there has been a slow down in this
trend. Moreover, the project includes a significant element of management
and training assistance and a review of NEC's personnel policies including
compensation.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
73.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Republic of Sudan and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between
NEC and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
74.       Special features of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III of this report.
75.       Additional conditions for effectiveness of the proposed credit
will be the signing of a subsidiary agreement satisfactory to the
Association between the Government and NEC and the opening by the
Government of a Special Account under termc and conditions satisfactory to
the Association (Section 6.01, draft Development Credit Agreement).
76.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
77.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments:
July 11, 1985



-24-                                       km-a1
war v of 5
NU T= WMTmM )
16.    1=70L               nt       11 C1   . w          N. rA    KD
am cimuem  mu)
TOrAL                             2as          mn.u       ants
AOBICULIOUAL                       "67.0        47.o       664.5
M  nMan    (10 0.0                         160.   . w  40.             tIIL.                    :149.6
m ans--ld             -
(KAWAnIS 0 OE iQUtYAti3rr)          40.0        1L1.0       70.0             329.0                    n22.1
111LLT M1 gm
POIULAUI6N-EEAi (Tl0O5      )    11165.0      1339.0    20147.0A
IPS  IOPUUAW  (I OF TOTL)           10.3         14.4       32.5            a2.1                       *4..
POPUTOU   intUCf(b)i
*uflm  ug us aco . cxz                                    33.9
STa RNn     POPOrATUO  CMM)                              112.2
iCMAtWEu SEEm                                              1.6
m  IQ. O0.                         4.5          3.5        7.6             55.8                      34.3
E  M. M.  Rt. UN                   16.7        20.3      2U.S              111.5                    461.
OPUNLaTl   ACE FTOCTU  (2)
0-11 Iii                          43.7        43.7       44.1              45.4                     43.4
13-4 M                            53.2         53.4      32.6              51.7                      53.1
63 AM1 AIM                         3.1          2.9        2.6              2.9                       3.3
POMEATZUN CM   NT (CU)
StAL                                1.9         2.2        LI                2.6                      2.1
on"U                               1.1          6.         5.6               5.2                      4.5
CM simm BATE (PM  mu)               47.0         47.0       434              47.0                      40.4
CRU11  =1AT  NUt (5 TI0GM)          25.4         22.1       17.6             15.2                      11.3
ll66S ino.wtcxu  NAT                 3.3          3.3        2.2              3.2                      L26
tAutLy PuAIsbo
ACcM s.  amL  (0                     ....                   ..
uW  (Z or   m        I)             ..           ..        3.0               ..                      22.1
im -r ar
XENIX M  MD0  MoU. MU CIXTA
(1969-71.1L0)                       9LO         100.0       67.0             31.6                      17.3
pa cairn win.: or
CaLORS %I or IlqUtiUC )           64.0         91.0       99.0             9.2                      110.6
Pumia  (Cm4s a  OAT)              65.0         46.0       6.0              so.7                      70.1
Or VhIC LDUL AN  MIS             2k&   2.0             21.0 f            17.0                     17.6
tXL  (AGO   1-4) I  S MM            i6n0.1       32.4       2.               36.7                      14.4
LIV  EDEC. AT lIRIN  (1TE )         3a.7         41.6       47.0             51.7                      37.5
NTAOTr HOrT  MM CM  T0)            156.0        130.4      11.1            .02.7                     101.5
ACCtS U SAMR uMal (WPOr)
TOtAL                                ..        19.0       44.0 j            35.6                     ".7
"                                   ..         41.0       41.00            34.1                      64.3
EMS.L..                                        13.0       43.0                                       38. 26.4
ACCES TO EflET  DISPOSAL
Cl Or POiULATlhm)
.U..                                           16.0       22.0  I.
a                                   ...
R3AL                                ..           ..         ..                .
POpatIW  PM HnsIcS              - 32230.0     14070.0    6930.0            &M6.3                     4345.1
rOP. aIM NMc PERSON               3010.0 g    1720.0    1430.0             :1'.9                     I1U.1
POP. M  nostnA. us
TOn Ar70.0 It    920.0 /1  1330.0  L                                      466.9                     632.9
go"43                            130.o 0 . 71 £   19011   370.0 71       3IN.7 754.5
Ma                              'ro.0    3130.0 ri  1670.0 ru            .012.1                    2513.3
amazon isuuram                        ..           ..        ..                ..                      24.2
*EAC S    or  aUEOD
..sto/ta                            ..          5.1 
TAN".                                           3.Tf
a                                     ...                   . ..            ..
amain us. or iinflou.
TOTAL                               ..           ..
TOAL                                ..            .         ..               ..                     4. 2
A                                   .          2 :.         .7 ,,7.7
0                                   ..           ..         ..               ..                      16.1



Annex 1
-  25    -                                      Page  2  of  5
T A I L 0 3                                         r 
SUOI                   - SOCIAL twIoECAt   T    lT
soui                               aB tIIKSg AMX Ur (uwKagE  AVUuAOu
MOST                (MOST RUCENT ITIAT) /b
ott.~ ~~ O     |S REGEN      NZU. INOS              N L !
£ST MTAu-L   Amick S. or 5AHMA   31. AMIc& ' tID  UT
ADJUSTED U"OLLEU ItATIOS
fAIV:  TOTAL.                      23.0         3.0       52.0              91.0                      Is.3
KALC                    35.0         *6.0       6t.O             90.5                     L02.5
FTmaE                   14.0         29.0       43.0              73.6                     73.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                    3.G         7.0       16.0              17.4                      '3.0
NILE                     *.0         10.0       20.0             13.1                      32.3
rnwLz                    L.o          *,.o      LS.0             1.                        33.0
VOCATIOAL CZ S     SW KDav)           3.'          1. /b    4.0 ik.           5.3                      10.3
PUPIL-TEACE  RkATIO
tDIST                              41.0         47.0       33.0             N.h                       30.3
SONDAT                             20.0        1.0       23.0              25.1                      23.L
40L? LETRAC! InAf (1)                13.1         14.7 J    32.0              35..                      43.5
FAS1901  CAUITNUUND folp             t.4          2.0.                        20.7-,                   17.41
RADO  ZEZVEUISTlOIJAJD ror           17.0 /-     40.3       70.1              C.                       3.
TV RECRIVEsSlIEORMAND for             O.. 7n-     3.2        3.5              18.5                     4.1
MESPAE  DAILY GENERAL
IWtEREr)  CiRWLEAT901
KiEt rOUSAD POPULATION              4..         9.2        1.0 Ic           17.2                     3L.2
CXlAt ANMUAL ATINaC CAp?A             0.9          *-        0.5 7c            0.3                      1-7
ta-
TOTAL LAMIL OC (THOUS)             37011.0          .     631L.0
FNMALZ IPERGEJT                    9.4         10.2       11.0              33.8                     10.3
AIRCULSUCC tTEMEN)                 $1.0        S2.0       m.0               5J7.1                    42.4
110USTI (PERCN)                    6.0          8.0       10.0              17.4                     27.9
rEACZPATZON RATE (PERCEn)
TOTL                               33.2         32.8      31.3              36.3                      26.2
PAU                                59.3        53.2       54.9              47.6                     46.4
FDULE                               4.4         6.6        ?.0              25.1                      5.8
ECONOC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.&         1.4        1.5               1.4                      1.8
MC= or RIVATE EICUcS
RECEIVED n                       -
HICGEST s: or  OUSUIE DS           50.1 !r        .. 
NLGIIESTC 202 01 OUSISNOLDS        5011  a 49.2a
Ulok    2OZ or HOLsSLsIOD           1.l Tn.     5.1         ....
LWJW40 oF Hor ML Losoon             Z.s ,      14.5 E       .                  ..
zogam  T11W= coom ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ 11.
ESTZTEAD ABSOLUT  POVERTy uICmE
LEmL cuSs PER CAPITh)
IUaN                                 ..          ..      137.0             3 25.3                   274.6
RURAL                                ..          ..       890.0 7j         '19.0                    177.2
CSTII6IAM  RELATIVE POVET   ucME
LEEL CUSS FM CAPITA)
lama                                 ..          ..      11.0 q            :7.402.4
WIRAL                                ..          ..      100.0             t6.022.
STIMATE  tOP. ELOa AsOI.UTZ
POVETY DICWI LEVEL (2)
URIA                                ....                    .                                           .
*-AL        *- .     685.0 L
NOT AVAILABLE
rO AIPPLICABLE
0 T E S
-a   Me grop avarages Eoc eab Lodicacor are popuLaolaft-ftshetd arittmetic mans. Cover-ae of coaetria  ooms the
lJdicators Uspends oan avalability oft data  d is uts uiform.
/b  Uailss othmuta  moted. -lata toe 1960 Cofer tc any yer.  betwm  L1959 &.d 1961; Oatc for 1970- betuee  19" and
197L; and data tor "Mat Recent Eatimec- betwee. 19C0 and 1962.
Ic  1975; td Agee 15.50 yer.. North ooLY; lo 1977; .f 1976; /11 1975; /b 1962; ft Gerro_ot hopiteal atabUsalmort;
U  1966; Ik IegLeoa     1970. rhe duar ion of eoeraL secofdatr e_ducation "wanedaued Em   to 6 yeaor;    cLude
proga  omT_ trainilg center. operated by Department of Labor and 17 short-term canters operated by Hinicry of
Touch en Sporte; / u963; la 194:; to Oadurnan. urban; p 1967-48; Iq 1976.
JUNE. 19864



- 26 -                                                     Annex I
as  lnnn    gi.s.  pilygap g.s  ica-s   ~                     i. -..sPage   3   of                   
11111.  UEotw  lbedo ~W   5ftso, 55 Pta  sw      al oat oh. II       atiWsaaa Is sealsalW.                                        a isawi".sa4 ia.
wo-  .8 .. 6-lali-sass, a Mis-s   a   a: nu,sn   sleiggs I. saiaegl1  *                       N gu.f. as.aaslagi   F    .
baS   gi  .5 GWA55. SInsom . gp  ...  is..... a-.s.. a-*SIUisa a.  ...u,is,..
Ite insi    - III t g "No  sysoll"     .,w a. -ag.a  vug  a"  "i aaisa    l              a     so. s-"vI-ga    .ift Isoloep s.W.Sa
Sig..  INa IUs-as dlNo ala  St   sW   se s-Nina. augs a.-Ia.                   as.- Psas   lios.Is soNs -1e Sa ajeilap S in SNInan
dhois45  fem itso  mafin"s..   5.  S  .-.-11m, PF g- ie  -ft iSisgige1 ePWdS - it. ssIsbil   c . Is ice Polia4s.N  -Ilia  Wos  t
nag      NaatiMlq i-se. 5 .   lsa5 aa.I                 e - soto,4V- - fl  asits M~ n-wi'  ib. s. S -  I.M.iswsoe-Itnm     5isiu
alUm a..~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ti                                                                                           NIIM
ass..afolos _11Po lea a..                                                     ...ju.II                  ;-IM. 1j   neil   hnhfla lanai
EL   d19%UL - W- gW          g asiaoss,  n .aus.  agagi                                                                                      Po,s  nab.5  ng   s  guaane   i   gslgalsuiss.
in.i,.       n    .                                                               -Spa1 sea  -.1   o pais1P. fgfhi-.I  peiesiiiglwalla
lfte. lose. 0-d BIN do-                                     or a 1-8~ss,   lasll  Iges boanliss. in.... leain alia Is0-
'~Z71ThTagl..pastag  .ss..t  e Is  g..Pt           gi.                 :daia..   a.-  -ag  as.I   #-NI on gasis         lba.. IsV    Is
soo  ialloolut.u                lisle . bte   if a"I  a.wb- mass NIs.,s low.        m.issl. PMa    tI    -0- 10
OMIp  o gm  do--  i igii- a  s  gei                                                           lislIlpsS*- vo.    ~P  mo.s.a M. 
alf-so, awma.PIP  Z-48""  "W"'" .1 diapiS  te M". ossla 'A. 5Sm  Is1  pint W                             a c-lia,        ati mbow1
sololo  olofto  ML sesas-  nial sd isl   -al      50                       lggnPI.              APPts.e.aasiagsi.nls
ags        ~~~awsIs -      a.   .isp  srnsgpfl, pllglsllap.  asahi-sit"O                                            ha    ginslata 
se.    la iMk-gangsol  Pi aggeili  ella. Pnsi  at en                                     ns
Ia.m.   alitks    Nns P a sal ial     lsg M   s.aS. nigr l-                             1I¶-r15.ia-                             sswa
usa,  a  winlas I  ie-tI'.  gsSs  a   gb.a1 haI s1sa,  fle*Isusalallatwsii
P,nsa                           4 :.   W"amo Sa hafsi  ina I-Ilgaip.I  Ss,&  M-sis   gingp .inig atsaiagit a                 sus   ns
AIKI11111 a sagRt-li. as Ia PQian.ls Pot ao-mshrass5 -.Im                        fhli   3g5    .dtiealMM                  uaugaia
U LaS.    MS ua.  lb          nas,r   a a.   na. 8-wsal.  I  ao.y            igsulaas   gigl agsgs geali-.gaSI  n.
ggsgbnf   a,.ISiWaiay    sla 5g.a  s as  - eg                          instnsaiiisWi.   ale-  5.StsIgs..Sg M31  SI.
sat 5  5: =-Ih.gi =biagsgi  SI ste 5hgia -s 55  ae                             s r._M-   issg  - Igi s,   ale gM s l.al. Mai  g.-   ~isas ases
lag. Ps N  a.  at al s,.d ~N  se`I igir u1s.. m-.gsga .i Is. Wsga                         g-s.      a   a   ..  CiSNWi  ueas ls en
scolaU-arn -P Se IPst_ "fyas  ssl,asSi  llaggli  sifi*  assgal 5il.rseitsaLi                                                          ai  Use-
tsnileWlmon U.gS.IagsP #,=.-ii  llayashasiaialpl,li .5t1.7as 4 seas n.ergg-`gS, aea s
se.- Ws   . sa as .NIK Pslii a vs   s   as h als,.ft.                       sa-sti  asi.s
I5wI  sy       l    .s MP g Psa    -Pi isa-   sa
Wo,!Ism,l l."   ISS.lsA da ..                                                          as.-.s5p.sa.
~~*.PSUIWMC   Mu    M. .rrl:;  ~~PsiL -ii                                              - 1         W=ness5..s 'Pss'-sa -a  la..~
bIMI.Sz.I.ffluai       =L       Isbttd¶   U    .ss pas . al i  is)d               - .           4-c                    -           _          
nassau  lie. Is III  aN4 *N "  p.....g  St.:-use.Fe!.(l!.IaA.nr!-a.i.   n                                                          a.
aa. - I.,  ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~     ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     saa.Is=- 
Nfl   -      - Sas* Pggga          1..                     .usjse.  p.a  se-  - wi1. gina SD  Iasas  ss               -
. aI     W-lii.M IstA -. Is 1        `P343                                    als       uase,I  nisI Pse gnus -  ia                 s  ascel
a  Ifigi haP i     tispi esa-,    is..Siai?ia   s5  15sas   tsnisstg am                                                      -  s1-sssia -a    -Ins,.-i
awt  Is:anP -Ps.  ais  a.                                                         es   siS=stIIt's
gataas   i    m*.3ass..             MLe-5 aIV.PA-%                                        in, Psisi   as   ussdi  seit
"ok.gsm"P n-as   Iass-ti - PoPss,    w i..-gV--si5   55  ngl-se  Pt  i
glnsasa -an a asiagna- Sa n-s   -.M ii5-                               IN      N ra     se
PN-- assoossr Por .0.1 --  Mnla   i as sa.bisaln a sga- ..sagis                                                           P a
W-d-   PPAPP N4101-   kwtaesisa   its.  sia -  msS 11s
ag-pa-nu   ass  sap   Ns.-.-              o.s-s L  .-reL. s.s -w 1-1; gnn      s-   tgw.
a"1j. mlskommJss  rll2-  llJhid.  hsssaia saiss I..  Is                              Si,    I. Psel  P. igt   P sm-. listsa..  baIlMaI
in I: Ma aSs fto   msol"s. t   oinasa se. e"11iMsi  . %."g4._&                               -     it saix ha. i-_ as         na   a   a
PsaI   sasnhl    ghs  sgna   a  sup  ie sOausgsa6. 1an sa  as  istssgasl  M5igli-  tei   n 
ass a gm  asga meSas ns  lba  m-, ie    iS                                      Is Ciui.
"INs..                                                                       esuslMggg.r tess"'.r.a, -.eal ale lote.gs-IiesistsiaM
w          ag      aft-SasI     Is -  In N. segl.issssiPP arse. p.r           nu s5 .ss   ..-u-i 5                           is- n-a Ise-i.g..W
a,.osw    S   alams    ai.sel,   asIi                                            C soglsONE ..L"soss    ass.- FasianaaiAaIls-asanas.
ggs.UPos" Wm  PA_ "i as- Wst  doo, tas  i  se sl. twolhaaL."                              PN-  die.sa  as   - asisa -Is   ~- P sIs. S
0=taa    a   ahamr..=a  ias a-- laNstas.  a-swi                                 PasaaaaSa  sBl   .'-
W I-s asSaeIa  asgll   i, Isd sUt' 15 i-ns               aa
- atal hat   IMSS  gig. "I- :50an.                                      illSYglLtW                              -   9 4"~r .! l-
qssi a sas Sisa asablahaSr m  gs-I-I   isa-..al
asms  s     ga  a  lasusas m     apau  esSsiiI
ga-a             Woi asgl-s  .0 ass,    sa,a.                                          .ss.a   ssg  ig.  ea   ea -       syi -ati  dpis
0g I.                                                                     ttarftla
mui   a s   big Ma  mal  -14ng UaSs p. ahassa a-~                      IsawsacleinPe!ss  asiaa  qglt-sa                               ts
tt 6rAa  AsflIsg Ma ftlUg rals PgW     StI    s  ii                           a.stIn   SS    e.Sls  sII  piagl   S-
WSLIN " r-m-y w. ge-md91:1--           =sssss .egg-a-ns. i-is  g-g.ie-  tes  Sgs-i  sn
W-6gpsova e !ses,ts, Poos .   na   sI- As .l.       asa ss-.sn           ~     ~     a     i-ns  giul                    aati.5asi
,ss-  ga   -a  s -I  --a- so                 .si- PiiKai  a.aa   w4sagtscs
again-  aissdl      sai        s-w-asatas..i--.s~us



-  27 -                        Annex 1
Page 4 of 5
SUDAN - COUNTI! DATA   \'
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
ANNUAL AVERAGE RATE OF CROWTH
GROSS DOaMSTIC PRODUCT IN 1983/84                          (2, Conscant  Prices)
usS hin.   _           1974/75-1978/79    1978/79-1983/84
GDP at Market Prices           6288.0   100.0              3.6                 1.7
Gross Domestlc Investusot      870.7    13.8               0.6               -0.4
Cross National Savia            224.3     3.6             13.1              -10.0
Current Accout *alance        -646.0    10.3               0.7                4.1
Exports of Goods, UPS          877.0    13.9               0.7                4.1
Imports of Goods. UPS         1668.0    26.5               0.2                4.0
OUTPUT 1/. LABOR FORCE 2/ AND
PRODUCTIVIT! II 1983/84
Value Added        Labor Foree           V.A. Per Worker
USS KIn.    z       Mln.       X         USS   Z (of aver-ge)
Agriculture     1684.4   29.7        4.92     78.0        342       23.1
Industry         931.7    16.5       0.63     10.0       1479      164.7
Services        3051.4    53.8       0.76     12.0       4015      447.1
Total      5667.5   100.0       6.31    100.0        898      100.0
GOVERNMENT FIrNC
Central Coverment - 1983/84
(LSd. Kin.)      Z of GDP 'J
Current Receipts                 1469             14.7
Current Ezpenditure              1300             13.0
Current Surplus                   169              1.7
Capital EZpeodltures              483              4.8
Unallocated Expenditures 3/       366              3.7
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                   79/80   80131    81/82    82/83    83/84
(million LSd outstanding end period)
Money Supply                              1047.5  1445.2  1899.9    2605.0  3151.8
Bank Credit to Central Governmnt (net)   719.0   914.5    848.7       677.2   775.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector and
Parastatals                             814.3  1118.6   1560.9   2229.6  2585.7
(Percentages)
Annual percentage chanaes In:
Consumer Priee Index 41                     25.9   24.3    26.8       30.6      28.1
lank Credit to Central Government            9.0    27.2    -7.2      20.2      14.5
lank Credit to Private Sector
and Parastatals                          24.7   37.4    39.5    42.8         16.0
1I Factor Costs.
21  Labor force estimates are based on EPD's Social Indicators Data Sheet.
TI Includes now capital expenditures by other public entities.
6/ Calendar Year.
EA2NE
may 28, 1985



-  28  -                           Annex 1
Page 5 of 5
SUDan - COuwtrWa DATA
TUDE  AWACE AnD CAPITAL FLOWS
NuAcC  or Pm        ESTIMATES
1980o81   1981/12   1,82/83   1983/8A      NEUCIINDISE IUORT  (AURACI 1981/6Z-1983/8)
UJ Mtn.          1
Expert Ceclb 6 Mrs               748       627       753        67/
l-perte Goode A IMS             1826      Z034      1736       1668      Cotton                  194.0          33.5
imoerce Ca                    -1080      -1407     -1033      -791       Sorghur                  59.4          10.3
Xntsrest, llLT Debt            -105       -190      -191      -215      Croeaute                  26.7           4.6
Other Factor Paymate (not)        -1        -3       -20       -20       Gus Arabie               51.2           8.8
Prlvate Trmsefaes                305       350       415        380      Sesame                   53.0           9.2
Currant Balanc                 -681      -1252      -829      -646       Other                   194.7          33.6
Publlc Grants                    122       174       462       336             Tot-S             579.0         100.0
Direct lavat_nt                   35        40        60         70
Public ILT Loan. dleb.          499        665       219       194      EXTERNAL DEIBT  DECCOtSC  31. 1983
Publlc IIT  .as, mnert.           86        97        58         16
Total Public Not                413        Sao       161        178                                         US$ MIS.
Not CrudSt, 13W                  290        50       122       -
Capital Flown  (Il. rerre                                               Public Debt. DOD, XLT                 5780.6 Li
and .mimealon)              -199       -118      -196       203
Chanse In Net laceors                                                   DEBT SEVICE RtATIO FOR 1983/84
I ndicates icrese)           220        518       220      -141 3/       -
Publlc Debt. mcl. guaranteed           26.3
RATE 07 ZXCICAM                                                         Man-Guaranteed Private Debt
ic-banza lsta 27
Officlal Ratai    Lad 1.00 - US 0.40
US$ 1.W - Lcd 2.50
Comerclal lank   Led 1.00 - US$ 0.30
Floatlng Rare:  US5 1.00 - Led 3.30
1310/IDA LEDMTIN. (Dec. 31. 1933) (Million US$)
1510     IDA
Outsranding  nd Disbursed         44       31. 9
LUndlbursd                        2.3    244.1
Outstandig Locl. Unddisburead     U.      I  Ii
lnot available.
11  Total DOD (including Ih. outstanding arrears. and nillitary debt) i. howver
etimated to U558.1 billion as of December 31. 1983.
2/ Exchang rate reform to May, 1935. For exchange race
history prlor to that. refer co table 6.6 of the StcatLtical Annex.
3/ la 1983/84 the not foreign reserves situation was extrowly cight;
the reported increas my have resulted from computing lnaccursciee
io the obort-toxi capital flovy.                                                               ZANE
NEy 28. 1985



- 29 -                 ANNFX II
'Page 1fof 2
A. STATEMFNT OF BANK LOANS AND TDA CREnITS - SUMAN
(as of March 31, 1985)
Amount (TUSS Million)
(Net of Cancellations)
Loanf                                                                       nTndis-
Credit No.     Year   Borrower  Purpose                 Rank         IDA    bursed
Seven Loans and seventeen Credits fully disbursed    139.n           266.1
Credit 614     1976   Sudan      Technical Assistance                  4.0    0.1
Credit 782      1978   Sudan     Livestock Marketing                  25.0   11.1
Credit 804     1978   Sudan      Mechanized Varming III               16.0    6.6
Credit 834     1978   Sudan      Agricultural Research                15.0    6.6
Credit R82     1979   Sudan      Highway II                           41.0    0.4
Credit 904     1979   Sudan      So. Region Agriculture               15.0    5.9
Credit 1006    1980   Sudan      Third Power                          65.0   26.5
Credit 1022    1980   Sudan      New Halfa Rehabilitation             40.0   27.5
Credit 1118 /1 19R1   Sudan      Blue Nile Pump Rehab.                32.0   23.9
Credit 1119 71? 19R1   Sudan     White Nile Pump Rehab.               35.0   25.5
Credit 1153 7l 19R1   Sudan      Second Tech. Assistance               6.0    3.5
Credit 1181 71 1981   Sudan      Western Savannah                     13.0    2.5
Credit 1201 71 1982   Sudan      Agricultural Services                la.n   14.1
Credit 1233 71? 1982   Sudan     Second Port                          25.0    6.0
Credit 1388 71r 1993   Sudan     Gezira Rehabilitation                80.0   80.0
Credit 1389 71? 1983   Sudan     Agric. Rehab. Program II             50.0   23.8
Credit Foii*7T1 19R4   Sudan     Third Education Project              10.0   10.0
Credit 1451 71? 19R4   Sudan     Third Education Project                5.4    5.4
Credit 1450 71- 1984   Sudan     Third Righway Project                16.0   16.0
Credit 1506 71? 1984   Sudan   **Sugar Rehab. Project                 60.0   60.0
Credit 1513 71 1984   Sudan   **Petroleum T.A. Project                12.0   12.0
Total                                        139.n         849.5  364.4
of which repaid                             0R.1           4.4
Total now outstanding                         40.9         845.1
Amount sold                    5.8                   R.3
of which repaid              5.8              -   8t.3     -
Total held by Rank & IDA                      4n.9         845.1
Total undisbursed                              Nil         364.4  364.4
/1  IDA 6 Credits, US dollar equivalent of SDRs at time of negotiations.
(Note:  STR amounts of these 13 credits are: STR 25.1 million, STR 27.5
million, STR 4.9 million, STR 11.2 million, STR 15.7 million, STR 21.5
million, SDR 74.2 million, SPR 46.4 million, STR 9.6 million, STR 5.2
million, STDR 15.5 million, SDR 56.4 million and STR 11.6 million,
respectively.)
** Not yet effective.
*/I Special Fund Credit



- 30 -                ANN. It
'Page 2 of 2
R. STATFKMET OF IFC INVESTMRNTS
(as of March 31, 1985)
Fiscal                                                (Amount in TTS$ million)
Year                   Obligor                        Loan   Equity   Total
1964 and     Khartoum Spinning & Weaving Co.           1.9      0.3      2.2
1972      Textiles
1976         Cotton Textile Mills                      R.7      1.3     10.n
1978         Seleit Food Production Ltd.              11.1      1.1     12.2
1978         Gezira/Managil Textile Co. Ltd.           6.7      1.4      R.1
1980         Sudan Cement Company                      -        0.2      0.7
1982         White Nile Petroleum Co. Ltd.             -       0.3       0.3
Total Gross Commitments                  28.4     4.6      33.0
Less cancellations, terminations
repayments and sales                    6.5     0.6      7.4
Total commitments now held by IFC        21.6     4.0      25.6
Total undisbursed (including
participants' portion)                  1.9     n.2       2.1



- 31 -
Annex III
Page 1 of 2
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:  18 months
(b)  Project prepared by          : NEC with assistance of consultants
(c)  Identification mission        : February 27, 1983
(d)  Appraisal mission             : July 17, 1983
(e)  Negotiations                 : May 28, 1985
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:  (90 days after credit signing)
Section II - Special IDA Implementation Action: None
Section III - Special Conditions:
Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a) The signing of a subsidiary agreement satisfactory to the Association
between the Government and NEC (para. 75).
(b) The opening by the Government of the Special Account (paras. 64 and
75).
Other Conditions:
(a) The Government will revise fuel oil prices to reflect their cost and
will continue NEA's overall energy pricing policy review (para. 37);
(b) The Government will implement appropriate and timely tariff
adjustments (para. 38);
(c) NEC will employ consultants to update the long-term development
program and prepare a feasibility study for the new hydropower project
by mid-1986 (para. 42);
(d) The Government will provide NEC with adequate foreign exchange
resources to meet NEC's requirements of its development program
(para. 43);



- 32 -               Annex III
Page 2 of 2
(e)  The Government will therefore ensure that NEC has access to foreign
exchange including, if necessary, access to commercial bank borrowing,
to purchase essential imported recurrent inputs, spare parts and
machinery replacement (para. 43);
(f)  NEC will undertake, until the completion of the project, new
investments only after preparation of a feasibility study and, with
respect to investments exceeding US$25 million, only in accordance
with the long-term power plan agreed between the Association and NEC
(para. 43);
(g)  NEC will augment and continue the coordination of management and
training assistance by appointing consultants to carry out that
function (para. 57 );
(h)  NEC shall at all times employ qualified and experienced staff for all
senior and middle level managerial positions (para. 57);
(i)  NEC will implement an action program designed to strengthen its
personnel management, corporate planning and management information
system (para. 58);
(j)  NEC will not incur any debt unless the projected internal cash
generation is 1.5 times the projected debt service requirement on all
debt, including debt to be incurred (para. 59);
(k)  NEC will take IDA's views into account in finalizing the tariff
proposals and in the timing of their implementation (para. 60);
(1)  NEC will make tariff increases, as necessary, to ensure that it earns
an annual rate of return of not less than 9 percent of the average
current net value of its fixed assets in operation (para. 60);
(m)  NEC will settle a substantial part (not less than 25 percent) of
accounts receivable not later than December 31, 1985 (para. 65); and
(n)  NEC will prepare accounts statements and management reports for all
NEC's area offices and consolidate them with head office accounts no
less frequently than at quarterly intervals starting from July 1, 1985
(para. 66).



- 33 -
AN.KIV
Procurmt Prw
(in 1Tin afmon)
I rulde-
lines for      Ibtal
Other       TTse of         Fetimted
CR         Metbods       conmultants     costs
1. lurri Power Station
(2x10 W izdts)
- Supply & Installation            16.6 (14.9)                                 1R.6 (14.9)
2. Rasefres Hydro Rehab.
- Equipment and Works                             2.3 (1.2)                     2.3 (1.2)
3. Semar Hydro
- Spaze Parts                                     0.7 (0.6)                     0.7 (0.6)
4. :MC Twim
- conductocs                        1.R (1.3)                                   1.R (1.3)
- Spare Parts                                     n.8 (0.7)                     0.8 (0.7)
- Spare lbs                                       n.7 (0.6)                     0.7 (0.6)
- Tools amd Equipent                              0.2 (0.1)                     0.2 (0.1)
1.7 (1.4)                    3.5 (2.7)
5. E Tram.dauion
- 66-4V  Breaikes                   1.6 (1.2)                                   1.6 (1.2)
Mstae Relays                                      0.3 (0.2)                    0.3 (0.2)
0.3 (0.2)                    0.3 (0.2)
U.6.t (0.47                  Z.0 (1.67
6. Distribution Rehab.
- Eqpimaent and Erectio             3.1 (2.6)                                   3.1 (2.6)
7. Consultant Services & Sttxies                                 9.2 (6.4)        9.2 (6.4)
Total                      25.1 (20.n)    5.3 (3.6)    q.2 (6.4)       39.6 (30)
PFues in parenthese are awnmts finmced by DT



IBRD 17
Sobk                                                                                     UBYA     AR AB REP.     SA sUoI
SUDAN                                                   ......
16                                     POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
THE BLUE NILE AND EASTERN GRIDS                                   CH AD
KROKU                        0    20   40   60   80   100                            ,S
iKHARTO          BURR                                     LOMETERS                                    >'z,TRAN
ILO X                                                                                 AFRICAII REP   ^            j  ;'.
-J. AUUA                                                                             NEW H4LFA*                3
_,f   \                                                                            \\\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/ 13'_
EASTERN   /    ASM EL
HASSA HEISA                                                                   ELECTRIAL  K.
w    \2                                                                       GRID
Wod Mdx       MERG                                                        SHOWAK 
EL FAU
Ed Duwm                        HAG ABDAULAH
I"
a                                /                                           }~~~~~
SENAR          , 
g!'"^ARF                                           j  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ir-
PROJECT:                                                                                                              1
Hydro Station Rehabilitation
*    Diesd Staion Extnsion                                                                                                J
Transmision line Rehobilitation
*    Substation Rehabilitaon/
Disribution Nework RehabilitatiDn                                                                           ETHIOPIA
UNDER CONSTRUCTION:                                                                               I           T
66kV. Trammisson Line 
EXISTING:                                                                                     f ,*  ,.wwe vim.
_    Hydra Station               -    Dans                    U\                                                                w-br
12?       lkhemod,Gos Turbire/         -       wws  m..wWFh                                                                            12O.
D.sei Stations                rRov                     \a  -f                                                         - I  .I
--  220kV. Troninission Lines            Rivers                                                 j
Interfationa                                                              '  
1101kV. Tranumission lineoes              s                                                                vi  wpme  a" oE vil
-   - 66&k. Trammission Lines                              Dn   IC  RO-'vi to   wi __                                         -
*    Subiations                                                                         \                               -VW m."'
3_r                            34                               3'i                            '3 6
NOVB-BER 1964



