FFCI L     CREDIT NUMBER 1624 SU
Project Agreement
(Power Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
NATIONAL ELECTRICITY CORPORATION
Dated                                ,1985


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1624 SU
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       Qc\1    it/r     %    , 1985, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION    (hereinafter called the
Association) and NATIONAL ELECTRICITY CORPORATION (hereinafter
called NEC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between The Democratic Republic of Sudan (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to thirty million three hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 30,300,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that NEC agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and NEC, the proceeds of the Credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available
to NEC on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS NEC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. NEC declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project


﻿-2-
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public
utility practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. NEC shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. NEC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, NEC shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) NEC shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) NEC shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by NEC of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. NEC shall prepare and furnish to the
Association, not later than December 31, 1986, its updated
version of the Long Term Power Plan and the feasibility study
carried out under Part H of the Project.
Section 2.07. NEC shall:
(a) exchange views with the Association with respect to the
proposals of the on-going tariff study;


﻿- 3 -
(b) finalize said study by taking into account the Associa-
tion's comments; and
(c) implement the agreed upon recommendations of the study
within six months of its completion.
Section 2.08. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 4.03 of this Agreement, NEC shall:
(a) continue to review, on a monthly basis, the level of
its tariffs relative to the fuel and other operating costs; and
(b) adjust the tariffs adequately to cover these cost
increases.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of NEC
Section 3.01. NEC shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial
and public utility practices under the supervision of qualified
and experienced management assisted by competent staff in ade-
quate numbers.
Section 3.02. NEC shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property and, from time
to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and public utility practices.
Section 3.03. NEC shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. NEC shall undertake, until the completion of
the Project, new investments only after the preparation of a
feasibility study and, with respect to investments exceeding the
equivalent of $25,000,000, only in accordance with NEC's Long
Term Power Plan, as agreed upon between the Association and NEC.
Section 3.05. NEC shall implement the action program
designed to strengthen its personnel management, staff develop-
ment, corporate planning and management information system, as


﻿-4-
agreed upon among the Borrower, NEC and the Association, in
accordance with an agreed upon timetable.
Section 3.06. NEC shall:
(a) prepare and furnish to the Association a plan for the
gradual reduction of accounts receivable, including a timetable
acceptable to the Association; and
(b) settle at least 25 percent of its accounts receivable
not later than December 31, 1985.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) NEC shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b) Without limitation upon the generality of paragraph (a)
above, NEC shall prepare accounts statements and management
reports in respect of all of NEC's area offices and consolidate
them as of the quarter commencing from the fiscal year starting
on or after July 1, 1985 with the head office accounts not less
frequently than at quarterly intervals.
(c) NEC shall:
(i) have   its   accounts   and  financial   statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) and the Special Account
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested;


﻿-5 -
(iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said. accounts, financial statements,
records and expenditures, as well as the audit
thereof, as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(d) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements
of expenditure, NEC shall:
(i) maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date, all
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (c) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by the said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures have been used for the purpose
for which they were provided.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, NEC shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast
of the revenues and expenditures of NEC shows that the estimated
net revenues of NEC for each fiscal year during the term of the
debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated
debt service requirements of NEC in such year on all debt of NEC
including the debt to be incurred.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "debt'* means any indebtedness of NEC
maturing by its terms more than one year after the
date on which it is originally incurred.


﻿-6-
(ii) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
loan contract or agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt or for the modification of
its terms of payment on the date on such contract,
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for
such guarantee has been entered into.
(iii) The   term  "net revenues" means the difference
between:
(A) the sum of revenues from all sources related
to operations and net non-operating income;
and
(B) the sum of all expenses related to operations
including administration, adequate mainten-
ance, taxes and pa.ments in lieu of taxes,
but excluding provision for depreciation,
other non-cash operating charges and interest
and other charges on debt.
(iv) The term    "net non-operating income" means the
difference between:
(A) revenues from all sources other than those
related to operations; and
(B) expenses, including taxes and payments in
lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation of
revenues in (A) above.
(v) The term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
charges on, debt.
(vi) The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast
prepared by NEC not earlier than twelve months
prior to the incurrence of the debt in question,
which both the Association and NEC accept as
reasonable and as to which the Association has
notified NEC of its acceptability, provided that
no event has occurred since such notification
which has, or may reasonably be expected in the


﻿-7-
future to have, a material adverse effect on the
financial condition or future operating results of
NEC.
(vii) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
the Borrower, debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such
debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the
basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the
Association.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, NEC shall earn, for each of its fiscal years ending on
or after June 30, an annual return of not less than 9% of the
average current net value of NEC's fixed assets in operation.
(b) Within three months after the end of each of its fiscal
years, NEC shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by NEC and
satisfactory to the Association, review whether it would meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year
and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the
Association the results of such review upon its completion.
(c) If any such review shows that NEC would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for NEC's fiscal years
covered by such review, NEC shall promptly take all necessary
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the
structure or levels of its tariffs) in order to meet such
requirements.
(d) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the annual return shall be calculated by dividing
NEC's net operating income for the fiscal year in
question by one half of the sum of the current net
value of NEC's fixed assets in operation at the
beginning and at the end of that fiscal year;
(ii) the term "net operating income" means total
operating revenues less total operating expenses;


﻿-8-
(iii) the term "total operating revenues" means revenues
from all sources related to operations;
(iv) the term    "total operating expenses" means all
expenses related to operations, including admini-
stration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments
in lieu of taxes, and provision for depreciation
on a straight-line basis at a rate of not less
than 3% per annum of the average current gross
value of NEC's fixed assets in operation, or other
basis acceptable to the Association, but excluding
interest, and other charges on debt;
(v) the average current gross value of NEC's fixed
assets in operation shall be calculated as one
half of the sum of the gross value of NEC's fixed
assets in operation at the beginning and at the
end of the fiscal year, as valued from time to
time in accordance with sound and consistently
maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to
the Association; and
(vi) the term-"current net value of NEC's fixed assets
in operation" means the gross value of NEC's
fixed assets in operation less the amount of
accumulated depreciation, as valued from time to
time in accordance with sound and consistently
maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to
the Association.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of NEC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or


﻿-9-
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
NEC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For NEC:
National Electricity Corporation
P.O. Box 1380
Khartoum, Sudan


﻿- 10 -
Cable address:                    Telex:
AMPERE                            22628
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of NEC may be taken or executed by the
Director General or such other person or persons as the Director
General shall designate in writing, and NEC shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authen-
ticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all col-
lectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By          JO     &C         K'~I
Regional Vic Pr6l ident
Eastern and Southern Africa
NATIONAL ELECTRICITY CORPORATION
By                             Re prse na
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   NEC shall require the bidders to prequalify in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Proprietary items which can only be supplied by the original
manufacturer may -be procured through direct contracting in
accordance with paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.
2.   Items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000
per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.   The aggregate   cost of the goods acquired      pursuant to
paragraphs B.l and B.2 shall not exceed $4,000,000 equivalent.
C.   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of prequalification:
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in


﻿- 12 -
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Association purzuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3
(the Special Account Schedule) to the Development Credit
Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the
Association has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on
the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (d) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
3.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.   In order to assist NEC in the carrying out of engineering
design for the Project, the preparation of bidding documents and
the evaluation of bids, and the supervision of the construction
of the Project and its coordination, NEC shall employ engineering
consultants.
2.   In order to assist NEC in carrying out the studies under
Part H of the Project, NEC shall employ appropriate consultants.
3.   In order to assist NEC in carrying out Part G of the
Project, NEC shall continue to employ management and training
consultants.


﻿- 13 -
4.   The qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment of the consultants referred to in paragraphs 1, 2, and
3 of this Section shall be satisfactory to the Association, such
consultants to be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
FOR SECRETARY


