Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repit No. P- 5244-GH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 37.9 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FOR A
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
APRIL 25, 1990
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Diak authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS (April 2. 1990)
US$1 - Cedi (¢)313
¢100 - US$0.32
ACRONYMS
CRDD      Curriculum Research and Development Division (of MOE)
EdSAC     Education Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr.1744-GH)
ERP       Economic Recovery Program
GES       Ghana Education Service
GLSS      Ghana Living Standards Survey
GOG       Government of Ghana
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
IDA       International Development Association
IFC       International Finance Corporation
lIEP      International Institute for Educational Planning
IMF       International Monetary Fund
JSS       Junior Secondary School
LCB       Local Competitive Bidding
MFEP      Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MOEC      Ministry of Education and Culture (until July 1989)
MOE       Ministry of Education (since July 1989)
ODA       Overseas Development Administration (British)
PAMSCAD   Program of Action to Mitigate the Social Costs of Adjustment
PIP       Public Investment Program
PMU       Project Management Unit
PNDC      Provisional National Defense Council
PTA       Parent-Teacher Association
SAC       Structural Adjuutment Credit
SDR       Special Drawing Rights
SO0       Statement of Expenditure
SSS       Senior Secondary School
TTC       Teacher Training College
UNDP      United Nations Development Programme
UNESCO    United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural
Organization
USAID     United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR                             SCHOOL YEAR
January - December                       September - June
STRUCTURE OF EDUCATION IN GHANA
Prior to the Reform (6:4:5s2:3)                  Under the Reform (6:3:3s4)
Years 1 -  6  Primary                           Years 1 -  6  Primary
7 - 10  MiddlelContinuation                     7 -  9  Junior Secondary
11 - 15  Secondary - 0 Level                    10 - 12  Senior Secondary
16 - 17  Secondary - A Level                    13 - 16  University
18 - 20  University



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT 1/
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROGRAH SUMMARY  ....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..  iii
I. TEE MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT AND BANK GROUP OPERATIONS .  . . . . . . 1
II.  THE EDUCATION SECTOR  ....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..  3
A. Background ............ ,                                             3
B.   Major  Issues    .*  *  *  *................      .. .......        3
C. The Government's Education Reform Program  .       . . . . . . . . . .   5
III.  FIRST PHASE OF THE REFORM PROGRAM, 1987-1989 (SUPPORTED UNDER adSAC)  6
A.  Changing the Structure of the School System   . . .         . . . . .   7
B.  Improving the Teaching/Learning Process   . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
C.  Containment and Sharing of Recurrent Costs  . . . . . . . . . . .   9
D.  More Effective Planning and Management  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
IV. THE SECOND PHASE OF THE REFORM PROGRAM, 1990-1992 (TO BE SUPPORTED
UNDER EdSAC I1)   . .  .......................                        10
A.  Senior Secondary Education  ... . .........  ..  ..  .             .   11,
B.  Improving the Teaching/Learning Process . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
C.  Containment and Sharing of Recurrent Costs  . . . . . . . . . . .  14
D.  More Effective Planning and Management  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
E.  Training for Self-Employment and Rural Development  . . . . . . .  16
F.  University Education  ..........  ...  ..              ......    17
1/ This report is based on the findings of the appraisal team that visited
Ghana in and around July 1989. Mission members included Mr. Peter Moock
(mission leader), Mr. Nicholas Bennett (human resources planner). Ms. Polly
Jones (country economist), Ms. Janet Leno (educator), and Mr. David Evans
(education planner/consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
V.  TE PROPOSED CREDIT          . . . . . . . . . . . .      . . . . . .  IS
A.  Background    8.     .   . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     8
B.  Program Cost and Financlng Plan             . . . .     . .      .  19
C. Allocation of the Credit Proceeds   . . .                             23
D. Auditing, Monitoring and Reporting  . . .  .                          26
E.  Benefits andt Risks                . ...                        .   26
VI.  RECOM  NDATION.. .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  28
TABLES
Table 1  Public Education, Estimated Total Costs by Levr.
1990/91 - 1992/93 School Years
Table 2 Public Education, Estimated Total Costs by Budget Category,
1990 - 1992 iinancial Years
Table 3 Estimated Financing Gap
ANNEXES
1.1   Ghana Economic Indicators
1.2   Bank, IDA, and IFC Operations
3.1   Supplementary Data Sheet and Matrix of Policy .ctions
3.2  Number of Grades in Ghana's Education System by Academic Year
4.1  Analysis of Capacity for Senior Secondary School First-Year Students
in 1990191
4.2   Senior Secondary School Reform -- Proposed Curriculum
4.3   Proposed Numbers of Senior Secondary Schools Offering Different
Programs/Options in 1990/91
4.4   Projected Unit Costs of Senior Secondary School Programs
4.5   Project Management Unit
5.1  Performance Targets and Special Conditions for Tranche Release
5.2   Letter of Education Development Policy
5.3  Cost and Financial Impact of the Reforms
5.4   Processing Schedule



- iii -
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTIENT CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrowers      Republic of Ghana
Beneficiary:   Ministry of Education
Amount:        SDR 37.9 million, US$50 million equivalent
Terms:         Standard IDA with 40 years maturity
Description:   The credit is designed to support the ongoing education sector
reform program, initiated by the Government of Ghana in 1986.
IDA and five other donors provided the supplemental budgetary
support needed by Government to launch the reform program at
the primary and junior secondary school levels during the first
three years of program implementation; the proposed operation
would cover the second three years of the program and extend it
to include reform of senior secondary school education. Thus
far the program has made significant progress in addressing
three main objectives: to improve pedagogic effectiveness;
make education financing more efficient and equitable; and
ensure that the reformed system can be sustained using national
resources and assuming modest economic growth. The proposed
credit woulds (1) extend the reform to the senior secondary
level, reducing the length of this cycle, introducing more
practical content into the curriculum, and replenishing basic
materials and supplies necessary for the effective functioning
of the system; (2) consolidate the reforms initiated at the
basic education level so that primary and junior secondary
school leavers acquire the cognitive skills needed to take
advantage of the education offered at higher levels; and
(3) ensure the financial sustainability of the new system now
being put into place. An additional US$10 million in
cofinancing is being sought.
Benefits and   Through continued assistance in support of the Government's
Risks:         reform program, this operation, like its predecessor, will
produce a more cost-effective and equitable educational system.
Students at all levels will be assured of textbooks and other
essential learning materials, and teachers of primary, junior
secondary, and senior secondary education will receive
additional in-service training. The proportion of teachers
possessing professional certification will rise, particularly
in deprived areas such as the north of Ghana. The credit
supports the development and implementation of a more



- iv -
affordable and less academic curriculum at the secondary level
and supports expanded access, thereby benefiting children from
poorer families especially. By increasing cost-effectiveness
at all levels, the program frees resources that can be used to
improve educational quality, expand access and, ultimately,
sustain the reformed system.
The main risks include the following: the time remaining to
prepare the books and materials for the new senior secondary
school (SSS) program is short; current capacity of the Ministry
of Education to complete this work is thin; there has been
understandable opposition to the elimination of subsidized
meals and to the increase in book user fees; and it is likely
that some of the most educated and articulate elements of
Ghanaian society will try to hinder implementation of the
program, as they have in the past. The first risk will be
addressed through contract publishing for textbooks, the use of
technical assistance (for example, in the area of equipment
procurement), and appropriate interim measures (notably,
acceptance of textbooks adapted to the Ghanaian context, rather
than development of brand new ones). To minimize the second
risk, steps will be taken to strengthen department-level
management within the Ghana Education Service and to fill key
vacancies within the Project Management Unit. The third and
fourth risks cannot be eliminated entirely, but they can be
eased by means of the continuing public relations campaign that
has already helped to win support for the reform program at the
level of basic education.
Estimated      Full disbursement of the proposed credit would take place over
Disbursement:  a three-year period.  The credit of US$50 million equivalent
would provide direct support for the educational reform program
and would be disbursed in three tranches. Disbursements would
be on the basis of 100 percent of the costs of those goods and
services within the educational budget that are approved by IDA
for financing in an exchange of letters at the time of each
annual review.
Staff          Not applicable
Appraisal
Report:
Hap:           None



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA FOR THE
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
follow-up development credit for the equivalent of SDR 37.9 million (US$50
millian equivalent) to the Republic of Ghana on standard IDA terms with 40
years maturity to help finance a Second Education Sector Adjustment Credit.
Additional financing of US$10 million from bilateral and multilateral donors
is being sought.
I. THE MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT AND BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
2.        Since the initiation of Ghana's Economic Recovery Program (ERP) in
1983. the Bank Group has been supporting the Government's efforts to reverse a
long period of economic decline. The first Structural Adjustment Credit
(SAC), approved by the Board in April 1987, supported a fundamental
reorientation of economic policies through (i) re .ignment of relati"e prices
in favor of directly productive activities and exports, (ii) rehabilitation of
economic and social infrastructure, (iii) restoration of fiscal and monetary
discipline, (iv) encouragement of private savings and investment, aud
(v) improvements in public sector management. The second phase of thba program
(1989-1990), approved by the Board in April 1989, supports continuation of
these macroeconomic reforms, giving particular emphasis to incentive policies
and public resource management. In addition, it promotes the design .nd
implementation of sectoral strategies to facilitate private investme : and
production in agriculture and industry, and it stresses public inve lent in
health and education, leading to growth and poverty alleviation.  '  *e
macroeconomic and sectoral components will be linked through the puLt c
expenditure program. Basic economic indicators are presented in Annex 1.1.
3.        The proposed education sector adjustment operation ties i;. closely
with this macroeconomic program and contributes to the development of the
human capital base required to sustain the structural adjustment efforts.
Like its predecessor, the Education Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr.1744-GH), or
EdSAC. this operation would support a major educational reform program in
Ghana. The restructuring of the education system, one of the central elements
of the education reform, is fully consistent with the broader adjustment
program. The gradual reduction in the length of pre-university education from
17 to 12 years concentrates scarce pedagogic resources more effectively,
rationalizes the use of student time, and enhances the impact of the private
and public investment in each child. More broadly, through the expansion and
improvement of education services (especially at the basic education level),
the sector reform, with support from the proposed credit, benefits the poor.
4.        Also in line with the SAC, as well as with the recommendations of
annual Public Expenditure Reviews since 1986, the education reform focuses on
strengthening public expenditure and investment planning and implementation.
Under EdSAC the development and application of recurrent expenditure norms,
improved cost recovery (through raising fees) and savings (through



redeployment of non-teaching staff and untrained teachers) are already
resulting in a better allocation of the operational budget betweer. wage and
non-wage expenditure and an increased allocation to basic education. On the
investment side the focus is on rehabilitation of facilities and protection of
fu=ding for high-priority projects. Indeed. the sector's development of
staffing norms and of procedures for the priority listing of investment
projects provides a useful lead for other sectors to follow.
5.        Total Bank and IDA lending to Ghana as of March 31, 1990 amounted to
US$1.677.6 million, while total disbursements were US$1,200.6 million.
Agriculture accounts for 14.6 percent of total Bank and IDA commitments;
industry and energy for 24.4 percent; transport, urban and water supply for
18.9 percent; education and health for 2.9 percent; adjustment lending for
36.9 percent; and technical assistance for 2.3 percent. IFC has made
investments in Ghana totalling US$33.2 million. Annex 1.2 contains a summary
statement of Bank loans and IDA credits as of March 31, 1990.
6.        Following the formulation of the ERP in 1983, the Bank provided a
series of policy-based credits in the mid-1980s to help the Government arrest
the deterioration in the economy and lay the basis for sustained growth.
These credits and related technical assistance were designed to ensure the
flow of urgently needed imports, particularly for the key export-oriented
sectors -- cocoa, timber and mining -- and for manufacturing and transport.
The Bank also increased investment lending over this period, emphasizing
rehabilitation, maintenance and institutional strengthening in the transport,
energy, water and urban sectors. In addition, the Bank is supporting reforms
in the industrial and financial sectors, and is providing assistance for
operations aimed at increasing production potential and efficiency in
agriculture.
7.        In agriculture, investment lending will be directed towards applied
research, upgrading of essential services, particularly extension and improved
input supply, agricultural diversification, and development of the irrigation
subsector. The Bank is also supporting improvements in the cocoa subsector
and in the management of the country's forestry resources. In industry,
assistance is aimed at developing viable small- and medium-scale enterprises,
and at facilitating small industry development. Support has also been
provided for the rehabilitation and privatization of Ghana's mining operations
and the introduction of policy reforms to promote the small-scale mining
sector.
8.        The Bank's approach to help rehabilitate Ghana's economic
infrastructure includes support for improvements in the finances and
operational efficiency of parastatals in the water. transport,
telecommunications, and energy sectors. Equally important will be the
upgrading of urban and rural infrastructure, including improved management,
planning and revenue mobilization at all levels of government. Special
efforts will also be made to strengthen planning and delivery systems and
ensure adequate maintenance of infrastructure and public services, As part of
the multi-donor Program of Action for Mitigating the Social Costs of
Adjustment (PAMSCAD), the Bank has provided financing for a labor intensive
project to rehabilitate urban infrastructure.



- 3 -
9.        The Bank's social sector program is being boosted.  In addition to
its progr=m in education, the Bank is helping to draw up a much needed
operational strategy in the areas of population, health, and nutrition, on the
basis cf which government policies and programs will be refined, taking into
account overall budgetary constraints.
10.       The need to ensure that scarce external resources are used for the
highest-priority investments means that improved aid coordination will
continue to be given high priority. In this connection, the Bank has chaired
the Consultative Group (CG) meetings since 1983, organized or co-sponsored
special aid coordination meetings on industry, the social sectors, mining, and
PAMSCAD. It has also initiated a forum for regular consultations among donors
at the local level.
II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
A. Background
11.       Until the mid-1970s Ghana had one of the most highly-developed and
effective educational systems in West Africa. Along with the economic decline
of the 1970s, however, the quality of the system deteriorated precipitously.
Enrollment rates, once among the highest in the Sub-Saharan region. stagnated
or fell. In addition, and contributing to the enrollment stagnation, the
quality of education declined. The percentage of GDP allocated to education
dropped from 6.4 percent in 1976 to 1.6 percent in 1984; real levels of
financing fell by about two-thirds. Government resources were no longer
available to construct, complete, or maintain educational facilities. At the
same time, foreign exchange dried up, preventing the purchase of textbooks and
other essential instructional materials. The economic degeneration also led
to a mass exodus of trained teachers, especially university faculty and the
more highly-trained and qualified of school teachers. At the basic education
level, the ratio of trained to untrained personnel fell significantly. The
sector was further weakened by sporadic planning based on inadequate
information, by low motivation and morale, and by widespread misappropriation
of funds.
B. Malor Issues
12.       Length of pre-university education and related structural problems.
Prior to 1987, education in Ghana consisted of four levels: primary (grades
1-6), middle (grades 7-10), secondary (grades 11-17, the first five years
leading to '00 level certification and the last two, to 'Al level) and
tertiary (three years for the first degree). Many of those who entered
secondary school, including the majority of poorer students, did so after
completing middle school (grade 10). Only those able to afford private
tuition or attend better primary schools in the towns managed to enter
secondary school directly from primary school (grade 6). The result was a
system that offered students 17 years of pre-university education. Compared
with the international norm of 12 years, the length of this cycle added
significantly to the Government's recurrent education budget. Moreover, the



- 4 -
inordinate length of the cycle could not even be justified in terms of greater
learning by the ond of the cycle, because (among other reasons) the length in
years wau offset by school calendar factors -- a very short school year (33
weeks officially, as compared with 36-42 weeks in most countries, and the
actual number sometimes fell to as few as 24 weeks during the mid-1980s owing
to inadequate funds to keep hostels and cafeterias operating in boarding
schools), as well as a short school day (5 hours and 20 minutes as compared
with the more common schedule of 6-7 hours daily). Further, because of the
high privately-borne costs of education (including the cost of uniforms and
miscellaneous fees, as well as foregone earnings), the long cycle kept many
bright students who came from poorer families from continuing their education.
13.       Curricula and teaching constraints.  The curriculum was highly
academic, emphasizing rote recall rather than mastery of practical skills.
Moreover, by the early 1980s, most schools had only minimal access to
textbooks and other instructional materials. As the educational budget was
cut, the proportion allocated to everything other than personal emoluments
continued to fall, until by the mid-1980s emoluments comprised 95 percent of
Ghana Education Service (GES) expenditures. These problems pervaded all
levels of the system. Effective instruction was hampered at the basic level
by the large number of untrained teachers as well, and by poorly-maintained
school buildings that did not provide an environment conducive to learning.
in addition, pupil evaluation was carried out largely on the basis of written,
end-of-course tests. At the tertiary level, especially in fields where market
demand was strong, there were shortages of teaching staff; the problem was
intensified by the proliferation of similar courses across departments and
institutions, thus spreading scarce resources so thinly as to make meaningful
instruction virtually impossible.
14.       Government's recurrent cost burden.  Despite reductions in unit
costs and increased financial participation of parents during the early 1980s,
it remained dilfficult for Government to provide the necessary funding for the
expanding system of education. Critical areas of concern, in terms of their
large and rapidly expanding impact on the budget, included the feeding and
lodging costs of secondary and tertiary students, textbook provision, the
rehabilitation of decaying facilities, and overstaffing, especially of
nonteaching staff and untrained teachers.
15.       Lack if effective plannina and management.  During the pre-reform
period, the provision of educational services was further hampered by weak and
ineffective planning capacity within the Ministry of Education and Culture
(MOEC). Norms were either not in place or not enforced for such coefficients
as classroom square footage, teacher-student ratios, and per student
expenditure. As a result, vast differences existed among Government-supported
schools. Additional planning problems included fragmentation in the
responsibility for planning, separation of the planning and budgeting
functions, and inadequate planning guidelines.  Management was hindered by
budget uncertainties, while decisions were made in response to crises rather
than as part of a systematic process.  Further, school-level monitoring was
limited owing to unfilled regional and district inspectorate positions (a
problem of inadequate housing), and the failure of serving inspectors to visit
schools regularly (lack of travel funds).



16.       Inadequate skills ..raining for school leavers.  There was also
growing concern that the hignly academic nature of the education system only
prepared school leavers to take on wtge employment (especially in the modern
sector) rather than to become productively employed on their own. The problem
was exacerbated by the fact that the rate of growth of formal sector jobs,
including those in the public service, was slowing dramatically, while the
nunber of school leavers kept rising, a combination of factors leading to
unemployment and encouraging brain drain.
C. The Government's Education Reform Program
17.       In response to these problems, the Government initiated a sector-
wide, multi-year program of educational reform as an integral part of its
national plan for economic recovery and sustained growth. rhe program,
responding to the issues described above, aims to achieve the following major
objectives:
* To reduce the-length of pre-university education. This structural
change will, in and of itself, have a favorable impact on the
underlying goals of access and equity, in that parents and Government
will have fewer years of schooling to finance per child. Cost savings
from this and other measuree are being used to expand enrollments
faster than increases in school age populations.
- To improve pedagogic efficiency and raise the quality of educational
outcomes.  Through broadening of the curriculum, reducing the numbers
and proportion of untrained teachers, providing access to books, tools,
and other curriculum materials, raising the frequency and quality of
classroom supervision, increasing post-school training opportunities,
and introducing accountability into the system, the program is raising
the quality of the education that children rezeive.
*  To contain and partially recover costs.  Cost containment is a key
theme of Ghana's education reform program. In addition to the effects
of restructuring, already mentioned, costs are being contained through
the elimination of redundant teaching and non-teaching staff and
through the more intensive utilization of remaining staff and of
expensive facilities. Moreover, to enable budgetary allocations to
benefit a broader spectrum of the school-age population, fees for books
aud food are teing increased (where they already existed) and
introduced (where they did not). While occurring at all levels, these
new fees fall disproportionately on students at the higher levels,
which is an attempt to address the regressive system of transfers that
characterized education in Ghana prior to the reform program.
* To enhance sector management and budgeting procedures. The reform
program includes a number of specific measures to strengthen the
management capacity of the Ministry of Education. These include the
merging of the planning and budgeting functions into one division
directly under the P4DC Secretary, expanding the authority of this
division, and recruiting and training the additional staff and



providing the transportation needed for the effective exercise of this
authority; the development of norms for planning, building design and
utilization, and costings the rationalization of the public investment
program, to increase the chances that projects are implemented in
priority order and completed on time and within the budget: and the
streamlining of the Ministry's procurement procedures, to eliminate
waste and duplication.
18.       Elements of the structural and curriculum reform were announced
originally during the mid-1970s but, except in a small number of prototype
schools, were not implemented at the time owing to financial constraints,
political indecision, and opposition from the elite groups who benefited most
from the prior system. Although the program entails higher costs to
Government during the six-year transitional period, successful implementation
is expected to produce, in the longer run, a more cost-effective system of
education, higher in quality and achieving broader coverage, yet affordable in
light of budget constraints.
III. FIRST PHASE OF THE REFORM PROGRAM, 1987-1989
(SUPPORTED UNDER EdSAC)
19.       The first phase of the education reform program was supported by IDA
and other donors through EdSAC. Implementation progress was substantial,
owing to the determination and extraordinary efforts of Government and, in
particular, to the leadership provided by the National Planning Committee for
the Implementation of School Reforms. Accomplishments included increased
enrollment growth, better allocf*ion of financial resources, introduction of
the new junior secondary school curriculum, broad-based provision of education
staff training, the development and supply of instructional materials to basic
education schools throughout the country, and strengthened school-based
supervision. In addition, Government succeeded in reducing sttbsidies and
increasing fees, despite opposition. Only in the area of higher education has
progress been slower than anticipated.
20.       Moreover, the education reform program has led to renewed awareness
and interest in schools, across the country and especially among rural
communities. This is reflected in increased coummunity participation and a
willingness to contribute more toward the construction and maintenance of
school facilities. Contributions have included the provision of materials and
labor for the construction or renovation of classrooms and workshops. Also
noteworthy is the fact that the reform program has been carried out almost
entirely by Ghanaians, with only minimal technical assistance.
21.       The following paragraphs describe the major progress in achievement
of the Government's stated objectives. Annex 3.1 summarizes this progress
during the first phase and indicates the major steps still to be taken during
the second phase of the reform program (see Chapter IV below).



7-
A. Changing the Structure of the School System
22.       Over the six-year reform period (1987-1993), pre-university
education is being reduced from 17 to 12 years. $mplementation of this
massive structural reform has been facilitated through a nationwide public
celations campaign including numerous public meetings and extensive media
coverage. Nine years of "basic education,* consisting of six years of primary
plus three years of junior secondary school (JSS), will be offered to all
school-age children. As of 1987, intake into the middle schools was halted
and entry to junior secondary school (JS1) became mandatory for all continuirg
students. Beginning in 1990191, when the first cohort will have completed the
three-year JSS cycle, Government willl initiate the first of three years of
senior secondary school. Annex 3.2 shows how the new structure of education
is being phased in over the period 1987-2000.
23.       Enrollments.  There has been a recent marked increase in basic
education enrollments. After several years of decline, gross primary
enrollment ratios increased from 65 percent in 1987/88 to 68 percent in
1988/89, and 72 percent in 1989.'30. (The average gross enrollment rate for
Sub-Saharan Africa was 70 percent in 1986, the most recent year for which
regional statiscics are available.) At the primary level, first grade
enrollments grew by 11.8 percent between the 1988/89 and 1989190 school years,
while the rate of growth over all primary grades was 5.3 percent during the
same period. At the junior secondary level, the 1988/89 enrollments in JS1
were 24 percent higher than in the comparable Middle School 1 in 1986/87.
Moreover, enrollments in grades 7-9 have grown at a considerably faster rate
in the more deprived regions of the country than they have in the more
affluent areas. These increases are particularly impressive given the
enrollment stagnation and regional disparities that existed prior to
implementation of the reform program. Further, there has been a modest
increase in the proportion of girls enrolled at the primary and junior
secondary levels, where girls represented, respectively, 44.5 percent and 41.3
percent of enrollments by 1988/89.
B. Improving the Teaching/Learning Process
24.       Resource allvcation.  The reform program, bolstered by EdSAC and the
annual Public Expenditure Reviews, has worked to improve the educational
process by addressing the budgetary issues in education. In line with credit
conditionality, allocations to non-salary items (lines 2-5) have grown as a
percentage of the recurrent education budget, from less than 12 percent in
1986, to 18 percent in 1988, and 2? percent in 1989. Basic education's share
of the budget has grown also, from 44 percent in 1984 to over 60 percent in
every year since 1987. In addition, the sector's share of the total recurrent
budget (excluding interest payments and transfers) rose from an average of 27
percent in 1984, to 33 percent in 1987, and to 37 percent in 1990. Education
accounted for about 6 percent of the development budget in 1987 and 1988, up
from about 3 percent in 1984 and 1985.
25.       Instructional materials.  Starting in 1987, textbooks and
instructional materials were reintroduced into the system, which for many
years had been starved of even the most basic classroom resources. New texts



- 8 -
and teachers' guides were produced for the first nine grades of basic
education, and a range of tools and science equipment was procured and
delivered to the schools. Cost savings were realized in the production of
textbooks by relying on less costly design, paper, and binding specifications.
With regard to educational content, MOE revised the primary school curriculum
and developed a new curriculum at the JSS level. In writing the JSS
curriculum. Government has tried to de-emphasize theory and insert new
learning activities more relevant to the local environment. Each school is
supposed to offer one 'prevocational' subject, designed to give students
familiarity with, and practice in using simple hand tools.
26.       Teacher training.  In response to the shortage of qualified basic
education teachers, MOE has reformed and strengthened the teacher training
program.  From 1988, intake into the four-year post-middle school course was
stopped and all new intake into the teacher training colleges (TTCs) is now
into a three-year course reserved for '0' level holders. The curriculum
offered in the training colleges was revamped to reflect changes in the
content and methods of basic education teaching. In addition, in-service
training has been intensified and, thus far, more than 25,000 JSS teachers and
heads, primary school heads, circuit officers, and tutors from teacher
training colleges have attended short courses. The courses, lasting from one
to three weeks, have been held in 50 second-cycle institutions (teacher
training colleges and secondary boarding schools), which are now being used as
in-service training centers for about two months annually. The initial
courses provided an introduction to the new JSS curriculum and to the use of
continuous assessment (newly-initiated to supplement the traditional end-of-
course written examinations); these are now being followed up with courses of
specialized training for JSS teachers of science and technical subjects. In
addition, the British Council has recently initiated a four-year program,
financad by the Overseas Development Administration (ODA), to assist GES in
strengthening basic education teacbing.
27.       Remaining concerns.  These efforts notwithstanding, Government
remains concerned about the quality of primary education. In August 1988 a
GOG/Bank sub-sector study, 'Basic Education for Self-Employment and Rural
Development,' found that in many of the rural areas, especially in the north.
the majority of children leaving school after six years cannot read, and in
many schools throughout the country reading abilities are well below grade
level. The study also found that, according to many JSS teachers, the level
of basic language and mathematics proficiency among entering JSS students is
so low as to jeopardize the ability of these children to benefit from the new
JSS program. These conclusions are supported by the preliminary results of a
special study related to the Ghana Living Standards Survey (GLSS). The study
included a test of basic literacy and numeracy skills among Ghanaians between
nine and 55 years of age who have had at least three years of formal
education. The results indicate that the level of mastery of basic skills is
considerably lower in the population group between the ages of nine and 25
than in the group 26 and older.



- 9 -
C. Containment and Sharing of Recurrent Costs
28.       Containing unit costs. As part of the reform program, Government
contained unit educational costs through a variety of measures. First, the
proportion of boarding to d: students in Government secondary schools has
been and will continue to be reduced by the improvement of facilities at day
schools, a ban on the establishment of new boarding schools, and a requirement
that at least 30 percent of all new intake in existing schools be day
students. In order to moderate the increase in feeding costs at the senior
secondary level, a project to create a bulk purchasing system is being
implemented as part of PAMSCAD.
29.       A number of non-teaching staff have been retrenched, about 8,500 in
second-cycle institutions and 670 in the three universities. A ban was
imposed on the further recruitment of non-teaching staff, but this has proved
difficult to maintain. Further, Government mandated a freeze in 1987 on the
total number of teaching posts, this to remain in effect until 1992 at least.
Because the implementation of these staffing restrictions has been
problematic, Government will be adopting new, more easily monitored measures
to ensure compliance during phase two of the program (see para. 50).
30.       Fee increases.  The public recurrent cost burden has been contained
as well through various fee increases. The importance of reducing public
recurrent costs notwithstanding, the impact of fees on family welfare and on
the access of the poor to education needs to be considered. This issue will
be carefully monitored through the GLSS and other instruments. In the
meantime. nevertheless, subsidies covering the cost of food have been
eliminated at the secondary and tertiary levels. Exercise books are now being
sold rather than given away free, and textbook user fees were introduced or
increased for students in all grades above grade 2, with the proceeds flowing
into a revolving fund. (Government intends to increase further the book user
fees at the senior secondary level to reach levels sufficient for full cost
recovery.) At the tertiary level, in December 1988 the PNDC Secretary for
Education announced a loan scheme to help tertiary-level students pay for
food, books, and transportation. Roughly e400 million were borrowed in the
first year of the program (over 8,000 students borrowing up to ¢50,000 each).
Although the scheme represents a continued public subsidy, since the interest
charged is below market rates, the scheme is an important first step toward
greater cost sharing. In addition, in connection with release of the third
tranche of the IDA credit, Government provided the Bank with written assurance
that shortly it will implement a scheme to recover the costs of lodging
tertiary students.
31.       University rationalization.  As a condition for EdSAC second tranche
release, the Government was to have produced a plan of action for university
development, based on a study of cost savings in the staffing, programs, and
facilities of Ghana's three universities and other tertiary institutions, and
thereafter implement those aspects of the plan agreed with IDA. In light of
the extensive consultation process unde.taken and the expansion of the study's
scope to include polytechnics as well as universities. Government was not able
to comply with this condition on schedule. The plan, agreed between MOE and
the universities, was ultimately presented to IDA for review and comment in



- ac -
March 1989, approximately two years later than originally anticipated. Key
features intended to reduce unit costs include the implementation of new
staffing and other operational norms, a gradual departure from the established
pattern of university 'residentiality,. and ultimately, the consolidation of
nonviable programs and departments. The move away from residentiality would
facilitate future increases in university enrollments. many more of whom would
be day students. While steps toward university rationalization have only just
begun to be taken, it is fair to say that attitudes of staff (and to a lesser
extent, students) at the three universities have changed as a result of
discussions surrounding the rationalization plan. The idea that universities
must look for ways to generate resources and not rely totally on Government to
budgetary allocations is beginning to find acceptance.
32.       Privat- education.  The reform program does not actively promote
private education. Private schools in Ghana have traditionally provided high-
quality education at the primary level for the urban elite and inferior-
quality education at the post-primary level for those children, often from
poor families, unable to gain entrance into the higher-quality and highly-
subsidized government secondary schools. In light of this history, Government
is wary of private education. Nevertheless, with the exception of Government
regulations enforcing standards and setting maximum fee levels, no
restrictions are imposee on the private providers of education. Moreover, as
in many African countries, communities are given major responsibilities for
the capital costs of government-run institutions, especially at the primary
level. These policies in regard to private provisionifinancing of education
are acceptable to IDA.
D. More Effective Planning and Manaaement
33.       Important steps were taken to improve planning and management within
the sector. First, Government entered into an agreement (financed jointly by
UNDP and EdSAC) with UNESCO and the firm of Cambridge Education Consultants
(UK) for technical assistance   i training in the areas of planning,
programming, budgeting, monit   .g, and evaluation.  (In fact, the contractors
were slow in appointing consul.-nts, and Government made only limited use of
this support during the first phase of the reform program.) Second, the
planning and budgeting functions are gradually being merged into one division
under the MOE Secretary (previously they had been separate parts of the Ghana
Education Service, the main implementing arm of the MOE), and staff are now
being recruited and trained to handle the expanded and integrated functions.
Third, the inspectorate is being strengthened through intensified training,
and problems of recruitment have been partially addressed by upgrading the
circuit (sub-district) level officer to the post of 'supervisor.'
IV. THE SECOND PHASE OF THE REFORM PROGRAM, 1990-1992
(TO BE SUPPORTED UNDER EdSAC II)
34.       Beginning with the 1990/91 academic year and the entry of the first
cohort of JSS graduates into senior secondary education, Government will move
into the second phase of the reform program, which will focus on the
restructuring of senior secondary education. Although EdSAC II was originally



- 11 -
intended to support the reform program at the senior secondary level, the
proposed operation has been expanded to provide assistance for a range of
additional measures to strengthen the quality and increase the efficiency of
basic (primary and junior secondary) education. These measures have been
included in response to Government's keen awareness that the ultimate success
of the entire reform program will depend to a large extent on the quality of
the education provided, and particularly the quality of basic schooling. since
this is the only schooling that a large number of Ghanaian children will ever
get, and since achievement at higher levels is built upon this foundation.
A. Senior Secondary Schools
35.       Historically, the number of secondary school places has not been
sufficient to meet demand, and the secondary school curriculum, as at other
levels of the system prior to the reform program, is considered by Government
to be too academic. The senior secondary school (SSS) reform program has been
designed to address these issues.
36.       Access.  Enrollments are targeted to be approximately 53,000 in
1990/91, the first year of the new SSS structure, with subsequent increases
linked to the availability of resources. The 1990/91 target figure is equal
to 25-30 percent of the projected 1990 JSS output. Even if the number of
classrooms were to remain constant over the years ahead, once the new
secondary school structure has been fully implemented (by 1992/93) and the old
structure fully phased out (by 1996/97) (see Annex 3.2), output from secondary
schools would be at least double the level today, because of the reduction in
the length of the cycle from seven years to just three years. To compensate
for the reduction in years, Government has mandated an increase in the number
of weeks of instruction in each year to 40, up from 33 or fewer at present.
37.       The nation's capacity for taking in first-year senior secondary
students in 1990/91, in terms of existing and planned classroom space, is
illustrated in Annex 4.1. In an effort to meet its 1990/91 target of 53,000
SS1 places, Government will make use of 254 existing secondary schools. In
addition, it will encourage the construct'.on or assist in the conversion to
senior secondary status of another 143 schools (including nearly 100 schools
established in the 19709 as 'experimental' junior secondary schools). Even
with all of the new and converted space, however, the number of students that
could be accommodated, assuming just 40 students per class (the Government's
rnlicy in the past), would be about 46,000 only, which is 7,000 short of the
target figure.
38.       Government has thus decided to raise the average class size to 45
students, thereby increasing capacity to 52,000 (see Annex 4.1) and
eliminating most of the gap. (In fact, because Government admitted a smaller
number of students into Form I In September 1989 than space at the time would
have allowed, there will be more than enough space in 1990/91 to admit all of
the 53,000 students.) To the extent that a classroom shortage looms in years
subsequent to 1990/91, it can be dealt with, in part, by mobilizing community
efforts for the construction of additional classrooms and, in part, by
introducing double shifts in some urban areas.



- 12 -
39.       Enrollments are planned to grow fastest in the north, which has
traditionally been the most underserved area of the country. The number of
newly-created senior secondary school streams in the three northern regions
represents a capacity increase of 133 percent between the 1989190 and 1990/91
school years, compared to a 42 percent increase in the seven southern regions
(see Annex 4.1). This translates into a significant equity gain. On the
other hand, to the extent that double-shifting is needed to permit further
enrollment growth in later years, most of this growth will occur in the more
urbanized south.
40.       Curriculum design.  The new curriculum is being designed to serve
two purposes: (i) to prepare students for a wide range of occupations, and
(ii) to provide a solid educational foundation for post-secondary education
and training. To these ends Government has elaborated a structure and broad
strategies to strengthen and expand the curriculum. The new structure will
entail a common core intended to meet the minimum educational needs of all
students and consisting of seven subjects -- English, Ghanaian language,
science, mathematics, agricultural and environmental science, life skills, and
physical education. In addition, five broad 'programs, of specialization will
be offered that are meant to cater for students' differing talents and various
interests -- agriculture, technical, vocational, business. and general arts
and science. Most schools will offer three of the five programs, although
some larger schools may offer four or even all five. Within each program, a
school may offer one or more 'options,* each composed of three subjects. Each
student will choose only one option. Annex 4.2 describes the composition of
options under each of the specialized programs.
41.       The syllabuses for the new curriculum were prepared by the MOE's
Curriculum Research and Development Division (CRDD), with help from
appropriate outside organizations and individuals. Tenders for the
development and publishing of SSS books have been received and evaluated.
Lists of reqtuired equipment for the various program options have been drawn
up, and tendering is under way. The performance of senior secondary students
will be assessed continuously, as is the performance of basic education pupils
already, and final certification will depend on a combination of this process
and on an external examination set at the end of the SSS course.
42.       Program costs and staffing.  The Ministry's plan for implementation
of the various programs is shown in Annex 4.3. The overall cost to Government
of running the new senior secondary schools will depend on the unit costs of
each of the five programs and the distribution of students across the
programs. Feasibility depends also on the availability of qualified teachers
to teach in the specialized programs. To contain costs and ensure
instructional quality, no school will be allowed to offer any option unless at
least 20 students in each grade are enrolled in that option and unless there
are qualified teachers or national service staff to teach all of the courses
in the option. (All post-secondary students in Ghana, including those now in
A-level secondary institutions, are required to spend the year after
graduation employed by Government in national service.)
43.       Estimated annual recurrent costs per student are presented in Annex
4.4. It is projected that the general program (arts and science) will have



- 13 -
the lowest unit costs, and that within this program, the science opticis will
cost about 4 percent more than the arts options; unit costs in the comuerce,
agriculture, and vocational education programs vill run 5-to-10 percent higher
than in the arts, and in the technical program (including the farm
mechanization option of the agriculture program), about 50 percent higher.
Because, however, all civil servants, including teachers, are paid according
to a single salary schedule, the analysis in Annex 4.4 takes no account of the
relative scarcity of teachers teaching in the different specialized programs
but, rather, is based on an assumption that a sufficient supply of teachers
will be available in every subject, given existing salaries.
44.       To the contrary, however, the number of schools in which Government
can successfully launch and run high-quality technical, agricultural, and
vocational programs will depend critically on its success in attracting and
retaining qualified teachers. In the past, secondary schools have been
staffed by university graduates, diplomates from the advanced teacher training
colleges, and *specialist* teachers (untrained *'A level holders and post-
secondary trained teachers used to fill gaps in the teaching force). For the
new senior secondary schools and their staffing in 1990/91, Government has
prepared a schedule of the numbers of teachers required, by specialization,
and matched these with the numbers currently employed in the system together
vith those coming out of the teacher training institutions.  To the extent
that teacher surpluses were found to exist (in traditional subject areas such
as history and English literature). Government plans to redeploy teachers,
moving some from senior secondary to junior secondary education and others
from junior secondary to primary education. The ultimate goal is to replace
all unqualified teachers in primary education with qualified teachers.
45.       On the other hand, for the specialized subject areas (such as auto
mechanics, electricity, and metal work), serious shortages of teachers were
found. In response, Government agreed to scale back somewhat its plans for
the number of schools offering difficult-to-staff program options. The number
of schools offering any of the technical program options was reduced from 151
to 120, and the numbers offering auto mechanics, electricity, and metal work
were reduced from 14 to 10, from 12 to 10, and from 70 to 60 respectively.
Government has demonstrated that all of its remaining requirements in the near
term for specialized teachers can be met through the temporary assignment of
national service personnel.
B. Improving the Teaching/Learning Process
46.       In an effort to ensure the quality of education, especially at the
basic education level, Government plans to consolidate the gains initiated
during the past few years by implementing additional measures to raise the
competence of teachers and enhance the capacity of the Inspectorate to
supervise these teachers. In addition, a scheme will be introduced to make
schools more accountable for the performance of their students.
47.       Teacher training.  The first priority will be to intensify the
provision of in-service teacher training and expand it to cover all teachers
at the primary, JSS, and SSS levels. At the primary level, where the greatest
concentration of untrained and relatively uneducated teachers is found,



- 14 _
emphasis will be given to basic subject competence as well as to the pedagogic
aspects of teaching young children. Without such support. it is clear that
many primary school teachers are not providing even minimally effective
instruction to their pupils. Basic education teachers will be assisted
further through the use of radio instruction. Government has distributed
radios to all primary and junior secondary schools. At the senior secondary
level, in-service teacher training will focus on implementation of the new
curriculum.
48.       Inspection and supervision.  Recognizing the importance of effective
supervision and monitoring to the success of the reform program, Government is
reorganizing the school inspection system. Supervision of schools at the
basic education level will be performed by circuit-based supervisors, rather
than the former circuit officers and district-based inspectors. The change in
posting will facilitate the visitation of schools, while the change of title
is intended to reinforce the concept of the inspection officer as a source of
pedagogic support. Another change is that supervisors will work along with
national servicw staff in their capacity as monitors of the reform program
from the circuit level. Government is also preparing job descriptions and
related performance norms (e.g., supervisors must visit their assigned schools
at least four times per year and prepare a supervision report for each visit).
Similarly, job descriptions and performance norms will be designed for the
region-based supervisors of the senior secondary schools. The increased
accountability, in conjunction with intensified in-service training, should
improve significantly the performance of these staff.
49.       Examination results and school accountability.  Government will
tackle the poor quality instruction at the primary school level also by
administering simple standardized achievement tests in reading, writing, and
arithmetic annually to samples of students in all schools at the end of grade
6. The tests will not be designed to affect the progression of students into
JSS but, rather, to evaluate the effectiveness of teaching in the schools.
The results obtained over, say, a three-year period will provide Government
with vital information about perennially low-achieving schools and districts,
on the basis of which measures could be taken to improve their performance.
It is also hoped that dissemination of test results will encourage parents to
demand improvement from schools that demonstrate low levels of performance.
C. Containment and Sharing of Recurrent Costs
50.       Staffing norms.  A key issue that could determine the ultimate
success (or failure) of the reform program concerns the level of GES staffing.
Unless staffing levels are brought under control, it is clear that funds will
not be available to improve the quality of the educational system or to expand
its coverage. Although MOE has established a schedule of staffing norms for
JSS, the norms have not been consistently adhered to, and overstaffing
persists in many schools at other levels as well. As an immediate measure,
the names of all new teachers possessing only the middle-school leaving
certificate have been identified for retrenchment. In response to the larger,
long-term problem, however, Government is taking steps to achieve zero growth
in the total number of GES staff. This will entail development of a system
that ensures "one in, one out" (for every person recruited into GES, another



- 1S -
person must have left -- through retirement, through resignation or death, or
through retrenchment). Such a system will require pairing the names of those
entering and those leaving the Service, at the regional or district level, as
well as in the aggregate. Given the fundamental importance of controlling
staffing, adherence to the policy of zero growth is a condition of tranche
release in each year of the credit period.
51.       Book user fees.  As books were reintroduced into basic education,
Government increased the user fee to the present level of ?120 per pupil per
year in grades 3 through 9. Given a book life of three years, this fee does
not cover the full cost. Government maintains that higher fees at this time
would affect adversely school participation of children from poor homes. The
fee will be increased, however, to keep pace with the rising costs of book
replacement. At the secondary level, the fee was kept low in the past because
books were not yet available in most schools in the system. Now that core
books have been delivered to all secondary schools, Government has increased
the user ree in Forms IV and V from ¢24 to ¢1,5OO, which will cover the full
costs of providing three books per student as well as some library books. The
principle of full cost recovery for books will be adhered to in the new senior
secondary school system, implying an annual user fee of between ¢2,500 and
03,000 (in 1989 prices), which will cover the cost of nine books per student.
As in basic education, book user fees will be indesed to increase with
replacement costs. All book user fees (and fees collected for exercise books)
are being deposited into a central revolving account out of which future
purchases will be paid.
D. More Effective Planning and Management
52.       MOE structure and institutional capacity.  The Ministry of
Education, and within it the Project Management Unit (PMU), established in
1987 to facilitate implementation of the reform program, have demonstrated
impressive commitment and organizational capability throughout the first phase
of the program. The Ministry's substantial accomplishments notwithstanding,
the procurement of goods and services has been slower than originally planned
for, owing to the growing burden of implementing such a large and complex
program and owing to continued attempts by contractors and suppliers to break
normal rules. The training of teachers and delivery of books into classrooms,
for example, have fallen further behind in each successive year of the credit.
This problem can only be expected to worsen as the demands of the proposed
operation, and any increase in the activity of other donors, are added to
those imposed by the first phase of the reform program. MOE is therefore
taking steps to strengthen and expand the PMU. This effort has included
hiring a coordinator for second cycle education, as well as assistant-level
staff to support project officers in a number of functional areas. Steps are
also being taken to fill key vacancies. Annex 4.5 displays the structure of
the expanded PMU.
53.       Controlling the public investment program.  Efforts are currently
being made to bring a greater degree of control over the public investment
program (PIP) for institutions and organizations under the Ministry of
Eaucation. Among the very large number of projects and sub-projects underway
in a given year, few are completed in that year, and many experience large



- 16 -
cost overruns. In recognition of this problem, and in response to guidelines
set out by the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (MFEP), the MOE is
undertaking measures to deal with this issue. These will require the MOE to
spell out and list in priority order all projects, and to set limits on the
number of sub-projects, prior to submitting its investment program to the
MFEP. This means for the future that only as many projects as can reasonably
be expected to be completed in one year will be included in that year's PIP,
and those projects included will be the ones at the top of the priority list.
In addition, the MFEP has taken steps to strengthen expenditure control to
ensure that work executed by contractors conforms ta the investment schedule
and to the financing assumed in the PIP.
54.       Reform of education procurement functions.  Responsibility in the
past for procurement of educational materials, textbooks, supplies, and even
equipment was spread among several divisions of the GES and MOE. Procurement
was difficult to monitor, and this led sometimes to duplication of payment and
the purchase of unnecessary items. There was, all too often, a lack of
awareness among purchasing officials of correct competitive procedures; the
PMU has recently procured some items for as little as one-third the price paid
for similar items by GES divisions in the past. To ensure the effective use
of limited resources from here on, the MOE will consolidate most of the
procurement done for school education within a single unit in the Ministry
and, for this and all other procurement, will institute a single set of
procedures based on the successful model now being followed in the PMU. It
should be possible under such a system, not only to realize considerable cost
savings on purchasing, but also to enforce norms for the provision of supplies
and, eventually, to develop an effective storage and distribution system.
55.       School maintenance.  One reason that the cost of rehabilitating
schools and tertiary institutions is so high is that few resources are devoted
to their regular care and maintenance. At present, local communities are
responsible for the maintenance of most basic education schools, while at the
secondary and tertiary levels it has been largely Government's responsibility
to provide the necessary funds. Yet frequently, even when Government funds
are provided, maintenance does not take place, as there always seem to be more
pressing uses for the available money. Only about 2 percent of recurrent
educational budgets is allocated to maintenance, and less is actually used.
Government is addressing this problem on three fronts. First, a plan is being
devised for a preventive maintenance scheme to be operated in all schools with
funding from PTAs and school production efforts. This could be backed up
through incentives to reward schools that establish good maintenance records.
Second, Government will make explicit provision in the budget for the
maintenance and repair of SSS facilities. Third, Government has taken what
was in 1988189 the remaining 410 secondary school boarding subsidy and
reallocated it to address the urgent need for school maintenance.
E. Training for Self-Employment and Rural Development
56.       One of the central objectives of the reform program is to support
not just the minority of basic education graduates who will pursue further
formal education but, in addition, the majority who will become farmers or
self-employed artisans. While the JSS curriculum is designed to introduce



- 17 -
students to manual skills and modern farming techniques, it is not intended to
turn out skilled craftsmen or farmers. Thus, if the JSS graduates who do not
go on to SSS are to become productively employed, many need adOitional
training.
57.       To this end, the recent GOG/Bank sub-sector study (para. 27)
recommended a reorientation of the training provided by the 19 technical
institutes operated by the GES. These institutes run three- and four-year
courses for about 8,000 middle-school leavers and secondary school drop-outs.
The training is highly theoretical, owing to a lack of materials and
equipment, and it is geared to mid-level technical jobs in the formal wage-
employment sector, of which there are very few. Given the high costs of
offering such lengthy programs for so few trainees and the limited job
opportunities for graduates, the study suggests that resources could be better
allocated if the technical institutes were to provide short courses (between 6
and 12 months) to serve a much larger number of youth who have already
completed two years of work under an informal apprenticeship arrangement. The
courses would stress theory (as they do todav) and essential entrepreneurial
skills, thereby complementing the practical skills taught through
apprenticeship. By moving between apprenticeship training and the GES short
courses. youth would have the flexibility to obtain as high a level of trades
certification as they find necessary to become productively employed.
Government expects to complete, by the start of the 1990191 school year, a
plan to implement the reconmmendation that the technical institutes be
reoriented along these lines.
F. University Education
58.       Following up on the recently agreed plan to improve quality, reduce
costs, and broaden the financing of tertiary education (para. 31), Government
approached the Bank regarding the possibility of obtaining IDA assistance for
higher education. Government and the Bank have agreed that much progress has
been made in adjustment planning for the tertiary subsector, and that support
for this program is a priority, so that recently-convinced supporters of the
program not become disillusioned and valuable momentum lost. Consideration
was given to incorporating a separate, higher education component within the
proposed operation, but Government ultimately determined that the political
risks of undertaking further adjustment at the universities at this time are
too great. Instead, Government has decided to proceed with additional
investment in the universities prior to moving ahead with the next phase of
university reform. To this end MOE has included p2.5 billion (US$7.5 million)
in its 1990 budget to provide support for quality-enhancing inputs (e.g.,
library books, periodicals, and equipment) and for the necessary preparatory
actitivies for future Bank assistance, which is expected to be linked to
implementation of further adjustment policies at the tertiary level.



- 18 -
V. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A. Background
59.       The Bank's involvement in Ghana's education system dates back nearly
five years. The 1985 public expenditure review provided initial information
on the grossly inadequate allocations to education, and on the inefficient
allocations within the sector. A short study in the same year provided more
detailed information on the main features of the education system. In late
1985 the Board approved the Health and Education Rehabilitation Project
(Cr.1653-GH), US$5 million of which was directed at meeting the sector's most
pressing needs, particularly the lack of textbooks and instructional materials
in primary school classrooms and at the universities.
60.       Simultaneously, preparation work began for EdSAC.  The Bank and the
Government worked closely together to evolve a long-term plan for the
education sector. This was reflected in an Education Sector Strategy Paper
approved by the PNDC Secretary for Education in November 1985. The paper
enumerated the objectives to be achieved under the reform program and a list
of actions to be taken. The details were quite explicit in regard to junior
secondary education, the first part of the structural reform program, and more
general in regard to senior secondary education, the part of the reform whose
implementation will begin with the 1990/91 academic year and that is scheduled
to coincide with EdSAC 1I. Elaboration of the plans for senior secondary
education has taken place in the intervening years.
61.       The Bank's short-term strategy entailed support of the first three
years of the multi-year reform program through EdSAC. Experience under the
credit has been positive, both in terms of educational achievements (Chapter
III), and in terms of the credit's design and implementation. EdSAC was
predicated on Government's implementation of a list of policy measures, with
the flexible allocation of funds linked to annual agreement between Government
and IDA. Credit proceeds were disbursed in three tranches for general
budgetary support to the education sector. Two tranche review missions have
found the Government to be in broad compliance with the credit's policy
conditionality, allowing for the timely release of funds. Implementation
experience has oeen problematic in three areas, however. First, despite MOE's
best efforts, Government has had difficulty in holding down the number of GES
staff. Second. implementation of some portions of EdSAC has been somewhat
delayed, reflecting the fact that there are not enough staff to handle the
very heavy workload imposed by the reform program. These issues are being
addressed in the proposed credit; the first through extensive policy dialogue
and conditionality (para. 50), and the second through strengthening of the PMU
(para. 52). The third problematic area has been the effort to eliminate
university lodging subsidies. Government has recently reached agreement with
the universities on this measure, however, and although not covered under
EdSAC II, the elimination of lodging subsidies will be implemented, in two
steps, beginning in 1990191.
62.       Given the overall success of EdSAC, the proposed operation is viewed
as an intrinsic part of the Bank's medium-term strategy for supporting the
sector and is intended to support the Government's efforts during the secend



- 19 -
phase of the reform program. The proposed date of effectiveness is August
1990. As under EdSAC, credit funds would be linked to the implementation of
policy measures needed to ensure the financial sustainability of the new
system that is being put into place. Funds would be disbursed in three
tranches (para. 78). A list of special conditions and other program actions
that Government will undertake in the course of implementing the second phase
of the education reform program, spelled out in Annex 3.1, are further
elaborated in Annex 5.1. The Government's updated Letter of Education
Development Policy was submitted to the Bank on March 29, 1990; see Annex 5.2.
B. Program Cost and Financing Plan
63.       This operation would support implementation of the structural
changes in the education system during the latter half of the six-year
transitional period that began in the 1987188 school year. As was the case
with the introduction of the junior secondary school system during the last
three years. implementation of the new senior secondary schools will entail
extra financing costs. These include purchases of equipment, development of
curricula, construction of additional classrooms, and in-service training for
teachers. In addition, the credit will support needed maintenance and
critical non-salary recurrent expenditures for the system as a whole. Cost
recovery efforts begun during the first phase of the program will continue.
The fees for books and charges on boarding students will be maintained and
adjusted in line with costs.
64.       In addition, the allocation of expenditures within the education
system will continue to improve. by 1992, non-salary recurrent expenditure is
expected to increase to 25 percent of total recurrent spending, compared to
negligible levels at the beginning of the reforms, and 22 percent budgeted in
1989. Expenditures at the primary and junior secondary levels would represent
62 percent of the total budget (about the same as in 1988), compared to only
44 percent in 1984. The expectation is that by 1993 the structural changes
would have resulted in a system that can be financed out of national
resources, while allowing for substantial expansion of enrollments at all
levels.
65.       Detailed enrollment assumptions are presented in Annex 5.3.  Growth
in primary intakes would average 5 percent a year. The participation rate
(first grade enrollments as a percentage of the number of 6 year olds in the
population) would rise from 72 percent currently to 102 percent by the year
2000. Intakes into the new junior secondary schools would grow by 4 percent
per year on average. Enrollments in senior secondary schools would rise
rapidly as the new structure is phased in and the old structure phased out.
The transition rate from JSS to the new senior secondary schools is assumed to
rise from between 25 and 30 percent in 1990/91 to 50 percent b7 1996/97. It
is assumed here, based on initial MOE projections, that enrollments will be
distributed about evenly between comerce and the general programs, on the one
hand, and the other three, more specialized programs, on tke ..ther.  The
number of pre-service teacher training places is expected to remain at the
1988/89 level. University intakes are projected to rise sharply (close to 16
percent) between 1988189 and 1990/91 owing to: an increase in the number of
non-residential students (facilitated by the construction of some new



- 20 .
facilities, such as additional lecture halls), and the provision of diploma
and sub-degree courses during university vacation periods. Thereafter,
enrollments are projected to rise by 3 percent a year. The number of students
studyin. overseas would decline.
66.       Program cost.  Details of program cost projections. including unit
cost calculations, are also shown in Annex 5.3. Over the next three years,
the nominal recurrent budget for education would need to increase by 6 percent
per academic year (measured in constant 1988 prices). After adding in the
normal expected capital spending (but excluding the extra financial
requirements to put in place the new senior secondary structure), the
consolidated budget for the three academic years would be distributed as
follows: 42 percent for primary, 20 percent to junior secondary, 18 percent
to senior secondary, and the remaining 20 percent to the tertiary level (see
table 1).
Table 1. Public  ceation, Estimated ToUtl Cos  by Lovel, 1900/91 --
1i/91/ Sehool Y"rs 1/
IMs Cedis       19  uS        x o Tot I
Perlmry                       52,95            262             42
Uiddle/Junlor Seoadery        24,14            120             20
Senior Secondary              22,U8            111 
Teoheal/Voeatlonl              2,600            14              $
Reglar Teaer Training          I,'               9              1
Specialist Teacher Training    1,002            t               1
UnIverslty                    17,621            s              14
ovrsee_ Scbolarsip.            1,09              I              1
Toal                         124,111           614            100
Extreordinary Costs 2/        10,SiJ            62
Grand Totl                   184,624
I/ AllI figures to mllons. Cost Include the Misistry of ucatlee's budget and
scholarship elloetion  Included tn te budgt of the PNC Secrotriat.
Figures are ne of cos recovery and other private contributions, Including
thoe frm local coinutles.
2/ Recrrent and cpital coeo assoiated *ith isplinotatie. of the senior
secodery school refr ro a. tIncld  euipment, curriculum deelopment
in-service training, VW constection ea rehabilitation of claseroome.
Sure$ MuOa  staff ..ti..t"



- 21 -
67.       Table 2 shows the anticipated budgetary costs in current prices (by
calendar year) for public education by spending category, divided into foreign
and local costs. It estimates also the Governmet's cost recovery through
receipt of private contributions. These include only book fees and fees paid
by boarding students in secondary schoolss not included are substantial 'off-
budget items such as fees for exercise books and outlays for the construction
and maintenance of primary schools. (Although primary school construction is
a community responsibility in most areas of Ghana, the Government has, through
EdSAC, provided roofing units in the north in order to expand the number of
primary school places.) Food costs in secondary schools and tertiary
institutions are also now borne entirely by parents. Foreign costs, mainly
for capital expenditures, but also for a portion of non-salary recurrent
spending, account for nearly a quarter of the total budget.
Table 2. Public Education, Estimated Totel Costs by 8udge Catogory, lg0 -- 1M92 Financial Vears I/
Millions of current us d1 Millios of currnt US$W
Preent
Locl  Foreign   TOtl         Local  Foreign  Total
Rocurrent
Salaris and Allouancet    140,878    0  140,371         410      0     410         s9
Travel and Tranport       8,22   2,19t   5,407           9       0      iS          2
Genral Expeditrs,        $8,0$4   2,022    6,0o          9       6      is          2
Hal tenace                2,174   S,449    8,082                 4      10          1
Supplies                 16,8   10,221   23,56S         44      29      78         10
Lodging (Sondary)         1,460      0    1,400          4       0       4          1
Scholarehip               2,164    1061    8,215         0       8       9          1
Sub-total               178,$19  16,940  190,707       494      40    542          77
Capital 2/                 10,691  "8,94    65,"          47    1is      1U         28
Totel ovor_mnt           190,610  66,M4  240,404        541    159    ?00          100
Cost reovered thro
privat coetllbutios       2,405      0    2,415          7       0       7          1
1/ includes the Minisy of Edcailon'o budgt and scholrhbp al *Ilocaiws lnluded in the budget Of
the PC Seeroeriat.
2/ nleludb erotrdinsry cost rel"e to th soior szeodary shool redorm program  a port of
whlih (801 - 401 is reurren.
Sources MI Ond atff estimates



- 22 -
68.       The financing gap in current prices has been calculated for the
period 1990/91 (when the new senior secondary school will begin to be phased
in) through 1992/93. The cost to the Government, including normal budget
expenditures and the additional costs associated with implementation of the
second phase of the reforms, and net of cost recovery, is 0276.7 billion (see
table 3).  The financial requirements to implement the eduiation reform
program are substantial for several reasons. First, there is a need to
continue the progress in improving funding for non-salary recurrent
expenditures. Second, the Government's policy of raising salaries for upper-
level civil servants (including teachers) will increase spending on personal
emoluments, in spite of the freeze on total staffing levels in the GES.
Third, during the transition between the old and new structure of the
education system, financing requirements are temporarily higher because of the
need to run both types of classes simultaneously. Fourth, implementation of
the program calls for additional capital expenditures to construct new
classrooms and purchase needed equipment. In addition, there is a substantial
need for on-going maintenance and rehabilitation of facilities at the primary
and tertiary levels. Finally, full implementation of the new system requires
extensive in-service teacher training and curriculum development.
Table 3. Estimated Financing Gap (millions of curren* cedis)
19901   1991/   1992/   Three-year   Outer three
1991    1992    1993       total      years total
(90/91-92/93) (93194-95196)
Cost to Government
with Reform              78,154  96,863  101,701   276,718         332,687
Available Government
Resources                73,127  85,977   96,140   255,244         336,510
Financing Gap               5,027  10,886    5,561    21,474          -3,823
US$ (current)   14.3    30.2       15.4      59.9
69.       It is assumed that the Government's support to education will
continue at roughly the current share of the budget. The budget scenario
takes into account the impact of the recent decline in cocoa prices and
assumes a continued tightening of fiscal policy. This would result in
projected available resources for education of about 0255 billion, covering
about 92 percent of the costs of the program. The estimate of Government
resources takes into account expected support from USAID (approximately US$35
million over five years). These resources would be directed at primary
education and would finance teacher training and materials. Table 3 shows
that the remaining financing gap would be 021.5 billion (US$60 million). The



- 23 -
gap is highest in 1991/92 owing to capital costs associated with the new
system and to the need to operate both the old and new secondary school
systems simultaneously. Based on current projections, by 1993/94, once the
new senior secondary structure is fully in place, the Government would be able
to fund anticipated costs from its own resources.
70.       Financing plan.  The projected financing gap for the upcoming phase
of the reform program is to be met by IDA (US$50 million) and other
international donors (US$10 million). During the first phase of the program
the financing gap was filled through external assistance provided under EdSAC
by IDA (US$34.5 million) and another US$12.8 million of financing from UNDP,
Switzerland, Britain, Norway, and the OPEC Fund; since signing EdSAC,
additional parallel financing on the order of USS1A million has been obtained
from Canada, Japan, the World Food Program, and Britain. These donors are
being presented with the documentation for EdSAC II in order to assess their
interest in continuing to support the reform program within the coordinated
framework of a sector adjustment operation. Given past donor interest, and
the limited amount of additional financing required, little problem in
obtaining cofinancing is expected, and coverage of the remaining financing gap
should be firmed up by the time of effectiveness. The additional workload
that such assistance might imply for the PMU has been taken into account in
the design of the proposed operation (para. 52).
C.   Allocation of the Credit Proceeds
71.       Proceeds of the credit would provide budgetary support to the MOE
for three years. In order to maintain maximum flexibility to respond to
budget priorities in support of the reform program, and also to take account
of other external assistance, the use of credit proceeds will be agreed
between Government and IDA. At negotiations use of the first tranche was
agreed; use of the remaining funds will be agreed at the time of two program
implementation (tranche) reviews. The resulting agreements will be recorded
in an exchange of letters following each review. This and other procedures
described below were employed successfully under EdSAC, with only minor
differences.
72.       Technical assistance.  Implementation of EdSAC was undertaken with
only minimal non-residential technical assistance. To strengthen procurement
capability, short-term consulting services and overseas training were provided
by Crown Agents. Support was provided by UNESCO, the International Institute
for Education Planning, and the firm of Cambridge Education Consultants (UK)
for technical assistance and training in the areas of planning, programming,
budgeting, monitoring, and evaluation (para. 33). Under the proposed
operation, procurement consultants are expected to supply technical assistance
for the costing of senior secondary school equipment lists and other
procurement-related areas. In addition, the production of senior secondary
textbooks is being handled through contract publishing arrangements through
which Government is contracting for the preparation, publishing, and printing
of textbooks.
73.       Procurement. Once the annual allocations have been fixed, credit
proceeds will be used for the procurement of goods and services as follows:



- 24 -
(a) For civil works contracts:
* over US$500,000 will be procured subject to ICB procedures;
* more than US$50,000 and less than or equal to US$500.000 will be
procured through LCB procedures;
* less that US$50,000 will be procured through shopping or direct
contracting, with a minimtm of three bids.
(b) For goods and printing contracts:
* over US$200,000 will be subject to ICB:
* more than US$50,000 and less than or equal to US$200,000 will be
subject to LCB;
* less than US$50,000 will be procured through shopping or direct
contracting, with a minimum of three bids.
(c) For technical assistance:
* in accordance with Bank guidelines for the hiring of
consultants.
(d) All payment of allowances, training costs of teachers, and other
related recurrent costs:
m through normal Government procedures.
All ICB will be carried out in accordance with Bank guidelines, and all LCB
procedures will include local advertising, public bid opening, clearly
spelled-out award criteria, and award to lowest evaluated bidder. In
addition, foreign bidders will not be precluded from participation. Prior IDA
review of all contracts and procurement decisions exceeding US$200,000 will be
required. The precise quantities of goods and services to be prr-ured by each
of the above methods will be determined each year at the time of ie annual
review, and fixed with the exchange of letters mentioned in para. 71 above.
74.       Disbursements.  Disbursements and associated cofinancing will be on
the basis of 100 percent of the costs of those goods and services within the
educational budget that are approved by IDA for financing in the exchange of
letters at the time of annual reviews. However, as under EdSAC, in any one
year at least 60 percent of disbursements must be disbursed against foreign
expenditures for the sector, and over the life of the credit, not more than
SDR 4.5 million can be spent on allowances and on the purchase, operation, and
maintenance of vehicles. Without the prior approval of IDA, credit proceeds
will not be used for boarding facilities or overseas training. Disbursements
of the IDA credit will be fully documented. Expenditures for civil works
contracts of less than US$100,000 equivalent and all other contracts of less
than US$50,000 equivalent will be against Statements of Expenditure (SOEs),
for which documents would be retained for review by Bank staff during
supervision missions.



. 25 -
75.       Administration.  The release of credit proceeds will depend on the
Government's demonstration of satisfactory performance in regard to the
overall education sector reform program and, in addition, on particular
special conditions having been met (pars. 62 above and Annexes 3.1 and 5.1).
Annual agreement will be required between IDA and Government on the education
budget and on the Government's use of the credit funds over the coming year.
A processing schedule indicating major Government actions and tentative dates
for the release of funds is given in Annex 5.4.
76.       IDA and the Government will jointly monitor the program by
conducting annual reviews. The first review took place around the time of
negotiations and the second and third will take place approximately one and
twc years, respectively, after effectiveness. The annual reviews are meant to
assesss (i) public expenditure on education, by looking at the budget and
expenditures of the prior year and use of credit proceeds for the coming year,
to ensure adherence to program objectives; (ii) tranche release conditions;
and (iii) performance targets.
77.       Key conditions include:  (i) achievelmaintain a minimum student-
teacher (including national service staff) ratio of 20:1 for senior secondary
schools; (ii) ensure that the number of GES staff does not exceed 153,000, the
figure at the start of the freeze on staffing imposed in 1987; (iii) maintain
book fees in primary and junior secondary schools at no less than the 1987/88
proportion of full costs; (iv) establish and maintain book user fees in senior
secondary education sufficient to cover the full costs over the books' life
span; (v) establish and maintain fees for SSS student feeding sufficient to
cover the full costs of food; and (vi) ensure that every curricular program
option introduced at any senior secondary school enrolls at least 20 students
in each grade and is taught by suitably qualified teachers or national service
staff. In addition, annual reviews will check that actual expenditures for
the preceding financial year are in line with agreed budgets and that basic
education's share of the recurrent education budget is maintained at least at
the 1989 level. The annual review will focus, in particular, on controlling
the level of GES staffing and controlling also the number and allocation of
investment projects. In addition, each year at budget time (around December),
IDA'and Government will agree on the projected budget for the upcoming year.
78.        Subject to satisfactory performance, funds will be released in
three tranches: the first at the time of credit effectiveness (SDR 12.9
million, or US$17 million), and the second and third (SDR 12.9 and 12.1
million, or US$17 and US$16 million, respectively) following annual reviews,
approximately one and two years later. It is expected that funds will be
utilized fully by the February 28, 1994 closing date.
79.       Special Account.  A Special Account of US$6 million will be opened
to meet eligible expenditures for goods and services and maintained in a
comercial bank on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. Replenishments
will be made against full documentation, except for those items eligible for
reimbursement on the basis of SOEs as outlined in para. 74. Replenishment
applications would be accompanied by monthly statements from the commercial
bank, cross-referenced by the PMU to the related application. Amounts to be
replenished would take into account the tranche limits.



- 26 .
80.       Credit Manaaement.  Responsibility for the policy reforms will rest
with the PNDC Secretary for Education, who will receive advice from the PNDC
Deputy Secretaries for School Education and Higher Education, and the
Coordinator for Nonformal Education, as well as the GES and the universities.
To ensure the smooth and timely implementation of the second phase of the
reform program, Government is taking steps to strengthen the key agencies
involved, including the planning and curriculum departments within the MOE.
Most importantly, the Ministry is restructuring and expanding the existing PMU
(para. 52). Implementation of these changes is imperative if the unit is to
be able to handle the heavy and ever-increasing workload demanded by the
reform pr-ram.
D. Auditing, Monitoring and Reporting
81.       All project accounts, including the special account and the
revolving account for textbook fees and exercise book sales, will be audited
annually by an independent auditor satisfactory to IDA. The auditor's report
will include a separate paragraph with an opinion regarding the amounts
withdrawn on the basis of statements of expenditure. Continuous monitoring of
the pedagogic aspects of the reform program will be undertaken by the
Inspectorate Department of the GES. All other aspects of the reform program,
including day-to-day responsibility for ensuring that available credit and
cofinancing funds are used as quickly as possible will rest with the PMU.
Near the end of the three-year credit period, there will be a review of the
achievement of the reform objectives by IDA and Government in order to ensure
that all performance targets have been met. Finally, the Government has
agreed that within six months of the credit's closing date, it will submit to
IDA a report on project implementation and achievements.
E. Benefits and Risks
82.       Benefits.  Through continued assistance in support of the
Government's reform program, this operation, like its predecessor, will help
to produce a range of benefits including a less expensive, more effective, and
more equitable educational system. In the short run, students at all levels
will be assured of having textbooks and other essential materials in all
subjects. To improve their effectiveness, all primary. junior secondary, and
senior secondary school teachers will receive additional in-service teacher
training, and provision will be made at the senior secondary level to produce
the required numbers of trained teachers in the subjects included in the new
curriculum. Increases in the proportion as well as the absolute number of
teachers who possess professional certification will be achieved, particularly
in remote rural areas. The operation supports the development and
implementation of a more affordable and relevant curriculum at the secondary
level and expanded access at all levels, thereby benefiting especially
children from poorer families who are less likely than others to be attending
school today. By making all levels of the system more cost-effective, the
program frees resources that can be used to improve educational quality,
expand access and, ultimately, to sustain the reformed system.



- 27 -
83.       Risks.  There are four main risks.  First, the time remaining for
converting facilities, preparing materials, and reorienting and recruiting
specialist teachers, all of which tasks are essential for the successful
implementation of the new program, is very short; the work still to be done
before September 1991 when the first SSS students are scheduled to return to
school, is substantial. Second, although strong leadership exists, the
current MOE capicity to complete this work is thin. Third, there is
understandable opposition among students and their parents to the elimination
of subsidized meals and to the increase in book user fees. Finally, it is
virtually certain that the most educated and articulate elements of Ghanaian
society (those who have benefited disproportionately from the pre-reform
system) will try to hinder implementation of the new system by arguing that it
is not yet ready for implementation and suggesting that some or all of the
former system be continued until details of the reform have been thoroughly
sorted out, tested on a pilot basis, and evaluated; this was exactly what
happened when the reform was first attempted beginning in 1974.
84.       The first risk will be addressed through the use of contract
publishing for textbooks and the use of technical assistance (for example, in
the area of equipment procurement). In addition, Government is now
considering the option of moving the start of the school year from September
to December or even to January, which would give another three or four months'
lead time during 1990, and which, it is argued, would cost little in financial
or pedagogical terms. To minimize the second risk, steps will continue to be
taken to strengthen department-level management within the GES, especially
through the recruitment and promotion of competent and committed staff; this
should help to relieve MOE of some of the implementing (as distinct from the
planning) responsibilities assumed in connection with the reform program to
date. Impleme.tation capacity will be further enhanced as vacancies,
especially certain key vacancies, are filled within the PHU. Finally, the
important role of the National Planning Committee for the Implementation of
School Reforms should be mentioned in this context.
85.       The third and fourth risks cannot be eliminated altogether, but they
can be eased by means of the continuing public relations campaign, which was
designed to win support for the reform program and was well-managed and
effective during EdSAC. The enrollment growth that has taken place in the
past few years demonstrates that parents are already endorsing the reforms at
the basic education level. As time passes and people become more familiar
with the new system and witness the benefits, especially in the form of
enhanced educational quality, they should cease to view the reform as a threat
and their opposition will gradually dissipate.



- 28 -
VI. RECOfMMENDATION
86.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
Barber S. Conable
President
Washington, D.C.
April 25, 1990
Attachments



-29  -                                            Annex  1.1t
GHANA - ECONOMIC INDICATORSPaeIo3
im perCapis ONPIn IJSS:400                                                                             P606 I f 
A. SIaWS at GraM DOgMet Praduj                         S. Grawl! RdAS% Versaffum)
(ft   cuw  Pt". Ms)                                  (*fn 930pmdCw aa
130   197    low0   196    196    10              1965.73 TOM3-6 196047   1W       $9
Qam Ouusd  Fredeig 1.9.  100.   100.0  100.0  100.0  100O   100.0              3.4   403       1.4    4.4     to
NsIdIreTam                       12.6    6.0    3.U.                     .               .
0qle"hs                          43.5   40.0   67.9   47.6   50        483             4.5    00    00    0.0        3*
bukmv                   i4~~~1.6   16.6   11*    17.2   16.    16.2           4.3   -3.4    0.1   11.3   10.
(co I V0fM.SIsKIOJ                0.6   It.?    7*6   11.2    es    10.1               6.6   -26      t.3  1MO       03
swulm                  ~~~~37.0   314    30.2   36.0   318    34.5            1.1     as6    4.2    9.1    6.0
RuSOurnslaw"                      4.6     5.1   -0?    43    -to0   -t.o. 
Svfa96eGN                        17.1   21.4    6.5   102    2.6   16.0               0.4    4.?      03    20.4     7
Inpffis @1 QPk                   26.7    6.4    9.2   215    23.6   24.5              47.8   -3.6   -0.3   63.    14.4
T0WdEmpmnit'JI                   late    94.0  100.7  103.   103.0  IfOU               22      as5    1.4    5.0    6.5
Told Canswiwin!                  01.7   65.0   95.1    9.7'   9       9.              2.5    0.6    1,3    .1    6.1
96dCww0In                77.3   75.0   6MS    62.6   61.6   64.32*                     0       1.     23      71
Gemme GswArmen                  1*    10.0   11.2   11.2   10.6    6.4                1.1    6.4   .1.6   29.4    -.6
Goam"  om$$st oskm "nWt          17.0    0.0    5.6    0*       0.    12.3            4.5    4.6      3.2   21.5   16.
ild OWSSbIWO                 Y~~.7    6.1    0.6   tO.?      .36                 ..5      25    2.
Chuqninws                         .. t1.4   .0.5    0.1    0.1          .               .      .
Gr  ouoamuufUA                     6.3   14.1    4.0    6.       7.0    6.4            12.3   .7.7    1.6   16.2  -12.5
INIF62lm!O@mr -.1.3   -0,6    44    .94    *2.7   .2.                                   . 
Not Cwu6fntTranslia               0.0   -0.2    0.0    1.3    4.2    &33                 .      .
arm" 16mm"  ldNg                   7.0   13.1    4.5    &.1    0.3    7.1,             14.2    4.0    S.7   76.6  -15,7
In mmi ofw  LCWS
am"n Caomls pioudu             35.5Us 43174  42.65   44.335  46*6   4.00               34    403      1.4    4.4    6.9
Capsly tompad                   5,190   6.69   IOU    2.*23   3.73   3.69              46 6.    .1.6   67.6   409
T.wiiof Tmft U6IIWIaI          *2.556  -1.466     0  -1,188    464  -1.066..                    .
QoassOammdlAncom               33.006  41.716  42,452  43.146 45,563  47,936           3.4    0.2    1.3"    6.6    5.2"
Oamst teatwe  ro0dw            35.443 43.033  42.670  43.904  45.010  46633            3.     43      1.4    4.4    5.9
am"S Niow"d 10016              3266   41.577  42.67   42.10645*6   47.57               3.4    0.2    1.2    5.7    5.2
(IM  a to0)                                 meLon801 R0tes (% PA.
C. Pdea VIdlm                    1960  1i6    166    196    196    TM6              1965.7  197340 l196067   195    196
Consummrt IOR IF 64)             100.0  024.1  906.1  1132.4  1563.2  2079.            8.4   60.3   45.7   39.6   31.4
WhalaSW PRams O1F$63)            100.0  844.3  1310.0  2156.7  3061.4    &.6.    46.8   876    41.4                    . 
fMpAdGOPOMAa                     100.0  670.   6112.6  1152.  1612.4  215L.6           6.1   4S.4   48.3   30.9   33.9
111910 EIrpmnIr  Od.             100.0  676.   6267  1212.0  166*4  2681.3              7.    4.6   48.9   37.3   37.0
GIowfI Rimm4I% pA.:            1966.73 1973-019loop
POPeddmn                          2.3    1.6    3.4
Gros Nil. icome PAc               1.1    .*    -2.1
P.KqtnC4nvamWwW                   as.  .  .1.6   -1.7
br.p1 or(G+NP)/GOF(w)           .23    13.    04*
hegiim a mp Now
GramS t4i101  so"                30.  446.   3106s
GrmosOwmmis ei                  30.  .424.    S0.
ICM (pedod vSrepm):                 ..  -73.4    5.3
Dq9NRMS                          61.0   57.    S5"
bigamy                  ~~~~~~16.3   17.0   17*
Sewdem                  ~~~~~~2L7   25.4   2S.
TOW                             100.   lo"*   100.   100.@
SW.AGN14



-  30  _                                                  Annex  1.1%
Page 2 of 3
CHANA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
VOlume Indx                         voe at Cuwt Pow  Oum US)
8.TI-OIPF                        tOlledO   tt84   1965   ie   tOP    1t8tl  1980   tUe   tt)S   I9a   la?    M#
X  v.COcO.A                        ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..   793    38t2            41       0     40      402
X.                              1000   81t.    01.0   80   100.0  110t0        34      21     28      44     $I    10O
X.MEtA4J                        100.0   58O   133.0  190.0              ..    100        103   2    10      142
u                                   .e ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    07                61    101      Of    2t4    346
To Expoft OB                    100.o   1. tozo   110            ..    ..  t.104    SP       633    746    07    582
F. mrarna  b
Food                               ..    ..    ..    ..    ..                   ..    31      40      45     75      43
FUeI                               ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..   280    161    200    125    14    148
o oonwgoods                         ..    ..    ..    ..                                      79             95    106
w    Mdoo                           ..    ..    ..        ,      .       ..    ..   21    223    247    297    32
Cp   oods                           ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..  *g               187    290    413    466
Togtl Impoit CIF                100.0   98      64.0   ?4.0   60&        _    97!    651    721    800  1.5   10il1
G.M sroltndlst Tmnn ofTrde      IWO    1984   l9o5   1988   I97   19s88
Met". Ex        Pre. Idex       100.0   61.1   66.2   61.1   61*    SO7
Mitch.mt "oe  dX                100.0  120.8  117.1  111.2  IS2.   155.
Me". TuMs o Trad                100.0   50.6   48.0   55.0   40.6   38L.
USsf fm"n (at cun t p ): 1/
H      .._ _alinas 66 Psymmnt19S0   1984   1985   1986  I9U 198 21
EmOWtbciGoodsaNFs               1210    610    67       813    8N9    956
Metwd . OB)                    1.104    56     632     773    1127   O8M          I 1904?UBeuiPq,inhtiIS
NOI *%tbaSeMcge                  107     44      38     40     72      79          damre ftmIFS&
Ipo"btGoeaftNfS                 1.175    80     1369   go   1.1    1*3            2/ pi1uid m*mAF4CO.
Murond   (FOB)                   906    633    669    712   9o2  1*0
Non*Fac  Owsm                    266    163    166    226    23       173
Resoue ence                        38    46   .166    127   400   -05
NSt F#rWlNcoM                     46    -115   .111   .111    132   -131
(Inl PRKOS)                       30     20      31     45     So      84
Nl CuqtTratislus                   .3    21      33      72    202    172
t(Iodo.mlU5snoS)                   1      5      0       1      1       0
CAr4A/C W6 btdotI 0ll.Tr#ns       44   .150   444   416    .220   -294
NulOfCIeTruubta                  83    141    110    t23    123    174
Cuff A/C W61 1W 06. taft           29    40    .134    .43    47       40
LOU*Twm COW nkw                    64    204      45    146    232    102
cdt awssbnuo                      16      2      6       4      5       6
Nt LT LO"n(ORSdew                 96     48    114    274    210    158
(Yaw LT "    ()                  40    166    -75    132        17     41
Tolal Oirt  m  (not)             4189   .233    150   -133    *70       26
Ntl SlTaMCaPa61                  -89    100    s8    IS2    *61        27
C"l FW eN.Et                       0      0      0       0      0       0
ErfodOmsons                     -100    133     63    .81    419       -1
oC ngin Noustn                     9      G 6?    4v     30   4.   .128
NCmUfromUIelMp                   431    1n  158         02     89    165
6.551105 CUh _a                  126   -120    249 3    42   -155      3?
A ShUotGCft
Rseeuise ado"w                   0.    2.0    -3.7    .3    47    42
how" Paq                          .     0?    0.7    0         1.1    1.2
Cwv  AtMoO, Busce                1.2   -4.1    4.4   .-9    -4        4.
1huwSam eLG.lmILUS$)              158    302    479    513    106   23
RmegwsI Gll e     iU)             330    437    SO2    24    332    310
OBwMx4w0% LCUq8                  2.75   3599   4.7  8t2  15.3t   MU
dWRhuxRNW gl    . Xs O         100.00  72.16  6SL44  303  233         W.
Gop (lboaG ue)                  444   4.419   4.       4723  _07     96
IUI^JU                                                                              Q WU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GHN



-  31  -                                                 Annex  1.1
Page 3 of 3
GHANA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
ShfdmI GOP (II)                                             flwt 
L   _   -f                       i      1Wv000i        I NlS 1ow    1iss                  vme*       S30 t16    low
CweIWNl                                   6. & 0  1.3,  12.4   134    12                       _       _
Cwla" _      _PudhS                 ..          11.2   11.9   1"      10"
cureu           lW.                 ..   46me    0.1    0              1.6                     ..
Cep6  R.~                           ..    ..    ..        .      ..    ..                      ..      .       .     .
coqi w_      i                      ..    1      42    7        T      6.                      ..
OwNSOeOaI                           .    41&I    4.1   .65    4.6.    44
Ca4 tca"o                          .. a4         06     t.5    1.      1.                      ..      .      _
Exeral somnr(At                    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..                           ..    .. _ 
OtimMis Ne4mW  Rnancutg  ..   ~~~0.   Q3    0.5    06        0.5.
Ootnmie lo3uV   F   l~a n           ..    OS7    0.3    0.5   Q1.0   .1.1
J. btsma capsit FtWs.Oebt              watOsbumenwUgm WANG"hae         ~       O Om .slelm11g  Wabxurd Om US esth
an   eN     a   Iaes           1960   1ow    19S6   19       186    low    low    is       IS    1966   19w      16
Pu0ac&puNeI am. LT                so      4      114    27     2t1    17  1.0611  1.112  .710  1,646  2.126 
O11101a0C1.a0s                   118     4       95     W     243    2       61    U6S  1t91   1.417  1.6  tZOOI
'uIlNa                           47     62     96   s1   23          m2    273    402    533    79   i.162  1.316
o -Ich RO                       21      *2    .2    .9    .11    111   114    101    116    134    151    123
d w hIChlOA                      5     49      62    16s   *1       204     63    1S      259    446    700    OM
laeml                            72    .13      .1    10       S      11    65      66     552     22    706    O2
PtlveCradaSI                     -20     .1    19       70    .24    .06    137    127    160    232    269    228
SuI rObs                          1     t10    20    -to    -12    .12    130       70      97     86      a6     71
FAnmil baskut                   -22      6      -1     60    .12    -24       7      so     62    144    164    155
plea.mounuwutomd                    0      0      0      43      .      4      10     32      40     33      30     32
TOMI LT                            9a     48    114    274    210   1t0   10N7  1.144   1.60  1.6611  2156  226t
MFCreaR                             0    214    115       5    .41   -136    177    570    7M2    664    946    763
Not ahtaTonmCapiW                 -Ba   .100      U     .62    41       27    133    246    203    183    12D       9S
Ttb nt. M1F & Nt ST                10    161    315    27    t11       S0   1.311   1961 20216  2.723  3.31  3.119
an* ant IDA Real                1o0   is"    196        m    197   IS            maim
Shar at Totad Larn*Two D                                                          Date an EoooDmicaos tabe
1. IURO a %Od TOM               10.59   S.66   9.18   7.94   7.00   6.5           ashoudolowthdeflnaansand
Z IDAua  o ToW                   9.19  16.40  M20B  26.45  3242  3673             the CoASSOS of he Stnadoad Tabs and
3. 190.+I0asa%oItTLs            19.78  2629  2.25  34.33  3a42   44.39            St"andd  *anchments Thehnd"ces
should udte dat tmugh VW Mast
Share oat LT 0O  sade.                                                            racil  Wmpketed ca/s year (or
1. lEFtDs%ofITOM                11.22  15,29   1.16   14.07  12.66  11.61 ttndyewrmthecan altte yewr
Z ltkAa %d Tc                    0.60   1*1    3.27   3.42   3J7    3Ui2           euls). Staff esimaes may be used
3.I1 RtD+UlAssm dToaW           11.2   17.10  21.45  17.41  16.62  1546           EflOmor prnlbynajalwlsmw not
yet aalabo. The use at estnuaes amn
DO4.owaxpe  a-is                                                                  prlmlaary figurm should be  catd
1. LonTwmenn Oebl/Expot         66.6  1SM72  190.73 2051 236.00 227.60            bF
z t4f CreDt/Export              14.57  9245  11t7   10423 10436   76.67
* Shod-Tom DOIt/Expo.ls         10.95  40.17  30.6  22U   13.26   9.57            *  ' SUnutd d"at
4. LT+IMF+ST DOO/Expoes        114.   316.34 333.50 332.45 3o6u  314.32           p. preUnuyC data
00040.009 D   es
1. Long-Term OM/G0P             24.28  25.9  266   2uo46  42.53  4325
2 IMF CreadJGO1                  3.9B  12.69   16.93  14.96  16.S  14.50
! .ShadTsnnO Dt/GaP              2.9    .S60   4.51    3.19    .37   1A2
4. LT+IW+ST 000/GOP             31.23  44.30  1S0.0   47.66  83.S5   MU.
DeW SaUbe.l/Oka
1. Puc &  udeae LT               6.30  16.13  14.47  16.36  17.94   16.00
z Pfuve No.guanresd LT           0ao   0u3a   0.0   070   124   1.15
S. Tow Long-TOM am $Sv.          6.30  16.13  14.47  16O.   16l16  SO0
4. iW PepUraltMeswSav. Clip.    Z3   406   CU67  10.40  0603   M2N6
I 6.teeonyongTCoe                1.50   Z7t  Z2    1.5    1.14   0.96
6Toa (LT+IW+ST tnt)             1253  23.27  23UJS  26.0   41L24  14.3M
G



Annex I .2
- 32 -                                  Page I of 2
A. THE STATUS OF SANK GROUP OPERUATINS 1N GHANA
STATMN  OF SAK LOANS AD IDA CREDM
(As of March 38, 1990)
amount in US* Million
Loan or                                                                             (loss Cancellation)
Credit         Fiscal                              _--_-_----_                                     -
Number          Year    Borrowor                Purpoe                Bank           IDA     Undisburssd
Ton loans and 25 cred;ts futly disbursed                              18*.?2        44S.91
1342-CH          83      Ghana         Water Supply TA                               13.00          1.1l
1373-OH          es      Ghano         Energy Projoet                                11.00          6.89
1498-4H           4      Ghana         Second Oil Palo                               25.00         12.10
1684-OH          e       Ghana        AUera District Rehab.                          22.00          6.20
t6ol-aH         a6       Ghana         Road Rehob. & Maintenane                      40.00          6.80
AOO1-OH          66      Chna          Road Rehab. & Maintenonce                     10.00          1.21
1628-H           96      Ghana         Powr System Rehab.                            28.00          1.04
1663-OH          so      Ghana         Heolth & Education Rehab.                     15.00          6.68
1672-OH          so      Ghana         Industrial Sector Ad3.                        28.60          4.92
A013-GH          so      Ghana         Industrial Sector Ad).                        25.00          0.00
16?4-4H          s6      Ghana         Ports Rehabilitation                          24.60          4.90
1744-O4H         8       Ghana         Education Sector Adj.                         348.0         14.98
1769-CH          67      Ghna          Northern Grld Extension                        6.30          0.82
1777-OH          87      Ghana         SAC I                                         34.00          1.49
£025-OH          87      Ghans         SAC I                                         61.00          3.26
A02S-1-H        66      Ghana         SAC I                                         16.00         14.99
1i78-OH          67      Chan          Struc. Adj. Inst. Support                     10.80          4.41
1801-H           87      Ghans         Agricultural Svcs. Rehab.                     17.00         13.31
1819-GH          87      Ghana         Petroleum Rod. a Diet.                        15.00         13.04
1847-H           67      Ghana         Pubile Enterprise TA                          10.60          8.30
1854-OH         68       Ghana         Coeo Rehabilitation                           40.00         38.15
166-OH           88      Ghana         Transport Rehabilitation                      60.00         51.24
1874-OH         68       Ghana         Priority Works                                10.60          6.S4
1911-OH          6       Ghana         Financial Sector Adjust.                     100.00         44.59
1921-GH         8U       Ghana         Mining Sector Rehab.                          40.00         28.72
1911-1-0         89      Ghana         Finsancial Sector Adjust.                      6.60          6.59
1946-CH          80      Ghana         Telecceunications II                          19.00         14.16
1976-4H          89      Ghana         Forest Res. Management                        39.40         38.95
996-OH           809     Ghana         Private SUE Dev.                              30.00         26.64
2039-OH 1/       69      Ghana         Water Sector Rehab.                           25.00         24.95
2040-OH 1/      s8       Ghana         Rural Finance                                 20.00         19.6s
2005-OH          69      Chana         SAC IT                                       120.00         57.65
2006-1-OH        90      Ghana         SAC II                                         6.70          5.95
2061-OH          90      Ghana         Fifth Power                                   40.00         36.54
21090-H 1/       00      Ghana         VRA/Sixth Powr                                20.00         19.85
TOTAL                                                   168972        1488.31        545.26
of which has been repaid                               102.48           9.62
TOTAL now hold by Sank and IDA                           81.29        1476849
Amount sold          0.86
of which repaid     0.86
TOTAL undlsburerd                                         0.00         546.26        645.26
1/ Not yet etfectivt as of March 81, 19P.



Aillex 1. 2
_ 33 .*                   Page 2otf 2
EPUnLtoC 01 GhSNA
SNKMIAR? OF !C IIVUYMETgSS
(As of March 31. 1990)
Oris. Gross CQimmittwnt
Fiscal                          Tpe of                 -usS million-
*       YeaX2r       O&Lto              bin*tY             Wma      fouitt    Dot
1984      Ashanti               Wining             55.0       -         55.01'
Goldfields Corp.
1986      Keta Basin Oil        oil                 -         4.5        4.5
Exploration
1988      Canadian Bososu       mining              _         0.6        0.6
Resources
1489      Canadian Dogosu       mining              -         0.4        0.4
Resources
1989      Wahome Steel Ltd.     Steol mfg.          3.2       -          3.2
1989      Canadian Uogosu       ainins             47.S       0.5       48.01'
Resources
1989      Continental           Merchant Banking   -          0.9        0.9
Acceptances Ltd.
1990      Ashanti               mining             70.0       -         70.32/
Goldfields Corp.
1990      Iduspriem             mining              -         3.0        3.0
Total Gross Comaitments           115.7       9.9     185.6
Less repayments and                 3.8       1.6       5.4
write-of f                                              -
Total Coamitiants held            A.JI        LA      1LQ
By IFC
1/ Includes a US$27.5 million participation.
I/ Includes a US$29.0 million participation.
' Includes a US$35.0 million participation.
IWC/Africa I
49321



_ 34 -                  Annex 3.1
Page 1 of 5
GHAM
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Rey Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare operation                    7 months
(b)  Operation prepared by                             MOEIIDA
(c)  First IDA Mission                                 December 1988
(4)  Appraisal Mission                                  July 1989
(e)  Negotiations                                      March 26-30, 1990
(f)  Planned date of Effectiveness                     August 1990
(g)  Target Date for Tranche Review                    August 1991
(h)  Target Date for Tranche Review                    August 1992
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
Special attention will be paid to supervision, including on-
gcing supervision and monitoring provided by a sector staff member within
the Ghana Resident Mission, plus annual supervision missions.
Section II:s Special Conditions of Effectiveness
None
Section IVs  Special Conditions and Program Actions
(a) A review of Government expenditures on public education will be
conducted annually to establish adherence to the program objectives
(para. 67), to ensure that Government provide from its own resources the
agreed level of educational budgets, and to prepare an agreed financing
plan for the coming year; and
(b) Release of credit funds would be conditional upon IDA's being
satisfied with (i) the MOE's capital and recurrent budgets; (ii) the
progress achieved in implementing the program; (iii) the retrospective use
of credit proceeds; and (iv) the proposed use of credit proceeds for the
following period. In addition, and in particular, funds under Part A would
be released in three trenches (for credit effectiveness, and approximately
one and two years following effectiveness) provided that the specific
special conditions spelled out in the attached policy matrix have been
carried out, and funds under Part B would be released in two tranches upon
fulfillment of separate special conditions also spelled out in the attached
matrix.



nex
Page  2 af 5
SCoN EOUCATION SECTOR AOJSTW    ClEDIt
MATRIX OF POUCY ACTIMNS
t. sirUCIMiA   COw          IN sE040L SYSTEM
Objectives: To rduce pro-university oducation frme 17 to It years, and
to provide appropiate curreiulum and teatbooks.
Performnce undr EdSAC I          EdSAC It                       Performn   Targ.es and
Iplications for EdSAC It        Action Progra                   Spics?1 Codiltione
1  All 4-year middle ond        1. star't of preoo  to          1.  ActIonr takens
contlnuation scoolo repled   replace 7year esocndary            (a) Praration of syllabi
by 3-ye r junior Secondary      school cycl- (S year. of w0a        for all Object. '  nMM
chy 8Iy (isa )                  Level plus 2 yers of W*             curriculum; a
Levl) with 8-yer seaeor         tb) Coepletlon of atrix of
2. Revllon of prImey           *scondary schools (Sa).             csert vl options for
*chool eurt Icy                                                     $St ;- and
2. Oesig  snd stert of          () Tndr for printIn of
8. Aeviteon and                 implementation of $SS               textbooks 
implemsntation nationally of    curriculum conslatlng of
isl currIculum.  The new        seven coro subjects (English,   2.  Co4ithtinr 
eurriculum, snnounced first     Chanaln languges, ScIence,          r    I-eoIv ess
In 1f7, ese on 22 core         Mathematics, agriculturol and        mem
subject  (English, Ghanaian     environmeotl studios, life
S mthe tlcs,          skills  and physical            8.    nitions for SecOR4-
tchn? l drawing, frech nducation) and five program                  T  nch moves
Eoptlo as, agricultural        of spesllizatio                   tl Minlwin SSS etudnt-
Science, vocational and life    (arta/scioscee, agriculture,        teecheh  ratio of 20:1.
skills, technIeal *sill*,       co m_relal technical, and
somial stud ie,  Ingli h        voeatlonali.                    4.                  Thsj    ItorThl-
literature, citural studets,                                       IrTomn  iUe_
and physical education). ln    8. SSS manusCriptJ to be         Cal  Mlnlium UstuStdst-
addition, eah  hool must       deeloped or adat e. All              teacher ratio of 20:1.
offer at lfea  one              SSS students to b gIven
*prevecatlor l5 subject,        access to  Itbxebo    in all
designed to give studeat        subjocft, at rate, of one book
feel Ilarityx, wth, and         per subject per studew  (Core
pracotIe intOhe useofd hanJ     subject texta to cover on
toolS.                          year, i.e., three Per
subjet; speciali ed subject
4. Seeic (primary an is)        teta to cove all three
education maueripta             year; books ssumed to last
devloped or adapted, and        the  years).
books pWrite. All baesi
*eucation puptis given acc*s    4. Baic and SS teacher           C  Special conditions.
to teatbooks In all subject.   guides to be made available
(one text per subject per       for all subject and grades.
pupiI In grades 8-9 and on
teat per two pupils in grades
I and 21 beee as. sod to
lat 4 years). mteic
educatin teacher gulde
produed and diet tbuted to
-  Subjects.
5. Toatbooke Selected and
purchas  for eatlatlg
secondary schools.



- 36 -
GHANA                              Annex 3.1
Page 3 of 5
SECO  EgDUCATIO SECTOR AUTMENT CREDOIT
MAIMtX OF POLICY ACTS
it.   TeAOINGEARN-o PROCESS
Objectivet  To 1iep1`v the eff`ctiveness Of  hool proar   by strengthening teacher
sing , tnapectioa and su wpeiol, and by Increasing shool accountability.
Performac  UNer EdSAC I         EdIAC It                        Performance Target  and
Implicatione for E"C S S   Actlon Preg._                       Speclal Condition.
__________~______________e _____e_
1. Study of pre-service        1. Announc that all             1.  Actlon  ta4n:
techer training stfrted.       untrained teacher, currently    (a) Final zo plone tor nm
Elilination ot 4-yer poet-      in system uset cowla"               circuit-based
*iddle school teacher          foral teacher traning                supervislon;.
training promgrm. All newly-   progr  by 150, or their         (b) Announcement that
rarwited techers must have    employment In the Ghana               Standardized achioevn t
mInlmum ot thre years post.    Education Service (C£S) be           tes will be
secondary er lairs.            t r lw tod                           wolasistere  nd  re suts
'7   ItO                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~publicized;. and
2. Al 1 JS teachers and        2. Teacher trailnn  collge    (c) Plan far In-serviem
heads primary school heads,    curiculum  (tor beels                training for all basic
airctdt officers, and t eher   education techer.) to he             and SSS teachers..
training eolleg  tutos  given   revised and strgt        to
In-service training to orlont   ensr that tratning             2.  Condtilons for
them to the n  curriculum       relevant to the different, *  
and to I nstrut them on the    goll as th eo  on neds ot.
ne  procedres for assessment   primary and JSS teaer..
of pupil performane                                            S.  Conditio     or second-
(continuoe aes_eemebnt         S. All SS$ techer. to he            Tranchb  114rease
Introduce  und r the rform     fmiliarloe with the $SS         (a) In-service training plan
rogrm  to be used In           curriculum and ne stude"t            on achedula; and
ojelunction with existing      a      nt procedures.           (b) Dvelopment and trial on
end-of-ourse e,saminations).                                       pilot bass of
About 2,000 prticipants        4. All basti education and           standardized achlsumant
bav  bas tra di n course       SSS tOehee  to receivo              tet.
lasting from M  to three       regular in-ervice training.
weeks.                                                         4.  Condition  ftor Third-
S. National Service stff to         T     hef el se
S. Plan developed for new      work with supervisors to        (a) TInsrvice  roaning plon
circuit-bedW supervilon of    monitor impleentation of the          on echedul.; and
basic education.                reform progrm.                 (b) Standardized achivement
test administered and
4. Decision to mak schoole    6. Develop and implement              results publicized.
accountabl for performance     plan for supervitsion of SSS
of students,                   progrm.
7. Develop and implemnt
progrm to administer
stantdardized chievemnt test
to random sampl. of Class 0
pupilo In all schools.
Resulto wIl be usedto
evaluate effectiveness of
primary school teaching.
School average to he
publicleA for purpose of
b # ging comnity pressure
to bear on low-achieling
schools. Other mesres
Introduced to Improve
performneo In perennially
low-achleving chools and
districts.



- 37 -
GNA4A                                  Annex 3.N
~~ ec~~~~~u~~~                           Page 4 of 5
SECON EDCTIO SECOI A rUTf CREDITPae4o
MATRIX  P POICY ACTIONS
III. RE!g".gL OM
ObJ*ctive:  To reduc the por ppl  ost of education without sacrifIcing quallty, by
retecment of redundnt staff and Introduction of uwr to  for books.
P  tormneo under EdSC I         EdSAC t                          erformance Tergets and
Ioplicetton  for EdSC 1         Action Progr                    Special Conditions
1. Audit of *ll staff on       1. Further retrenchmet of       1.  Conditions of
payroll of GES and tertiary     redundant nosnteaching staff        Ef ctLOew:
institutions and elimination    in schoos end tertiary              me".
of alI posts filled by          lnstittions.
nonexistent staff.                                             2.  Conditions for Second-
2. Froee on total number of   2. Ceiling iposed on                   raPont" R0lease:
teaching poet. and ban on   *nxi    number of  CE5 stafft;   LCE)  *t  W t oti *1 kinds
recruritent or replacement of   to r   In In offset at tleat        not to exceed 158,000;
untrained teach ers            until end of 1d 2.               b   0ook fees In primary and
8. Freeze on total nuber of                                         junior secondary schools
nonteaching staft and on        8. MiOnmum student-teacher          mintained at no los
recruitment or replacment of   ratto of 20:1 to be                  than 1907 proportions of
now nonteaching stff.          mtntaned In senior                   full costs;
Agreemnt with Teachers and      secondbry schools.             ECc  At SS leovl, lowel of
Educational Workers Union on                                        book ussr fees
plan for reducing the number   4. All  feedng charges to be         oufftalent for
of nontoaching staff and for    IInked to Inflation.                Government to cover full
the redeployment of some of                                         costs over the books'
those now In   rvIceo.          5. Book user foe  at basic          I ifepen; and
Rstrenchment begun.             eduction l1eve to Increase          At SS$ lOl, lovl of
4. Staffing norm  developed    with the eot of books.              fen for student feedin
for JSS.                                                            Sufficient to cover tull
5. Reduced proportien of       S. SS$ book user tfw to be           cots of food.
bo rding to day studet I n      Introduced nd maintained,
Government secondry schoolo.   suft feent to cover full co t   8.   fOO=  for Third-
Required tha*tat lost 8ox of   of b_oo.                             TricIhnRslo
all now intake into  xisting                                    a ts onstaff no- to exco   d
boarding schools be day                                             168,000;
students.                                                       b] Book fees In primay and
6. All feeding eubaldies                                            Jun1or secondery schools
elisinated at ceconder3                                             at no less than 1207
level,                                                              proportions of full
7. Charge  introduced to                                            cost.;
cover full cost of feedin rc) At 8SS level, level of
#id books for tertiary lowl                                         book user fee
students. To ease the burden                                        sufflcient for
on fastlTI-, a loan scheme                                          Government to cover full
woo established under which                                         cost over the books'
students can borrow up to                                           life span; and
tsW,oOO per yer.                                               (d) At SSS level, level of
8. Fee  Introduc  to cover                                         tfe  for studnt fding
partially the sale of                                               suficient to cover full
exorcise book* and us of                                            costs of food.
textbooke at basic education
1lev.  Prneda depste                                           E I Special condittons.
Into rwolving accoun.
9. Elimintlon of bok
subsidy at tertiary level 10.
Stuy of unit costs eonduc
and reslts4 pbolicle.
11. Devlopment of and
agreemet betee  Govrnmoet
and universities on plan for
higihr education
rationalization.



3R -
0MMWU                              .Annex 3.1
Page 5 of 5
SECOS EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
MATRIX OF POL?T ACTION
:V. PLAUNM   a   MANAEME
Objective: To  eure oest eoffetiverses in educatio  expendituree, through better investmnt
planning       pror      Improved prourement procedure, and Greater emphais
so preventive mal stance.
Performance   dr Gme EdiC I      ACI Pitrmawe Target a*nd
Implications for EdtSC It       Action Program                Special Conditione
1. StatfIng and spuce normw    1. Continud app*liatlon of    1.  Actions token:
reovWoed, updated and          norm.                            (t) A9r400 onthn  1990
*pplied.                                                            education budget - both
2  Sytem to be implemented          capital and recurrent. 
2. Budgt allocatlen to         whereby all projcts fully       (b) Pre limnary agreeont on
education lncreased.           elaborated and listed in             expenditures to be
priority order before               finngod out of credit
S. Number of sub-projecto   submisslon by M   to Minstry            procees during 1900 end
education PIP reduced to mke    f Finamne  nd Econ"omie             1 01.
program  ana"g.abl. end         'lanning for taciueion In
feasibl.                       l'IP.                           2.  Condit.t  n for
Ewf tlvenn" s
4.  Agr_eemet annually         S. Agreemewt annally                 Rone.
be-_ee  IDA snd eemat on    etes"n IDA and Govern mmn  on
educational budget and on us   educational budget and on us    S.  Cnndittono for Second-
of IDA funda.                   of IDA tunb.                        Tancef  Reilegse:
[aj ActUal expenditre ver
S. Basic education*s share     4. Oale eduation'. share             1190 in line with agred
of education budget             of education budget                 b idgeto;
Increased.                    m*intan.                         Eb] Ba s  educatieon' share
of r euent education
S. P3U * etbished I     to       . Procurement system to be         budget maintained at
oversee implemeountion of       lnstitstionallzed within MOE        leas at 1969 level; and
refeor progras and all         Vn  as ititutionos.             (a] Agreement on the 1991
procuremt under EAC.                                                education budget - both
S. Preventive maintenance           capital and recurrent.
7. System established within  scheme to be deoigned and
Project Management Unit of      lmplemonted In all basic       4.  Conditions for Third-
MOE for procuromnt of Item    education Institutions with           Tr       Releases
under EdIAC.                   funding free PT"A and echool     ] AeOul expenditure  for
production efforts.                 1991 in line with agreed
S. Mergr of planning and                                            budgetCs
buMdgti n functions into a     7. tnentivo scheme to be         b] Beasie education'o share
single division  itOhin MOE     Introduced to reward schools        of recurrent education
begun. Recruitment of staffd   that have god maintonence            budget maintained at
to handle Intograted            records.                            least at 1969 level; and
functiono.                                                     Ec] Agroemnt on the 19M
S. MOE budget to provide            education budget -- both
xpliettly for maintenance           capital and rocurront.
and repair of equipmnt and
faciitiet  in SSS.
9. PU strengthened through
establishment of additional
positions to handlo burden of   C ] Special conditions.
mplemeting Phase Two
reform and consolidating
phase One roform.



GHANA
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
A"nlsi of Capecity for Senior Secondary School First-Ye.r Student. In 1990/91
Converted and                               Totel
Eusting        propoed nm    Now or
_____ ____ _   __ ____ ____ converted
strewme as                 Approx. SI studeInt
Esti-           Eati-   percent of           LEtl-
Schib  mated    Schie  mted    ealeting    Sehle  mted
Reion                   90/01  skrue    90/91  strms     stream      90/91  strm    40/clase  46/#lIss
Ashanti                    48    148       22     6        87.1%       70     196       7,040    6,620
Brong Ahafo                2      s        12     81       86.01       40     117      4,680   5,265
Centr l                    20     79       15     46       57.01       41     124      4,900    5,C80
Eastern                    46   180        18     49       87.75       68     179      7,100    0,05t
Greeter Accrs              26     01        7     16       17.61       82     107      4,280   4,016
Volts                      87    104       20     58       61.0%       67     157      6,280    7,065
Wtern                      21    70        17    46        6.71        88     116      4,640    6,220
7 SOUTH     REGINS      280    T08      I1I   293        41.711      41     99      309,640  44,020
Northern                   11    80        17     61      170.01       26      a1      8,240    8,646
Upper East                  7    21         9     26      128.8X1      1       47       1,900    2,115
Upper Wet                   6     18        6     15       68.85       12      88       1,$20    1,406
8 NORTHE   REalONS       24    609       32     92      18.8%        56     161       ,440    7,245
ALL 10 REIONS           254    772      148   a86        49.91      807   1,157     46,280   52,065
:3
Note: Where no Information on number of streams In a school, 8 streams assumed. 



- 40 -
Annex 4.2
Page I of 4
GHUN
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUST4ENT CREDIT
SENIOR SECONDARY SCHOOL REFOU( -- PROPOSED CURIRCULUM(
The new senior sezondary school refotm has been developed in
response to criticism that. in the past, this level of education had been
overly academic and, thus, removed from the country's development and manpower
needs. The reform will include a core curriculum to be followed by all senior
secondary students, along with five specialized programs, two or more of which
will be offered in each school. Students will select one specialized program,
within which they will follow one option, consisting of a package of three
subjects.
The core curriculum will consist of seven subjects. English,
Ghanaian languages, science, mathematics, agricultural and environmental
studies, life skills, and physical education. Students will study each of
these subjects throughout the three years of senior secondary school. All
core subjects will be examined both internally and externally, with the
exception of physical education, which will not be assessed externally.
The five specialized programs will include: agriculture, business,
technical, vocational, and general education. Options to be made available
under the five programs are listed below. (The fact that a school offers a
particular program does not mean that the school will offer all of the options
listed under that program. The number of options that any school will be able
to offer will depend on the number of students in that school, since the
overall student-teacher ratio in a school should never be less than 20:1.)
I. Agricultural Program
Option tl
general agriculture (soil science, crop science,
animal science, farm management)
farm mechanization
horticulture
Option #2
general agriculture
horticulture
agricultural economics and extension



- 41 -
Annex 4.2
Page 2 of 4
option Ps
general agriculture
farm mechani:ation
horticulture
II. Commerce Program
Accounting Option
introduction to business management
any two of: accounting, business maths and costing. or
clerical
Secretarial Option
introduction to business management
typing (40 vpm)
clerical office duties
III. Technical Program
Building Option
technical drawing/engineering science
building construction
woodwork
Metal Work Option
technical drawing/engineering science
metal work
another
Applied Electricity Option
electricity/electronics
physics
mathematics
Auto Mechanics Option
technical drawing/engineering science
auto mechanics
metal work or another
IV. Vocational Program
Home Economics
management in living
food and nutrition
cloth and textiles or another (general art)



- 42 -
Annez 4.2
Page 3 of 4
Visual arts
art
general (history, appreciation, general concepts of art)
plus any two of the following subjects (to be selected by
schools, not students):
basketry
leather-work
graphic design
picture making
pottery
sculpture
textiles
V. General Program
Arts
Option #1
English language
literature In English
French
Option #2
English language
French
Ghanaian language
Option 03
economics
geography
history
Option #4
English
Ghanaian language
drama and poetry
Option t5
economics
geography
French
Option J6
government
literature in English
history



- 43 -
Annex 4.2
Page 4 of 4
Option #7
history
Christian religious studies/Islamic studies
a third subject, to be decided by school
Option #8
music
literature in English
Ghanaian language
Option t9
economics
geography
mathemtics
Science
Integrated options will be constructed from any
three of the following subjectst
biology
chemistry
physics
mathematics



GHANA
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR ziDJUSTHF.NT CREDIT
Propoe  _umbw  of Sf lor Secondary School OfMlog DIffteroat Prograe/Optlon in *99Q/J9
Propoed Ihmbr and P.r-cot of Senlor Secondary Schoel Offering:
Agicultur              C_rce                     Tchleal b/                     Vocatleonl
11_. *f                                                                                                      (~Ar-t and
Angles      Seboole  Ine.Fi Exe.FU   Total   Acc'Oa  Secr*l  Ap.Elec. Auto.M. ll tal.  Slidog   Total   moEc. Vio.Arta Sciences)
Aehast         70      1   1484X  254M    14 20   7101    113   1   12171  16 212  17 243   6  WS   0 0           100    49 ?07
Oroe"Awe       40      1 OX  10 40      4 17 48   01   4 103   1      1       61 5 3   106 2    10 23   401003  401006   2 783
Celtre         41      1 2   20 403  S1        1 88 2   6123    1 23   1 23   01 5S   18 M2  14 843   87 O0   41 1003   10 3
Easte                  1 2  25 403  26 413     9 143 4          1 I 2    1 25  010 3  1 20   1C *80    560 0   " 1003   46 78X
GreeteuAcors #2        183   6M6    0           6   53 4 183    1      18     S    6193   0263    20    2764S  821 003   25 763
Northern       to      1 43 U    1    i? 4       14S  273       143    14X 81 1   3   6 203   0A        110 20 i 26100 1 2 483
UPperlsot      10      1 63   1008    111 8o   *       2163 21          13 I  1    a 81  513i    6      16 100t    1*10lI  lo 603 u
UpWpe V1 ot    i2      1X   65so    75so        2 171  1 e      I3    1 63   4 58    4 38    463    112 91   121003    75 6
Volte          57      12    16 82    106 t8 3    7 ago 5   1i23   1i          6 5 312213i   10883    5         53      1003   8 06
Western         6      183   1 471  19 N0       6163  8s    1           183    71  133 1        8        71   8 1 2X   $7 97    U I005   21 U3
MLL10IMEGIM   8O7    106 1O   0 403 1704831  721    86 13   10 83   10 X  00 US  106 27  12080    870 08 M  I lOOV #2 06
*1 Aleriltar peog
Iac.jlco. FM a  loodl.g/exclud)  courses to faa. mchsltlo.. tW eet fupenolve sWa difficult.-to-awt  of the sartelter-l
b/ ToehnIcal prersos
Ap.Elec. a applied oloctelcty optiso;
uto.U. * sato mechanics o.lo;
3. * metOl work option;
Sidag a building optlin.
Tot*l: Sma$llr then the sum of schools offering *nch of tho four options, becoau  some technical-bies *choolo would, under the
MOE's curront proposal, be offoring mor, than coo of tho tochaical progre. options.



- 45 -
Annex 4.4
Page 1 of 3
GHMAA
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
PROJECTED UNIT COSTS OF SENIOR SECONDARY SCHOOL PROGRAMS
The table in this annex projects unit costs for the five proposed new
senior secondary progrms and illustrates the factors underlying the
differentials among programs. The table is based on the HOE's onm cost
projections and on relevant experienco both within Ghana and internationally.
In both halves of the table, the total unit cost is the sum of the
relevant cost elements (columns (4) through (7) and (9) through (12)).
Columns (1) and (2) estimate, respectively, the values of the building and
-quipment stocks, per strea  (3 classes x 45 students per class * 135
students). These have been used to calculate colums (4) and (5), which
represent the annual costs of maintaining buildings and equipment. The cost
of building maintonnce is assumed to equal 2t of the value of the stock; the
unit cost shown in column (4) has been derived by taking this figure,
converting it from dollars to cadis. and dividing by 135. Equipment
maintenance costs have been derived in the* sa fashion, but based on an
assumption that the annual equipment maintenance cost equals 10 of the value
of the equipmnet stock.
Column (3), equivalent periods per week, is an estimate of the number
of periods that will need to be taught weekly for a class of 45 students in
the five programs. In a program where every class consisted of the full
complement of students, only 40 periods per weok would need to be taught.
However, in all five programs considered here, it Is assumed that it will be
necessary to split classes In half in order to accommod ate smaller groups
during workshop and laboratory periods. Thus, although there are only 40
periods in a week, it will take more than that number of teaching periods to
accommodate any of the five progrm. The number of equivalent periods per
week has been used to calculate the teacher costs shown in column (7). Column
(7) has been determined by multiplying the average teacher cost per period
(0318) by the equivalent number of periods per week, and dividing by an
average class sue of 45.
The figures in coluss (0) *ar the estimated costs for materials --
the consumables used by a student in a given progrm during one year. Column
(9) shows the costs of non-salary items other than textbooks, exercise books,
and other classroom materials. The figures in colum (10) are the cost of
non-teaching staff porsons' salaries and allowances, excluding the salaries of
catering staff, which are included in the next column.
Column (11) pertains to the additional cost imposed by the presence
of boarding students in the system. These fLgures are based on a recent cost



- 46 -
Annex 4.4
Page 2 of 3
study done by the HOt   It includes the salary costs of catering staff. plus
(in part A of the table) a elOO per day food cost fee paid by boarding
students for 40 weeks, seven days per week. The figures presented in thls
column *ro the cost per student when boarding costs are spread across both
boarding and day students.
Column (12) shows the estimated cost por student-year for textbooks
and exercise books. The calculation assumes that each student will have
access to a supply of exercise books sufficient to last for one year. plus
nine textbooks, each at a cost of ¢1,000 and an assumed book life of four
years.
Colum  (0) and (13) are, respectively, the sums of columns (4)
through (7) and (9) through (12) and are estimates of the varable and fixed
unit costs of the five progrms. Colun (14) is the total of columns (8) and
(13) and represent total (fixed plus variable) unit costs.
It is in columns (11) and (12), and subsequently in columns (13),
(14), and (13) that parts (A) and (U) of the table differ. In part (A), these
columns reflect the total (GCovrnment plus private) cost of providing food and
books to students. In part (5), the fees charged for theso Ltems and paid for
by students and their families have been excluded from the calculations; the
saunts shown represent the net costs to Covernmnt.
The final colui, (15). presents the cost of each program in relation
to the cost of the least expensive program, which is the arts program. The
projected ratios in the top part (A) of tho tablo show that, compared to the
full cost of the arts progrm, costs will be higher by 4 porcent in the
sciences, 5 percent in the commerce 'ogrm, and 8, 10, and 33 percent in the
agriculture, vocational, ad tecbnh. -. programs, respectively. Part (3) of
the table shos that the differences among program are more pronounced when
fees are left out of the calculations (because foos are a fixed per-student
amount and do not vary by program). Not costs are shown to be 6 percont
higher in the sclences tha In the arts, and S percent, 9 percent, 14 percent,
and 48 percent higher in the commerce, agriculture, vocational, and technical
program, respectively.



MTa  can    1111Aa  (A)  n. (0. AM  0)  0WaV.h  CU_ (! Un  SE fF          S MS)
volt ses  16  Oil* VW  tuet o
CapUM  toc. p_                               Vetlsbl cots                             Pied cost                    Tele
XoE   (no We   SpIweSea                                                                                           ls co" M;s;
_______________    hs"6IS                                                                                    (vetlekis  cost
Ptle*   aI idles wSpIm*                             0100t 6 I. e-ss. Ssto-ie                    plus   Is"
ttseem    hI WIawlSpps="  pee MAc  esob.  most.  *Atrie  Tosehee Sob-Uos. - s..  owAe  eUff4s moo"  S-t t.  ied)  (*rs.3)
)         (a       ()        ()      ()        0)      (1)    0)        (C)    (10)      33     (3)    (AS)       (34)    (16)
(A) 1AL Cog 1  "011  f9_   Sff MR
At"    n o   n.ow          4t.0                         on1.SIM    1 O U30    *,o0   6,00       se.'   trn    s.,. t     ..u       3.60
Selow*             $I',4U    81.516    4100 1., 3O r             SIM   ":no    *,o   e,0 1s,0  2,i0.    a,isl               ",On      1.0oe
C*Ni_m               MISZo    42.                          I's    U'        4 I"o u$,t ao0           16'    SI    $6,91       s o "t a   1.06
AplsesIter  633.46  6i.m         41.6                        low6gm  .    Is48    S4.0W    e,m   *,    16516 I'm   ",us    40.14          3.16    -.1
VetImI 6t  *4        tO U,.     46.0               I'm    seem 1      I's1,1  1.1    *,0n   *.0       Is,w  g.m   pIse        di.l       3. 1
Telsobses  St34     Wo6m0     61 1.    6        Isom3   4.6 16 3466   46.136   $,w1   *.s.    as... SIM    "ein              3211      3.:"
(5)iNinI  (61  (MA 1.5OF SUAUW PUS)
At"s 1t'.                  4*1 ,1 1.01                  on6  now 6             *,1n   4,600      1,l       0  II."$ 66     ,16    1.60
SIlosl  61t46 t    8U16*    41.0        1,8     1'm1            is to   a         Ise     es.       g.m       o  ti,g    4l,*U         3.16
CON""*        n1    mom       41.6       s.1o    4,4"    I'm   1lU       n 14.64   0, aS.           ,SI        0  *.1,       4i1.1      3 .46
Ar    ite.. 6.46   m0o0m    41.6            yes     *.m     I,w   16.48   14I0 U,w    es.               g.m       0  11.'m6    4*         1.60
%sesI.eft   63461  616.61       46.6       l.ow    I.m     g.m0  Isom3  N6.11    06I6   Os.0           Sm        0  11.'m      44.611    3.14
babsIeI 633460  1300         61.      p.s.  13.5       4.316  14,I0  40.13    seen   6.846        1,60      0  311'm      mon8    3.49
.() t t1L        (5    T
_se p . * (8n1. coils N)......................................     366.......    no
£pIg.~ 1sise      n (_sesi _ 1- _  _ s tOe) .........................   so-dil ....... " . i
W 11^ " _ | _ _ St 64 _1gf_) ....................................1............    CO11t.
_& ~ _i *1oe..............................................      46 .......      46
P*witw _I_ Wf ("a p_ VW) ............................... MSG.. ," do.  
ber~ ~~~          ...'........._...................................  ... .    .. ..  n                                            a
SC"*_  ...................................                             ..............    Us 40 
per* s    *ft-se    ..........................................      ............     
Sostile.45 ps "edis  (coi pe pe_w) ...............                 ,6..        ... - 60
A;weepesbe.eIe  (coil. pe pe_ st*).366.m                                 . 



- 48 -Annex .
41~~i
Ca
'aa'     ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
~~ W  on  q~L



GHANA
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
PERFORMANCE TARGETS AND SPECIAL CONDITIONS FOR TRANCHE RELEASE
(a a special coaditions)
Actions to be taken by First Review   Action  to be taken by Secoad Review
objective                          Action  taken sins. Apprisal    (Second Tranche -- _beet Augut 1991)  (Third Trecbe -- _s-t August 1592)
1. C"tinue  Implemeattion of son  September 1Wit All middle school  Septembe 10:  All secondary                Septer 11:  All seco edry
structure of th school systemt   scbool third rer  classes replaced   schol For I clase  replaced by    seool Form t cl_ses elaced by
redcing pre-saIvelsty edc-    by JSSS.                                the ne  51.                          the mS $2.
tieo tree 17 to 12 years
2. Rfore of saler secendary education
(a) Crrcoulue deslig             Syllobi for *Il subjects Is the     Assig  study to evOlute SSS           81eis evalution of $SSS curriculum
re_criculum completed.              curricalm  oetr firt thre year        booed en experienc durlg fIrst
of ioelme       .                    yer of mplementetion.
(b) Pattern of operatlo  la     Government eowlted  atrix of  *   No pregrm option belng ro by ony  * No pr_rm option being ru  by any
schools                      selor secondary  choolo (existing   school unless at lbeot 20 student    shool oafew   at leas  20 students
Secondary schools Nd poed sew   free sach grade are enrol led In          from eac  grade  e enrolled In
or convrted secools, groud by    that option, and unions there are    that option, sW unleas there are
Region)  "aisat prorm_ aN           suitably qulified toech_rs or          uitably quliftid teachers or
prere  oplons, to tidicate theol Srvo "Off to tech                        Nationl Service staff to teach
ONbr oft sacool offering eash      *al ot the course  is that optioa.   *Il of the coures  ia that option.
option, the number of optlon li
sech school, and the total a*nual
sntake Of students.
(c) Tatb oolk                     et41Ati*l on  of quentitbe of #SU
textbooks seed  by subject.
Tendering for publishlig adW
printing of tutboWok  underway.                                                                              °
LA



(a D special condition.)
Actions to be taken by First Review   Actions to be tdon by Second Review
Objetive                           Action. taken since Appraleal   (Second Trench. -- about Augut 1991)  (Third Tranch  - about Agut 1992)
2. (d) Program coe"                 Government provided indicative      O"eg  study to onitor actual         Intalet study.
figures of unit cost  or oeah       unit coot of varit   programs an
progm-  using examples of           program option  ovr tim.
esiotieg aceoptabl.-qality
progrm  s models.
(e) Staffing                                                         Ahievo e   f  Inim SSS studant-       WIbN)* sI-'n  tsad_- retio at
teacher ratio of 20:1, lncluding     or abov 20:1, including notionsl
notional service stff.                wvice staft.
(t) StudmA promcCentinuous asessment guidlees                                                             we" Afics_ Esmletism  CouclI
ass_esmet                                                        preare  aN  all S11 t#Seaer           to coplte preta.lo. of SSS
tranled Is teir apilicatio.          eaws to reflt am aphasic on
pratical competclse sW sork
orliettion.
*. lprving the                    process
(a) I-srvice techr training  ovenmt prseeted  ecoptable              lIplemostetlon ot pies pr     Ing    Ioplemttion of ples cotinuing
plan for regular in-sevice          on schedule, and plan to cv          on schedule.
trainig of all erwving heele a      1992 an  t9" pr_estd to MA.
aeior secondary education
teachr during 1M  and 1991.
(b.) Iasecio/supervie.
(1) esl edcation               vmot finolisd plow for am    loplememotion of plan proee   Inplometatian of pies pr_loeding
ciut-booed supervisionl             on schedete.                         on schedule.
includln  nneoucmeaet of Job
desriptions and performa ncerm.
OQ¢
00
o0.



C. = special conditions)
Aetions to be ta e  by First Review   Actions to be taken by Second R  IOW
ObJectU.                           Actions taken OInce Appraoi1s  (Scond Troenh. -- *bout Agust 1991)  (Third Tranche -  bout Augstt 1092)
a. (b) (ii) Senior secondery                                             Preset plon, satisactory to IDA$   Impiomatiot   of plea precudieg
education                                                    for *upurvistoiof the SS$ proorf_    on schedule.
Including Job dawriplces *nd
performanc norms.
(e) School accountability         Woernment sgreed that from the       e"elop and pilot standardised        Adieister test ad pblielz
n  of d1090/91 school year, a        wcho eet test.                         slts
standardized achievmet tes
ill be a*dainstered to a random                                           Do 14s  plan for isfpeviOg ahiev
cauple of Orad. 6 pupils In lo                                            meet in p r-w lally loe-achlevieg
schools to eovluvte the                                                   schoolo and districts.
dffectleme_   ot primary school
teaching. Scheol aveorages wll be
pubicgIze  for purpose of bringing
CES attenlton and c_muity
pressre to bear on loo-achieviog
seools.
(d) Textbooks                    All basic educattoe pupils have      All basic ledSctioe pupilo have       All basic eduotion ppIlls hove
access to full cosplem_t of         acco  to full  _  bplement of                to full empeme_ t of
textbooks.                          tetbooks.                             teutbesht.
Al 1851 student have access to       Al 5851 and 5881 stude1e have
full coslemt of textbook.                   to ful I  mleee of
textbooks.
( 1 t elool IooW*tiu                                                C6o fmeaot oo plot plea *or eo-       bwlanotstloe of pleboom.
dle eIO lof  Technialo INStItIUM.
to
pi



- special condi'c;;.)
AcCions to be tken by First Review  Actions to be token by Second Review
Objective                           Actions token since Appraisal    (Seond Trench -- hbout Augut 1991)  (Third Trenho -  about Augus  1992)
4. Reducing an  shring of recursot costs
(a) SXtafig norm                                                    * OS staff of *11 hind  (incling    an S atff of all kiad  (lecludi#g
tehers, teeching s"eisnto,            t,ecere, tesbieg sitstea,
nen-tesecing VW edleinitrtivo         an teaching and edeiaistr.tive
staff, nurery school   atendts       stff., surgery ochoel attend,te
n  *11 eothr cetegorlea eucept       s* o11 eUthr catoegorisese
studenta In teacher training          student. tn teaher training
colle41e en  netiml service          colleg  sad  et"1iee  *ervice
staff)  ot to ox""  15"000.           taf)  et to U"cd  5,8.
(b) Seek mor fees                                                     Book fan Ia primary Od jenior  *   Beek fes to priemry eW junior
oscondry schoolc maintane  at o a     econdry wceeles maintan   at mo
l1e tha  16/11 proportios of        less t1an 1967/8  proertise  of
tfll cot.                            fl 1a_.                                  N)
a At 8S# level, maintoin leve of e       At $   lSvel, mlantin lee  of
bok uoo tfo   suficflit for          bok mos tfe  euftlfest for
loerast to coVWr tl cot over   Goveramet to cnver tfll coot over
the books llfe, spa.                 th boka' llft spas.
(c) Food *ubeidle                                                   s At 8S level , maintin level of    * At 8SS lvwol,  sItoele ewvel of
fee  for etudet feeding t uffilee t  fm far atudatfeetdwin  euff icient
to covr fl cos  of fetd.             to cover tfll ceste of foo.
6. More effective eloening end o_snment
(a) Controlling the public                                            All proJet  o  sub-p_jecs fully  All project. en  sub-proect. fully
investmn  p"rem (PIP)                                             elaborated en  listed to priority  *loborobed en  listed ia priority
order before sr bieze to Mimlitry   order before ebislon to  isistry
of Flnnc  Nd Econmic Planlin  to   of Fl_nc  aWn  Economic Ploanlg to
be egaidared for incleelos is PIP.  be co _idrd for incluon Is PIP. 
00
4, 
%Al



Annex 3.1
Page v of 5
it I   Ii}  II Ii'i !              eII
t          -i l'   II|  .*  _l-i i*i
Ii II              -i
i, | IL   ,I                   , =
£1            2-            Ii1.1
jIsIS
3    1"   A:  ,,. a.i    Ill *;~~~3'I
Po    I~:i'~~,                 I
1~~~~~~1111jlI111h   l



,A,,O,,fJ,,tt                   - 54 -f4z                   ECONOMIC PLANNING
ACCRA
,LtXCo   _ 29th March,   190
Annex 5,2
GHANA                              Page I of 4
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
LETTER OF EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Mr. Barber Conable, President
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C 20433
Oear Mr. Conable,
I am writing to you with regard to the proposed Second Education
Sector Adjustment Credit toinform the International Development Association of
the progress that has been made during the first phase of Ghana educational
reform programme and of our plans to solidify and extend the benefits of the
programme over the next several years. Our development objectives in the area
of education have been to devise a more effective and relevant system, serving
more Ghanaians, yet sustainable over time given the nation's limited
resources. These objectives were first elaborated in the 1974 White Paper,
"The New Content and Structure of Education", and they were further clarified
in the Education Policy Statement ofthe PNOC Secretary for Education.
In terms of macroeconomic policy, the Government has, during recent
years with assistance from the World Bank and the IMF. undertaken a range of
policy measures intended to reverse the economic decline of the late 1970s and
early 1980s. The first phase of the Economic Recovery Programme (1983-1986)
led to improvements in the country's balance of payments and positive growth
of GOP. During the second phase, Government has broadened the scope of the
programme to encompass reform and revitalization of the social sectors as well
as rehabilitation of the economic sectors.
In this context, we have placed particular emphasis on the education
systemm, recognizing the critical importance of human resources as the
foundation for broader national development. However, we also recognized that
if education were to be Improved and expanded, new patterns of financing and
resouce allocation would be required. With the assistance made available by
the Bank and other international donors under the Education Sector Adjustment
Credit (Cr.1744-GH), in 1987 we began to Implement a number of measures that
are central to the nations's educational reform programme:
*        First, adjustments have been made and will continue to be made within
the educational budget to ensure that the resources allocated for
education improve quality and expand access, and that they are not
used merely to promote employment within the system. Evidence of
this critical shift in emphasis can be seen in the form of more books
and instructional materials in classrooms, fewer untrained teachers
in schools, and better and more regular supervision provided by
circuit- and district-based officers of the Ghana Education Service.
as well as rising enrollment rates in basic education.



Annex 5.2
-  _ 55 _                    Page 2 of 4
Second. students and their families have been asked to increase thetr
participation in the financing of education in line with a
significant enhancement of educational quality. By introducing or
increasing fees for books and feeding it will possible to use
budgetary allocations to benefit a much broader spectrum of the
school-age population.
Third, the structure of the education system changes significantly
under the reform programme. The length of pre-university education
will be reduced from 17 years to 12. thereby promoting access and
equity In that parents and Government will have fewer years of
schooling to finance per chtild.
a        Finally, the curriculum is being revised at all levels of the system
to make it more relevant to Ghana's economic and social conditions.
This work has already been completed for grades 1-9 and is now being
undertaken for grades 10-12.
Achievements During tne First Phase of the Reform
In accordance with an earlier Letter of Education Oevelopment Policy.
addressed to you in connection with the first Education Sector Adjustment
Credit on 8 October, 1986. Government has already Implemented a number of
Important reform measures. Chief among these have been;
(a)      initiating the reduction of pre-university education by replacing
four-year middle schools with three-year junior secondary schools
(and, to compensate, increasing the length of the school year from 33
weeks to 40 and Improving the quality of basic education);
(b)      terminating intake from primary schools directly into secondary
schools and permitting future entry only from junior secondary schcol
class 3;
CC)      reforming the curriculum in primary and junior secondary school
(grades 1-9) to make it more consistent with Ghanaian social.
economic, and cultural conditions (costs at this level have also been
contained through greater utilization of locally available materials);
(d)      providing all students accesss to required textbooks, and introducing
book user fees paid Into a revolving fund to be used for book
replenishment;
(e)      eliminating the direct subsidy for food at secondary- and
tertiary-level institutions, and introducing a loan scheme for
students at tertiary-level institutions to cover these and other
costs;
(f)      reducing the number of non-teaching staff at secondary- and
tertiary-level institutions;
(g)      announcing a freeze on the total number of teachers in the system;
(hW      banning all future recruitment of untrained middle and junior
secondary school leavers to work as teachers in basic education; anc



-56 -                                           AheA S.2
(i;      completing a university rationalization study and an implementationPage 3    4
plan for this rationalization.
We have experienced some difficulty in enforcing the staffing
con:rols listed in (g) and (h), but we are still committed to their
implementation and are, thus, considering new and stronger measures.
ers*,,osals to Extend the Reform Programme. 1990-1992
In preparation for the 1990/91 academic year and the entry of the
first cohort ofJSS graduates into the new senior secondary schools (SSS), the
Government is now moving into the second phase of the reform programme. The
objectives to be achieved during the next three years include: restructuring
of senior secondary education; continuing to improve the quality and
efficiency of education at all levels of the system; and ensuring the
financial sustainability of the new system being put into place. In support
of all three objectives, top priority is being given to controlling staffing
witiin the Ghana Education Service (GES). It is clear that the entire reform
programme will be jeopardized unless staffing can be maintained at a
reasonable level.
Ifn particular, we intend to implement the following policy measures
over the next three years:
(a)      ensure that total GES staffing does not, at any time during the
implementation of the Credit, exceed 153,000 persons (including all
categories of staff, exept students at TTCs);
(b'      complete the restructuring of pre-university education by introducing
three-year senior secondary schools on top of the six-year primary
and three-year junior secondary system;
(c)      reform the senior secondary school curriculum so that it is
responsive to students' differing talents and interests and conducive
to rapid socio-economic development, while ensuring that the
curriculum is financially sustainable and that the teachers and
equipment needed to support specialized programmes are available;
(d       develop and implement a plan to ensure that all serving basic
education teachers receive increased in-service training;
(e       develp and aminister a standardized achievement test to a random
sample of grade 6 pupils in all schools in order to evaluate the
effectiveness of primary school teaching, and publicize school
averages in order to bring community pressure to bear on
low-achieving schools;
(f)      maintain book user fees in primary and junior secondary schools at no
less than 1987 proportions of full costs;
(g;      at the senior secondary level, establish and maintain a level of book
user fees sufficient for Government to recover the full cost over the
life of a book, and charge fees for feeding students sufficient to
recover the full costs of the food;



57 -                           Page 4 of 4
(h)      reorient the GES technical Institutes to make them more responsive to
the training needs of the majority of JSS leavers who will not go on
to senior secondary school;
(1)      maintain basic education's share of the education's share of the
education budget at least at the 1989 level;
(4)      rationalize and simplify the public investment programme of the
Ministry of Education; and
(k)      continue planning for the new four-year university system.
In addition, we will assure that the Project Management Unit within
the Ministry of Education hires adequate and appropriate staff to perform its
key role in the implementation of the entire reform programme.
I hope that these details will help clarify for you the main
direction of our education reform programme. We will, of course. be happy to
provide you with any further information that might be required.
Yours faithfully.
XW'OR.  ATE
PNOC SECRETARY FOR FINANCE
AND ECONOIMIC PLANNING



- 58 -                          Annex S.3
Page 1 of 7
GHANA
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
COST AND FINANCIAL IMPACT OF THE REFORMS
A. Background
1.        From the mid-1970s to 1984 education expenditures as a
proportion of GDP and of Government expenditures declined steadily. In
1976 public education expenditures were 6.4 percent of GDP and 21 percent
of total Government expenditures. By 1984 public educational expenditures
had fallen to 1.6 percent of GDP and 16 percent of total Government
expenditures. This decline in share was particularly serious as both GDP
and Government expenditures were stagnating or declining during the same
period. In real terms. in 1984 the educational system was receiving about
one-third of the resources it had received in the mid-1970's.
2.        Beginning in 1985 the situation has improved significantly.  By
1988, public educational expenditures had risen to slightly over 3 percent
of GDP and accounted for 22.4 percent of total Government expenditures.
Budgeted expenditures for 1989 provide for additional expansion. In
contrast to the previous period, this increase has taken place in the
context of growth in both output and Government spending. In real terms
t3tal public education expenditures in 1988 were more than 2.5 times higher
than in 1984. The structure of expenditures also has improved as spending
by the Ministry of Education on non-salary recurrent items has risen from
less than 12 percent of total recurrent expenditures in 1986 and 1987 to
nearly 18 percent in 1988 and was budgeted to be 22 percent in 1989.
B. Unit Recurrent Costs
3.        Table 1 presents estimated unit recurrent costs borne by the
Government for 1984185 and 1987188, compared where figures are available,
with average unit costs in Sub-Saharan Africa. The changes in unit costs
between 1984185 and 1987188 reflect: (1) the higher emphasis placed by the
Government on funding for primary education and the resources required to
establish the junior secondary school system, and (2) the impact of the
cost recovery measures implemented, particularly at the secondary and
tertiary levels. The proportion of costs for lodging and feeding students
dropped to 16 percent at the secondary level and 6.9 percent at the
university level, compared to 35 percent and 13.5 percent, respectively.



- 59 -
Anne: 5.3
Page 2 of 7
Table 1. Ghana: Comparative Unit Recurrent Costs Borne by Government,
1984485 and 1987-88 (Constant 1984 Cedis)
1934-85           1987-88
Cedis    US$      Cedis    US$     Sub-Saharan
Per     Per       Per     Per        Africa
Student Student   Student Student*    $ (1983)
Primary                         903         25     3,199     40          40
Middle/JSS                    1,274         35     4,561     56  )
Secondary Day                 4,303        119    10,388    128  )      160
Secondary Boarding            6,613        184    14,861    184  )
Teacher Training             16,020        445    15,907    197  )
Specialist Teacher Training  51,821     1,439    87,705  1,085  )    2,197
Technical and Vocational     11,700        327    15,698    194  )
University                   67.554      1,876   178,954  2,213  )
- Conversion made at current prices and exchange rate.
C. Impact of the Reform Pro8ram on Educational Expenditures,
1989-1993
4.        During the first phase of the education reform program,
considerable cost savings were achieved, primarily because of increases in
book user fees and reduction of subsidies on feeding and lodging costs. By
1993 the new structure of the education system will be in place, and most.
cost saving and cost recovery measures, including some relating to the
tertiary level, should be fully implemented. Significant savings are
expected to be achieved as a result of the retrenchment of untrained
teachers in early 1990 and thereafter through the enforcement of a freeze
on total staffing levels in GES. By 1993 salary savings derived from the
retrenchment of untrained teachers would amount to about ¢2 billion.
Enforcement of the staffing freeze would result in a reduction of the
salary bill of nearly e5 billion. In total, the salary bill would be about
10 percent lower than it would be in the absence of the program. In
addition, savings resulting from retrenchment of university staff would
amount to nearly 0700 million by 1993. In spite of these measures, salary
costs will continue to increase substantially owing to policies related to
the Government's civil service reform program.
5.        The structure of education expenditures should continue to
change. The share represented by salary costs is expected to decline,



- 60 -
Annex 5.3
Page 3 of 7
while that for non-salary recurrent expenditures and capital spending would
rise. In addition, the shift in budget allocation away from higher
education and towards basic education will continue during this period. By
1993, primary education would account for 42 percent of the budget. while
the share for university education would represent slightly less than 15
percent, despite a significant enrollment increase at that level.
6.        Enrollment assumptions are shown in Table 2. Growth in primary
intakes would average 5.0 percent a year. The participation rate (first
Table 2. Actual and Projected Earoll_nts by Level and Type ot Eduction ('00 students)
ActSul                     Projoead
ISS/U ... 1I00/s0   190/01  1991/92  1992/0 ... 1900/199F
Primary                  1,492.8   1,"5.1   1,?J.5  1,618.4  1,901.0    2,290.7
Viddle/Junlor Secodley    010.0 .   78.1       6W6.*   000.1   009.1       711.0
Middle                  415.1      161.9      0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0
mm iS                    194.9     6U.2       656     00.1    00.1       718.0
Senior Secondry           140.4     103.1      199.2   218.4   244.0       256.9
0/A Lovelo              146.4      108.1     130.8   106.5    78.8         0.0
toarding               62.4       9S.0      90.2    41.7     2.1        0.0
Day                     64.0      79.5      70.1    64.6    49.2         0.0
"Mw SS                    0.0       0.0       62.9   106.9   170.?       256.9
Boarding                0.0        0.0      28.4    41.9    67.0        88.0
Day                     0.0        0.0      29.6    66.0   118.1       175.8
Technical an Vocatioal     17.0      19.4      20.8    21.8    22.4         27.2
Techer Training            16.6      10.I      10.9    10.9    17.0         17.2
Rgplar                   17.0       16.2      16.2    16.2    15.2        15.2
Specialist                1.6       1.0        1.7     1.7      1.0        2.0
Univerity                  10.1      lo.6      11.4    18.1    18.4         14.0
Lol                       6.7       C.S       10.8    12.0    12.4        18.9
Ov0ere                    1.4       1.2        1.1     1.1      1.0        0.7
toal                    2,204.9   2,010.0   2,560.1  2,078.2  2,0.7    8,81.0



- 61 -
Annex 5.3
Page 4 of 7
grade enrollments as a percentage of the number of 6 year olds in the
population) would rise from 72 percent currently to 102 percent by the year
2000. Middle/junior secondary enrollments would decline between 1989190
and 1990/91 as the old system is phased out. Intakes into the new junior
secondary schools would grow by about 4 percent per year on average.
Enrollments at the senior secondary level would rise by about 50 percent
between 1988189 and 1993/94 as the old structure is phased out. The
transition rate from JSS to the new senior secondary schools is assumed to
rise from slightly less than 30 percent to 50 percent by 1996/97. It is
assumed that enrollments will be distributed evenly across the specialized
programs, based on initial MOE projections. Intakes into technical and
vocational schools are projected to increase by 5 percent a year. Regular
teacher training places are expected to remain at the 1988/89 level, while
enrollments at specialized training institutions will rise at 3 percent per
annum. University intakes are projected to rise sharply (close to 16
percent) between 1988189 and 1990/91 owing to: an increase in the number
of non-residential students (to be made possible by the construction of
some additional lecture halls and other facilities) and provision of
diploma and sub-degree courses during university vacation periods.
Thereafter, enrollments are projected to grow by 3 percent a year, while
the number of students studying overseas would decline.
7.         Unit costs for the various levels of education were calculated
for 1987/88 from the budget outturn and enrollments. These have been used
as the base for projections of future costs. However, in order to take
into account the probable impact of the Government's announced policy of
raising real salary levels for civil servants (including teachers),
particularly at the upper levels, unit costs for primary, middle,
secondary, and university students were adjusted upwards. In addition, the
planned increase in the share of non-residential university enrollments and
higher st"dent/teacher ratios have been taken into account. The net
estimated impact of these factors on unit costs for universities (local) is
to reduce them to about 96 percent of their 1987/88 level, measured in
constant cedis, by 1992/93.
8.        Tables 3 and 4 show the growth in the budget for education from
1988 to 1993 by level of education and by budget line, respectively,
excluding the foreign financing related to the education reform program.
9.        Over the three years covered by the proposed credit (1990/1991
to 199211993), total Government expenditures after savings have been taken
into account and including the extraordinary costs associated with
implementation of the reform program, will be an estimated ¢276.7 billion.
The estimates of private contributions cover only book fees and charges
paid by boarding students in secondary schools. Not included are
substantial "off-budget, items such as construction and maintenance of
primary schools (a community responsibility in most areas of Ghana) and
fees for exercise books. In addition, feeding costs for secondary students
are borne entirely by parents. The estimated foreign exchange requirements
are about $160 million.



- 62 -
Annex 5. 3
Page 5 of 7
Table 3. Ghana Budget Estimates by Type and Level of Education
(cedis million, 1988 prices)
Set. Actual                Projected
Type and Level            1986          Z            1993 11       -
Primary                  14,123       39.9          18,466        41.8
Middle/JSS                7,802        22.0          8,205        18.6
Senior Secondary 21       6,180       17.4           8,999        20.4
Tech/Vocational 2/          796        2.3             980         2.2
Teacher Training          1,065        3.0             987         2.2
University 2/             5,467        1564 .6540                 14.8
Total                 35,433      100.0          44,177       100.0
1,  1992-93 academic year
2/ Includes scholarship costs
Table 4. Education Budget by Item and Public and Private Contributions
(cedis mLllion)
Actual 1988           Pro1ected 1992
1988 prices    2       1989 prices      Z
Recurrent
Salaries & allowances         26,045     73.5         41,165     66.2
Travel & traisport               467       1.3         1,756      2.8
General expenditure              386       1.1         1,171      1.9
Maintenance                      141       0.4         1,171      1.9
Supplies                       1,318      3.7          8,618     13.9
Lodging (secondary)            1,110       3.1           390      0.6
Scholarships                   1,018      2.9            859      1.4
Sub-total                     30,485     86.0         55,129     88.7
Capital                          4,948      14.0         7,051     11.3
Total Government                35,433    100.0         62,179    100.0
Costs recovered through
private contributions 1/         480       1.4           714      1.1
1i Includes only book fees and secondary school boarding charges.



- 63 -
Annex 5.3
Page 6 of 7
10.       The financial requirements to implement the education reform
program are substantial for several reasons. One, there is a need to
continue the progress in improving funding for non-salary recurrent
expenditures, such as supplies and maintenance. To. the Government's
policy of raising salaries for upper level civil servants (including
teachers) vill increase spending on salaries, in spite of the freeze on
total staffing levels in the Ghana Education Service. It is also expected
that the proportion of non-teaching staff and untrained teachers will fall,
while the share of trained teachers will increase over the period, also
adding to salary costs. Three, during the transition between the old and
new structures of the education system, financing requirements are
temporarily higher because of the need to run both types of classes
simultaneously. Enrollment levels also bulge temporarily during this time.
Four, implementation of the reform program calls ior additional capital
expenditures to construct new classrooms and purchase needed equipment. In
addition, there are substantial needs for on-going maintenance and
rehabilitation of critical facilities at the primary and tertiary levels.
Finally, full implementation of the new system requires substantial in-
service training of teachers and curriculum development.
11.       It is assumed that the Government's support to education will
continue at roughly the same share of the budget. That would cover about
92 percent of the costs of the program (net of cost recovery). The
remaining financing gap would be ¢21.5 billion ($60 million). By 1993,
when the new secondary school structure is in place, the Government would
be able to fund anticipated costs from its own resources.
12.       implications of the major cost savings and cost recovery
measures that will either continue or be implemented during the period
include the following:



- 64 -
Annex 5.3
Pape 7 of 7
Total Savings*
by 1993
(a)  Retrenchment of untrained teachers
(5,670) In early 1900.                          2.0 billion
(b)  Inforcmeunt of staffing level fr*eee.           5.0 billion
(c)  Increase In student-teacher ratio for new
senior secondary schools.                       0.9 billion
(d)  Freere on number of boarding students In
.senior secondary schools.                       0.5 billion
(e)  Fees for textbooks for all students with
the exception of the first two grades of
primary school.                                 1.1 billion
(f)  Retrenchment of 2,000 university staff
by 1991192                                      0.7 billion
(g)  Elimination of direct subsidy for costs
of university student accommodation             0.1 billion
Total                               10.4 billion
* Estimated savings from retrenchment are the gross figures that would
affect the MOE budget.  The costs of compensating retrenched workers
(Including former GUS employees) are aggregated In a separate
category (Special Efficiency Fund) within the central government
budset.



- 65 -                                            Annex 5.4
GHANA
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTNENT CREDIT
PROCESSING SCHEDULE
Prerp,e;aI                       40ratsl t            ons. <10SS-a of .               )
<s                     <~~        ~~->    I
2   1?                        W   U
Jun      F1        4r        Ju e                       S        A"       see      a"        D        De
Proo"'Ls Report                                                      _
1~~~~Ilr                                                        I        IOan'sInjtieti.n of am       --.
Yc   *WP/c    N GM ietiome       pe.eeto 
I        I          '-)                I                          I                              epaw.o
I      I                              I                          I        I t-),
a to-- 2-                            a          I         I                                       <-- - --
Joe      Febl     Ibr      Apr       my       Jan      jai       Ave      see      O.tb               DOCQ
fTrench
C           PIrT" Trench. -ewmd Truedie
I|       I U.'initiatio of SW   - ,
Revuse    I                            Supervieioa
Jan      Feb      Sbr      her       "IV      Jun      jai       Avg      so       Oat      NW        Dec
Trundie
note-
C             readn  Tr_nh                                           )    iT    Tr_   _ -a-e-
j        IO, n'laltite'aef2------>-
T _ech    !        I
Rvie    !          Isuprvicie
C---      I        I                       C--
itn      Frb      NW,       hW                Mm        Jul      Au       Sep        a       N         ua
Th Ird Trend,. ----------------Ia' inkistation of now
I omer-per teritiay Awaes -"
JI       sI                 NW
Jun  Feb  lbr  he'  Ibp       Mn       hI~~ Lu           See '  OaX;t; Nw            Qu2 ----



