Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14833
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 2140-GH)
JUNE 29, 1995
Population and Human Resources Division
West Central Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1               Cedis (t ) 313
(April 1990)
US$1        =      Cedis (E) 1,000
(December 1994)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
SCHOOL YEAR
September - June   (Basic and Tertiary)
January - December (Senior Secondary)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONY1IS
CRDD        Curriculum Research and Development Department
CRT         Criterion Referenced Test
EdSAC I    First Education Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr. 1744-GH)
EdSAC II   Second Education Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2140-GH)
ERP         Economic Recovery Program
GES         Ghana Education Service
GLSS        Ghana Living Standards Survey
JSS         Junior Secondary Schools
MOE         Ministry of Education
PBME        Planning, Budgeting, Monitoring and Evaluation Department
PMU         Project Management Unit
PREP        Primary Education Project supported by USAID
SDR         Special Drawing Rights
SSS         Senior Secondary Schools
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
WAEC        West African Education Council



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ......................................i
PART I. IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
I.   Introduction ...................................1
II.  Objectives and Design of EDSAC II ....................................2
III.  Implementation Experience and Results ....................................2
IV.  Assessments by Beneficiaries ...................................11
V.  Sustainability ..................................                           12
VI. Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned ..................................  12
PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1  Summary of Assessments .15
Table 2   Related Bank/IDA Loans/Credits .17
Table 3  Project Timetable .18
Table 4      Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .19
Table 5      Use of Credit Proceeds, by Category and by Level of Education .20
Table 6      Performance Targets and Special Conditions for Tranche Release .       21
Table 7   Studies Included in the Project .27
Table 8  Status of Legal Covenants .28
Table 9   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .33
Table 10  Bank Resources: Missions .34
APPENDIXES
A.   Aide-Memoire of Completion Mission March 13-25, 1995
B.   Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
C.   Enrollment by Level of Education, 1989-93
D.   SSS1 Intake by Region and by Gender 1991-94
E.   Increase in number of SSSs, by Region, 1991-93
F.   Government Recurrent Expenditures per Student, by Level of Education, 1989-93
G.   Government Recurrent Expenditures in Education, by Level of Education, 1989-93
H.   Map No. IBRD 23606
dhis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 2140-GH)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Education
Sector Adjustment Credit in Ghana, for which Credit 2140-GH in the amount of SDR 37.9
million (US$53.2 million equivalent)' was approved on May 24, 1990 and made effective
on July 18, 1990.
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1994, after one extension of 10 months
from the original closing date (February 28, 1994). The first tranche (SDR 12.9 million)
was released upon effectiveness; subsequent tranches (SDR 12.9 and 12.1 million,
respectively) were released on December 19, 1991 and April 1, 1993; and the Credit was
fully disbursed by May 8, 1995.
The ICR was prepared by Mrs. Josephine Woo and Mr. Kazuhiro Yoshida (AF4PH),
with substantial input from Mr. Nicholas Bennett (AF4PH), who was the task manager for
the project from inception to closing. It was reviewed by Mr. Ian Porter (Division Chief,
AF4PH) and Mr. Franz Kaps (Project Advisor, AF4DR).
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's supervision mission from
October 31 to November 11, 1994 and was further discussed in a subsequent mission from
March 13-26, 1995. It is based on the Report and Recommendation of the President, the
Development Credit Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank
and the Borrower, internal Bank memoranda, and interviews with Bank staff involved in
the project. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by providing relevant
data, preparing its own evaluation of the program, and commenting on the draft ICR. As
part of the preparation of the ICR, the Bank supported, through financing from the Client
Consultation Fund, a beneficiary assessment of the education sector reform program
conducted at the end of 1994. The findings of the beneficiary assessment have been
incorporated in the ICR and in the Borrower's own evaluation report (see Appendix B).
At the time of Board approval, the Credit was valued at US$50 million equivalent. Because of the
appreciation of the SDR against the US dollar, the Credit amount actually disbursed was US$53.2
million equivalent.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 2140-GH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    The Bank's Role in the Country and Sector. The Bank's first lending operation in
Ghana's education system was the Health and Education Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1653-
GH) in 1986, which provided US$5 million to meet the sector's pressing needs for textbooks
and instruction materials for primary schools and universities. Simultaneously, the Bank and
the Government worked closely together to develop a long-term plan for the rehabilitation
and reform of the education sector, leading to a multi-year reform program to shorten pre-
university education from 17 to 12 years, improve pedagogic efficiencies and outcomes, and
reduce unit costs borne by the Government. The transitional costs of implementing the
reform program were supported by the Bank through the First and Second Sector Adjustment
Credits (EdSAC I and EdSAC II). EdSAC I (Cr. 1744-GH, effective April 8, 1987; closed
December 31, 1991), in the amount of SDR 28.5 million (US$38.3 million equivalent),
supported the first phase of the reform and focused on the primary and junior secondary
education cycles. Implementation of the first phase of reform was generally smooth,
resulting in increased enrollment growth, better allocation of financial resources, introduction
of the new junior secondary school (JSS) curriculum, broad-based provision of education
staff training, development and supply of instruction materials to basic education schools
throughout the country, and strengthened school-based supervision. EdSAC II (Cr. 2140-
GH, effective July 18, 1990; closed December 31, 1994), in the amount of SDR 37.9 million
(US$53.2 million equivalent), supported the second phase of the reform program to help
consolidate the reforms that have already taken place in basic education, and extend them to
the senior secondary level.  In both adjustment operations, IDA financed important
transitional costs of the Government's reform program according to a positive list of
expenditure items agreed upon each year at the time of the tranche reviews.
-2.    Objectives of EdSAC II.  The main objectives of EdSAC II were to help the
Government: (a) complete the restructuring of the school system to a 12-year cycle; (b)
extend the reform to senior secondary education by simplifying the curriculum, introducing
more practical content into it, and replenishing necessary basic materials and supplies; (c)
consolidate the basic education reforms so that primary and JSS leavers acquire the cognitive
skills needed to take advantage of education offered at higher levels; and (d) ensure the
financial sustainability of the new system.
3.    Special Conditions of EdSAC II. These objectives were translated into Special
Conditions for tranche releases and Performance Targets (see Table 5, Part II). To make the
new senior secondary education system more cost-effective and financially sustainable, a
minimum teacher/student ratio of 1:20 was established; the number of Ghana Education
Service (GES) staff was not to exceed 153,000; and textbook user fees introduced at primary
and junior secondary levels under EdSAC I were extended to the senior secondary level. In



ii
addition, the share of the Government budget going to basic education was to be maintained
at least at the 1989 level (i.e., 62 percent of the total education recurrent budget), and actual
expenditures were to be more in line with budget allocations than had been the case in the
past.
Implementation Experience And Results
4.    Tranche Reviews and Implementation Schedule. The first tranche (SDR 12.9 million)
of EdSAC 1I was released upon effectiveness in July 1990; subsequent tranches (SDR 12.9
million and SDR 12.1 million, respectively) were released in December 1991 and April 1993.
The reviews for the second and third tranches were held on schedule, but disbursements
during 1992 and 1993 were delayed partly because of political elections, followed by changes
in the leadership of the Ministry of Education (MOE) and reorganization of project
management functions. In December 1993, the Government requested an extension of the
closing date for EdSAC II to allow adequate time to take delivery of the books, tools, and
equipment procured for JSSs and SSSs, and to use remaining Credit funds to launch the new
Primary School Development Project (Cr. 2508-GH). IDA agreed to extend the closing date
by 10 months, from February 28, 1994, to December 31, 1994.
5.    Achievement of Objectives. At the time of the tranche reviews, all special conditions
for tranche release were fully complied with, except for the one which involved complicated
actions in each secondary school (para. 3.9). About one-third of the performance targets
were only partially met, generally those that dealt with studies and programs designed to
increase pedagogic effectiveness (para. 3.8; 3.10). Achievements in the four key areas of
policy objectives were moderately successful. First, the school system was changed, as a
result of the implementation of the new SSS system (para. 3.5 - 3.10). Second, measures to
improve the teaching/learning process were implemented, including in-service training and
phasing out of the untrained/unqualified teachers, curriculum and textbook redesigning, and
increased inputs of instructional materials and equipment (para. 3.11 - 3.15). Third, steps
were taken to reduce the Government's share of recurrent costs in education through
imposition of a ceiling for GES staff, introduction of book user fees from primary through
SSS, establishment of special textbook revolving funds, and elimination of food subsidies in
SSS (para. 3.17 - 3.18). Finally, attempts were made to improve the effectiveness of
educational planning and management, such as prioritizing the public investment program,
annual consultation between IDA and the Government on the education budget, streamlining
of the procurement functions and introduction of competitive bidding for procurement (para.
3.19 - 3.22).
6.    Key Factors that Affected Achievement of the Major Objectives. In retrospect, both
the Bank and the Government may have underestimated the difficulties in reforming the
school system and did not adequately address implementation capacity strengthening through
the inclusion of a specific capacity building component in the program especially at the local
or school levels. This has resulted in some of the key performance targets not being achieved
or only partially achieved after considerable delays (para. 3.23). Furthernore, the changes in
the respective roles of the MOE and GES in the implementation of the reform program over



iii
the past two years interrupted many of the management systems and institutional skills
accumulation. Performance in terms of pedagogical attainment has been affected by poor
motivation and competence of teachers as well as an overloaded curriculum at all levels of the
education system (para. 3.24). A further problem was the lack of coherence between the
school system and the universities, which was not fully incorporated into the education reform
program (para. 3.25).
7.    Performance of the Borrower and Bank. The performance of both the Borrower and
Bank was satisfactory throughout the preparation and implementation of EdSAC II, in spite of
the Borrower's implementation capacity weakness discussed above. The "satisfactory" rating
is based upon the Government's performance with regard to maintaining a strong commitment
to the reforms, meeting almost all the tranche conditions on time, and fully disbursing all
Credit proceeds with only a ten-month delay (para. 3.27). The continued presence of the task
manager in the field from inception to closing was important for the success of the operation
as it resulted in greater flexibility, rapid resolution of misunderstandings, and provision of
substantial and timely assistance to the Borrower in complying with Bank procurement,
disbursement, and audit requirements (para. 3.26).
8.    Project Outcome. The Second Education Sector Adjustment Credit (EdSAC II) can
be classified as satisfactory in its effort to improve inputs into the education system, and
implement the intended policy changes in the following areas: changing the school system;
improving the teaching/learning process; reducing the Government's share of recurrent costs
in education; and improving the effectiveness of educational planning and management.
9.    The areas where performance has been less satisfactory were those requiring
pedagogic improvements or decentralized improvements at the district or school levels, where
the capacity of the MOE/GES was found to be inadequate (para. 3.29). The biggest problem
remains the poor learning outcomes at all levels of education, as measured by test scores and
examination results.
10.   Key Findings of Beneficiary Assessments.  The beneficiary assessment of the
education sector reform program based on surveys conducted in a sample of districts (para.
4.2) indicated that there was general acceptance of the new structure of the school system as
well as the orientation and relevance of the new curriculum at all levels; increases in
enrollment at all levels were seen to be high; and even the level of fees and levies on parents
were found to be reasonable. On the other hand, pupil attendance was seen to be poor; pupil
achievement at the basic level was considered unacceptably low except for the manipulative
practical skills; school buildings at the basic level were almost universally perceived to be
unsatisfactory, as was the delivery of educational materials at the basic level. Surprisingly,
most of those surveyed also thought that the performance of teachers was good, though
teachers were seen to be largely responsible for the poor attendance and low levels of pupil
achievement. Neither parents nor community leaders thought that they had any role to play in
school supervision.



iv
Sustainability, Future Operation, and Key Lessons Learned
11.   Sustainability. The reform program resulted in significant savings in the unit costs of
secondary education.  However, it is unlikely that net savings are sufficient to ensure
sustainability of the reforms, and if external support should diminish, the Government would
find it difficult to fill the financing gap. The sustainability of the reform program will also
depend on the Government's ability to ensure continuous and significant improvements in
learning outcomes at all levels of the school system.
12.   Key Lessons Learned  First, the capacity of the MOE/GES to plan, implement and
monitor progress of the reform program needs to be strengthened significantly in order for key
components of the program to be carried out in a timely manner. Second, reforms of such
magnitude require establishing intermediate targets for phased implementation.  Third,
learning outcomes are unlikely to improve significantly without substantial improvement in the
system of rewards and punishments for performance within which teachers operate in Ghana.
Fourth, a significant problem with adjustment lending is that there is often little Borrower
follow-up once conditions have been met and all tranches have been released (para. 6.2). In
the preparation and implementation of EdSAC II, two additional lessons can be drawn:
(a) there have been merits from the presence of the task manager in the field who was able to
provide timely assistance to the Borrower and quickly resolve issues of disagreement or
misunderstanding; and (b) cooperation and coordination with other donors was key to the
successful intervention.
13.   Implications for Future Operations  Issues to be addressed in future operations
include: (a) Mobilizing more funding from donors, while the Government simplifies and
standardizes procedures so that available funds can be rapidly and effectively disbursed (para.
6.3). (b) At the same time, both the Government and donors will need to focus on finding
effective ways to increase the capacity of central and district educational administrators, and
increase accountability of all those involved in education management. (c) Greater ownership
and control of education by parents and community groups should be encouraged, and
increasing attention should be given to systematic beneficiary assessments. (d) To generate
sufficient resources to sustain a good quality education for all Ghanaians, the Government
may need to further increase cost recovery at the secondary and tertiary levels, impose
controls over staffing increases, and privatize some high quality public schools (para. 6.4).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 2140-GH)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
I.    INTRODUCTION
1.1   Macroeconomic Setting. During the 1970s and the early 1980s, Ghana, which had
enjoyed a relatively high living standard compared with other West African countries,
experienced a serious economic deterioration. By the time the Government launched the
Economic Recovery Program (ERP) in 1983, inflation had reached 123 percent, real export
earnings had fallen by half, and domestic savings and investment had dwindled to almost
nothing. Economic stabilization and structural adjustment policies since the ERP have
resulted in average annual growth of about 5 percent, and the inflation rate was brought down
to 10 percent in 1992. Largely as a result of the macroeconomic difficulties, Ghana's
education system deteriorated both in terms of quality and access.
1.2   The Bank's Role in the Country and Sector. The Bank's first lending operation in
Ghana's education system was the Health and Education Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1653-
GH) in 1986, which provided US$5 million to meet the sector's pressing needs for textbooks
and instruction materials for primary schools and universities. Simultaneously, the Bank and
the Government worked closely together to develop a long-term plan for the rehabilitation
and reform of the education sector, leading to a multi-year reform program to shorten pre-
university education from 17 to 12 years, improve pedagogic efficiencies and outcomes, and
reduce unit costs borne by the Government. The transitional costs of implementing the
reform program were supported by the Bank through the First and Second Sector Adjustment
Credits (EdSAC I and EdSAC II). EdSAC I (Cr. 1744-GH, effective April 8, 1987; closed
December 31, 1991), in the amount of SDR 28.5 million (US$38.3 million equivalent),
supported the first phase of the reform and focused on the primary and junior secondary
education cycles. Implementation of the first phase of reform was generally smooth,
resulting in increased enrollment growth, better allocation of financial resources, introduction
of the new junior secondary school (JSS) curriculum, broad-based provision of education
staff training, development and supply of instruction materials to basic education schools
throughout the country, and strengthened school-based supervision. EdSAC II (Cr. 2140-
GH, effective July 18, 1990; closed December 31, 1994), in the amount of SDR 37.9 million
(US$53.2 million equivalent), supported the second phase of the reform program to help
consolidate the reforms that have already taken place in basic education, and extend them to
the senior secondary level. In both adjustment operations, IDA financed important
transitional costs of the Government's reform program according to a positive list of
expenditure items agreed upon each year at the time of the tranche reviews.



2
II.   OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN OF EDSAC II
2.1   The main objectives of EdSAC II were to help the Government: (a) complete the
restructuring of the school system to a 12-year cycle; (b) extend the reform to senior
secondary education by simplifying and introducing more practical content into the
curriculum, and replenishing necessary basic materials and supplies; (c) consolidate the basic
education reforms so that primary and JSS leavers acquire the cognitive skills needed to take
advantage of education offered at higher levels; and (d) ensure the financial sustainability of
the new system. While focus of the Credit was on senior secondary education, measures
were included to strengthen the quality and increase the efficiency of basic education,
reflecting the Govermnent's keen awareness of the importance of primary and junior
secondary education to the sustainability of the education reforms.
2.2   The policy objectives of the education reforms were grouped under four main areas:
(a) changing the structure and content of the school system; (b) improving the
teaching/learning process; (c) containing and sharing recurrent costs; and (d) establishing a
more effective planning and management system. These objectives were translated into
Special Conditions for tranche releases and Performance Targets monitored under EdSAC II
(see Table 5, Part II). To make the new senior secondary education system more cost-
effective and financially sustainable, a minimum teacher/student ratio of 1:20 was
established; the number of Ghana Education Service (GES) staff was not to exceed 153,000;
and textbook user fees introduced at primary and junior secondary levels under EdSAC I
were extended to the senior secondary level. In addition, the share of the Government budget
going to basic education was to be maintained at least at the 1989 level (i.e., 62 percent of the
total education recurrent budget), and actual expenditures were to be more in line with budget
allocations than had been the case in the past. As under EdSAC I, Credit funds were released
in three tranches, linked to the implementation of policy measures designed to ensure the
financial sustainability of the new system.
XII. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
Tranche Reviews and Implementation Schedule
3.1   The first tranche (SDR 12.9 million) of EdSAC II was released upon effectiveness in
July 1990; subsequent tranches (SDR 12.9 million and SDR 12.1 million, respectively) were
released in December 1991 and April 1993. The reviews for the second and third tranches
were held on schedule, but release of the third tranche was delayed by more than three
months because Ghana's macroeconomic situation was not in balance.
3.2   Disbursements during 1992 and 1993 were delayed partly because of political
elections, followed by changes in MOE leadership and reorganization of project management
functions. In December 1993, the Government requested an extension of the closing date for
EdSAC II to allow adequate time to take delivery of the books, tools and equipment procured
for Junior Secondary Schools (JSSs) and Senior Secondary Schools (SSSs), and to use
remaining Credit funds to launch the new Primary School Development Project (Cr. 2508-



3
GH). IDA agreed to extend the closing date by 10 months, from February 28, 1994, to
December 31, 1994.
Use of Credit Proceeds
3.3   EdSAC II financed important transitional costs of the second phase of the reform
according to a positive list of both local costs and foreign exchange expenditure items agreed
each year at the time of the tranche review. Of the US$53.2 million from the credit, about 36
percent financed the procurement of vehicles and equipment; 22 percent supported the
development and provision of textbooks and supplemental readers from primary through
tertiary education; 29 percent was used for the construction and rehabilitation of school
buildings and facilities; 2 percent for teachers' training; and 11 percent for miscellaneous
items including support for project management. Among the various levels of education,
SSS took the largest share of Credit funds, about 47 percent, primary education absorbed
about 24 percent, JSS about 15 percent, and tertiary about 5 percent. About one-third of
expenditures financed by the Credit were local costs, and two-thirds were foreign.
Achievement of Objectives
3.4   At the time of the tranche reviews, all special conditions for tranche release were fully
complied with, except for the one which involved complicated actions in each secondary
school, namely, that no program option should be run by any school without at least 20
students in each grade, and without qualified teachers. Though the tranche conditions were
largely met, about one-third of the performance targets were only partially met, generally
those that dealt with studies and programs designed to increase pedagogic effectiveness.
Table 5 in Part II summarizes the status of specific performance targets and special
conditions for tranche release at the time of the second and third tranche reviews.
Performance in the main policy areas are summarized below.
(a) Changing the Structure and Content of the School System
3.5   Structure. Transition to the new structure of the education system (consisting of 6
years of primary, 3 years of junior secondary and 3 years of senior secondary), which began
in 1987, was completed during EdSAC II in 1993. When the Credit became effective in July
1990, all four-year middle and continuation schools had already been phased out, and the first
JSS cohort had just completed the three-year junior secondary school. JSS graduates who
qualified were admitted to SSSs in January 1991. The first SSS cohort completed three years
of senior secondary education by the end of 1993, and the second SSS cohort completed the
SSS cycle by the time EdSAC II closed in December 1994.
3.6   Enrollment.  The number of students in Ghana's basic and secondary schools
increased considerably during the second phase of the reform program (Appendix C). In
January 1991, the first year of the new SSS system, some 50,000 students enrolled in SSS1,
an increase of more than 30 percent from the previous year's intake into Form 1 under the old
system. The SSS1 intake continued to grow in the subsequent years and surged in 1994 to
74,500 from  the previous year's 58,500 students (Appendix D).  This reflected an



4
improvement in the learning achievement of JSS in previous years, culminating in a large
increase in the number of JSS graduates qualified to continue on to SSS. The number of girls
entering SSS also steadily increased and jumped significantly between 1993 and 1994 (from
19,300 to 26,100). In most regions, girls' share of SSS enrollment has increased over the
past few years.  Between 1991 and 1993, SSS enrollment in the three educationally
underserved northern regions (Northern, Upper East and Upper West) also expanded rapidly
as the number of schools in these areas increased (Appendix E).
3.7   Schools, Class Size, and Instruction Time. In anticipation of the increase in SSS
enrollment, and in order to ensure greater rural/urban and regional equity in access, the
Government increased the number of public SSSs from 254 in 1990/91 to 438 in 1993, either
by the construction of new schools or by conversion of existing schools into SSSs. A
corresponding Bank project, Community Secondary Schools Construction Project (Cr. 2278-
GH, for US$14.7 million, signed on July 8, 1991), supported the construction of more than
150 new SSSs in the educationally underserved communities, particularly in rural areas. To
further expand classroom capacity, the Government encouraged increasing the average SSS
class size to 45 students. The MOE also has as its long-term objective increasing the overall
teacher/pupil ratio to 1:45 at primary and 1:30 at JSS levels. To increase instruction time, the
school year was lengthened from 36 to 40 weeks for basic education and from 33 to 40 weeks
for senior secondary education, and at the primary level the school day was lengthened from
4 to 5 hours.
3.8   Curriculum. The post-reform SSS curriculum aimed at providing more relevant and
functional secondary education while maintaining a strong academic base. It consisted of
seven core subjects (English, Ghanaian languages, science, mathematics, agricultural and
environmental studies, life skills, and physical education) and five program options
(specialization in arts/science, agriculture, commercial, technical, and vocational). All SSSs
offered the vocational program option in addition to other selected program options.
Teaching syllabi and textbooks were developed by Ghanaians, often assisted on a contract
basis by foreign publishers, for all the 42 subject areas; and sets of syllabi were distributed to
headmasters of all SSSs by the end of October 1990. A study was developed to evaluate the
SSS curriculum over the initial years of implementation. The study found that, among other
things, teachers did not prepare for classes nor use the materials and equipment effectively,
and that in some subjects there was a shortage of teachers.
3.9   Program Options. To ensure that program options would be offered only where there
was sufficient demand and adequate qualified staff, the MOE issued a guideline to the effect
that no program option was to be run by any school unless at least 20 students from each
grade were enrolled in that option, and unless there were suitably qualified teachers or
National Service staff to teach all of the courses in that option. This was one condition of
tranche release with which the MOE had difficulty complying fully.  Despite the
Government's action to close program options where enrollments were below 10, at the time
of the third tranche review, around 110 out of 1,400 programs were inefficiently small, 20 of
them with enrollment below 10. Pressure from politicians and parents/students to continue
the old elective system with the maximum choice of courses and the fact that selection for the



5
following year would be made by the time such data was available made ex ante decisions by
MOE difficult. This problem has recently diminished as a result of the huge increase in SSS 1
intake in 1994. The present system of offering a set of three selected subjects is being
criticized as being unable to fully meet students' demand. In addition, graduates who
completed the agriculture program were rejected for entry into university because they were
not considered to have attained the required level of mathematics. A more flexible system for
selecting program options is under consideration by the MOE. Closer collaboration with
university management in curriculum development and program offering is essential.
3.10  Program Cost. The costs of the five program options were to be monitored on a
continuing and regular basis using a random sample of 20 schools and offering a range of
program options. The first study, designed by MOE's Planning, Budgeting, Monitoring and
Evaluation Department (PBME), was completed in 1992. A larger scale of the study was
planned during 1993 and 1994, but was not carried out. Estimates based on MOE's recurrent
expenditures indicate that, despite large real salary increases for teachers in 1992, there has
been a reduction in unit costs for SSS, but the unit costs of primary and JSS have increased
slightly (Appendix F).
(b) Improving the Teaching/Learning Process
3.11   Teacher Training. In 1991/92, virtually all of the in-service teacher training planned
for education sector personnel was completed, including programs for SSS heads, new SSS
teachers, and JSS teachers for some subjects (life skills and vocational skills). By October
1992, 133,379 primary, 51,794 JSS and 9,245 SSS teachers had attended at least one
intensive in-service training course. Employment of middle school leavers ("pupil teachers")
was discontinued, and all untrained teachers were being phased out, and a minimum
qualification of General Certificate of Education was required for admission to post-
secondary teacher training colleges. The Government had decided that after 1995 only
qualified teachers would be employed in basic education, but enrollment pressures have
prevented this. In spite of these inputs and measures, the poor motivation and performance
of teachers remain serious problems.
3.12 Inspection and Supervision. The Government reorganized the school inspection
system and decentralized school supervision. For basic education, Circuit Monitoring
Assistants were appointed, one for every three circuits, to closely monitor the reform
program: they visited schools once every three months and prepared a report after each visit.
Each supervisor covers about 20 to 30 schools, and conducts regular supervision of each
school at least once per term and a complete supervision annually with the assistance of other
district supervisors. For senior secondary education, GES has appointed an Assistant
Director in almost all districts to be responsible for establishing professional inspection
teams, coordinating supervision at the district level and ensuring that appropriate action is
taken on reports submitted by circuit supervisors.
3.13  Textbook Provision. By the end of 1992, a textbook/pupil ratio of 1:1 was achieved
in both primary and JSS in the key subjects. About 60 percent of the required textbooks in



6
SSS had reached all but a few schools by the time of the third tranche release, with the
remainder delivered in 1993. The quality of books was generally found to be satisfactory,
but there were some problems in ensuring that the textbooks actually reached the schools and
that teachers actually used them in class. Given the fact that during the EdSAC (I and II)
period the majority of students in the school system had spent some years in a moribund
system, the level of the textbooks, though suitable for well-prepared students at the particular
grade level, was too high for the actual achievement of most students. In retrospect, it might
have been appropriate to have prepared some interim or transitional textbooks more in line
with the actual English language and reading abilities of the students.
3.14 Achievement Tests for Primary Sixc Pupils. To help consolidate the basic education
reforms and improve the quality of instruction, it was intended at the time of appraisal that
the MOE would conduct annual standardized achievement tests on Primary 6 pupils in every
school in the country, and the school-by-school results would then be publicized. The tests,
however, were not carried out within the framework of EdSAC II but instead were organized
and financed through PREP. Criterion referenced tests (CRT) were developed for English
and mathematics and administered to a 5 percent sample in 1992. The results were generally
very disappointing, with pupils answering an average of only 25 percent of the questions
correctly. The 1993 CRT results with a somewhat extended sample size showed slight
improvement. These results have not been widely publicized by the MOE, so one important
element of the original concept was not put into practice.
3.15  SSS Examination Results. The first SSS cohort took their final examinations at the
end of 1993. In May 1994, the results were announced. Of the 35,000 candidates, only
1,600 achieved scores which met university entrance requirements, versus 2,500 places set
aside for this cohort at the universities. This caused a great deal of concern across the
country, and the Government organized a large public meeting in June 1994 at which SSS
students from all parts of the country were invited to comment on the implementation of the
reforms. This was followed by the establishment of a high level "Committee for the Review
of the Educational Reforms," which proposed a number of measures, including reducing the
number of subjects in primary, JSS, and SSS; modifying the system of program options; and
changing the relative weighting for continuous assessment and examination scores. Remedial
courses for the students were organized, and those who wished to do so were allowed to take
the examination again in 1994. The poor results of the 1993 SSS examinations should be
seen against the disadvantages suffered by the first SSS cohort: they were drawn from a
primary school system that had completely collapsed; for much of their six years in JSS and
SSS they did not have all the textbooks needed due to delays in printing and distribution; in
the initial transition to the new school structure they were in a minority in the schools they
attended as the old system had not been phased out and teachers were not fully trained to
teach the new curriculum.
(c) Containing and Sharing of Recurrent Costs
3.16 Staffing Normns. Between 1990 and 1993, the total staffing level of GES was
successfully maintained at or lower than the ceiling of 153,000. This was achieved by



7
redeploying or retrenching the cadres of unqualified "pupil teachers" and redundant non-
teaching staff, while employing thousands of newly qualified teachers, leading to
considerable improvement in the qualification structure of the teaching force, especially at
the primary level. Setting and enforcing a 1:20 teacher/student ratio in SSSs also contributed
to containing the staffing levels. A slight overstaffing was observed during 1992, due mainly
to employment of non-teaching staff for new SSSs. GES staff increased to nearly 155,000 in
1994, which could be justified at least partially by the increasing demand for teaching staff as
enrollment expanded at all levels of education, especially the large increase in SSS intake in
1994.
3.17  Book User Fees. Since 1987, textbook user fees for basic education, charged to
students between Primary 3 and JSS3, have been maintained at a level sufficient to cover the
full production costs of the textbooks less the cost of paper, assuming a three-year book life.
To reflect a nominal increase in textbook costs, fees were raised in October 1990 from C1 50
to C250 per student per year. Students in primary and JSS were also charged the costs of
stationery items. At the senior secondary level, annual book user fees were raised from
C1,500 to C4,500 in 1991 and again to C6,000 in January 1993, maintaining the principle of
full cost recovery. In January 1995 the Minister of Education announced that textbook fees
would be abolished for primary education, but increased to C500 for JSS and to C9,000 for
SSS. Special revolving funds for stationary and textbooks were established as part of the
reform program and the fund is increasing more quickly than in the past. Deposits into these
funds were estimated to be about 80 percent in basic education during the period 1987-92,
but only about 39 percent in senior secondary in 1990/91 and 1991/92. For cost recovery
schemes to be effectively implemented, the MOE would need to address the issues of low
collection rate and inappropriate usage of the fees (e.g., for school operating costs).
3.18 Food Subsidies. From September 1989, all food subsidies to SSSs were removed and
the funds redirected to the maintenance of school facilities and equipment. In March 1992,
the Government authorized school boards and district assemblies to approve boarding fees to
cover feeding costs up to C200 per day per student. This amount was based on the costs of
food with assistance from the World Food Programme (WFP) under the Program of Actions
to Mitigate the Social Cost of Adjustment (PAMSCAD). In September 1994 the charge was
increased to C400 to match feeding costs by commercial operations. No public financial
support is currently provided for student feeding, and PTA fees are levied and used where
funds are insufficient.
(d) More Effective Planning and Management
3.19 Strengthening Capacity for Planning and Management. A Planning, Budgeting,
Monitoring and Evaluation (PBME) Division was created within the MOE in 1986 to
strengthen and streamline the Ministry's planning and budgeting roles. Decentralization of
school inspection and supervision by strengthening district and circuit functions has made the
monitoring of school-based activities more effective, helped identify problems at the school
level (such as lack of staffing, pupil/teacher absenteeism, non-availability of facilities, etc.),
and thus contributed to the formulation of more appropriate policies. The MOE has also



8
initiated the collection of school data on an annual basis, using detailed forms which were
sent to the schools and coordinated by the circuit supervisors.  To further strengthen
decentralized management capacity and encourage participation at district and local levels,
the MOE should ensure that the information collected and analyzed is made available to the
people who provided the source data. Despite significant technical assistance from UNDP
and the EdSAC operations, a sustainable capacity in the PBME has not been created.
3.20 Education Budgets and Expenditures. Each year during EdSAC II, the MOE and
IDA agreed on both recurrent and capital budgets before submission to the Ministry of
Finance and Economic Planning. The share of basic education in the recurrent budget for
education was maintained every year at or above the agreed 1989 level of 62 percent
(Appendix G). Actual expenditures, however, showed significant divergence from the
budgets by the time of the second tranche review: an increase in civil service salaries,
inflation and other factors beyond the MOE's control were largely responsible for the
differences, but a shortfall in expenditures for some vocational training categories and
overexpenditures in universities were also noted. In response, the MOE introduced semi-
annual monitoring of actual expenditures, but the deterioration in the macroeconomic
situation seriously constrained the release of non-wage recurrent budgets. While total actual
non-wage recurrent expenditures remained satisfactory, the MOE had to offset the budgetary
shortfall by drawing on donor funding, especially from the EU. In the domestically-financed
portion of the capital program, the share of tertiary education was high at over 40 percent.
Efforts were made to reduce the number of sub-projects in the public investment program for
education, with the MOE prioritizing the proposed projects by giving greater weight to those
aimed at improving classroom facilities and supporting the reform programs. A training
workshop was also organized for all officers involved in drawing up capital estimates. At the
third tranche release review, however, the number of sub-projects was found to have
increased from 1991.
3.21  School Maintenance. Responsibility for building, maintaining, and rehabilitating
schools and facilities in primary schools and JSSs lies with the district, while that in SSSs
and tertiary institutions lies with the central Government. The amount of levies imposed for
primary and JSS maintenance varies by district, from C500 or lower in some cases to C1,500
in one district in Accra. Many PTAs also collect levies for school maintenance. To
encourage efforts by the districts and communities, the MOE devised an incentive scheme for
rewarding primary schools and JSSs with good maintenance records, and made allowances
for this in its recurrent budget submissions. The scheme was to be implemented before the
release of the third tranche, based on school maintenance data in quarterly monitoring reports
prepared by the circuit supervisors. Unfortunately, implementation had fallen behind
schedule, due largely to budgetary constraints. Provision for maintenance of equipment and
facilities in SSSs, including the reallocation of boarding subsidies, was given a specific
budget line and was included in the recurrent budget allocated to GES. However, the
amounts are far from adequate.
3.22 Consolidation of the Procurement Function in Education. To avoid duplication of
payment and the purchase of unnecessary items which were prevalent under the past



9
procurement system, the MOE consolidated the procurement functions within the Ministry.
Procurement for EdSAC II was carried out by the Projects Management Unit (PMU), while
all other education procurement was the responsibility of the Ghana Supply Commission.
Competitive tendering procedures were followed by both the PMU and the Supply
Commission.
Major Factors Affecting Performance
3.23 In retrospect, both the Bank and the Government may have underestimated the
difficulties in reforming the school system and did not adequately address implementation
capacity strengthening through the inclusion of a specific capacity building component in the
program especially at the local or school levels. This has resulted in some of the key
performance targets not being achieved or only partially achieved after considerable delays.
While those parts of the reform agenda which could be centrally planned and implemented
were carried out in an efficient and timely fashion, there was less success with those elements
of the reform requiring pedagogic improvements or requiring decentralized improvements at
the district or school levels. Moreover, in the transition from a military to a civilian
Government, top MOE officials were replaced by a new team in 1993, which affected the
respective roles of the MOE and GES in the implementation of the reform program,
interrupted many of the management systems and institutional skills accumulation, and led to
some delays. Finally, large salary increases for civil servants in 1992, concomitant with
budgetary constraints imposed by adverse macroeconomic conditions, have absorbed almost
all of MOE's recurrent budget, leaving little for essential non-salary inputs to help improve
the quality of education in schools throughout the country.
3.24  Performance in terms of pedagogical attainment has been affected by poor motivation
and competence of teachers as well as an overloaded curriculum at all levels of the education
system. At the primary level each student, in principle, takes nine subjects, while at the JSS
and SSS levels they take the equivalent of ten subjects. Given the ambitious objectives for
each of the subjects, only a few exceptionally well-endowed schools serving the needs of
elite groups were able to complete the syllabus within the time available.
3.25  The fact that university education was never fully incorporated into the education
reform program has led to a lack of coherence between the universities and the rest of the
school system. Universities have continued to insist upon their old intake requirements so
they do not have to make changes to their curriculum. For example, agricultural faculties in
universities would not accept students who have studied agricultural program options in SSS,
as that program option does not include what used to be elective maths which was previously
an intake requirement. Despite a vocationalization of the system, universities ignore the
scores in practical subjects, and instead continue to aim for excellence in academic subjects,
i.e., to limit their intake to students from a small number of boarding schools, and thus
students from a particular social class.



10
Performance of the Bank and the Borrower
3.26 Bank Performance. The Credit was prepared during the implementation of EdSAC
I, thus enabling uninterrupted and timely support for the second phase of the reform process.
Efforts were made to coordinate donor support for the educational reforms, with both the
Bank and USAID using the same consultants for their preparation and appraisal missions,
and the Bank's field-based Task Manager playing a central role in identifying and preparing
the USAID project. Flexibility in the design of EdSAC II, and the continued presence of the
Task Manager outposted to the Resident Mission from inception to closing enabled quick
response to problems, whether these be procurement, curriculum, use of Credit proceeds to
support the remedial program to cope with the poor results of the first SSS Certificate
Examination in 1993, or the need for general advice on reform implementation. A total of
65 staff weeks was spent on supervision including two tranche review missions and day-to-
day discussions in the field.
3.27 Borrower Performance. The Government was strongly committed to the reform
program throughout, enabling implementation of many difficult policy measures and rapid
action to remedy problems. Delays in the implementation of key project components
affected achievement of some of the performance targets. These shortcomings were largely
due to weaknesses in the institutional capacity of the MOE and GES, changes in personnel
over the last few years as the country moved from a military to a civilian Government, and
reorganization of the respective roles of different departments within the MOE including the
Project Management Unit. Despite the discontinuities caused by these dramatic changes, the
Government not only maintained its commitment to the reforms, met almost all the tranche
conditions on time, and fully disbursed all credit proceeds according to an agreed positive list
with only one 10-month delay. This was no small achievement.
Assessment of Outcome
3.28  Despite problems in the implementation of the overall reform program, EdSAC II can
be considered successful in implementing the key components in the four policy areas. First,
the school system has been changed, with the new SSS system put in place. Second,
measures to improve the teaching/learning process were implemented, including in-service
training and phasing out of the untrained/unqualified teachers, curriculum and textbook
redesigning, and increased inputs of instructional materials and equipment. Third, steps were
taken to reduce the Government's share of recurrent costs in education through imposition of
a ceiling for GES staff, introduction of book user fees from primary through SSS,
establishment of special textbook revolving funds, and elimination of food subsidies in SSS.
Finally, attempts were made to improve the effectiveness of educational planning and
management, such as prioritizing the public investment program, annual consultation
between IDA and the Government on the education budget, streamlining of the procurement
functions and introduction of competitive bidding for procurement.
3.29  Overall, significant improvements have been achieved in inputs into the education
system, and the intended policy changes have been delivered. The areas where performance



11
has been less satisfactory were those requiring pedagogic improvements or decentralized
improvements at the district or school levels, where the capacity of the MOE/GES was found
to be inadequate. For example, the minimum enrollment requirement of 20 students for SSS
program options was not fully met; the research studies on school level program costs and on
curriculum reform were not completed; the development and administration of the standard
achievement tests for Primary Six pupils did not take off until 1992; the distribution of
educational materials to schools suffered delays; and the decentralized system of school
inspection and supervision has yet to function effectively to bring about significant
improvement in teachers' performance.
3.30 The biggest problem remains to be the poor learning outcomes at all levels of
education, as measured by test scores and examination results. The poor results may be
partly due to an overly ambitious curriculum from primary through SSS, but the motivation
and performance of teachers are the cru6ial factors. Provision of in-service training programs
and upgrading of qualifications for teachers have not resulted in significant improvements in
their performance; actual teacher/student contact hours remain very low; teachers are often
not in school or not teaching in classrooms; learning materials, even when available, are often
not used; within school supervision is ineffective and discipline of teachers is weak. These
problems were also observed in the beneficiary assessment of the educational reform
program, as discussed below.
IV.   ASSESSMENTS BY BENEFICIARIES
4.1   In 1987 when the education reform program was launched with the support of EdSAC
1, there was almost no formal beneficiary or participant assessment of the structure and
content of the educational system. Since 1992 a series of beneficiary assessments on
particular topics have been carried out, including an assessment in 1992 of why parents were
not sending their children to school, and a one-day beneficiary meeting in 1994 at which
many SSS students and teachers were asked to explain why the first SSS examination results
were so poor.
4.2   As part of the preparation of the implementation review  of EdSAC II, the
Government decided to carry out a special beneficiary assessment of the education reform
program that had been supported by IDA since the beginning of 1987. With financing
provided under the Bank's Client Consultation Fund, a Ghanaian research team conducted, at
the end of 1994, a special survey of community leaders, parents, students, teachers and
administrations in five regions of the country. In general the results of this assessment were
more positive than those of the piecemeal assessments mentioned above. There was general
acceptance of the new structure of the school system as well as the orientation and relevance
of the new curriculum at all levels; increases in enrollment at all levels were seen to be high;
and even the level of fees and levies on parents were found to be reasonable. Thus the key
focus of the educational reform program had gained a high degree of support from most
beneficiary groups in all parts of the country. On the other hand, pupil attendance was seen
to be poor; pupil achievement at the basic level (though not at the secondary level) was
considered unacceptably low except for the manipulative practical skills; school buildings at



12
the basic level were almost universally perceived to be unsatisfactory, as was the delivery of
educational materials at the basic level. Surprisingly, most of those surveyed also thought
that the performance of teachers was good, though teachers were seen to be largely
responsible for the poor attendance and low levels of pupil achievement. Neither parents nor
community leaders thought that they had any role to play in school supervision. These
findings should be taken into account in the development of any new operation. In addition,
the capacity for carrying out beneficiary assessments should be developed so that they can be
conducted more frequently and with few glaring inconsistencies.
V.   SUSTAINABILITY
5.1   The reform program resulted in significant savings in the unit costs of secondary
education, despite upward pressures on costs due to the introduction of vocational subjects
into the curriculum, replacement of untrained with trained teachers; and upgrading of
materials and supplies. However, it is unlikely that net savings are sufficient to ensure
sustainability of the reforms. Currently, approximately 19 percent of total recurrent and
capital expenditures are supported by donor resources. If external support should diminish,
as it might if learning achievements do not significantly improve, the Government would find
it difficult to fill the gap. The greatest challenge for the Government in the coming years is
how to ensure continuous and significant improvements in learning outcomes at all levels of
the school system.
5.2   The Government has been aware of the need to continuously adapt elements of the
reform program which were not being smoothly implemented. In September 1993 it
established a Curriculum Review Committee which recommended in June 1994 that children
should study only four subjects in lower primary school and six subjects in upper primary.
The Review Committee also recommended that the national languages, instead of English,
should be taught or used as a medium of instruction during the first three years of primary
schooling. Similarly, in July 1994 it established the Education Reform Review Committee
which suggested in October 1994 that at the JSS level the number of subjects should be
reduced to seven while at the SSS level each student should take four to five core subjects,
plus a program option composed of three subjects, making a total of seven to eight subjects.
VI.  FUTURE OPERATION AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
6.1   EdSAC II was one of a series of Bank operations supporting the overall reform and
rehabilitation of Ghana's education sector. Other ongoing projects included the Community
Secondary Schools Construction Project, Literacy and Functional Skills Project, Tertiary
Education Project and Primary School Development Project. In addition, the Vocational
Skills and Informal Sector Support Project was recently approved (March 28, 1995), and a
Basic Education Program is in the initial stages of preparation.
6.2   A few specific implications for future interventions can be drawn from  the
implementation experience of EdSAC II. First, the capacity of the MOE/GES to plan,
implement and monitor progress of the reform program needs to be strengthened significantly
in order for key components of the program to be carried out in a timely manner so that their



13
impact could contribute to the development of appropriate responses. Second, neither the
Bank nor the Borrower fully anticipated the inadequacies of the school system to absorb and
implement the changes required in the curriculum reforms. In retrospect, reforms of such
magnitude would require establishing intermediate targets for phased implementation. Third,
learning outcomes are unlikely to improve significantly without substantial improvement in
the system of rewards and punishments for performance within which teachers operate in
Ghana. Finally, one significant problem with adjustment lending is that conditions, once put
in place, can be relatively easily undone once all tranches have been released. For example,
after the end of EdSAC II tranche reviews the user fees for textbooks were not adjusted for
inflation for more than a year, and thus the resources generated from those fees will not be
sufficient to replace the textbooks.
6.3   In the preparation and implementation of EdSAC II, there are two important lessons.
One is the presence of the task manager in the field who was able to provide timely
assistance to the Borrower and quickly resolve issues of disagreement or misunderstanding.
The other is that cooperation and coordination with other donors are key to the successful
intervention. Both EdSAC II and the USAID PREP shared common objectives and programs
at the basic education level, and there was close cooperation between the Bank, USAID and
other donors throughout the process of project development and implementation. The current
issue is not so much a question of mobilizing more funding from donors, but in simplifying
and standardizing procedures so that available funds can be rapidly and effectively disbursed.
Almost 20 percent of total Government budget allocations for education come from donor
sources, with donors providing four times the Government's own capital budget allocation,
and more than half of the total allocation for non-salary recurrent items. If the Government
had to devote an increasing proportion of its scarce manpower resources to managing donor
resources, as opposed to managing the education system, the system could not be sustained
and additional donor assistance could only be counterproductive.
6.4   At the same time, both the Government and donors will need to focus on finding
effective ways to increase the capacity of central and district educational administrators, and
allow and encourage creativity by local school managers. It will also be necessary to push
for increased accountability of all those involved in education management so that they
become responsible for the performance of - schools under their jurisdiction. Greater
ownership and control of education by parents and community groups should be encouraged,
and increasing attention- should be given to systematic beneficiary assessment. Given
pressures from the middle class and elite groups who benefited most from the old system,
and are still the main beneficiaries of the higher levels of the new reformed system, it may be
necessary to advocate greater cost recovery at the tertiary and secondary levels and less at the
primary level, to impose controls on increases in staffing, and even privatize some high
quality public schools whose students are largely drawn from families that can afford to pay
the full costs. Only then will the Government be able to generate sufficient resources to
ensure that a good quality education can be provided to all Ghanaians, from whatever
ethnic/linguistic groups, whether rich or poor.






14
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
I






15
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objedtives       Snultiw            Partal        Negligible      Not applicable
Macro Policies
Sector Policies                                                     o                 o
Financial Objectives                                                5                 El
Institutional Development                                          c                  El
Physical Objectives                 o              E                c                c
Poverty Reduction                  c                0               0                 E
Gender Issues                                                                         El
Other Social Objectives            E               E                E                 0
Environmental Objectives           c               E                [                 0
Public Sector Management           c                0               E                 E
Private Sector Development
Other (specify)                                    E                c                 0
B. Proiect Sustainability              Ikdx                   Unlikely                 Uncertain
C. Bank Performance                    Satisfactory         Saft                       Deflient
Identification                     E                                                  El 
Preparation Assistance             El                       El                        E
Appraisal                                                   E 0l                      E
Supervision                                                   l                       El



16
Highl
D. Borrower Performance                      Satisfactory    Satisfactory     Deficient
Preparation                                  a] E                           o
Implementation                               E               21              g
Covenant Compliance                          0               z               z
Operation (if applicable)                    E l             E]
Highy                                             Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome              Satisfactory   Saiao         Unsatisfactory    Unsatisfactory
El                               El                El



17
Table 2: Related Bank Credits
g   Credit Title                Purpose               Year of         Status
approval
Preceding operations
1 Health & Education Rehabilitation    To quickly deliver texts and  1986      Completed
(Cr. 1653-GH)                   other essentials to school.
2 Education Sector Adjustment (Cr.    To support education system  1987        Completed
1744-GH)                        reforn.
Following operations
1 Community Secondary School      To support rural community      1991          Ongoing
Construction (Cr. 2278-GH)      in constructing 140 new SS
schools.
2 Literacy and Functional Skills (Cr.   To support Government's   1992          Ongoing
2349-GH)                        mass literacy program.
3 Tertiary Education (Cr. 2428-GH)    To support extending reform  1993         Ongoing
in tertiary education.
4 Primary School Development      To assist increasing leaming    1993          Ongoing
(Cr.2508-GH)                    achievements and
enrollments.
5 Vocational Skills and Informal  To improve informal sector      1995       Approved
Sector Support (Cr. )           productivity and reorient the               March 28,
vocational training to a                   1995.
demand-driven system                       Expected to be
signed soon.



18
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle           Date Planned   J     Actual Date
Identification (Executive Project Summary)  December, 1988    November 7, 1988
Preparation                               January, 1989     April 3, 1989
Appraisal                                 July, 1989        June 17, 1989
Negotiations                              March, 1990       March 26, 1990
Letter of Development Policy (if applicable)                March 29, 1990
Board Presentation                        May, 1990         May 24 1990
Signing                                                     June 20,1990
Effectiveness                             August, 1990      July 18, 1990
First Tranche Release (if applicable)    August, 1990       July 18, 1990
Second Tranche Release (if applicable)   August, 1991       December 19, 1991
Third Tranche Release (if applicable)     August, 1992      April 1, 1993
Credit Closing                            February, 1994    December 31, 1994



19
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
By IDA Fiscal Year
(US$ Million)
FY91      FY92      FY93      FY94      FY95      Total
Appraisal estimate   17.0      34.0      50.0      50.0       50.0      50.0
Actual               13.3      23.9      32.6      37.2       53.2      53.2
Actual as % of       78.2      70.3      65.3      74.4       1 06.4    106.4
estimate
Date of final                                                           5/8/1995
disbursement



20
Table 5: Ghana Second Education Sector Adjustment Credit
Use of Credit Proceeds, by Category and by Level of Education
(in US$ million)
.... ... . .... -. I'"''-' 1''''1''S 
....... ...:  T
Equipment and Vehicles
Vehicles and spares                                                         0.7
Equipment for SSS                                      181.
Equipment for JSS                              0.1
Subtotal                       0.0       0.1     18.1       0.0       0.7     18.9   35.6%
Textbooks
SSS textbooks                                           3.7
School supplies                               0.7
Exercise bks/mss devt                          0.6
JSS textbooks                                  1.8
Upper Primary/JSS Supp Readers       0.7       2.0
MSS devt for Ghanaian languages      0.0
Support for higher education                                      2.6
Subtotal                       0.7       5.0      3.7       2.6       0.0     12.0   22.5%
Civil Works
School pavilion installation         5.3      2.2
Rehabilitation of SSS                                   0.6
JSS workshop                                  0.4
Renovation of MOE buildings                                                 0.1
Primary School Devt Project I        0.5
Primary School Devt Project 11       6.2
Subtotal                      12.0       2.6      0.6       0.0-    0.1       15.3   28.7%
Teachers' Training
Inservice training                             0.5      0.5
Subtotal                       0.0       0.5      0.5       0.0       0.0      1.1    2.0%
Miscellaneous
SSS remedial program                                    1.0
Linking of school to national grid                      0.2
Project Management Unit                                                     3.7
Establishment supplies                                  1.1
Subtotal                       0.0       0.0      2.2       0.0       3.7      6.0   11.2%
Total                         12.7       8.2     25.1       2.6       4.6     53.2  100.0%
Share                       23.9%    15.4%    47.1%       4.9%      8.7%   100.0%



Table 6: Performance Targets and Special Conditions for Tranche Release
OBJECTIVE              ACTIONS TAKEN           SECOND TRANCHE         STATUS (TRANCHE REVIEW             THIRD TRANCHE             STATUS (TRANCHE
BEFORE EFFECTIVENESS          CONDITIONS                 SEPT/OCT 1991)                 CONDITIONS           REVIEW SEPT/OCT 1992)
1. Continued            September 1989: All        September 1990: All   The academic year for SSS was     September 1991: All     All Form 2 classes were
implementation of  middle school third year    secondary school      changed to January-December. All  secondary school Form   replaced by SSS2 in January
new structure of    classes replaced by JSS3   Form I classes        Form I classes were replaced by   11 classes replaced by   1992
the school system:                             replaced by the new   SSSI in January 1991              the new SSS2.
reducing pre-                                  SSSI.
university
education from 17
to 12 years
2. Reform of senior
secondary
education
(a) Curriculum       Syllabi for all subjects in  Design study to      Preliminary statement of objectives  Begin evaluation of SSS   Completed process evaluation
design            the new curriculum         evaluate SSS           for the study was drawn up        curriculum based on     of the SSS curriculum
completed                  curriculum over first                                   experience during first
three years of                                          year of implementation.
implementation.
(b) Pattern of       Government completed        * No program option    Condition considered to be met.  * No program option     It was expected that less than
operation in      matrix of senior secondary    being run by any    88% of program options had        being run by any school   10% of program options in
schools           schools (existing secondary   school unless at least   adequate student numbers.   unless at least 20       SSSI would have inadequate
schools and proposed new   20 students from each   Government initiated action to  students from each      enrollment. The qualifications
or converted schools,      grade are enrolled in    close program options with fewer    grade are enrolled in  of SSS teachers were
grouped by Region) against  that option, and unless  than 10 students enrolled.    that option, and unless    considered to have reached
programs and program      there are suitably     Teacher's qualifications by       there are suitably      satisfactory levels.
options, to indicate the   qualified teachers or    program options were not       qualified teachers or
number of schools offering   National Service staff  available.                    National Service staff to
each option, the number of   to teach all of the                                   teach all of the courses
option in each school, and    courses in that option.                              in that option.
the total annual intake of
students
(c) Textbooks        Determination of quantities   See Objective 3(d)                                    See Objective 3(d)
of SSS textbooks needed by
subject. Tendering for
publishing and printing of
textbooks underway



OBJECTIVE             ACTIONS TAKEN          SECOND TRANCHE         STATUS (TRANCHE REVIEW            THIRD TRANCHE            STATUS (TRANCHE
BEFORE EFFECTIVENESS          CONDITIONS               SEPT/OCT 1991)                CONDITIONS           REVIEW SEPT/OCT 1992)
(d) Program costs   Government provided        Design study to       Preliminary statement of objectives  Initiate study.    MOE completed in August
indicative figures of unit  monitor actual unit    of the study was prepared.                            1992 a study of the unit costs
costs for each program,   costs of various                                                              of the five SSS programs in 34
using examples of existing   programs and                                                               SSSs. But annual monitoring is
acceptable-quality program    program options over                                                      not being done.
as models                 time.
(e) Staffing                                   * Achieve a minimum   Condition met. In June 1991, the    * Maintain student-  Condition met. In July 1992,
SSS student-teacher    ratio was 22:1 (total enrollments    teacher ratio at or above  the ratio was 22.5:1 (total
ratio of 20: 1,       194,000 and total teaching staff  20: 1, including national  enrollments 221,250 and total
including national   8,711).                          service staff.         teaching staff 9,823).
service staff.
(f) Student                                    Continuous            Guidelines were under preparation.  West African        WAEC in the process of
performance                                 assessment guidelines                                  Examination Council to  preparing final examination for
assessment                                  prepared and all SSS                                   complete preparation of  SSS3. Continuous assessment
teachers trained in                                   SSS exams to reflect    guidelines were issued. All
their application.                                    new emphasis on         basic through SSS teachers
practical competencies    were trained in their
and work orientation.    application.
3. Improving the
teaching / learning
process
(a) In-service teacher  Government presented   Implementation of     All existing secondary school    Implementation of plan   New and exciting SSS teachers
training         acceptable plan for regular   plan proceeding on  teachers and National Service   continuing on schedule.  and JSS teachers for Life Skills
in-service training of all  schedule, and plan to   personnel posted to SSS were                        and Vocational Skills received
serving basic and senior  cover 1992 and 1993   trained during January 1991.                            training during Oct. 1992.
secondary education       presented to IDA.     Training plans were prepared                            USAID provided in-service
teachers during 1990 and                        covering 1992 and 1993 for SSS                          training to primary school
1991                                            and JSS and 1992-1996 for                               teachers.
Primary
(b) Inspection/
supervision
(i) Basic        Govermment finalized plans  Implementation of    Implementation plan for         Implementation of plan   All Circuit Supervisors selected
education     for new circuit-based      plan proceeding on    monitoring was nearly completed.   proceeding on schedule.  had been trained and posted I
supervision, including    schedule.             Permanent Circuit Monitoring                            per 3 Circuits. They were to be
announcement of job                             Assistants had been appointed I to                      provided with motor bikes.
descriptions and                                3 Circuits. The appointment of                          Circuit Monitoring Assistants
performance norms                               circuit supervisors to oversee the                      in the field and continued to



OBJECTIVE             ACTIONS TAKEN           SECOND TRANCHE         STATUS (TRANCHE REVIEW            THIRD TRANCHE             STATUS (TRANCHE
BEFORE EFFECTIVENESS          CONDITIONS                SEPT/OCT 1991)                CONDITIONS           REVIEW SEPT/OCT 1992)
professional aspect of reforms was                       monitor all aspects of the
behind schedule. The appointment                         reform.
District Education Officers with the
rank of Directors had greatly
greatly enhanced supervision of
schools.
(ii) Senior                                  Present plan,         Plans were finalized and         Implementation of plan   GES had accepted
secondary                                satisfactory to IDA for  advertisements prepared to invite    proceeding on schedule.  implementation of the
education                                supervision of the     qualified Assistant Directors of                         decentralized plan for the
SSS progress          Education to apply for the                               district education offices. Most
including job         positions of Assistant director in                       districts had appointed an
description and       charge of supervision at the District                    Assistant Director in charge of
performnance norms.   level. The  director appointed                           coordinating supervision of the
would Identify and organize staff                        districts and ensuring that
within the District to form                              action was taken on reports
Inspection teams for SSS, in the                         submitted by Circuit
District. The appointments,                              Supervisors. The overall
training and assumption of duty                          coordination of supervision at
were planned for completion by                           the national level, however,
end of 1991.                                             was weak.
(c) School           Govemment agreed that      Develop and pilot     A pilot criterion reference test was   Administer test and  USAID assisted in the
accountability   from the end of 1990/91     standardized          developed for mathematics, science  publicize results.   preparation of criterion
school year, a standardized   achievement test.  and English, and administered to a   Develop plan for    reference tests in mathematics
achievement test will be                         sample of Primary 6 pupils in mid-  improving achievement   and English, to be administered
administered to a random                         September 1991, with assistance    in perennially low-   to a 5% sample of primary six
sample of Grade 6 pupils in                     from USAID                        achieving schools and   pupils in June 1993.
all schools to evaluate the                                                       districts.
effectiveness of primary
school teaching. School
averages will be publicized
for purpose of bringing
GES attention and
community pressure to bear
on low-achieving schools
(d) Textbooks        All basic education pupils    All pupils in JSS were  Large quantities of books were  All basic education  Ratio of textbooks to pupils
have access to full       supplied with free     delivered to JSS.                pupils have access to   close to 1:1 in the key subjects
complement of textbooks    complement of books.                                   full complement of     in primary; and reached 1:1 in
textbooks.             JSSs
All SSSI students     Most of the core textbooks for   All SSSI and SSS2      In SSS, 60% of the required
have access to full   SSSI were delivered to schools.  students have access to   books had reached almost all



OBJECTIVE              ACTIONS TAKEN          SECOND TRANCHE         STATUS (TRANCHE REVIEW            THIRD TRANCHE             STATUS (TRANCHE
BEFORE EFFECTIVENESS          CONDITIONS                SEPT/OCT 1991)                CONDITIONS           REVIEW SEPT/OCT 1992)
complement of                                          full complement of      schools. The remaining to be
textbooks.                                             textbooks.              sent to school by Dec. 1992.
(e) Technical                                   Government complete   Government was considering a      Implementation of Plan   Government initiated a
Institutes                                   plan for re-direction    reform plan for technical     begun.                  program to reform the
of Technical          vocational training which included                       vocational education sub-
Institutes.           reform of the 19 technical                               sector.
institutions.
4. Reducing and
sharing of recurrent
costs
(a) Staffing norms                              *GES staff of all     Condition met. Throughout 1991    *GES staff of all kinds    Condition considered met. In
kinds (including      GES staffing levels were around  (including teachers,    August 1992, total GES
teachers, teaching    148,000.                         teaching assistants, non-  staffing was 153,513, a
assistants, non-                                       teaching and            negligible excess over the
teaching and                                           administrative staff,   agreed ceiling.
administrative staff,                                  nursery school
nursery school                                         attendants, and all other
attendants, and all                                    categories except                                          4
other categories                                       students in teacher
except students in                                     training colleges and
teacher training                                       national service staff)
colleges and national                                  not to exceed 153,000.
service staff) not to
exceed 153,000.
(b) Book user fees                              * Book fees in        Condition met. Primary and JSS   * Book fees in primary    Condition met. Annual
primary and junior    textbook user fees were increased    and junior secondary  textbook fee of C250 remained
secondary schools    from C 150 to C250 per student per  schools maintained at    sufficient to cover costs
maintained at no less   year in October 1990.          no less than 1987/88    (excluding of paper) of
than 1987/88                                           proportions of full costs.  textbooks. This was equivalent
proportions of full                                                           to the proportion of full costs
costs.                                                                         covered in 1987/88 procured in
1992.
* At SSS level,       Fees raised in June 1991 to      * At SSS level, maintain  Review mission recommended
maintain level of book  C4500/student/year as          level of book user fees   raising fees to C600 for the
user fees sufficient for  recommended by IDA. Condition    sufficient for      school year 1993. Government
Government to cover   considered technically met but   Government to cover     complied and made such an
full cost over the    implementation needed to be      full cost over the book's  increase effective January
books' life span.     monitored.                       life span.              1993.



OBJECTIVE              ACTIONS TAKEN          SECOND TRANCHE         STATUS (TRANCHE REVIEW            THIRD TRANCHE             STATUS (TRANCHE
BEFORE EFFECTIVENESS          CONDITIONS                SEPT/OCT 1991)                CONDITIONS           REVIEW SEPT/OCT 1992)
(c) Food subsidies                              * At SSS level,       Condition met. Fees at C90 per    * At SSS level, maintain  Condition met. All school
maintain level of fees   day was adequate to meet the full   level of fees for student   charged up to C200/day which
for student feeding   cost of food obtained at low cost    feeding sufficient to  seemed adequate to cover the
sufficient to cover full  with WFP assistance.         cover full costs of food.  full costs of food.
costs of food.
5. More effective
planning and
management
(a) Controlling the                             All projects and sub-    Some progress was made in     All projects and sub-   The 1992 PIP gave priority to
public investment                            projects fully        streamlining PIP. However, the   projects fully elaborated  improving classroom facilities
program (PIP)                                elaborated and listed    number of subprojects was still too   and listed in priority  and ensuring support for
in priority order    large.                            order before submission   educational reforms. However,
before submission to                                  to Ministry of Finance    the number of subprojects
Ministry of Finance                                    and Economic Planning   further increased.
and Economic                                           to be considered for
Planning to be                                         inclusion in PIP.
considered for
inclusion in PIP.
(b) Education        Agreement between IDA      *Agreement between   Condition met. The proposed 1991   * Agreement between    Condition met. The proposed
budgets          and the Government on the   IDA and the           recurrent and capital budgets were   IDA and the         recurrent budget was fully
1990 educational budgets,    Govemment on the    found acceptable to IDA.         Government on the       satisfactory. The proposed
both capital and recurrent    1991 educational                                    1992 educational        1992 capital budget was
budgets, both capital                                  budgets, both capital   considered less satisfactory
and recurrent.                                         and recurrent.          because of the large number of
subprojects and the high share
of tertiary education
* Actual expenditures   Actual expenditures in 1990    * Actual expenditures    MOE introduced semi-annual
for preceding         exceeded the budget by 6.3% and    for preceding financial    monitoring of actual
financial year in line    diverged significantly from  year in line with agreed   expenditures, which were only
with agreed budgets.   budgeted amounts for higher     budgets.                3% above agreed recurrent
education and vocational                                 budget in 1991. Spending on
education. Government and IDA                            non-wage items was
agreed to a more regular system of                       satisfactory with supplementary
expenditure monitoring.                                  funding from donor and
textbook revolving funds.
* Basic education's   Condition met. The 1990 and 1991  * Basic education's    Condition met. The 1992 and
share of recurrent    recurrent basic education budgets   share of recurrent   1993 recurrent budgets for
education budget      maintained at 1989 level of 62%.    education budget     basic education remained at the
maintained at least at                                 maintained at least at  1989 level.



OBJECTIVE             ACTIONS TAKEN         SECOND TRANCHE        STATUS (TRANCHE REVIEW           THIRD TRANCHE            STATUS (TRANCHE
BEFORE EFFECTIVENESS         CONDITIONS              SEPT/OCT 1991)                CONDITIONS          REVIEW SEPT/OCT 1992)
1989 level.                                          1989 level.
(c) Reform of                                 All procurement      .                               All procurement        All procurement for schools
education                                  organized centrally                                  organized centrally for   financed from the Government
procurement                                for school education                                 school education in    budget was organized centrally
functions within                          in MOE in accordance                                  MOE in accordance      in GES. All procurement under
MOE                                        with competitive                                     with competitive       foreign aided projects was
tendering procedures                                 tendering procedure.   handled directly by MOE.
(d) Maintenance
(i) Basic                                  Announce an          Incentive scheme being devised.    Implement incentive  IDA supported MOE's view
education                               incentive scheme for                                 scheme.                that the majority of basic
rewarding schools that                                                      education schools in Ghana
have good                                                                   need to be upgraded or
maintenance records.                                                       rehabilitated before
implementation of incentive
schemes for maintenance.
(ii) Secondary   Explicit provision included   Continued provision    Provision was made in 1991  Continued provision in   Provision was made in 1992
education     in the budget for         in the budget for    budget                          the budget for         budget                            ON
maintenance and repair of   maintenance and                                    maintenance and repair
equipment and facilities in   repair of equipment                              of equipment and
SSSs, this item to be    and facilities in SSS.                                facilities in SSS.
nonfungible
* Special condition for tranche release



27
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study      Purpose as defined at  Status            Impact of Study
appraisal/redefined
Senior     To evaluate how      Completed a process  Findings from the study
Secondary  teachers are handling  evaluation in 1992.   support the new SSS
School     and students are     Information was     curriculum itself, but
Curriculum  responding to the new  collected from 60  suggest the need for
Evaluation  SSS curriculum based  SSSs by          improvement in
on experience during  interviewing      teaching process that
the first three years of headmasters, heads   should address such
implementation.     of department,     issues as: prevalence of
teachers and       traditional teaching
students; by       method by giving notes
observing lessons;   on blackboard;
and by assessing   equipment and materials
quality and quantity   which have been
of student work    supplied but are seldom
output, such as class  used; inadequate
exercises,         assignment of student
homework, tests and  exercises and tests,
continuous         insufficient number of
assessment records.  teachers in same
subjects, etc.
2.  Program     To design study and   Completed a study    Analysis of the study
Costs      monitor actual unit   of the unit costs of   results is weak and no
costs of various    the five SSS        policy recommendations
programs and        programs in 34      have been made.
program options over  selected schools in
time.               1992.



k.. flat.: 02I06/9S                                                                               TabLe   8:    Sau    ofLea    Covenants
at  rAt.?I.                                                                                                  Stts                 ea
CentralI Wester  Attica1!1,  Dacattean 
APtPI I -pop I IOWA ~"RESOURCES OPR Div
PFLr&    latest Status of Cov InaL CoepIslI
OD 13.05   ANNEX1 D5
FORM 590 DATE: 01I11I95
P-olat ID:        GN-PA-896    EDUJC SAC 11
De-crption of Covenant                                     Co-uerc
Cradit                    Covanent                 PotfU~~~~~~~~~il   Fulfill
Isamn     IIba   Tees Rafaran.ce                   Classee        Sttu      at         Dt
CREDIT               2.03                                 15             C                               The Ciosina date shall be Februar  29. 199( ut             TIhe closin  data  -a  aota-dad toL. cm          31. 1994
such later data as the Asso ciation shall esteIsl.i  to enable    ermn   to taha dali-a  of g-oA..
3.01  hbI                           1I             C                               The B--r- --e  end the A-socition shall  fro  tLi.a    Note
ves0th. etOaGtas  acivdi.n c                -tin du til
Prora   theProec .ed the  cin    paiidi
SLhedula 2 of this  oeaet
3.01 ici                            9              C                               Prior to each suc.h arha-u. the RBto-a  shell              hone
furnish to the Association for its r-iew arid
3.01 fci                            9              C                               Ill a re-ot on tel the. ....re.. .chi.oed in               None.
Carr..n   ou "th  Prv.,th -ctedtl
ecti Onsso-CifiedinSchedule3    fbIt,ueo
the erceads of the Credit: and of1 tie budeet-r
eane nditures . mde ho the Ro,rroie in the education
setr  dur LnFic  the, ur-dsFsalYa   n   h
3.01 Cl                             9              C                                III a draft bu1de-t  lin. i-o.stwns  an             or I   ion
In carred by the  o0rr o"er In thesbauitFsa
Year. i... detaIsof the eanenditurs which the
B-r-- --e  oronosas. to be finan.ced ouLt o  ther\
pr,cee.ds of the Credit.                                                                                                        02
3.03 1.1                            2              C                               The Borrower shl  mi  ama,  conti  eN
veecIa  bnhl and.deausfIL. into said  -ccun   tha
ercee,:ds ofalsae   feaciebookhs  edby
the Borr--e  for the use of t.Eotobs.k
Status:  C    - Confe  with
COD    - C   Io an   fter Delay
NC      N Ht Cmolied witht
SOON4   Coma1lanv  Eno.crtd In Reasona.bly Short Time
CP - Cc"mIlIed wit  PatIall Y
050D   NoRt YeDe



PAGE      2
Ron D.te: 02106/9b
at 1 .21.56
Africa Aesional11  Of ri,ca  ....
&S4PH - POP & IIUKAJq iESOURCES OPR DIV
PPLCRI - -.etast Stat us of Covenant Co,mplie-ca
0D 13.0  - ANNEi DS
FORM  590 DATE: 01I/11/95
Project ID:      GII-PA-496  - RElC SAC II
f) ..sccplpio  Of COvanunt                                 CommLnt
Credit                                       Covenant                Fulfill    FulIll 
A.ra..ant  Number  Taut RefarenCa                         Ci..ssiesi    Status  Dat          Data
CREDIT               3.01  IAs                            2             C                                Such, de...sits shall be usedecisvl   for the              None
ourchese of exccsecd textbooks cequicad uodec
the pcora .m.
3.04 lb)                            S              C                               PHU shell at. li times he adequately staffed.              Nova
4.01  bI                            I              C                               The Borr-oer shell:  rii  have tie reorsan.Nv
eccoar.ts  includIna  thu.fur th. Socia  Accon
for ech fiscel vec audited by independen
auditors acceptabl  tIDA.
4.01  hbi                           I              C                               lIII fucnish to IDA. a  so,on as avilable. but not  FY94 audit reports due by 6/30/95.
la.ter thosi      -oths Iftec the codtof eaech such
yer,I   crtfiead cop yof the cepoct .
4.01 lci                            I              C                               For:eli eane.nditureas with, raHc.o-hc   it-               No
dre Is, from theCredi tAccount wre madio  th
beis of Stataeot  of RSe..ndituras   the,1. Ror 2ar
shalaesur  that'record  ad  eccountsr
included in the   va  eud1Ltad..dthat the ra,,t
of such audit cotanasparste opInion by saId
auditors.
4.52                                5              C                               The Burr-'er shalltcause-aec  educationallisi-Hv
tio  whose eaneditrsaefiaced In uart or Ina
totai out of the  rced  of tha Cred it: iai to
carryan its onrtined conduct  its efialt  in 
eccordecce with sound edinistrativ.  I,  inenIel
vision-of .auilfed L aneinad  .nn              .. at essi
ted by competent staff In adequate numbrs; qnd
4.02                                5              C                                biA at cii times to.ov.arte end to ea1lutai  its          None
det. ahinry.  esInetandther ornorto as
needed, to ehe eil necesa"-ry canirs endorenewals
eled edcetiv:a   prctices
Status:  C    -Comolied with
CD   - Cc.ali-anc  after Delay
NC   -Not CoacLad witth
sO4 N   Comalianc   Eavectadt in Re..so.ebly Short Time
CF     Comolied'withOC pat ialy
NYD  -Not Yet M.e



Run Date: 02/06195
at 11.21.56
Africa Reeloni- Office
Central Westein Aftica Deoert,en
Af IPH - POP A NUHAN RESOURCES OPR DIV
PFLCRI     Latest Statu  of Covenant Cosplince
OD 13.0S - ANNEX DS
FORK 590 DATE: 01/11/95
Project ID:       GH-PA-l96  - EWC SAC It
Dsc ription of Covenant                                     Cc-crts
Loan/                                                                 OrGnome     Revised
Credit                                        Covenant                 Fulfill   fulfill
Acreceent  Number  Text Reference                          Ciessl esi     Status   Date        Date
CREDIT                Scr.) Pert A Second Tranche          12             C                                1. Borrc.r has achieved a student-teacherfincl.    Hone-
national service staff) ratio of 20:1 for e nior
secon,dry schools.
Part A                               II             C                                2.  The Borr,uer has established the number of              None
Ghana Education S"rvie staff at rLot  ore than
112.000.
Part A                               11             C                                3. The Hook user fes3 for urlern end junior                 Non
secondary schools haes been sat at no les thanb.
the 1987/ER proportions of full cost.
Pert A                               11             C                               4. The book user fees for s*nior secondarv schools  None
hav  bcn set at levels sufficient to cover full
cost over the books life span.
Part A                                1             C                               S. The fees for student msals at senior secondary   None
schools have been set at 1eveis sufficient to
cover the full cost of foc.
Pat A                                12             C                                6. Everv curricular scooram notion introduced at    None
env senior secondarv school has anrolld at least
20 studants in each arade end is tausht bv
suitably qualified teachers or national srvice
staff.
Sch. 3 Part B Third Trancha          12             C                                1. The lorr-er has achieved a studant-teaher                Nona
fincl. national  erviCe saff) ratio of 20:1 for
senior secondary schools.                                                                                                             0
Part a                               "I             C                                2. The Borrcor has *stabiished the number uf                None
Ghana Education Srvice ataff at iot .ore thin
112, 000.
Part H                               11             C                                3. The Book user fees for oriearv and junior                None
secondarv schools have been set at no 1ess than
the 1987/88 proportions of full cost.
Status:  C      - Comolied wIth
CD    - Cooliance afer DWi-y
NC - Not Co iled with
sOoN - Co-nlince Exuected in Res.onebly ShoLt Tie.
C?    - Coelied with Part L   Ily
ynD  Not Yet W.e



PAL'E     4
Run Data; 02/06/9S
l 11. 21 .56
Africe Realonal OffIce
Central Western Africa Denarten
AlIPH -POP & hUIIAN RESOURCES OPI DIV
PrLCKI - ltest Sttus of Cwvenent Copliance
OD 11.05 - AHNEI 05
PoRln 590 DATE: 01/11/95
Project ID:       GH-PA-896  - EDC SAC 11
Locof                                                                Orciinal  Revlisd    Description of Covenant                                       C<neet.
Credit                                       C-n_nt _ _ _IEIII _.Pull
Aoreaeent  No.-ar  Teat Reference                         Classiesi      Status  Date        Date
CREDIT               Pert a                               11             C                               S. The fees for  tudent meals at senior  econdary   None
school  hav  bee  se  et leves sfficIent to
cover tie full cost of food.
Part a                              12             C                               6. Ever  curricular orooc-e ontion Introduced at    HNe
an2  senior secondary school has enrolled at Iea s
25 students In eac.h  orede A~d Is tausit by
suIt bly qualifIed t.echers or national .srvice
stff.
Status:  C    - COs lled with
CD     Cod,o ianra after Delay
NC   - Nut C      Joslled with
SOO" C. t cu olan   r,e eatd  n Reasonably Shost Time
c    - Co.'liad wih P-sllly
1150    lNot Yet 0ue



^ 1 t D-    02/06/95
at  II.21S6
Itl Chl - L.t.t Status of Covenant Cuipll-1 c.
00 IJ05 - ANNEX DS
1911 Taut of G-Cara  Covnant Cl.ssification
C,v--t l .a..
I  Accosnts/udt
2     .       . oar...rancanaht                 Iris b.n.f.cla,ia
J tie. and utlIIizs Ion ot ProJatr funds
I  Co9ntaaaaur  lundlno@             
S  fAnao.m.nt aso.c ts of' tirhPoj0    or of its aacutinq aq.ncy
6  Enviror ..tal covennts
9  Involir.t.rn r,tti...Dnt
6  Indllasous ouolnI
S  Munitoties   ,.lvi.  an'S reNOI re q
It  Io-tA ot     ttoniun
11  tucroral or cros s-sctormi t,,doat.ro or otiur   ascent  *iiocatloo
12  Sectorel or c ro.-,a-..to l ,.qularo. r/institot Iol  action
I   Othla
rW



33
Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
(Staffweeks)
Stage of project cycle    FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95
Through Appraisal      48.0    5.1
Appraisal through             28.1
Board Approval                                                              l
Board Approval                 12.4
through Effectiveness                                                       l
Supervision                     1.2    5.4    18.9   22.9   10.3
Completion                                                            12.0
GRAND TOTAL            48.0   46.8    5.4    18.9   22.9   10.3   12.0



34
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Number    Duration of       Specialized        Implemen-       Develop-
Stage of          Month         of         Mission        Staff Skills         tation          ment         Types of
Project Cycle        Year       Persons    (# of days)     Represented            Status      Objectives      Problems
Through Appraisal
Identification       11/88       3           12             EP, ED, EC
Preappraisal         03/89       4                          EP, ED, EC
Appraisal            06/89       5                          EPS ED, EC
Appraisal through
Board Approval
Board Approval                                                                          _              _
through Effectiveness
Supervision            4/91        2            16            EP, PO                     1             2         No major problems,
but there was some
9-10/91    3            11            EP, EC, PO                 2              1        delay in
9-10/92    4            10            EP, EC, ED, PO             2              I        procurement mainly
due to
8/93       2            3             EP, PO                     2             2         organizational
changes in the
7/94       3            15            EP, PO                     S             S         Ministry and
Implementing unit.
11/94      3           7              EP, PO, ED                S              S
Completion              3/95       3            12            EP, P0                     5             S



35
APPENDIXES






GHANA
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (Cr. 2140-GH)
PRIMARY SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CR. 2508-GH)
SUPERVISION MISSION
March 13-25, 1995
Introduction
1.    A World Bank mission to follow up on the preparation of the Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) of the Second Education Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2140-GH) and to supervise
the Primary School Development Project (Cr. 2508-GH) was carried out in Ghana from March
13 to 25, 1995. Mission members included Mrs. Josephine Woo (Project Officer, AF4PH) and
Mr. Kazuhiro Yoshida (Human Resource Economist, AF4PH). A wrap-up meeting to discuss
the mission's findings with the Hon. Minister of Education and the Director-General of the
Project Management Unit (PMU), and attended by representatives of various departments and
agencies under the Ministry of Education (MOE), was held on March 24, 1995. Mr. Gregory
Hancock (Senior Operations Officer, AF4GA) also participated in the wrap-up discussions. The
major issues discussed and key actions to be taken are summarized below.
2.     The mission expresses its appreciation of the extensive and laborious efforts made by
many staff in various departments of MOE to fulfil the mission's requests for data and
information, both during the past two weeks and in the immediate future.
Obiectives of the Mission
3.    The mission's main objectives were to (a) follow up on the preparation of the ICR of the
Second Education Sector Adjustment Credit (EdSAC II), including discussion of the preliminary
report on the independently conducted beneficiary assessment of the education sector reform
program and follow-up work to be undertaken; and (b) review the progress in the various project
components in the Primary School Development Project.
Mission Activities and Discussions
4.     The mission met with officials in various departments and agencies of the MOE,
including the PMU and the Ghana Education Service (GES).  In order to help make a
comprehensive evaluation of the performance of the education sector during the period covered
under the EdSAC II operation, the mission had extensive discussions with MOE staff in the
departments of Planning, Budgeting, Monitoring and Evaluation (PBME) and Statistics, Research,
Information Management and Public Relations (SRIMP); and with GES staff in the divisions of
Basic Education, Secondary Education, Inspectorate, Supplies and Logistics, Finance and
Administration, and Curriculum, Research and Development (CRDD). It also discussed with Mr.
S. K. Atakpa (Director, Institute for Educational Planning and Administration, University of Cape
Coast) the draft report on the beneficiary assessment of the education sector reforrn program, and
exchanged views with staff of the Ghana National Association of Teachers (GNAT). It visited
two school sites in the Greater Accra Region where classroom pavilions financed under the
Primary School Development Project had been built. The mission's program and the list of key
officials met are attached (Attachments I and 2).



Ghana Education SPN Mission, March 1995                                        Page 2
Second Education Sector Adiustment Credit
5.     Closing of EdSAC II Account. Almost all outstanding comrnitments noted in the last
Supervision Mission (November 1994) were completed before EDSAC II closed on December
31, 1994. The remaining balance in the Credit Account, as of March 22, 1995, was SDR
307,179 (US$472,570 equivalent). This amount is expected to be fully disbursed when the Credit
Account closes at the end of the four-month grace period (April 30, 1995).
6.     Preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR). The draft ICR will be
completed shortly after the mission's return to Washington, and will reflect the findings of the
mission as summarized in para. 8-11 below. Concurrently, the PMU is coordinating the
preparation of the Government's own evaluation report which will be based on assessments by
relevant departments in the MOE/GES as well as the findings of the beneficiary assessment (see
para. 7 below). The Government's report -- and a summary if the report is longer than ten pages
-- should be completed and sent to the Bank by April 15, 1995. This will be attached to the draft
ICR which the Bank will transmit to the Government by April 24, 1995. The Government's
comments on the draft ICR should be conveyed to the Bank by May 22, 1995, in order that they
could be incorporated into the final ICR due to be distributed to the Bank's Board of Executive
Directors by June 30, 1995.
7.     Beneficiarv Assessment of the Education Sector Reform Program. As discussed and
agreed during the last Supervision Mission (November 1994), a beneficiary assessment of the
impact of the education reforms was conducted in December 1994. With support from the
Bank's Client Consultation Fund, a research team led by Mr. S. K. Atakpa of the Institute for
Educational Planning and Administration (IEPA) was contracted to carry out the work.
Community leaders, parents/guardians, teachers, students and administrators in six districts in six
different regions (Upper West, Brong Ahafo, Central, Greater Accra, Eastern and Volta) were
interviewed over a two-week period on their perceptions of the changes in the following areas:
(a)    access to primary, junior secondary (JSS) and senior secondary (SSS);
(b)    performance of pupils and reasons for poor performance and attendance;
(c)    performance of teachers and how incentive schemes have worked;
(d)    orientation and relevance of new curriculum;
(e)    new structure of Primary, JSS and SSS;
(f)    availability and use of instructional materials and equipment;
(g)    condition and adequacy of physical facilities;
(h)    financial responsibility for parents and local communities;
(i)    capacity of communities to become more involved in the management and
supervision of schools; and
(j)    priority areas where further assistance is desirable
The results of the interviews have been compiled and summnarized in a draft repert prepared by
the research team. The mission reviewed the draft report with Mr. Atakpa and Ms. Korsah of
the PMU and suggested areas in which the report should be strengthened. In particular, it was
noted that detailed information should be included on the methodology used in collecting the data,
that further analysis of the data presented on each topic should be undertaken and written up, and
that relevant information on the social and economic conditions of the district where the
interviews took place should be drawn upon to provide the context for the interpretation of the
data. It was agreed that Mr. Atakpa would submit a revised draft to the PMU and the Bank not



Ghana Education SPN Mission, March 1995                                         Page 3
later than April 10, 1995. The findings of the beneficiary assessment would then be incorporated
into the draft ICR.
8.     Preliminary Evaluation of Implementation Performance. EdSAC II provided support to
the Government in the second phase of the education sector reform program, when major changes
took place at the senior secondary level. The main objectives of EdSAC II were to help
Government (a) extend the reform to senior secondary education, reducing the length of the
cycle, introducing more practical content into the curriculum, and replenishing necessary basic
materials and supplies; (b) consolidate the basic education reforms so that primary and JSS
leavers acquire the cognitive skills needed to take advantage of education offered at higher levels;
and (c) ensure the financial sustainability of the new system. In reviewing the implementation
performance of EdSAC II against these objectives, the mission noted that:
(a)    the implementation of the reforms in the structure of the educational system has
been completed, with the new structure of six years of primary education, three
years of JSS and three years of SSS fully established;
(b)    teaching and learning materials have been developed and incorporated into the
new curriculum; textbooks, supplementary reading materials, and basic school
supplies and equipment have been delivered to schools, though in some cases
substantially delayed and in short supply owing to miscellaneous production and
distribution problems;
(c)    a large number of new senior secondary schools have been built, expanding
access to SSS especialy in the rural areas; in addition, facilities in existing
schools have been rehabilitated;
(d)    teachers have been provided with in-service training; and other incentive schemes
aimed at helping to improve teachers' performance have been initiated; and
(e)    efficiency and cost-sharing measures have been developed and promulgated, and
the budget management process has improved so that actual expenditures are
becoming increasingly in line with budgeted expenditures.
9.     The miission also noted that financing for these inputs to the education system had been
drawn not only from EdSAC II but also from complementary projects supported by the Bank and
other donors, including the Primary Education Programme financed by United States Agency for
International Development (USAID) and the Community Secondary Schools Construction and
Primary School Development Projects financed by the Bank (Cr. 2278-GH and Cr. 2508-GH).
Of the total financing of about US$50 million provided under EdSAC II, US$19 million was used
to finance equipment (almost all for SSS), US$10 million for textbooks, supplementary readers
and school supplies (for SSS as well as primary and JSS), about US$9 million for installation of
school pavilions and rehabilitation of school facilities and workshops, and about US$12 million
for the construction of headteachers houses and classroom pavilions for primary schools. Credit
funds were released in three tranches, the first tranche at the time of effectiveness in July 1990;
the second and third tranches, which were linked to implementation of policy measures needed
to ensure the financial sustainability of the new system, were released almost entirely on schedule
in September 1991 and early 1993, respectively.



Ghana Education SPN Mission, March 1995                                             Page 4
10.    In general, the mission's impressions are that, when measured against the "input"
objectives (of completing the structural reforms in SSS, expanding access, delivering needed
resources to the education system and setting up guidelines and procedures to control costs,
monitor outcomes and supervise schools), the performance of EdSAC 1I can be considered
positive. However, in terms of actual improvements in learning outcomes and efficiency of
resource use, performance may be more problematic. The mission has been advised that learning
outcomes continue to be poor from Primary through JSS and SSS; parts of the new curriculum
may be overly ambitious; learning materials even when available are often not being used by
teachers; actual student-teacher contact hours are still low; teachers generally lack motivation
despite incentive schemes; in-service training is still inadequate; discipline of teachers remains
weak and within-school supervision is poor. Moreover, even though the tranche conditions
intended to ensure sustainability of the new system were almost all complied with, it is unlikely
that the consequential savings are adequate to offset the additional unit costs incurred by the
vocationalization of the curriculum and the upgrading of teachers, materials and supplies.
11.    Implications for Future Operations.   As the country  moves towards political,
administrative and fiscal decentralization, concern over the sustainability of the reform program
has heightened. One observation is that while enrollment in SSS has increased, primary
enrollment has been expanding less rapidly than school age population. At the same time, there
seems to be increased pressure to expand staff at all levels of government (e.g., the number of
GES staff increased from 151,643 in 1993 to 154,896 in 1994). Of crucial concern to the issue
of sustainability is whether learning achievements can be significantly improved within a
reasonable time, as support for the educational reforms is likely to diminish if outcomes continue
to be poor. The trend towards decentralization suggests that increased efforts should be made
to involve local comrunities in the supervision and management of schools. In this regard, the
mission is pleased to note that the government is taking initiatives to encourage community
participation, with support from the USAID in the context of the ongoing work program in
preparation for the Free, Compulsory Universal Basic Education (FCUBE) initiative.
12.    In light of the above, the mission was pleased to note the initiatives being taken by MOE
to address these challenges boldly and openly -- as evidenced in the recent publication of the
FCUBE policy statement, the education sector aspirations in the Government's "Vision 2020"
Statement, and the establishment of commnunity-based "school watchdog" comrnittees. The
commitment by the Hon. Minister of Education to close donor collaboration in the preparation
of the FCUBE development assistance package should enhance the efficient use of all available
resources, and ensure that the lessons learned from the implementation of EdSAC II are taken
into account in the next external assistance operation.
Primary School Development Proiect
13.    Training Programs. The mission was given a brief summary of the training activities that
had taken place over the past 18 months:
(a)    The general orientation training for key district officials took place in October
1993 at four centers (Cape Coast, Accra, Tamale and Kumasi). At that time
District Chief Executives had not yet been elected. The 602 participants at the
training included District Administrative Officers, Presiding Members, District
Directors of Education, District PWD Engineers, District Comrnunity
Development Officers and Chairpersons of Social Services Committee.



Ghana Education SPN Mission, March 1995                                         Page 5
(b)    Training courses for headteachers from the proiect schools took place from
August 21 to September 24, 1994. The training was held at 12 different centers
throughout the country.  A total of 1,897 headteachers attended the 10-day
courses. Comments received from participants indicated that the headteachers
found the course useful and recommended that it be extended to headteachers of
all primary schools in the country. They also suggested that the Headteachers'
Handbook used in the course should be given to all headteachers for reference.
(c)    The general orientation training for local comrnunity leaders was carried out at
each district center between February 20-28, 1995, to inform the key conmmunity
leaders about the objectives of the Primary School Development Project and the
role the leaders were expected to play in its implementation.  Participants
included comrnmunity leaders made up of the Community Chief, the Local
Assembly representative, and member of the Town Committee. Key district
officials who were trained in the orientation workshop in October 1993 would
form the training team.
(d)    Communitv mobilization workshops for District Monitoring Assistants and
Circuit Supervisors were conducted from February 14 to March 15, 1995 in
Accra, Cape Coast, Kumasi and Tamale. The workshops provided instructions
on the cladding of classroom pavilions, the maintenance and repairs of school
pavilions and headteachers houses, and the role of PTAs and communities in
school activities.
The mission was provided copies of the programs for the community mobilization workshops,
and the guidelines issued by GES on the organization of these workshops as well as the
orientation training for local community leaders. It was agreed that reports on all the training
programs that had taken place would be made available to the Bank.
14.    Construction Programs. The mission was briefed on the status of construction work on
the school pavilions and the headteachers' houses:
(a)    Construction of Classroom Pavilions. Overall progress had slowed down owing
to delays in sourcing timber which might have resulted from recent sharp rises
in timber prices. For Lot 5 (Greater Accra and Central Regions), work started
slowly also because of the delay in obtaining the specific timber treatment
chemicals from abroad. However, the mission was informed that these problems
had largely been solved. At the time of the mission's visit, it was expected that
all 230 pavilions covered under Lot 6 would be completed by mid-May. In
addition, 60 pavilions in the Ashanti and Western Regions (Lot 2), 39 in the
Eastern Region (Lot 3), and 28 in the Greater Accra Region (Lot 5) had been
completed and accepted by the technical auditors. Work in the Northern Region
(Lot 1) would begin in June as the contractor had recently adjusted his schedule
in response to PMU's request that the work there should not be further delayed.
The bid evaluation report for Lot 4 -- which were divided into 12 sub-lots and
for which bids were invited according to Local Competitive Bidding procedures -
- should be available by the end of March.



Ghana Education SPN Mission, March 1995                                         Page 6
(b)    Headteachers' Houses.  A total of 1,156 headteachers' houses had been
completed and accepted by the technical auditors. In addition, 727 had been
reported completed by the districts and submitted by the PMU to the technical
auditors for inspection and processing. Reports from the remaining project
schools were expected latest by the end of 1995. Of the headteachers' houses
reported completed, 24 had been found to be located on sites not included in the
original list of the 1,983 project schools. PMU had been investigating the
legitimacy of these changes and would submit a request to the Bank for approval
of changes it considered to be justifiable.
(c)    Roofing of School Facilities.  A total of 30,450 roofing sheet had been
distributed to the project schools.
15.    Use of Local Contractors.  At the wrap-up meeting, it was recognized that the
construction of headteachers' houses undertaken by local contractors had proceeded with
remarkable speed and the quality of work was satisfactory. The Hon. Minister urged that the
Bank support further development of local capacity by increasing opportunities for local
companies to bid for construction work financed under Bank projects. The mission noted that
the Bank had approved the use of Local Competitive Bidding procedures in lieu of International
Competitive Bidding for one of the lots for the construction of classroom pavilions (Lot 4), and
the experience gained in implementing the contracts for this lot would provide a basis for
assessing the capacity of local companies to carry out larger construction projects than those
undertaken in the construction of headteachers' houses.
16.    Baseline Survey Report. The mission was pleased to receive the final report on the
baseline survey, and appreciated the intensive efforts made to finalize its production over the last
few weeks. It was noted that the compilation and analysis of data had taken almost two years
to complete. However, the lessons learned in this exercise -- particularly the critical need to
clearly define responsibilities and assignments in view of the immense demand for staff resources
within a relatively short period of time -- will be useful as PBME plans and designs future
activities such as the school mapping study discussed below.
17.    School Mapping Study. The mission reviewed the progress in the school mapping
exercise as discussed in the last supervision mission. In view of the delay in the initiation of this
study, and taking into consideration recent thinking in government policy on the provision of
basic education, the mission invited the PMU staff responsible for the implementation of the
Primary School Development Project and MOE/GES staff involved in the development of the
FCUBE work program to a joint meeting to discuss the terrns of reference for the school mapping
exercise. It was noted that given the current capacity in the Ministry, it would not be possible
to simultaneously undertake one study under the Primary School Development Project and
another exercise under the FCUBE work program. It was agreed that the two exercises would
be merged, and a proposal including estimates of staff resources and costs for the first eight
months was prepared by the PBME and discussed with the mission prior to its departure. It was
proposed that a consultant (or a consulting firm or team) would be recruited to help design the
survey instruments, organize the data input and analysis, and oversee the production of the
report. To facilitate skills transfer, it was envisaged that designated PBME staff would be
specifically assigned to work on this task for the entire duration as part of their normal duties and
would serve as counterparts to the consultant. PBME would revise the draft proposai to include
budget estimates through the end of the school mapping exercise, making adequate allowance for



Ghana Education SPN Mission, March 1995                                        Page 7
resources required to carry out the surveys, data entry and analysis, and preparation of the
reports. PBME would seek the advice of the Project Manager in the PMU in preparing the draft
terms of reference and draft contract for the consultant (or consulting firm) in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank. The revised proposal for the school mapping exercise and
the draft terms of reference, together with a shortlist of qualified candidates and a draft letter of
invitation to submit bids according to the terms of reference, would be sent through the PMU to
the Bank for no objection as soon as possible.
18.   Vacancies in PMU. The mission was informed that four technicians had been appointed
to its staff responsible for the Primary School Development Project, and that only one position
now remained to be filled.
19.    Audit Report. The mission was informed that the audit report for fiscal year 1994 was
under preparation and the deadline for submission of the report would be met.
20.    Disbursements. The mission was informed that a total amount of US$15.5 million had
been disbursed for activities originally included under the Primary School Development Project.
Of this total amount, about US$12 million had been financed under EdSAC II. With the closing
of EdSAC II, it was expected that disbursements under the Primary School Development Project
would rise substantially in 1995.
21.    Monitoring of Compliance with Legal Covenants and Key Performance Indicators. The
mission discussed with the PMU the legal covenants under the project and the key performance
indicators to be used to monitor project performance. The comments on the legal covenants and
the presentation of the performance indicators will be revised to reflect these discussions.
22.    Progress Reports. It was agreed that, as stated in Schedule 4 (para 1) of the Development
Credit Agreement, the Government should submit to the Bank semi-annual reports on the
progress in implementing the project.
23.   Mid-Term Review. The mission noted that the mid-term review (MTR) of the project
should be carried out jointly between the Bank and the Government between July 1, 1995 and
December 31, 1995 (Section 3.07, Development Credit Agreement). It was agreed that the
timing of the MTR should be coordinated with the preparation of the multi-donor FCUBE
development program, as discussed below.
24.    Coordination with FCUBE Initiative Work Program. It was noted that the Primary
School Development Project would serve as a foundation for the Government's intention to
proceed with a multi-donor basic education sector development program in support of specific
aspects of the FCUBE policy statement. In this regard, it would be important to coordinate the
activities of the ongoing project with the FCUBE program as it develops. The mission indicated
its support for MOE's proposal to finance selected aspects of FCUBE program preparation from
Cr. 2508-GH, in particular, coordination expertise and a school mapping/profile exercise (as
discussed in para. 17 above). The MTR (see para. 23 above) would provide an opportunity for
the Government and the Bank to review the design and components of the Primary School
development Project and to include, if necessary, additional activities supporting the objectives
of an agreed FCUBE program, in collaboration with other donor assistance.



Ghana Education SPN Mission, March 1995                                         Page 8
Key Actions to be Taken
25.    The key actions to be taken over the next few months are summarized below:
(a)    Re EdSAC II:
(i)    PMU will send to the Bank all required documentation for eligible
expenditures under the Credit to enable closing of the Credit Account
prior to April 30, 1995 (para. 5);
(ii)    PMU will send to the Bank, prior to April 10, 1995, the revised report
on the Beneficiary Assessment of the impact of the educational reform
program (para. 7);
(iii)   PMU will send to the Bank, prior to April 15, 1995, the Government's
evaluation report on the implementation of the Credit (para. 6);
(iv)   The Bank will send to the Government, prior to April 24, 1995, the draft
ICR (para. 6); and
(v)    PMU will send to the Bank, prior to May 22, 1995, the Government's
comments on the draft ICR (para. 6).
(b)    Re Primary School Development Project:
(i)    PMU will send to the Bank the reports on the training programs as they
become available (para. 13);
(ii)    PMU will send to the Bank the bid evaluation report for Lot 4 for the
construction of classroom pavilions requesting the Bank's no objection
(para. 14(a));
(iii)   PMU will send to the Bank for approval a request for changes in the list
of headteachers' houses financed under the project (para. 14(b));
(iv)   PBME will revise the draft proposal for the school mapping exercise and
prepare the draft terms of reference for the consultant, the draft contract,
the shortlist of qualified candidates, and the draft letter of invitation;
PMU will assist PBME in the preparation of these documents and submit
the completed package to the Bank for no objection (para. 17);
(v)    PMU will send to the Bank, prior to June 30, 1995, the audit report for
fiscal year 1994 (para. 19); and
(vi)   PMU will send to the Bank semi-annual reports on the progress in
implementing the project (para. 22).



Ghana Education SPN Mission, March 1995                                        Page 9
Proposed Dates for Next Mission
26.    The next supervision mission was tentatively scheduled for June/July, 1995.
Acknowledgements
27.   The mission extends its thanks to all those who facilitated its work, particularly the Hon.
Minister of Education; Mr. R. J. Mettle-Nunoo (Director-General, PMU); Mr. Yaw Dwomoh
(Director, PBME) and staff in his department including Mr. Daniel Konadu, Ms. Eunice Dapaah,
Mr. Daniel Zogblah, Mr. Ben Akubia, Mr. K. Sarfo, Mr. Stephen Agyarkwa, Ms. Nancy
Yelpoe, Mr. Felix Asiamah, and Mr. T. H. Coleman; Mr. Amnissah (Deputy Director-General,
GES), Mr. Alex Tettey-Enyo (Director, Secondary Education), Mrs. Sarah Opong (Director,
Basic Education), Mr. F. A. Baiden (Acting Director, Technical Education), Ms. Louisa Owusu
(Director, Supplies and Logistics), Mrs. Lena Sevor (Director, CRDD), Ms. Augustina Gockah
(Director, Inspectorate) and Mr. Osei Owusu (Director, Finance and Administration) of GES;
Ms. Araba Korsah (Project Manager) and Mr. Philip L. A. Botchey (Deputy Project Manager)
of the PMU; and staff of the World Bank's Resident Mission Office in Accra.
Accra, Ghana
March 26, 1995



I



SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(EdSAC II)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
APRIL  1995



I
I



SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (EdSAC II)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
A    PROGRAMME OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN
(a) Background
In September 1987, after many years of well thought out schemes
to improve the system of education which would reflect the
political,    social,cultural,    economic,    industrial    and
technological needs and aspirations of Ghana, the Education
Reform Programme was finally embarked upon.   The reforms are
being carried out both in structure and content throughout the
whole system of education from Primary to the tertiary level.
The initial thrust was the nationwide implementation of the
Junior Secondary School Programme.
(b) Objectives of the Reforms
The Education Reforms seek to do the following:
(i)     Provide all children of school going age with a basic
education of 9 years consisting of 6 years Primary and
3 years Junior Secondary.
(ii)     Shorten the unduly long statutory period of pre-
university schooling from 17 years to 12 years.
(iii)     Improve quality of education especially at the basic
level.
(iv)     Increase access to education at all levels of the
education system.
(v)     Recognize and support non-formal education.
(vi)     Offer the opportunity for practical skills acquisition
by shifting from academic orientation to a more
problem-solving and technical one.
(vii)    Guarantee the sustainability and quality of education
to make it cost effective and efficient.
(c) Components of the reform
The above considerations have resulted in the adoption by Ghana
of the 6-3-3-4 system of education from September 1987. Under
this structure, the country now has 6 years Primary and 3 years
Junior Secondary.  This is followed by a 3 years Senior Secondary
and 4 years of University or tertiary education.
In effect, Pre-university education has been reduced from 17 to
12 years  to cut  down on  the opportunity  cost  of  schooling
especially at the basic level and make funds available to improve
both  access  and  quality  thereby  ensuring  that  majority  of
Ghanaian children acquire good basic education.



2
(d)  Achievements under EdSAC I
1.   The 9 year basic education was put in place
2.   Development,  printing  and  distribution  of  educational
materials eg syllabuses and textbooks for Primary and JSS.
3.   Procurement  and distribution  of  technical,  science  and
agricultural equipment.
4.   Training  of education  sector  staff  for  supervision  and
teachers in basic schools.
5.   Strengthening of planning and management of the education
system.
6.   Strengthening the District Education Offices and providing
vehicles to the districts.
7.   Provision of school pavilions.
8.   Basic Equipment for higher education.
9.   Support Management and Curriculum Research.
The period between 1987 and 1990 was devoted to intensive
implementation activities on all fronts especially at the sector,
community and school levels. In spite of the many problems and
pressures, most of the major policy actions under the reform
programme were achieved.
(e) Role of Donors & Co-ordinators
There was good relationship between the Ministry of Education and
the donors throughout the implementation period. The support,
commitment and encouragement greatly facilitated expeditious
action on crucial aspects of the programme that needed to be
cleared with the World Bank.
(f) Focus on EdSAC II
The Second Education Sector Adjustment Credit (EdSAC II) was
largely designed and negotiated to assist with the second phase
of the Education Reform Programme and put the SSS programme in
place. Secondary Education in general terms offers opportunity
to build on  the foundation  laid at  the basic  level  and to
strengthen the general intellectual knowledge and skills that are
required for occupation and for further education.
(g) Objectives of EdSAC II
(i) To increase access
(ii) To reduce the length of pre-university education.



3
(iii) To improve the teaching and learning process and raise the
quality of education at all levels.
(iv) To contain and partially recover costs.
(v)   To enhance sector management and budgeting process.
B    ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
(a)  Access:   The three years of the education reforms under
EdSAC I recorded a growth in enrolment of 11.8% at the primary
level and a marked improvement in the retention rate especially
between P6 and JSS 1. The retention rate at JSS was also good.
In  1990  142,328  of  JSS  3 pupils  wrote  the  Basic  Education
Certificate Examination.
There was therefore the need to increase the number of Senior
Secondary Schools.   To achieve this, all the experimental JSS
were  upgraded  into  Senior  Secondary  Schools  and a few more
Community Secondary Schools were opened in 1991.   This enabled
the government to establish at least two Senior Secondary Schools
in every district.   The table below shows the increase in the
number of Senior    Secondary Schools.
Year            No. of SSS
1990                  258
1991                  401
1992                  413
1993                  443
1994                  4D3
To enable the Ministry to improve infrastructure and staffing in
rural Secondary Schools, a ban has been placed on opening and
absorption  of more  Senior  Secondary  Schools  into  the public
system for two years.
Enrolment into Senior Secondary 1 has increased steadily as
shown below:-
Year           SS 1
1991            50,199
1992            54,858
1993            59,097
1994            71,692
This  shows  a  great   improvement   in  admission  to  Senior
Secondary   Schools.  Before the education reforms, only 27,000
students entered secondary schools through the Common Entrance
Examination.
Another encouraging factor is the increase in the  participation
rate of girls in Business and Science education.  Girls now form
40% of students reading business and 22% of those reading science
as compared to their participation rate of 20 and 15 percent
respectively in the two disciplines at Upper 6 in the old system



4
of education in 1991/92. This is a reflection of the campaign
to popularise science and mathematics education among girls.
Class size in the southern sector of the country is between 45
and 50 while in Brong Ahafo and the Northern regions it is
between 30 and 40. The total enrolment from SSS1 to SSS3 as at
1993 was 165,000 students.
The  instructional  time  for  Senior  Secondary  Schools    was
increased from 33 to 40 weeks. This left very little vacation
for teachers who w.ere teaching both the traditional secondary
classes and the SSS.  With the phasing out of the old system, it
will be easier to manage the 40 weeks instructional time.
(b) Curriculum Design
(i) Preparation of Syllabuses - The SSS curriculum is a major
reform of the content of secondary education  in Ghana.   The
curriculum was designed to introduce practical component with
technological and scientific based subjects to meet the country's
development  and  manpower  needs.    Practical  activities  for
teaching and learninlg have also been outlined in the various
subjects.  Vocational and technical education was emphasised.
Teaching syllabuses wer-e developed for all the fortv-two (42)
subject areas and were ready by Januarv 1991.
The  curriculum has  two components  namely,  Core  and Elective
Subjects.   The core  subjects are:   Eniglish,  Maths,  Ghanaian
Languages, Science, Agricultural and Environmental Studies, Life
Skills and Phvsical Education. The three Elective subjects are
selected from the five programmes namely, Agriculture, Business,
Technical,  Vocational  and  General  Education.          Under  each
programme a number- of subject combinations or options have been
outlined.
The development of the syllabuses was done through subject panels
composed  of   curriculum  experts,   pre-univ-ersity   teachers,
university lecturers and other experts in the Ghana Education
Service and members of the general public who had the requisite
expertise.
The  components  of  the  curriculum  are  Rationale,  Objectives,
Content, Teaching and learning activities, Evaluation procedures
and selection of teaching learning aids.
(ii) Development of Textbooks
The  Miinistry  of  Education  commissioned  experts  to  develop
manuscripts based on the syllabuses.   Publishing and printing
were  done outside the country.  There was a lot of delay in the
development   of  acceptable  manuscripts   and   therefore   the
publishing and printing of the textbooks were delayed.   This
hampered  effective  teaching and learning  in the  f irst  three
years.



5
The table below shows delivery pattern.
Year       No. of titles delivered
1 991                 9
1992                 10
1993                 18
1994                 14
By October  1994,  41  titles  of SSS  books  have  been printed,
delivered and distributed to schools.  The quantitv target is one
textbook in each subject area to a student.
(iii)     Acquisition and delivery of Equipment
Equipment  for  the  various  programmes  was  procured  through
International Competitive Bidding and delivered as follows:
In  1991,  17  sets  of  equipment  were  delivered  for  various
programmes  except  Home  Economics.    Seveniteen  (17)  4OKVA and
seventy  three  (73)  25 KVA  generators  were  also  supplied  to
schools.
In 1992, 370 sets of Home Economics equipment were delivered and
some science chemicals were also delivered.
In 1993, Supplementary equipment in Home Economics, generators,
and duplicating machines and typewriters were supplied.
In  1994,  Supplementary  equipment  for  Agriculture,  Technical
drawing,  Building  Construction  and  Woodwork  hand  tools  were
delivered.
(iv) Continuous Assessment
All Senior Secondary Schools as a matter of policv adopted the
process of continuous assessment  to evaluate  students.   This
takes 40% of the total scores while the external  examination
takes 60%. Careful procedures have been designed and approved
for use by all teachers.
In-Service training courses have been organised for all
categories of teachers on Continuous Assessment processes.
In 1992, the CRDD carried out evaluation of the curriculum to
find out how teachers were handling the various subjects and
programmes and how students were responding to the curriculum.
Sixt y  (60)  Senior  Secondary  Schools  were selected  for  the
exercise (30 new and 30 old schools.)
The following observations were made:
1.   Students participated actively  in class and demonstrated
keen interest in the subjects and programmes despite their
handicap in communication.



6
2.   Teachers'  output was below expectation,  the old lecture
method and notes-giving prevailed. Class exercises, homework and
tests given by the teachers were woefully inadequate.
3.   In some schools, especially the new ones, lack of adequate
staff hampered the teaching of practical subjects and equipment
were not effectively utilised.
(c)  Programme Costs and Staffing
Distribution of students into Senior Secondary 1 across
programmes is as follows:
Year  Agric  Tech.  Bus.    Home   Visual    Gen   Gen.
Econ.   Sc.    Art         Sc.   Art
1991  7 , 9 16  5,155  4,14 5   8,856  3, 5 17  8,498  11,C(.90
1992  7,94 5  , 793  4,642   9,305  4,194  9,417  14,01
1993  8,989  5,761  4,855   9,526  5,121  9,304  15.034
1994 10,743  6,902  6,681  12,134  6,016  11,456 20,533
Unit Cost per year per head for each programme in 1992 is as
follows:
Programme         Day              Boarding
(c)             ( e )
Science           53,642           62,474
Arts              50,856          D59,686
Business          37,711           46,543
Vocational        51,097           D9,929
Technical         41,339           48,062
Agriculture       69,688           78,520
(d)  Improving Teaching and Learning Prodess
(i) Training Programmes
Efforts have been made to ensure quality education through the
supply of teaching learning materials such as textbooks,
equipment and library books. Capacity building of teachers is
vital to quality education delivery and therefore various in-
service training courses have been carried out since 1991 for
teachers at all levels.
Details of the training programmes is attached as Appendix I.
(ii) Inspection and Supervision
In line with the government's ongoing decentralisation policy,
the Inspectorate Division's functions have been decentralised
from the Headquarters to Regional Co-ordinators, District
Supervisors/Inspectors  and Circuit  Supervisors.    This  is to
intensify  supervision  and  inspection  and  ensure  regular
attendance of teachers and students and improve teaching and
learning at both Basic and Secondary School levels.



7
Circuit Level: -  Four  hundred  and  fifty-nine  (459)  Circuit
Supervisors have so far been appointed and trained. Each Circuit
Supervisor is in charge of 20 basic schools in a circuit. Where
schools are scattered, he/she may have 10 - 15 schools.   The
Circuit Supervisors work to the District Inspector who is under
the District Director of Education.
District Inspector: -    Supervises  activities of the Circuit
Supervisors and is responsible for Second Cycle Institutions.
Regional Inspectorate:-  There are 5 inspectors   of the
Assistant Director's grade, who co-ordinate, supervise and
facilitate the functions at the districts. Their selection is
based on the 5 SSS  programmes.       They  collate  and  analyse
information and pass it on to Headquarters.
Headquarters Inspectorate:-   Receives  information  from  all
levels, ensures that appropriate actions are taken as required
and gives professional guidance to all Inspectors and
Supervisors.
iii)     Examination Results and Accountabilitv
Since 1992, Criterion Referenced tests have been administered to
a sample of Primary Six children in English and Mathematics.
In the 1993 test, results showed that 1.5% of the children
reached the criterion (55%) set for Maths.  This was an increase
of 0.4% over 1992.
In English (1993) the percentage of pupils meeting the criterion
score of 60% in the total test is 3.0%.  This was 1.0% higher
than 1992.
To ameliorate the poor situation, items children found difficult
were selected for in-service training for upper primary teachers
in Maths and English.
Senior Secondary School Examination Result
In November/December 1993, 42,105 students, the first batch of
SSS graduates, wrote the Senior Secondary School Certificate
Examination.    In all 33,230 candidates representing 78.92% of
the total candidature passed in one or more subjects at grade E
and  above  and  8,875  candidates  representing  21.08%  of  the
candidature were unable to obtain a pass in any subject. Though
the results are not encouraging in terms of project output, it
was a fair reflection of problems existing during the first three
years  of  the  implementation  of  the  Senior  Secondary  School
Programme.
Short Term Measure to Assist Students
Remedial classes were organised at 149 centres in the afternoons
from July to October, 1993 for students who wished to resit the
examination. Senior Secondary Schools could also take on their



8
own students for the remedial classes.   This was to offer a
second chance to affected students to write the examination in
subjects in which they wanted to upgrade their performance.
(e) Containment and Sharing of Recurrent Costs
(i) Staffing Norms
The Ghana Education Service has been controlling the staffing
levels and retrenching untrained Middle School teachers since the
beginning of the education reforms.  Trained teachers coming out
of Teacher Training Colleges have been used to replace untrained
teachers on the basis of one in one out. As at 1994 there were
21,816 untrained middle school  teachers as against 26,279  in
1991.
The Pupil teacher ratios as at 1994 were as follows
Primary   1:30
JSS        1:28
SSS        1 :20
The total teaching staff level is 132,852 and non-teaching  staff
is 22,044  thus  bringing  the total  level  of Ghana  Education
Service Staff establishment to 154,896 as at 1994.
(ii) Book User Fees
At the beginning of the reforms, textbook user fee per pupil per
year was c120.00 for children in P3 to JSS 3.  This was increased
to c250.00 in 1991 and remained at that level until January 1995
when  textbook user  fee was abolished for primary pupils and
increased to q5OO.00 for JSS pupils.
In the Senior Secondary Schools, the user fees were 4,500.00
per student per year in 1991 and 1992, 6,000.00
per student per year in 1993 and 1994.  With effect from January
1995, students are to pay 9,000.00 per head.
(f) More Effective Planning and Management
(i)  The Ministry of Education has the Minister for Education as
the Politcal head supported by two deputies.   There are four
divisions in the Ministry;
a.   Administration and Finance
b.   Planning, Budgeting, Monitoring & Evaluation
c.   Research,  Statistics,  Information  Management  and  Public
Relationis
d.   Training and Human Resource Development
The  Chief  Director  co-ordinates  the  activities  of  these
divisions.
The Projects Management Unit (PMU) has been fully integrated into
the Ministry of Education.   The Director-General  (PMU)  is the



9
Chief Executive and is responsible for the implementation of all
foreign funded projects under the Ministry according to norms and
standards agreed upon between the Government of Ghana and the
donor  agencies.    The  PMU  Director-General  reports  to  the
Minister. Next to the Director-General is the the Director of
Finance who supervises disbursement and accounting activities of
the PMU.  There are four Project Managers under them are four
sections responsible for Disbursement, Procurement, Management
and Civil Works.
(ii) Budget expenditure in the Education Sector
The total budgetory expenditure in 1991 was 72,032,831,000.00
while in 1992 it went up to 85,885,494,000.00. In 1993 it was
133,490,000.00.   The budgetory allocation percentage to basic
education was 57.51% in 1991 and this increased gradually to
55.14% in 1994. the disaggregated figures from other divisions
for Basic Education will bring the per-centage to 65.
(iii)     Controlling the Public Investment Programme:
The Ministry is making every effort to control the PIP.
Currently projects are submitted from the regions and prioritized
according  to urgency.    Greater  emphasis  is given  to school
facilities eg classrooms, w:orkshops, science laboratories,
sanition, etc.   Also projects that ar-e 25% or less to completion
are considered. Only projects approved in the budget are paid
for.  There is more control on monitoring of projects at school,
district and regional levels.   Reports are submitted from all
these levels as well as the supervisiorn by government agencies
such as PWD and Architectural Engineering Services Corporation
(AESC).   This has reduced the nurnber- of projects and strenthened
expenditure control.
(iv) Reforms of Education Procurement Functions
Educational procurement has been streamlined to avoid duplication
and ensure proper co-ordination.   A Procurement Committee has
been set up within the Ghana Education Service.  The Committee's
function is to decide on items to be purchased for all divisions.
If the funding comes from the Government of Ghana the procurement
is done by the Ghana Supply Commission.  The PMUJ Procur-enier1t Unit
purchases  all  items  which  are  funded  by  the  Projects.
Distribution of supplies move from Headquarters to the districts
for allocation to the schools.  Storage is still a problem in the
system.
(v) School Maintenance
Steps  have  been  taken  to  ensu re  that  some  funds  are  made
available   for   maintaining   Secondar-v   School   structures.
Government subsidy of 10.00 per day per boarding student (ie
c840.00 a term) is paid to the school for petty inainteniance of



10
the facilities  in Secondary  Schools.   The amounts to schools
since 1991 are:
1991 -    c163,802.746.00
1992 -    198,296,870.00
1993 -    227,380,440.00
1994 -    196 677,040.00
 716, 157,040.00
The Community Day SecondarN Schools do not receive  this basic
maintenance  grant.    These  schools  receive  only  government
budgetary provision for maintenance and are sometimes supported
by the communities and Parent/Teacher Associations.
Grants utilised from budgetary provision for maintenance and
repairs   of   SSS   facilities   between   1991   and   1994   is
92,899,295,298.00.  The breakdowm is as follows:
1991       -        c86,293,797.44
1992       -       c318,439,357.00
1993       -       c374,684,644.83
1994       -    C92,119,877,430.97
C    MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
1.   The delay in delivery of SSS textbooks.
2.   Lack of teachers in some subject areas
3.   Poor infrastructure in some of the Community rural schools
which deter qualified teachers from going to those schools.
4.   Contractors inability to nieet date lines.
D.   PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
( i)  Government is very much committed  to the  project and  is
giving all the political support.
(ii) Interest created  in the communities to support their own
Senior Secondary Schools will enhance and sustain the
pro j ec t .
(iii)The restructuring of the Ministry and the Ghana Education
Service and management procedures have given policies
formilated  for  the  project a good  environment that will also
support follow up projects.
E.   LESSONS LEARNED
The experience gained in maniaging the second phase of the reform
programme has deepened our conviction that there was the need for
initiating the structural change and continue the process to a
logical conclusion of pre-university education. The conviction
for the refor-ms which enabled  the Ministry to go through  the
problems of the first phase, encouraged the implementers to press
to fiinish the second phase of the reform programme.



1 1
b.   The acceptance of the second phase especially by the rural
communities who now have Senior Secondary Schools is a clear
indication that we need to provide that level of education to
more Ghanaian children.
c.   Institutional  capacity  building  and  monitoring  of  the
programme should be firmly put in place to avoid bottle-necks and
waste of scarce resources.
d.   The successful implementation of such a major reform
programme in Education should have full support and
involvement of Government and the people in its implementation
and management.
Re'iationship Between Ministry And The World Bank
The   relationship   remained   very   cordial   throughout   the
implementation. Even when the examination results of the first
cohort of SSS students was discouraging, the encouragement and
support from the the Task Manager in the World Bank Office in
Accra, facilitated our action on remedial courses for resitters
of the Senior Secondary School Examination.
We are most grateful.
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
APRIL 1995



Appendix 1
IN-SERVICE TRAINING COURSES FROM 1991 TO 1994
NC               IN-SERVICE TRAINING                       NO. OF                 DATE           |                   REMARKS
PARTICIPANT
1. Orientation Course for SSS Teachers                      7,481     3rd - 18th January, 1991    Numbers at course centres were large. New
_________________________ approach to teaching not well grasped.
2. Review of Management of JSS Programme                    5,070      21st - 27th April, 1991    Enabled heads to update their management skills.
and Basic Education Certificate Examination                                                                                                   l
3. Workshop on Community Participation in                   1,058      16th - 23rd June,          Communities' interest was encouraging.
Community Secondary Schools Construction Project                  127th - 30th, 1991
4. Workshop on SSS Life Skills Syllabus                      392      i 20th - 22nd June, and     Useful course for teachers since the subject
II_ 4th - 7th August, 1991                                                                       is new in Senior Secondary Schools.
5. Workshop on Continuous Assessment for SSS                 100      21st - 23rd June, 1991      Period too short for details in Continuous
___________________________ Assessm ent.
6. Orientation Course for newly appointed Directors          46       18th - 30th August, 1991    Resource personnel did not stay long enough
Directors on Education Planning, Management and                                               | at course centre with participants to enable them
Administration                                                                                I have in depth interaction with the resource persons.
7. i Workshop for SSS Curriculum for new SSS Teachers       633       9th - 28th February, 1992    A useful course for people who have never taught.
I   I  _
B. I Workshop for preparation of Validated Achievement       90       18th - 23rd February, 1992  Initial test on learning achievement of JSS Pupils.
8  test for JSS                                                                                 l
9. In-Service Training for teaching of Vocational and       6,459     10th - 26th May, 1992       Useful course for male teachers who thought
Life Skills in JSS                                                                            they could not handle same aspects of Life Skills
i _________________________________________ _____________ ________________________ eg. Needlework.
10.1 Workshop for Preparation of Validated Achievement       75       20th - 25th September, 1992 Second Workshop helped mod.fy tests and results
I test for JSS                                     I_were fedback into inservice training of teachers.
11. In-service training for teachers of English            8,396      13th - 23rd April, 1993     A very useful course.
in junior Secondary Schools                                                                   Trainers from Teacher Training Colleges
were very effective.
12.1 In-Service training for teachers of Agricultural      7,447      25th August to 2nd         Teachers were very enthusiastic. Agriculture
I Science in Junior Secondary Schools              1              | September, 1993           in schools with limited land was greatly appreciated.



Appendix C
Ghana Second Education Sector Adjustment Credit
Enrolment by Level of Education, 1989-93
A. Total enrolment
Number of pupils enrolled                 Annual change M%)
1989/90-  1990/91- 1991/92-
1989/90    1990/91    1991/92    1992/93      1990/91   1991/92   1992/93
Primary       1703074    1803148    1807223   2047293            6.9       0.2      13.3
JSS            625018      569343     592867    644976          -8.9       4.1       8.8
ssS            168000      199260    225277    257355           18.6      13.1      14.2
B. Girls enrolment
Number of girls enrollend                 Annual change (%)
1989/90-  1990/91-  1991/92-
1989/90    1990/91    1991/92    1992/93      1990/91   1991/92   1992/93
Primary        764064      811271     821476    940508           6.2       1.3      14.5
JSS            258188      232235     243787     275030        -10.1       6.0      12.8
Sss             55458       65679      74537      87876         18.4      13.5      17.9
C. Enrolment in the three northern regions
Number of pupils enrolled                 Annual change (%)
1989/90-  1990/91- 1991/92-
1989/90    1990/91    1991/92    1992/93      1990/91   1991/92   1992/93
Primary        182878    233372       240640    261112          27.6       3.1       8.5
JSS             42765       43723      51405      65954          2.2      17.6       8.8
sss              15355      21163      26224      32095         37.8      23.9      22.4
Source: PBME, Ministry of Education



Appendix D
Ghana Second Education Sector Adjustment Credit
SSS1 Intake by Region and by Gender 1991-1994
Intake at SSS1                       % change in enrollment
Region            1991}    1992   (share)    1993   (share)    1994   (share)   91-921 92-93  93-94
Northern          3527    4541                4873                5419               28.7     7.3   11.2
Girls             1066  (23.48)    1042  (21.38)    1360  (25.10)                  -2.3   30.6
Boys              3475  (76.52)    3831  (78.62)    4059  (74.90)                   10.2    6.0
Upper East        1805    2244                 2638               3274               24.3   17.6   24.1
Girls              829  (36.94)       938  (35.56)    1256  (38.36)                13.1   33.9
Boys              1415  (63.06)    1700  (64.44)    2018  (61.64)                   20.1    18.7
Upper West        1504    1627                 1703               2179                8.2    4.7   28.0
Girls              495  (30.42)       388  (22.78)       748  (34.33)             -21.6   92.8
Boys              1132  (69.68)    1315  (77.22)    1431  (65.67)                   16.2    8.8
(kl                 239       8.4)..26~8{$83      ...4...           .$.....                   2.
' N6<4",-''-,"      ''  2'' " ' '-' "  6. - r4J  . .
,-,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .. . . . . . . . . .,. - . . '   " .   . .                                . . . . . .... .
Bo                     6022  (7 59)    6         i74.30)    706188.6)'                  ....7 t 69
Greater Accra     6852    5885                 6273               8177                0.6     6.6   30.4
Girls             2365  (40.19)    2386  (38.04)    3305  (40.42)                   0.9   38.5
Boys              3620  (59.81)    3887  (61.96)    4872  (69.58)                   10.4   25.3
Eastern           6965    8177                 8155             11416                17.4   -0.3   40.0
Girls             3014  (36.86)    3112  (38.16)    4356  (38.16)                   3.3   40.0
BoVs              5163  (63.14)    5043  (61.84)    7060  (61.84)                   -2.3   40.0
Volta             6714    7322                 8018             11224                 9.1     9.5   40.0
Girls             2489  (33.99)    2509  (31.29)    3512  (31.29)                   0.8   40.0
Boys              4833  (66.01)    5509  (68.71)    7712  (68.71)                   14.0   40.0
Central           5094    5679                 7132               7514               11.6   25.6      5.4
Girls             2149  (37.84)    2722  (38.17)    3134  (41.71)                  26.7   15.1
Boys              3530  (62.16)    4410  (61.83)    4380  (58.29)                  24.9   -0.7
Western           4326    4422                 6090               7126                2.2   15.1   40.0
Girls             1501  (33.94)    1687  (33.14)    2362  (33.15)                  12.4   40.0
Boys              2921  (66.06)    3403  (66.86)    4764  (66.86)    _              16.5   40.0
Ashanti           8185    8986                 9235             11735                 9.8     2.8   27.1
Girls             2798  (31.14)    2937  (31.80)    4121  (35.12)                   5.0   40.3
Boys              6188  (68.86)    6298  (68.20)    7614  (64.88)                    1.8   20.9
Brong Ahafo       5106    5869                 6420               6481               14.7   -7.6   19.6
Girls             1704  (29.08)    1607  (29.65)    1948  (30.06)                   -5.7   21.2
Boys              4155  (70.92)    3813  (70.35)    4533  (69.94)                   -8.2   18.9
,,. . . .           .. . t, . . , . . . . . . . . . .   . .   . . . . .. ...   . .. . .   . g  . ., -   .   .   ..   . . . . .   . ..   .   . . . . . .   .   . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . .   .. . . . . .. .
Soor~.........    .     ..  ..........3.....  43.3,2  .....3. .....  .............7 .....        29.
......y...       .... .030.  6542   32.3 ....)..403 ..  ..... ___                                __
Total            49078   54742               58537              74545                11.6     6.9   27.3
Girls           18410  (33.63)   19328  (33.02)   26102  (35.02)                    6.0   35.0
Boys             36332  (66.37)   39209  (66.98)   48443  (64.98)  _                 7.9   23.6
Source: Enrollment data from Tranche Release documents and updates by MOE.
Note: Enrollment data as reported at school at the beginning of the school year.



Appendix E
Ghana Second Education Sector Adjustment Credit
Increase in the Number of Senior Secondary Schools, by Region
Number of
Existing Schools          Total Number of Schools
Region              1990/91         Nov. 91        Jun. 92        Apr. 93
Northern               11              28             29             29
Upper East              7              15             16             16
Upper West              6              12             12             12
Northern~ 3     )     2                 55                    ~     5
Greater Accra          25              32             33             34
Eastern                45              63             68             73
Volta                  37              57             59             64
Central                26              41             43             47
Western                21              38             38             40
Ashanti                48              71             72             75
Brong Ahafo            28              40             42             48
Total__                              342            355 3             . 4381
lTotal                254             397            412            438



Appendix F
Ghana Second Education Sector Adjustment Credit
Governmcnt Recurrent Expenditures per Student, by level of Education, 1990-93
1990       1991       1992        1993
(Acrual Expenditures)
In current cedis
Primary                          14,474      18,464     25,932     34,945
Junior Secondary                 23,522     35,385      55,714     74,099
Senior Secondary                 42,923     44,314      62,189     76,840
In 1990 cedis
Primary                          14,474     15,343      19,159     20,736
Junior Secondary                 23,522     29,404      41,162      43,971
Senior Secondary                 42.923     36,825      45,946     45,597
In 1990 USS
Primary                           39.35       48.12      55.30       48.95
Junior Secondary                  63.95       92.23     118.80      103.79
Senior Secondary                 116.69      115.50     132.61      107.63
Note:
1990       1991       1992        1993
Ghana GOP deflator                  100    120.339    135.353    1 68.519
Exchange rats cedisit            326.33      367.83     437.09      649.06
USA GOP Deflator                    100    104.308    107.292    109.993



Appendix G
Ghana Second Education Sector Adjustment Credit
Government Recurrent Expenditures in Education, 1989-93 /a
(million cedis)
1989    1990    1991    1992    1993              1990    1991    1992    1993
Budgeted Expenditures                       Actual Expenditures Ib
Primary education                   17,593   19,893   30,781   38,751    66,272       24,651    33,293   46,864   64,589
1123.9)   (108.2)   (120.91    (97.5)
Jr. Secondary education             10,648   10,851    15,741    15,759   26,737      14,702   20,146   33,031   46,702
(135.51   (128.0)  (209.6)   (174.71
Sr. Secondary education              5,604    7,506   10.756   11,806   18,493         7,211     8,830   14,010   19.775
(96.1)    (82.1)   (118.7)   (106.9)
Tertiary education                   4,759    5.387    8,205   13.089    14.245        7.424    8.838   12,749   13,649
(137.8)   (107.7)    (97.4)   (95.8)
Others (HQ and other program)        4,969    9,717    6,549    6,480   11.883         5.244    4.872    7.223   10,517
(54.0)    (74.4)   (111.5)   (88.5)
Total MOE recurrent budget      43,573   S3.364   72,033   86.886  137,629        69,232   76,298  113,878  166,611
(111.0)   (105.9)   (132.6)  (113.1)
TotelIn 1990 nillon C*dV*       60.459   63.354   59,868   63.453   81,670        59,232   63,402   84,734   92.340
Percentage share of Total Expenditures In Education l%(
Primary education                 40.4      37.3     42.7      45.1      48.2        41.6     43.6      41.2     41.5
Jr. Secondary education           24.4      20.3      21.9     18 3      19.4        24.8     26.4      29.0      30.0
{Xs      :         .-.            p ;   :        : 4         . 3 5, .6.      -      6 4      70.0-    70.      , 71,5
Sr. Secondaryeducation            12.9      14.1      14.9     13.7      13.4        12.2      11.6     12.3      12.7
Tertiary education                 10.9     10.1      11.4     15.2      10.4        12.5     11.6      11.2       8.8
Others (HQ and other program)     11.4      18.2       9.1      7.5       8.6         8.9      6.8       6.3       7.0
Total MOE recurrent budget       100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0          100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Notes:
/a Administrative costs are prorated lor each level of education according to their share of non-administrative expenditures.
/b Numbers in parentheais express actual expenditures as percentage of budgeted expenditures.
1989     1990      1991     1992      1993
GDPdeflator (1990=100)         72.0692       100  120.339  135.353  168.519






IBRD 23606
3                             2'                                                            02
BURKINA  FASO                                       Kf.5 .gu- _
/  )     oZ''          A,/-+           ChuehsIigg,><                          N)'  /
( f               w           ~          ,r--      BOLGATANGA                          /
k Lain    Hen                                 lJPPR            t-' o oNakpurr,                                      GHANA
IUPPER                      CS                                             'GmHANA
WEST                      >5       [      Leer.
?    X               s    X       -al                OtAes,a                k>         (
_>>   \    WA%;3   Bub gc          '-7!                   J       1% IPgu   ererge    / -    7                                                              1
W                                                      '             gGu,hieg . _                            PRIMARY ROADS
4- /   _;                                    g      j                \ ., Wup                                 SECONDARY ROADS
'NAb                           I                NOk;thRitN    i                         b                                  TERT ARY ROADS
E4AMALE /                                                  In *u  -I)    RAILWAYS
oainengn0 ~~~~~~~~~~                           ZabRuAt ~~~~~~REGION HEADQLJARTERS
/0Chie   _S                             B            - /   \     jCh-mbul1u                                             NATIONAL CAPITAL
1         4 Bole      /omongoO            Yowr<) )              wi             1       X      3      i                  REGION BOUNDARIES
Maine                                      3                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
CC6TE                0              <              "             B      l      m     t     S    o      -                   The boundaries, colors,
'': I 4     r    ' ~           L  cto K       "'1~~~                                    : 7:70deno-n ;t,ons and any
o'ther informoatin shown
D5bai5 aOR       ,_ ,   mply  an  the part of
B-W.       IThe World Bank Grasp,
5    Ch d'                          any s.dgrn,en,t on the legal
j   <   f   3       Ye0_<O Chndlt |r      status of any ter-tory,
,Reinboa i       {                        J     >7,r2,-,,  K,1,                       ! Jt   1  or any  endorsement
-8'                   /<        mEX !   (kintanO {+ o) K r M-p                                Damb..             or acceptance of such
10tempa                                                           rack~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ b-sd-nes
/ BRONG-AHiOAfO                                                          I
(                                                             Atbb p                r-t3n     _LAt         j/           I2    9  30 Sr  oC CCnLi
Be._g ~ ~~~~ ~~~~~ >,, ,   /          k                     <      ?o                      7    t      U    8< lUT7
/ L3rmo 'N.SUNYANE      '     w     ',,
_7, /                          N    >         \     0 M-mpngr
(  ~~~~~~~~~~AtANT) ;
( Grtoso r \ \KUAStNI _(}0f\TOGO
f >._ae _   kowkow  ~        <   i (3 HO
\                O        >  fBa    Obuoe        Brrelamdrrf                  ,.                                                Den\ksmb   
io             0Asenkaga       X       ENTRAL .'- -b 
W'ESTERN                                                                              A(ER
(   Pmsir    V t       >                             _-           ACCRA5iC  k
rEI.b.    I '''r
T_rkwrJ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~oR :  // 'C|iksALIO
/  -4   tFotobrv   \   j$,-- C^PECOAST                                            #NEGE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LiBRI  GtfA         nr Cur.r eAntc
GULF Of GUINEA                                  '         Arco       p>AisGon K      -S
3;                             7'                              i; 5E                                                                              tn
FEBRUARY 1995









I~~~~~ ~        ~~~~~ Fj:
i         '                 - .          
v ;,;     
I i.   t         x    l:   ,



