RESTRICTED
Report No. P-656
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
December 4, 1968



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPIENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMIENT CREDIT TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA FOR A TECHMICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Indonesia in an amount in various
currencies equivalent to US$2.0 million for a technical assistance project.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        Indonesia needs technical assistance of all kinds to rehabili-
tate and expand existing production facilities and to guide new invest-
ment activities. The Bank is already acting as Executing Agency for a
major study of Indonesia's road system, financed by UNDP, w.Jhich is
expected to identify a project or projects for financing by the Asso-
ciation. IFC is promoting a cement plant in the Djakarta area and will
be promoting fertilizer plants if the studies now in preparation or soon
to be started prove favorable. As I mentioned in my Report and
Recommendation to you on a proposed credit for an Irrigation Rehabili-
tation Project of August 21, 1968 (P-629), I expect to see our lending
activities in Indonesia grow rapidly in the years ahead, as rehabilita-
tion and development projects of high priority can be prepared. The
proposed $2.0 million credit to finance a program of technical studies
to be selected and administered under the guidance of the Bank's
Resident Staff in Djakarta is to assist in this work.
3.        Because the credit proceeds would be used for unspecified
technical assistance projects of concern to a number of different
ministries and agencies of the Government, and because of the special
role of the Bankts Resident Staff in the implementation of the proposed
credit, negotiations took place in Djakarta from November 20 to 23, 1968.
Two members of the Bank's headquarters staff visited Djakarta for that
purpose.  The Borrower was represented by Mr. Emil Salim, Deputy
Chairman of the National Development Agency (BAPPENAS); Mr. Sadu Sundaru,
Chief, Directorate of International Relations, M4inistry of Finance;
Mr. Suwardi-Sujud, Chief, Tultilateral-Economic Cooperation Section,
Foreign Economic Relation Division, Ministry of Foreign Affairs;
Mr. Tarmidzi-Rangkuti, Assistant Manager, Foreign Department, Central
Bank of Indonesia; Mr. Soebekti, Chief, Bureau of Analysis and
Evaluation, BAPPENAS; and Mr. Harsono-Adisumnarto, Chief, Bureau of
Research, 14inistry of Justice.



4.        The proposed credit would be the second IDA credit to Indonesia,
the first being the $5.0 million Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
(127-IND) referred to above, the effectiveness of which depends on the
Borrowerts hiring consultants in connection with the carrying out of
the project. Negotiations with consultants are now in progress,
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
5.        Borrower:                     Republic of Indonesia
Amount:                       Various currencies equivalent
to US$2.0 million.
Purpose:                      The carrying out of high-
priority studies and other
projects of technical assist-
ance (sub-projects) to assist
the Borrower in the planning
and implementation of its
economic development and
rehabilitation. The purpose
and scope of each sub-project
would be determined by agree-
ment between the Borrower and
the Association.
Amortization:                 In 50 years including a 10-year
period of grace, through semi-
annual instalments of 1/2 of 1%
from April 1, 1979 through
October 1, 1988 and 1-1/2of from
April 1, 1989 through October 1,
2018.
Service Charge:               3/4 of 1 percent per annum
PART III - PURPOSE
6.        The Indonesian Government is concentrating on the stabilization
of the economy and the beginnings of a rehabilitation program. As I
point out in Part IV of this Report, progress towards stabilization has
been made, so that increased emphasis can notr be placed on rehabilitation
and development. This has been recognized by the Inter-Governmental
Group on Indonesia, which is now providing a larger portion of foreign
assistance in the form of capital equipment and supplies. However, the
Indonesian authorities believe that success in this new phase of their
economic recovery program will require very substantial technical assist-
ance both in planning and administration. The purpose of this project
is to help provide financing for consultants, including management



- 3 -
experts, to undertake preinvestment and feasibility studies and other
activities that may be necessary in connection with this program.
7.        I propose to authorize the Director of the Bank's Resident
Staff in Djakarta to act for the Association in dealing with all matters
related to the selection and execution of sub-projects. This should
help to ensure that the selection process reflects as closely as possible
current needs as seen by both the Government and the Association, taking
into account economic priorities as well as administrative and organiza-
tional factors and the availability of other sources of finance for the
purpose concerned. It should also ensure that the right type of
consultants1 services are engaged with terms of reference appropriate to
each case, and that assistance to the Government is available for
supervising the work of the consultants and in evaluating and imple-
menting their reconmnendations.
8.        Uhile it is not possible to foresee for which specific sub-
projects the credit tlrl be used, it is intended that it will be drawn
on to fill gaps, i.e., in cases where other funds are not readily
available on appropriate terms or cannot be used to provide in time
the type or quality of consultants' services required. I will report
to the Executive Directors from time to time regarding the manner in
which this credit is utilized.
9.        The Indonesian Government would be expected to contribute to
the financing of the various technical assistance activities wrhich would
be covered by the credit. In the aggregate, this contribution would
amount to not less than 15% of the costs of the services concerned,
including any contributions in kind. This is similar to the contribution,
equal to 15 of the gross cost of experts, required by UNDP. In certain
cases the local currency costs of the sub-projects may exceed 15%, but
a contribution to these costs is appropriate because of the very tight
foreign exchange and budgetary situation under which Indonesia is
operating.
10.       The proposed credit would be available to finance the costs of
high-priority studies likely to lead to assistance or investment from
any source, and not necessarily, as in the normal case of technical
assistance loans or credits, to investment projects for financing by
the Bank Group itself, Accordingly, it would be inappropriate to ask
for repayment over ten years in the expectation that the credit wauld
be refinanced from an eventual construction credit. This wrould in any
case be difficult to acconplish, as the credit is to be applied to a
number of sub-projects. Therefore, normal IDA terms are proposed for
this credit.



- 4 -
PART IV - THE ECOMOMY
11.       A report on the economic situation and development in Indonesia
(No. AS-143a) was circulated on October 1, 1963.  The economic situation,
although still extremely difficult, has improved since the beginning of
1968 after the good harvest of the main rice crop. Restrained fiscal
and credit policies have been maintained. These factors, together with
a substantial inflow of food supplies under aid arrangements and commer-
cial procurement, have resulted in a marked decline of inflationary trends
and promise a further reduction of price increases during the remaining
months of 1968 and, so far as can be seen, in 1969.
12.       In contrast wfith the stagnation of national income and output
during 1967, real economic growth during 1968 may be around 4 to 5 percent,
mainly as a result of the favorable rice harvest and a sharp increase of
crude oil output. The levels of investment and savings remain low in 1968,
at about 6 percent and 3.5 percent of the national income respectively,
reflecting the major emphasis of public policy on financial stabilization
rather than investment.
13.       The Suharto Administration continues an economic policy of
liberalization from previous direct cantrols.  Although a major part of
manufacturing, mining, transport and services facilities is still operated
by the public sector, discrimination in their favor through subsidies and
credit allocations has largely been removed. In the estates and manufac-
turing sectors substantial progress is being made in returning nationalized
enterprises to their former owners. The new laws governing private
investment have already resulted in a substantial number of contracts for
foreign private investment.
14.       Indonesia obtained total commitments of foreign aid for 1968 of
$355 million, which probably will result in a modest increase in the
country's net capital inflow as compared to 1967.  Since most commditments
of aid were made in the second half of 1960, there will be a sizable
carry-over of disbursements into 1969. At the last meeting of the Inter-
Governmental Group for Aid to Indonesia (I.G.G.I.) member countries
generally expressed their satisfaction with economic progress to date and
their confidence in further progress in 1969. The Indonesian Government
requested a total of $500 million as assistance from the Inter-Governmental
Group on Indonesia for 1969, which would make it possible to maintain a
comfortable foodgrain position and allow a modest increase of other
essential imports. Wlith this level of assistance, if committed in time,
and an expected growth of exports by 7-8 percent, there should not be a
further substantial depreciation of the Rupiah in the foreseeable future.
15.       Indonesia's net foreign exchange reserves have long been nega-
tive and recently new short-term borraowng for imports of rice and
fertilizers aggravated this situation. Borrowings incurred prior to 1967
at unfavorable terms and for purposes with low or negative productivity



have resulted in a very heavy accumulation of debt service payments through
the 1970's. The rescheduling of service payments on pre-1967 debt ori-
ginally due in 1967 to 1969, and further rescheduling contemplated for
1970 payments, have added substantially to this burden. Average payments
on present debt from 1970 to 1978 will be about $200 million a year or
about 23 percent of Indonesia's likely foreign exchange income.
16.       The external debt position, combined with the almost complete
dependence of Indonesiats development budget on external resources during
the stabilization phase, imply that fresh assistance should be on the
softest possible terms. For the time being, Indonesia should therefore
be considered as eligible only for assistance on IDA terms.
PART V - LEGAL iNSTRUIEiTS A'DS AUT'i0RITY
17.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Indonesia and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee,
provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of
the Association, are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
18.       The form of the draft agreement differs from the usual only as
required by the novel features discussed above. Sections 3.01 and 3.02
provide for the future selection of specific sub-projects and for the
specific allocation thereto of proceeds of the credit: Section 4.02
provides for steering committees to supervise and administer each sub-
project, to be carried out under contracts for consultants' services to
be entered into between the Borrower and consultants.
PART VI - C011LIAIJCE ITITT ARTICLES OF ACRETEEiR'T
19.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 6 -
PART VII - R3COI302I0DATION
20.       I recammend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUTION NO. IDA
Approval of Development Credit to the Republic of
Indonesia in an amount equivalent to US$2,000,000
RESOLVED:
TIHAT the Association shall grant a development
credit to the Republic of Indonesia in an amount in various
currencies equivalent to two million United States dollars
(US$2,000,000), to mature on or prior to October 1, 2018, to
bear a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum, and to be upon such other
terms and conditions as shall be substantially in accordance
with the terms and conditions set forth in the form of
Development Credit Agreement (Technical Assistance Project)
between the Republic of Indonesia and the Association,
which has been presented to this meeting.
Robert S. 4cNIamara
President
Washington, D.C.
December 3, 1968



