CREDIT NUMBER 135 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Technical Assistance Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED DECEMBER 27, 1968


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 135 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Technical Assistance Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED DECEMBER 27, 1968


﻿3rurlopm      nt (rebit Agreement
AGREEMENT, dated December 27, 1968 between REPUB-
LIC OF INDONESIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssocIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
ARTICLE I
Credit Regulations; Special DeO ion
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of Development Credit Regulations No. 1 of
the Association dated June 1, 1961, as amended February
9, 1967 (said Development Credit Regulations No. 1 being
hereinafter called the Regulations) with the same force
and effect as if they were fully set forth herein.
SECTION 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
following term, wherever used in the Development Credit
Agreement, has the following meaning: "sub-project"
means a particular study or project of technical assistance
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, as de-
scribed in Section 3.01 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to make available
to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions in this De-
velopment Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, a
development credit in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to two million dollars ($2,000,000).
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit
Account in the name of the Borrower and shall credit to
such Credit Account the amount of the Credit.
(b) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account as provided in, and subject to the rights


﻿4
of cancellation and suspension set forth in, this Agreemnt
and the Regulations and in accordance with the allocation
of the proceeds of the Credit agreed between the Borrower
and the Association pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agree-
ment.
SECTION 2.03. The Borrower shall be entitled to with-
draw from the Credit Account an amount equal to such
percentage or percentages as shall be agreed from time to
time between the Borrower and the Association, of such
amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the Association
shall so agree, as shall be required to meet payments to
be made) after the date of this Agreement for the reason-
able cost of goods required to carry out sub-projects pro-
vided, however, that total withdrawals from the Credit
Account shall not exceed 85% of the aggregate of such
costs.
SECTION 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (%  of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal
of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-
annual instalments payable on each April 1 and October 1
commencing April 1, 1979 and ending October 1, 2018, each
instalment to and including the instalment payable on
October 1, 1988 to be one-half of one per cent (  of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each instalment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1 %) of such principal amount.
SECTION 2.07. The currency of the United States of
America is specified for the purposes of Section 3.02 of
the Regulations.


﻿5
ARTICLE III
Description of Project; Use of Proceeds of the Credit
SECTIoN 3.01. The Project for which the Credit is
granted consists in the carrying out of high-priority studies
and other projects of technical assistance, designed to
assist the Borrower in the planning and implementation of
its programs of economic development and rehabilitation
and selected by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association.
SEcTION 3.02. The purposes and scope of each sub-
project, the methods for implementation thereof and the
specific allocation thereto of proceeds of the Credit shall be
determined by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association.
SECTION 3.03. The Borrower shall apply the proceeds
of the Credit in accordance with the provisions of this
Agreement exclusively to expenditures on the Project.
SECTION 3.04. Contracts made by the Borrower for con-
sultants' services and for the purchase of equipment to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be subject
to the prior approval of the Association.
SECTION 3.05. Except as the Borrower and the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause all
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be
used exclusively in the carrying out of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. The Borrower shall cause each sub-project
to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and shall
make available, promptly as needed, all funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿6
SECTION 4.02. (a) For the purpose of cariying out each
sub-project, the Borrower shall employ qualified and ex-
perienced consultants acceptable to the Borrower and the
Association, to the extent required, and on terms and con-
ditions, including terms of reference, approved by the
Borrower and the Association.
(b) In respect of sub-projects there shall be maintained
steering committees, each consisting of a representative of
the Borrower as Chairman, a representative of the Asso-
ciation and, if the Borrower and the Association shall so
agree, additional members or representatives of other en-
tities concerned with particular sub-projects.
(c) The steering committee maintained for each sub-
project shall be responsible for selecting services, equip-
ment and supplies and directing their use for such sub-
project, supervising and directing the work of the
consultants employed therefor, and recommending modi-
fications of their terms of reference or other terms and
conditions of their employment, and reviewing the reports
and recommendations of such consultants.
(d) The Borrower shall cooperate fully with the con-
sultants in the performance of their services for the
Project and make available to them all information relevant
to the Project.
(e) The Borrower shall not amend or waive any of the
terms and conditions of employment of the consultants em-
ployed for any sub-project, or grant any material extension
of time or any approval of sub-contracts or modifications
thereof, or cubstitution of personnel of such consultants,
or suspend payments under, or terminate, any contract
with such consultants without the prior agreement of the
Association, acting through the steering committee con-
cerned with the sub-project.
SECTION 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause consultants
employed for the Project promptly to furnish the Asso-
ciation copies of the documents prepared by them for the


﻿7
Project, including reports and drafts thereof, in such
number as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time
to time exchange views with respect to the evaluation and
implementation of the recommendations and other con-
clusions contained in the documents referred to in the
foregoing paragraph (a).
(c) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records adequate to show the use of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to record the progress of the Project (in-
cluding the cost thereof) ; shall enable the Association's rep-
resentatives to inspect any records and documents relevant
to the Project, including records and documents which the
consultants employed by the Borrower shall be required to
keep for the purposes of the Project; and shall furnish
or cause to be furnished to the Association all such infor-
mation as the Association shall reasonably request con-
corning the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and
the Project.
SECTION 4.04. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to ensure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them
shall furnish to the other all such information as it shall
reasonably request with regard to the general status of
the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such information
shall include information with respect to financial and
economic conditions in the territories of the Borrower and
the international balance of payments position of the
Borrower.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to
time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit
and the maintenance of the service thereof. The Borrower
shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or the main-
tenance of the service thereof.


﻿8
(c) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity
for accredited representatives of the Association to visit
any part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes
related to the Credit.
SECTION 4.05. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions, imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
SECTION 4.06. This Development Credit Agreement shall
be free from any taxes that shall be imposed under the laws
of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on or in
connection with the execution, delivery or registration
thereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies
SECTION 5.01. (i) If any event specified in paragraph (a)
or paragraph (c) of Section 5.02 of the Regulations shall
occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days, or
(ii) if any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.02
of the Regulations shall occur and shall continue for a
period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower, then at any
subsequent time durlng the continuance thereof, the Asso-
ciation, at its option, may declare the principal of the
Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately,
and upon such declaration such principal shall become due
and payable immediately, anything in this Development
Credit Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness; Termination
SECTION 6.01. If this Development Credit Agreement
shall not have come into force and effect by March 19,
1969, this Development Credit Agreement and all obliga-


﻿9
tions of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the
Association, after consideration of the reasons for the de-
lay, establishes a later date for the purposes of this Sec-
tion. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower
of such date.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be January 31,
1972 or such other date as may from time to time be agreed
between the Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 7.02. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated for the purposes of Section 7.03 of the
Regulations.
SECTION 7.03. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Regulations:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Post Office Box 21
Djakarta, Indonesia
Alternative address for cables:
Ministry Finance
Djakarta
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Indevas
Washington, D. C.


﻿10
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Development Credit Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ MARDJUNI
Auth >rized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. BURKE.KNAPP
Vice President


