RESTRICTED
FLE      COPY                         Report No. P-451
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR THE APAPA ROAD PROJECT
September 16, 1965



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A FROPOSED
LOAN TO THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR THE APAPA ROAD PPOJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan of $17.5 million to the Federal Republic of Nigeria for road con-
struction and improvement in the port of Apapa area in Lagos.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        Nigeria has received four Bank loans, totalling $153.5 million,
and two IDA credits, totalling $35.5 million. In addition, a report and
recommendation on a proposed Bank loan of $14.5 million for the Western Road
Project has been circulated simultaneously. The first loan signed in 1958,
before Nigeria became independent, carries the guarantee of the Urited King-
dom. The status of these loans at August 31, 1965 was as follows:
Amount
equivalent
No.               Borrower                 Purpose           in $ million
193 UNI (1958)  Federation of Nigeria     Railways                    28.0
326 UNI (1962)  Nigerian Fbrts Authority  Port extension and
improvement              13.5
372 UNI (1964)  Electricity Corporation   Electricity trans-
of Nigeria               mission lines            30.0
383 UNI (1964)  Niger Dams Authority      Kainji hydro-electric
project                  82.0
153.5
of which has been repaid    3.6
Total now outstanding     149.9
Amount sold or agreed to be sold   12.5
of which has been repaid        3.6         8.9
Amount now held by Bank                        141.0
As of August 31, 1965, $99.2 million was undisbursed, including $20.2 million
of loan 372 UNI and $73.1 million of loan 383 UNI.



- 2 -
3.        The two IDA credits were granted for school construction and
equipment in the Federal Territory and the Regions ($20 million) and for
a road project in the Northern Region ($15.5 million). The Development
Credit Agreement for the road project was declared effective on August 31;
the Development Credit Agreenent for the education project is expected to
become effective shortly.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE LOAM
4. Borrower                      Federal Republic of Nigeria.
Amount            .          The equivalent in various currencies of
$17.5 million.
Purpose          .           To meet the foreign exchange cost of
road construction and improvement in the
port of Apapa area in Lagos.
Amortization                 In 40 semi-annual installments beginning
January 15, 1971 and ending July 15, 1990.
Interest Rate    :           5-1/2%.
Commitment Charge:           3/8 of 1%.
PART III - APPRAISAL OF THE PROJECT
5.        A report "Appraisal of a Road Project1" (Apapa Road) Nigeria
(TO-491a) is attached.
6.        The proposed road project grew out of a series of studies in
recent years concerning the increasing traffic congestion in the Lagos area.
These studies were conducted by the Federal Government's Ministry of Works
itself, by the United Kingdom Road Research Laboratory, by a United Nations
road expert and by the Lagos Traffic Advisory Committee. Based on these
investigations, the Ministry of Works drew up a road construction and
inprovement plan, which the Government intends to implement over the next
four years in the context of Governnent's 1962-68 Development Plan.
7.        The Government's plan provides for the construction and
improvement of tne following three traffic arteries, which are closely
inter-related and together form an integrated program to alleviate the acute
traffic problem in the Lagos area:
(a) construction of a second bridge to link Lagos island with
the mainland. The Federal Republic of Germany has agreed to



- 3 -
provide a loan to Nigeria for the construction of this bridge;
works are to be commenced early next year under a contract
just signed and will take 3-4 years to complete;
(b) reconstruction of Western Avenue and of its continuation, Agege
olotor Road, which leads to the international airport of Ikeja
and the hinterland of the port of Apapa. The United States
Agency for International Development has financed a feasibility
study for these two roads and is now actively considering provid-
ing financial assistance for their construction. In the event
that USAID finance for this part of the program is not forthcoming,
the Federal Government has undertaken to find alternative source
of external finance; or finance construction out of its own re-
sources. The Federal Government has undertaken to complete con-
struction works at the latest in 1970.
(c)  widening and improvement of the Apapa Road (about 2.5 miles)
which constitutes the link between the port of Apape and the
Western Avenue and widening and improvement of the Ijora Causeway
(about 1.2 miles) which in turn links the Apapa Road with the
bridge mentioned under (a) above. This part of the construction
program, together with complementary service roads, cycle tracks,
intersections, ramp and elevated structures, in the proposed
Bank project, which also includes various consultants' services;
the project was appraised in April-June 1965.
8.        Total cost of the construction works in connection with the
Ijora Causeway and the Apapa Road is estimated at $24.3 million equivalent,
with a foreign exchange component of $15.8 million equivalent (65%).   The
proposed loan would cover the external cost; the Federal Government has
undertaken to meet the remaining cost from its own resources. Construction
will be carried out by a pre-qualified contractor chosen after inter-
national competitive bidding. The Federal 1,1inistry of Works will supervise
the carrying out of the project and will be assisted by outside consultants
the foreign exchange cost of whom has been included in the proposed loan.
9.        The project also provides, for other conslltant services (a) to
review the feasibility of improving some 600 miles of federal roads in
various parts of the ccuntry, and the existing roads between Lagos and
Ibadan, and (b) to carry out the final engineering of those roads which the
Bank considers economically justified.
10.       Finally, a small amount (about $110,000) has been included in the
project for a study to establish the criteria to be applied in determining
which roads should be under federal jurisdiction. This study wrould also
indicate the broad financial implications for the Federal Government of the
possible reclassification of federal and regional roads.
11.       The provisions for consultants' services total $1.6 million,
which together with $13.2 million for the construction works and $2.7 million
contingency reserve make up the $17.5 million of the proposed loan. The
high proportion of the contingency allowance is based on the complicated
nature of the construction which is entirely new to the country.



12.       The project will alleviate the acute traffic congestion in the
area of Nigeria's capital and one of Africa's busiest ports. Traffic on
the existing 2-lane roads already has reached some 28,000 vehicles per
day and is rapidly increasing. There is an undue delay in the transport
of people and goods and also a problem of traffic safety. Widening of
the project roads to 4-lane standards has, therefore, become a matter of
great urgency. At the same time, by including several studies directed to
future traffic needs, the project wTill assist the Federal Government in
planning a sound road development program in the years ahead and in start-
ing a pipeline of projects suitable for external assistance. The project
is expected to be completed in 3-1/2-4 years.
PART IV - THE ECCN0MY OF NIGERIP
13.       A report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects of
Nigeria (AF-31a) was circulated to the Ececutive Directors on December 21,
1964 (IDA/R64-41).  It is expected that a new economic report on Nigeria
will be circulated shortly.
14.       Nigeria has recently passed the half-way point in the implementation
of its six-year National Development Plan. Economic progress in the first
three years of the plan period has been good. Gross national product has
grown at an average rate of some 5 percent, higher than in the past and
higher than envisaged in the Plan. The rate of investment has risen from
about 13 percent of GNP to the planned target of 15 percent: private in-
vestment has accelerated, especially in petroleum and manufacturing. These
two sectors are mainly responsible for the faster growth of GIWP, and also
for the fact that exports have been rising faster than imports.  ilanufactur-
ing industry has been expanding at 15-20 percent a year and import substitu-
tion has been of increasing importance in restraining the growth of imports.
Petroleum exports have risen from £12 million in 1961 to £32 million in 1964.
15.       In respect of public capital expenditures, Nigeria has so far not
been able to achieve the Plan objectives. The Plan got off to a slow start,
and in 1962-65 expenditures have been £235 million, or 37 percent of the
six-year target. Initial delays in project preparation, shortages of executive
capacity and, latterly, shortages of financial resources have been mainly
responsible for the delays. The original Plan priorities have not been suf-
ficiently respected in practice. The share of the economic sector, which
was accorded highest priority in the Plan, has been significantly smaller
than intended. In contrast, the share of administration was more than double
and sharp increases were also recorded in expenditures on some social over-
heads.
16.       The utilization of external assistance developed much more slowly
than expected, providing only 17 percent of the financing in the first three
years rather than 51 percent as forecast in the Plan. Lags in project prepa-
ration and the time taken in loan negotiations have been the principal causes
of the slow pace of public capital inflows. In consequence, Nigeria has re-
lied on its own resources much more heavily, both absolutely and relatively,



than had been planned. The country's external assets have now been drawn
down to about the level that the Nigerian authorities consider to be the
necessary minimum. Partly to fill the gap and avoid delays in securing
external finance, Nigeria has recently resorted to considerable short
and medium-term borrowing.  Servicing this debt presses heavily on che bud-
gets of the Governments.
17.       The external financial outlook for the remaining three years of the
Plan is much brighter. A total of £123 million of external resources is ex-
pected from commitments already made. New commitments and grants are liktely
to add £76 million, provided Nigeria makes the necessary effort to secure
new external loans for every suitable project.
18.       With the addition of new projects and cost revisions, the balance
of the Plan remaining for completion in the three years to 1967/8 is £600
million.  This is clearly beyond Nigeria's physical and financial capacity
to implement. The Governments tentatively estimate that expenditures in this
period could reach £450 million.  Ihile the sectoral composition of these
expenditure expectations is considerably better than that of actual expendi-
tures in 1962-65, there remain some projects that could be postponed or de-
leted without impairing economic growth.  Furthermore, although there has
been a substantial advance in the ability to prepare and execute projects,
it is doubtful whether £450 million could in fact be raised, or spent, in
three years.
19.       A program of this magnitude would require the internal generation
of £250 million, in addition to the external finance now exnected. Re-
source mobilization on this scale is not possible iith the present policies
determining the Governments' financial position. However, if serious
efforts are exerted to increase public savings, both by restraining the
growth of current expenditures and by increasing tax revenues, Nigeria
could sustain an expenditure of £400 million in 1965-68. This would be a
notable achievement.
20.       The long-run growth prospects of the INigerian economy are very
favorable. Its large internal market provides a basis for continuing
industrial growth. Its wide range of natural resources allows industrializa-
tion to proceed irith a relatively low dependence on imports and ensures that
exports are well diversified and thus less subject to fluctuations. Nigeria
is attractive for foreign investment, which is expected to continue to in-
crease. Finally, there is oil. Exports of oil in 1965 will be double the
$90 million reached last year. While the forecast rise in petroleum pro-
duction will not lead to an automatic solution to all Nigeria's economic
problems, lack of foreign exchange is not likely to hamper growth seriously.
21.       Substantially more than one-half of Nigeria's external debt is un-
disbursed: at the end of Miiarch, 1965, only £91 million ($255 million) out
of the total of £225 million ($630 million) had been disbursed.   Over the
next three years there will be a rapid draw-down of existing loans, while
borrowing is expected to be some £75-80 million (about $215 million). Total
annual service payments would rise from an estimated £18 million in 1965/6



- 6 -
to £25 million in 1970/1:  over the five years, these payments would be
equivalent to 8-9 percent of projected export earmings (net of investment
income payments on petroleum account), compared to about 7 percent at present.
It is believed that this burden, which includes service on the loans now
proposed and on other new-i loans required for the balance of the Plan, is one
that Nigeria will be well able to sustain.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUbTNTS AND AUTHORITY
22.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federal Republ3ic of Nigeria
and the Bank has been circulated separately. It contains, in addition to
the provisions usually included in the form of agreement used by the Bank
for projects of this type, a covenant that the Borrower will carry out or
cause to be carried out the construction of the Second Mlainland Bridge in
Lagos, the widening of Western Avenue and the reconstruction of Agege Motor
Road not later than December 31, 1970 (Section 5.03).
23.       Also being distributed separately is the report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles cf Agreement
of the Bank.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMETT
24.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would cornply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMEMNDATION
25.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following re-
solution:
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to the Federal Republic of
Nigeria, in an amount in various currencies equivalent to
seventeen million five hundred thousand United States dollars
(U.S. $17,500,000), to mature on and prior to July 15, 1990, to
bear interest at the rate of five and one-half percent (5-1/2%)
per annum and to be upon such other terms and conditions as
shall be substantially in accordance with the terms and conditions
set forth in the form of Loan Agreement (Apapa Road Project) be-
tween the Federal Republic of lNigeria and the Bank, which has been
presented to this meeting.
George D. Woods
Attachment                                            President
Washington, D.C.
September 16, 1965



