OFF:ICl~~L '    LOAN NUIbBER 2009 SW
DOCUJMENT$
Gua.a.tee Agreement
(Third Power Project)
between
KINGDOM OF SWAZILAND
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                              , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2009 SW
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated            1  .v 2/        , 1981, between
KINGDOM OF SWAZILAND (h (reinafter called the Guarantor) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Swaziland Electricity Board (hereinafter called
the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a
loan in various currencies equivalent to ten million dollars
($10,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan
as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
so to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept zll the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as


﻿-2-
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual performance
of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth
in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause to
believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be
inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the
carrying out of the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory
to the Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower or cause the
Borrower to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet such
expenditures.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely


﻿-3-
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central
bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for
the Guarantor.
Section 3.02. Except as the Guarantor and the Bank may
otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall: (a) ensure that no abstrac-
tion of water from the Little Usutu River and its tributaries
reduces the potential generating output of the powerhouse under
Part A (3) of the Project; and (b) permit the Borrowcr to divert
and impound such water from the Little Usutu River as is required
by the Borrower for the operation of the aforementioned power-
house.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall carry out a study of
the ecological implications of the Project on the Lusushwana/
Usutu River basin and promptly thereafter exchange views on the
results thereof with the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall obtain the agreement of
the Bank prior to making any new appointment to the office of
Chairman of the Swaziland Electricity Board.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of Finance of the Guarantor
is designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-4
For the Guarantor:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 433
Mbabane
Swaziland
Cable address:                        Telex:
MINFIN                                2109 WD
Mbabane
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.                      248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
KINGDOM OF SWAZILAND
Au orized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By   !4J. N4             4-'4 rP7
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this .  J2LA  day of 1A, 198 1   .
FOR SECRETARY


