                                         Republicof Malawi                               35714
                Fiscal ManagementandAcceleratingGrowthProgram(FIMAG)
                                AdjustmentCredit(Cr. 3881 MAI)
           Releaseof the SecondTranchewith Requestfor Waiver of One Condition

                                    TrancheReleaseDocument


                                     I. Recommendation

 1.       This memorandum recommends the release of the second tranche of the Fiscal
 Adjustment and Accelerating Growth Program (FIMAG) Adjustment Credit (Credit No. 3881
 MAI). The memorandum argues that the Government of Malawi (Borrower or Government) has
 made overall satisfactory progress in implementingthe program (the Program) supported by the
 Credit as set forth in its Letter of Development Policy (the LDP), and has met five of the six
 specific conditions for the release of the second tranche. Waiver for one condition relating to the
 reform o f the Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation (ADMARC) i s being
requested on grounds set forth in paragraphs 32-37 below.

                                         11.    Background

2.       The FIMAG Credit is a SDR33.8 million (equivalent to $48.76 million) two equal
tranche Adjustment Credit designed to support the objectives o f the 2003 Malawi Poverty
Reduction Strategy (MPRS). The Credit assists the Government in two ways. First, the Credit
provides critical balance o f payments support needed to finance a sustainable balance o f
payments and fiscal framework. This enables crucial social expenditures to be maintained while
arresting the growth o f domestic debt. Second, the Credit assists the Government in designing
and implementing specific structural reforms to support the growth and poverty reduction agenda
contained inthe MPRS.

3.       Specifically, the FIMAG supports structural reforms in the following areas: (i)fiscal
management, (ii)parastatal reforms, (iii)land policy and agriculture, and (iv) combating
HIV/AIDS. The reforms in fiscal management are designed to strengthen the Government's
capacity to meet macroeconomic stabilization targets while protecting the crucial pro-poor
expenditures, and improvingthe delivery o f social services by acceleratingfiscal decentralization.
The parastatal reforms are designed to reduce the burden on the budget as well as improve the
delivery o f key infrastructure services. The reforms in agriculture are designed to contribute to
growth by increasing the returns to smallholder farmers by creating better functioning land,
tobacco and maize markets. Finally, the reforms in HIV/AIDS, which are carried out in tandem
with the Malawi HIV/AIDS Project (MAP), are designed to assist in creating the policy and
institutional framework for channeling increased resources and strengthening institutions for
mitigatingthe health and social impacts o f HIV/AIDS.

4.       The FIMAG credit was approved by the Board in April 2004, and became effective on
September 10, 2004, after the new Government elected in May 2004 was able to reach an
agreement with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) on a new Staff Monitored Program
(SMP). The first tranche amounting to SDR 16.9millionwas disbursedupon effectiveness.

                                                  2


                                   111.    Recent Developments

 5.      Recent Political Developments. Malawi has had a relatively peaceful history compared
 to other countries in the sub-region, even during the major political transition from authoritarian
rule in 1994. Malawi's democracy i s now in its eleventh year. There are two main political
parties, the United Democratic Front (UDF) led by former President Bakili Muluzi, and the
Malawi Congress Party (MCP) led by John Tembo. In the May 2004 elections, Dr. Bingu wa
Mutharika won the Presidency as the UDF Presidential candidate, but former President Muluzi
retainedhis position as party chairman.

6.       Differences between President Mutharika and the UDF leadership resulted in the former
resigning from UDF on February 5, 2005, and forming his own political party, the Democratic
Progressive Party (DPP). While the DPP has attracted a number o f defections from the UDF and
won all five seats recently contested in a by-election, the political atmosphere remains polarized.
The DPP heads a minority Government, and continuing tension with the UDF and MCP resulted
ina stalemate towards the endof2005 that hashinderedthe passageofkey legislation. The UDF
continues to promote the impeachment o f the President inParliament.

7.       Recent Economic Developments. Malawi's economic performance during 2004-2005
was influenced by two main trends. First, there was steady progress towards macroeconomic
stabilization driven mainly by improved expenditure management. Second, a severe drought
towards the end o f 2004 affected growth and, inflation and put a strain on the fiscal position and
balance of payments.

8.       Real GDP grew by 4.6 percent in 2004 compared to on average 3 percent during 2001-
2003.    The increase was mainly on account of a rebound of tobacco production. Inflation
continued its downward trend in the first half o f 2004 and interest rates declined from 45 percent
in2003 to 25 percent by mid2004. The improvedgrowth and inflationperformanceduring 2004
was, however, adversely affected by a drought towards the end o f the 2004/2005 crop season
which resulted in a fall in Malawi's agricultural production o f 7 percent in 2005 over 2004. In
2005, output of maize, Malawi's main staple food, fell by 30 percent compared to 2004, which
itself was a shortage year. Overall, the drought reducedthe projectedreal GDP growth in 2005 to
only 2.1 percent compared to 4.6 percent in 2004. Fortunately, better rains and Government's
efforts at improving fertilizer availability are expected to result in a good harvest for the
2005/2006 crop season.

9.      Achieving macroeconomic stabilization through control o f the fiscal deficit has been at
the top o f the new Government's agenda. Soon after becoming the President in May 2004,
President Mutharika implemented some o f the bold policies he announced in his inaugural
speech, such as moving the Presidency to Lilongwe, and reducing the number o f Ministers from
46 to to 25 and Permanent Secretaries from 68 to 36. These actions combined with improved
expenditure control enabled the Government to reduce the fiscal deficit from an average o f 8.2
percent over 2001-2003 to 5.9 percent in 2004.       Consequently, the inflation measured by the
Consumer Price Index (CPI) during 2004 was maintained at about 11.5 percent compared to
around 22 percent over 2001-2003. Inflation nevertheless increased to 16 percent during 2005
mainly on account of a sharp rise in food prices resulting from the drought.

10.     Malawi's external current account deficit before official transfers worsened to 19 percent
o f GDP during 2004 compared to around 17 percent o f GDP during 2003 and on average 15
percent of GDP during 2001-2003. The increase in exports o f tobacco o f nearly 15 percent in
2004 was more than compensated by a sharp increase in the import bill mainly due to higher oil

                                                          3


   prices. The external situation in 2005 was not markedly different from that in 2004. There was a
   slight further deterioration in the current account due to continued high oil prices but this was
   compensated by improved access to external financing as official transfers to Malawi increased
   by about 3 percent o f GDP. On the whole, Malawi's external situation remains structurally weak
   with high dependence on official transfers, few non traditional exports, and gross reserves that
   fluctuate at around 1- 2 months of imports.

              IV.     ProgressTowards Meetingthe Second Tranche Release Conditions

   11.      As indicated in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), Section 2.02 (d), the release
   o f the second tranche i s based on providingevidence that:

            0    The macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is satisfactory, as measured
                 on the basis o f indicators agreed between the Borrower and the International
                 Development Association (the Association);

            0    Satisfactory progress has been achieved by the borrower in carrying out the Program
                 as set forth inthe LDP; and

            0    The actions described inSchedule 2 ofthe DCA have beentaken.

  .Each o f these items i s discussed indetail below.

  A.        Macroeconomic PolicyFramework


,  12.      Policies implemented during the past year have been successful in creating a
  macroeconomic framework that supports the MPRS objectives o f stimulating growth and
  reducing poverty. The stabilization programhas been supported by the IMF's Poverty Reduction
  and Growth Facility (PRGF) program approvedinAugust 2005.

   13.      Malawi has had a history o f weak macroeconomic performance arising from poor
  expenditure management resulting in frequent fiscal slippages and an unsustainable domestic debt
  spiral.   Indeed, for the 2000 PRGF that expired in 2004, only one review was successfully
  completed (on October 20, 2003). When the FIMAG was declared effective and the first tranche
  was released in September 2004, the new Government had already demonstrated its commitment
  to sound economic management and administration by implementing a number o f reforms in the
  first few months o f beingin office (see para 9 above). The Government established a sound track
  record under an IMF SMP, meetingall the financial and structural benchmarks.

  14.      Performance under the SMP during July 2004 to June 2005 was stronger than in the
  previous years and consequently the Government was able to conclude a new three-year PRGF
  program in August 2005. Under the new PRGF, the Government has set realistic and achievable
  medium term objectives to achieve macroeconomic stabilization. The Government proposes to
  reduce domestic debt from the current levels o f 25 percent o f GDP to about 15 percent of GDP.
  Freeingresources in this way will allow the authorities to address priority areas such as health,
  education, and public infrastructure. It will also help further lower interest rates and maintain a
  competitive exchange rate. The reduction in domestic debt will be mainly achieved through a
  sustained reduction in the budget deficit. The domestic balance' will be reduced from an

  ' This is a true measure of the domestic fiscal effort and is definedas: the overall balance plus statistical
  discrepancy, excluding grants, revenue and expenditure from maize, interest, foreign financed development

                                                    4


estimated 11.1 percent of GDP in 2005 to 3.8 percent of GDP by 2008. This will allow the
Government to hold the money supply growth to around 15 percent and by 2008, and reduce
inflation to 7 percent from an estimated 15 percent in 2005.

B.       Progressin Implementingthe ProgramSupportedby FIMAG

 15.     The FIMAG supported structural reforms in four areas:              (i)fiscal management,
(ii)parastatalreforms, (iii) policyandagriculture, and(iv)combatingHIV/AIDS. Asthe
                                  land
discussionbelow indicates, overall progress inall the four areas was satisfactory.

 16.     Financial Management. The objective of reforms in this area was to improve overall
budget formulation and expenditure management. Specifically: (i)reduce the cost of runningthe
Government and make it more predictable, the Government was streamlined (para. 9), and
important reforms were implemented in wage policy to make the wage bill more predictable
(discussed in section C, below), (ii)to improve budget execution, the new Public Finance
Management Act was operationalized by issuing Treasury Instructions and by creating fully
functional Internal Audit Unit and the Directorate of Public Procurement, and (iii)to improve
expenditure monitoring, the Government began to regularly submit the Quarterly Expenditure
Reports (QERs) to the Cabinet Committee on the Economy and the Budget and Finance
Committee o f the Parliament, and post on the web the actual and budgetedpro-poor expenditures
within six weeks o f the end o f the quarter. In addition to considerable progress in budget
formulation and expenditure management, important steps were also taken towards
decentralization (discussed in Section C, below).

17.     Parastatal Reforms.         The objective of parastatal reforms supported under the FIMAG
was to reduce the risk o f fiscal shocks and improve their operational efficiency. The risk o f fiscal
shocks was reduced by strictly controlling parastatal borrowing. A comprehensive program o f
reconciliation o f arrears was prepared and a program for their elimination was launched with
cabinet approval.

18.     The operational efficiency o f parastatals was improved by making progress on the
privatization program. The sale of Malawi Telecommunications Limited (MTL), initiated under
the FIMAG operation was successfully concluded, and Blantyre Milling, Alexander Forbes,
Malawi International Transport Company (MITCO), Manica and Indebank were all brought to
the point of sale. Inparallel, as indicated inthe LDP, a revisedDivestitureSequence Plan (DSP)
was prepared.        The DSP i s being supported by technical assistance from a restructured
Privatization and Utility Reform Program (PURP) operation o f the Association'. Towards the
next phase of privatizations, the Government has already obtained parliamentary approval for the
Electricity bill and the Energy Regulation bill prepared in line with the cabinet approved power
policy. Finally, the Government has recently launched a passenger obligation study for Shire Bus
Lines, to determine the extent of subsidies required for unviable routes. Once this study i s
concluded, an information memorandum will be issued for Shire Bus Lines.

19.     Agriculture.       The FIMAG supported Government implementation o f a three track
program for accelerating agricultural growth. First, to improve the efficiency of land use, the
Government prepared a new land law that has been discussed by a wide range o f stakeholders and
will be presented in the next sitting o f the Parliament. Ground rents on leasehold land were


                   ~~    ~~    ~~




expenditures (including the health SWAP).
 The revisedPURPprovides TA for the reforms o f MTL, ADMARC, Electricity Supply Corporationof
Malawi (ESCOM) and the creation o f three multi-sector regulators.

                                                  5


 progressively increased from MK5O/Ha to MK1000/Ha and the land rent collection was
 decentralized. The Government has completed a comprehensive review o f the land tax system
 that also includes potential taxation of freehold land. Specific proposals for a restructuring of
 taxation are currently being discussed.      Government's initiatives for land policy reforms are
being supported by the Association's Community Based Rural Land Development Project
 (CBRLDP).      Second, the Government has made significant progress in reducing costs and
 improving the efficiency o f the tobacco supply chain. Third, to improve food security, the
 Government has prepared a comprehensive food security policy and i s inthe process of reforming
ADMARC. The progress inthe tobacco sector and inreforming ADMARC i s described below in
 Section C in further detail.

20.      Combating HIVAIDS.          The Government's program outlined in the LDP consisted of
 strengthening the institutional and policy framework combating HIV/AIDS and was implemented
intandem with the Association's MAP project. As part ofthe measuresto strengtheninstitutions,
the trust deed for the National Aids Commission (NAC) was finalized; an HIV/AIDS
mainstreaming strategy for local authorities was prepared; and, HIV/AIDS coordinators were
appointed in all Ministries. In an effort to protect financing to HIV/AIDS related activities, from
FY2004/2005 onwards a separate budget line for HIV/AIDS related expenditures was created in
each ministry budget and these expenditures were classified and monitored as pro-poor
expenditures. Finally, budgetary allocations to the NAC basket funding were protected as
indicated in Section C below.

21.      Specijic conditions and waiver. While the Credit supported the broad reform agenda in
the four areas indicated above, it was focused on six specific reforms that formed conditions for
the second tranche release. As indicated in Table 1 below and discussed in Section C, the
Government has fully met five o f these six conditions for tranche release. On the condition,
related to ADMARC, progress has also beenmade. However, the Government has indicated that
more time i s needed to formulate and implement measures to fully meet the objectives o f
ADMARC reforms as agreed in the FIMAG documents. On the basis o f the implementation of
the overall FIMAG program, we recommend that we agree with the Government's request and
release the second tranche o f the Credit with a waiver granted for this one specific condition for
the following reasons:

22.      First, significant progress has been made in achieving macroeconomic stability and
structural reforms. As a result o f these efforts, Malawi has entered into a new PRGF with the
IMF, has restored access to the resources from the Common Approach to Budget Support
(CABS) group of donors, has seen improved tobacco production, and i s successfully managing
the 2005 drought.

23.      Second, on the specific issue o f ADMARC reform, as discussed in Section C, paragraphs
32-37 below, much technical work has been done and the Government has approved a cabinet
paper that defines a set o f principles that would govern ADMARC reform. Notably, the plans
envisage that two new companies will be created out o f the current ADMARC: (i)          a private
commercial entity, Malawi Agricultural Warehousing and Trading Company (MAWTCO)
created by separating commercial activities currently carried out by ADMARC; and (ii)a
company for handling "social activities", which will retain the name ADMARC. As part o f the
restructuring, ADMARC's head office and regional offices will be streamlined, resulting in a '
substantial reduction o f staff.

24.     While the Government's current proposals are a step inthe right direction, the progress to
date has been slow and the Government has had to make substantial efforts inbuildingan internal

                                                    6


consensus for designingand implementingthe reforms as laid out in the FIMAG documents. The
new Government elected in May 2004 was understandably focused on urgent issues o f restoring
macroeconomic stability as well as implementing a broad set o f structural reforms includedinthe
LDP. The Government was also constrained on moving expeditiously on the ADMARC reform
program by the severe drought that is currently affecting the country.

25.     The Government has indicated its firm commitment at the highestlevels to move forward
with the implementation of ADMARC reforms as agreed inthe FIMAG documents. However, a
waiver o f this condition i s needed to give the Government more time to carry out additional
technical work as well as build the necessary consensus for reform within Malawi. At the
Government's request, we plan to continue to provide technical assistance to support the design
and implementation o f the reformprogram.

26.     Third, the ongoing effects of the drought have further exacerbated the precarious balance
o f payments situation. Currently gross reserves at the Central Bank amount to less than 1.2
months o f imports. The resources from the second tranche are a key component o f the financing
plan for a sustainable macroeconomic framework supported by the IMF's PRGF.


                  Table 1: Status of Progress on Tranche Release Conditions




                                                             nters incities and districts.




ReformArea 3:
Agriculture
Land utilization  Gazette and publicize inlocal newspapers and radio the Government        Met
                  notice to adjust land fees to MKIOOO/Ha for leasehold land, as per the
                  existing Land Act.
Tobacco           Obtain cabinet approval and implement detailed operational strategy      Met
marketing         and necessary legal and regulatory instruments for restructuring the
                  tobacco sector's institution and improve the efficiency o f tobacco
                  marketing inline with recommendations o f the institutional review.
ReformArea 4:
Combating:
HIVIAIDS
HIV/AIDS         I
                 I Government share o f 2004/05NAC basket budgeted (US$2 million)         IMet
                  and released according to agreed schedule (US$-500,000 per quarter).    I

                                                    7



 27.      In view of the above, we request that a waiver for the ADMARC condition be granted
 and we proceed with the release of the second tranche o f the FIMAG operation amounting to
 SDRl6.9 million (equivalent to $24.38 million). Detailed descriptions o f the actions that have
 beentaken to fulfill the second tranche legal conditions are given below.


 C.       Progress against Schedule 2, DCA Tranche Release Conditions.

          (a)      Standardized and consolidated thc salary and allowance structure of its civil
          service to form a uniform salary structure.

 28.      This condition has been met.          Following the effectiveness of the operation, the
 Government accessed technical assistance provided under the Financial Management
 Transparency and Accountability Project (FIMTAP) to prepare a wage policy study. On the basis
 o f this study, starting from the 2004/2005 budget Government consolidated the numerous
 allowances that were not taxed (e.g., fuel and housing) into basic pay. Pay grades were unified
 across the core civil service, and the number o f grades was reduced to 18 from 75. Moreover, the
 pay line was realigned and partly decompressed. As a result o f the reform, general gross wages
 rose by 25 percent, the minimumwage increased by 50 percent, pay to upper-levelprofessionals
 increased, andpay to top-tier contractuals was frozen.

          (b)      Dccentralized to the District Assemblics the responsibility for primary
          education, primary health care centers and land rent collcction, in accordancc with
          the Cabinet Paper on Sector Devolution, and transferred the associated budgetary
          allocation reflectedin the "othcr recurrent transactions" budgetary line itcrn from
          the MOF to thc said Asscmblics, as sct forth in paragraph 15 of the LDY.

29.       This condition has been met. The actions in this area involve the decentralization o f
other recurrent transactions (ORT) funds for primary health and education and collection o f land
rent to the district level, and the Association considers this condition to have been substantially
met for the reasons that follow.       In the case of the decentralization of primary health and
education ORT, District Commissioners have been formally appointed as controlling officers
responsible for District Assembly votes. Further, in the FY 2005/2006 budget, separate District
Assembly votes have been created and ORT budgets for primary health and education in each
district have beenpresentedwith the District Commissioners as controlling officers.

30.      InMalawi, only the leasehold estates are subjected to taxation ("land rent"). Landunder
customary management and freehold land i s exempted.            The collection o f the land rent on
leasehold estates has traditionally been carried out in two ways. For tobacco farmers, the rent i s
collected at the auction floor. This i s the most convenient way o f collecting this rent and will
continue. For the non-tobacco farmers, land rent was traditionally collected by issuing demand
notices from three "regional" collection points - North, Center and South. The actual collection
o f the land rent from non-tobacco farmers has been very low due to obsolete registers, inefficient
collection services and substantial tax evasion.

3 1.     UnderFIMAG, Government agreed to: (i)increase the level of landrent (see below) and
(ii)decentralize to the District Assembly the responsibility for landrent collection for non-
tobacco farmers. The Government has prepared an action plan for rolling out the decentralization
o f land rent collection. So far, land rent collection has already started on an accelerated basis in
four pilot districts supported by the IDA-financed Community Based Rural Lands Development

                                                     8


Project (CBRLDP), because the capacity o f these districts for managing rent collection has
already been strengthened.         The roll out o f the decentralized land rent collection in the 25
remaining districts has also started. The Government has issued a Gazette notice of delegation of
powers to the Districts to collect landrent, and has set aside the requiredamount in the FY 2005-
2006 budget to recruit land officers and land clerks for all the remaining districts.             The
recruitment o f these officials is now underway. In line with the Action Plan submitted by the
Government, it i s expected that land collection in these districts will start before end-June 2006.
The Association will continue to work with the Government to ensure that the decentralized
collection o f land rent i s fully operationalized, as per the Action Plan.

        (e)       Completed the implemcntationof thc ADMARC restructuring plan as set
        forth in paragraph19 of Ihc LDY.

32.     This condition has not been met and the Government is requesting a waiver. The
tranche release condition (paragraph 19 o f the LDP) stipulates that: "Government will implement
the plan for restructuring ADMARC commercial activities that has been approved by Cabinet
through (i)appointing a new Board for the company, (ii)         carrying out staffing reviews, and (iii)
separating social marketing activities from ADMARC Limited".                   It was intended that
implementing the three actions would, (i)        reduce the large and non-transparent fiscal burden
imposed by ADMARC on the budget; and (ii)focus its operations on areas where well
functioning private sector marketing services as well as infrastructure do not exist.

33.     Government's strategy for ADMARC reform was based on considerable technical work
on restructuring the commercial activities of ADMARC, and ADMARC was one o f the
parastatals includedin the Government's own Divestiture Sequence Plan (DSP) approved by the
Cabinet. However, the new Government elected in May 2004 decided that further technical
work was needed to prepare a comprehensive restructuring plan, including the design and
operation o f social activities. As stipulated in the FIMAG documents (LDP para. 19), in early
2005 the Government recruited consultants to assist in the preparation and implementation of
ADMARC restructuring plan. The consultancy was designed to work in two phases. In phase
one, the consultants would prepare a comprehensive report analyzing the current situation in
ADMARC and agricultural marketing in general, and present the Government with options for
restructuring for achieving the reform's agreed upon objectives. In phase two, the consultants
would work hand in hand with the Government in working out the details o f the chosen option
and help implement the restructuring including staff retrenchment.

34.     Phase one was concluded in October 2005, and the Government subsequently approved a
cabinet paper inJanuary 2006 that defined the following principles that would govern ADMARC
reform:

        Two new companies will be created out o f the current ADMARC: (i)a private
        commercial company, Malawi Agricultural Warehousing and Trading Company
        (MAWTCO), created by separating the commercial agricultural trading and warehousing
        activities currently carried out by ADMARC, and (ii)          a company for handling "social
        activities", which will retain the name ADMARC.

    0   Given the "social" connotation o f the brand name o f ADMARC, the institution that will
        carry out the "social activities" will retain the name ADMARC.

 As discussed inpara 18 above, Government privatized many ofADMARC's subsidiariessuchas David
Whitehead, Cold Storage and Blantyre Milling.

                                                  9



      a   Clear and transparent criteria for determining social markets where the new ADMARC
          will operate will be developed duringthe second phase of the consultancy.

      a   The new ADMARC will not trade intobacco or cotton.

      a   ADMARC's Head office and regional offices will be streamlined, resulting in a reduction
          o f staff.

      a   The investments o f the ADMARC Investment Holding Company (AIHC) would be
          disposed off through the Privatization Commission.


 35.      Expected next steps are as follows:

      (i)Appointing a new Boardfor the company:             The Government expects to register
     MAWTCO by end April 2006. However, appointment o f the Board will depend on timing
     and modalities of the private sector participation.

     (ii)CarryingoutthestafJingreviews: Theconsultantshavealreadycarriedoutthestaffing
     reviews, on the basis o f which the Cabinet paper envisages an initial retrenchment o f 1000
     out o f 3600 staff currently employed by ADMARC. As the next step, the consultants will
     have to prepare job profiling o f the two companies as well as identify financing before staff
     retrenchment can be initiated.

     (iii)Separatingsocial marketingactivitiesfrom ADMARCLimited:             Although the cabinet
     decision paves the way for separating the social and commercial activities, creating two
     functioning companies will involve a number o f steps. First, assets related to commercial
                                                               '
     activities will need to be evaluated and transferred from ADMARC to MAWTCO. Second,
     Government will need to reach an internal consensus on a set o f social markets where the
     new ADMARC will operate on the basis o f clear and transparent criteria and close down
     remaining markets. Third, additional work needs to be carried out to determine the structure
     and operational policies o f ADMARC and to design a subsidy mechanism.

36.      The slow progress to date in designingand implementing the ADMARC reform could be
attributed to fact that ADMARC reform i s a complex socio-political issue, and the new
Government elected in May 2004 was understandably focused on urgent issues o f restoring
macroeconomic stability as well as implementing a broad set of structural reforms included in the
LDP. The Government was also constrained on moving expeditiously on the ADMARC reform
programby the severe drought that i s currently affecting the country.

37.      Going forward, the Government is in the process o f launching the second phase o f its
work with consultants that involves creating the two institutions carrying out the commercial and
social functions, and has indicated that it could take six months to one year before key elements
o f the reform are implemented. We believe that this i s realistic and achievable. There i s a broad
consensus for ADMARC reform within the Government as indicated by the approval o f the
cabinet paper.       Further, the improved harvest expected in 2006 would facilitate the
implementation o f the reforms. Granting the waiver will give the Government the additional time
needed to carry out the necessary analytical work and to build internal consensus to resolve the
design issues identified in 35 (iii)above. At the Government's request, we plan to continue to
provide technical assistance to support the further design and implementation of the reform
program.

                                                  10




          (d)    Published in the Borrower's official gazette a notice setting forth the new
         rate of leasehold land rent of one thousand Malawi K m c h a (iMK1,OOO)per hectare
         and publicized this new rate to nieriibcrs of the public by carrying out a public
         awareness campaign in the local newspapers and the radio, as set Iorth in
         paragraph 2 1 of the LDP.


38.      This condition has beenmet. Landrent is already beingcollected at MK1000/Ha.

         (e)     Kcccived cabinet approval of an operational strategy to rcstruclurc the
         Tobacco Sector Institutions and improve tobacco marketing, prepared in line with
         the recornmendations of the institutional review of the tobacco sector carried out by
         Ihc Borrower, and amended, as necessary, the governing legislative and rcgiilatory
         framework to put into effect the said restructuring, as set forth in paragraph 24 of
         the LDP.

39.      This condition has been met. In February 2005, the Government hired a team of
consultants (financed by the IDA-fundedEmergency Drought Recovery Project) to carry out the
comprehensive institutional review o f the tobacco sector.            The review's finding and
recommendations were discussed at a stockholder's workshop on April 16,2005. Based on the
workshop's recommendations, a cabinet paper outlining the operational strategy and action plan
to restructure the tobacco institutions was prepared and approved by the Cabinet in June 2005,
with the following two main objectives: (i)improve overall governance and increase the voice of
small holders in decision-making in the sector; and (ii)increase competition and efficiency in the
domestic marketing system for increasingthe pass through o f international prices to producers.

40.      The following i s a summary o f the actions completed as per the action plan referredto in
paragraph 39, above.

        Performance Audits o f the Tobacco Control Commission (TCC), the Auction Holdings
        Limited,andthe Agricultural ResearchandExtensionTrust (ARET) were completed.
        Smallholder representation in the Board o f TCC was increased and the National
        Association o f Small Holder Farmers of Malawi (NASFAM) was included in the Board
        o f ARET.
        TAMA membership and levywere made voluntary and not mandatory.
        The quota systemwas replacedwith registrationofplannedproduction.
        AHL levy was reducedfrom 3.25 to 2.5 percent of total sales proceeds.
        Hessian Levy was abolished.
        Contract-farming (already allowed for flue-cured tobacco) was extended to burley
        tobacco (the main production o f smallholders) on a pilot basis. Instructions clearing the
        way for contract farming in burley have been issued by the TCC. We expect contract
        farming inburleyto take off inthe 2006 tobacco planting season.
        Instructions for the establishment on a pilot basis o f competitive local marketing
        arrangements at district level (Local Commodity Exchanges-LCEs) offering local
        producers an efficient price discovery mechanism and a local competitive outlet
        immediately accessible have been issued.       The establishment and operations o f these
        LCEs is, however, likely to take two to thee years, and the Government has requested
        technical assistance from the Association to make this happen.

                                              11



         (9       Allocated the amount of two millionDollars($2,000,000) in the FY2004/05
          budget for HIV/AIDS interventions,to be disbursed to thc NAC in the amoiint of
         ilve hundredthousand Dollars($500,000) for each quarter of'thesaid FiscalYear,
         as set forth in paragraph 27 of thc LDY.


41.      This conditionhas been met. The action inthis area under FIMAG required that US$2
million for the NAC basket fund be included in the national budget and that quarterly tranches o f
US$500,000 be released. For FY 2004/2005 the US$2 million was budgeted and released to the
NAC as per schedule. For the FY05/06, so far U S 1 . 2 million have been budgeted for the first
half o f the year. The Government plans to allocate the remaining amount for the second half in
the supplementary budget expected in February 2006. In addition to the Association's MAP
operation, in FY 2004/2005, the Government successfully obtained hnds from the Global Fund
for HIV/AIDS to the tune o f US$196 million to be disbursed over five years.

