                                            Documentof
                                          The World Bank



                                    FOROFFICIAL USEONLY




                                                                                  ReportNo. 27649




                     INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION



                                     PROGRAMDOCUMENT



                      FORA CREDIT TO THE REPUBLICOF MALAWI



 INTHEAMOUNT OF SDR33.8 MILLION(US$50 MILLIONEQUIVALENT) FORTHE



            FISCAL MANAGEMENT AND ACCELERATING GROWTHPROGRAM




                                          January 23,2004




This documenthas a restricteddistributionand may be usedby recipients only inthe performanceo ftheir official
duties, Its contentsmay not otherwisebe disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS


(Exchange Rate Effective November 3,2003)



   Currency Unit = Malawi Kwacha (MK)
           MK1 = US$0.00857
           U S $ l = MK109.4
          SDRl = 1.479




              MEASURES

              Metric System




             FISCAL YEAR

             July 1to June 30




     Vice President: Callisto E. Madavo
   Country Director: Hartwig Schafer
    Sector Manager: Emmanuel Akpa
 Task Team Leader: Sudhir Chitale

                                                          FOROFFICIAL USEONLY
                                   GLOSSARYOF ACRONYMS

                  ACB               Anti Corruption Bureau
                  ADMARC            Agricultural Developmentand Marketing Corporation
                  AfDB              African DevelopmentBank
                  AGOA              Africa Growth and Opportunity Act
                  AHL               Auction Holdings Limited
                  ARET              Agricultural Researchaod Extension Trust
                  BOP               Balance of Payments
                  CAS               Country Assistance Strategy
                  CABS              Common Approach to Budget Support
                  CBM               Commercial Bank of Malawi
                  CDF               ComprehensiveDevelopmentFramework
                  CMS               Central Medical Stores
                  COMESA            Common Market for Easternand SouthernAfrica
                  CCA
                  ccs               Credit Ceiling Authority
                                    Commitment Control System
                  CFAA              Country Financial Accountability Assessment
                  CPAR
                  csc               Country ProcurementAssessment Review
                                    Cold Storage Company
                  DFID              Department For International Development (UK)
                  DHRMD             Department of HumanResource Management and Development
                  DPP               Director of Public Prosecutions
                  DSP               Divesture SequencePlan
                   EC               EuropeanCommission
                   ESAF             EnhancedStructural Adjustment Facility
                   ESCOM            Electricity Supply Corporation of Malawi
                   FDI              Foreign Direct Investment
                   FEWS             Famine Early Warning System
                   FIMTAP           Financial Management,Transparency and Accountability Project
                   FRDP             Fiscal Restructuringand Deregulation Program
                   GCU              Government Contracting Out Unit
                   GDP              Gross Domestic Product
                   GOM              Government of Malawi
                   HIPC             Highly IndebtedPoor Countries
                   IAU              Internal Audit Unit
                   IBRD             International Bank for Reconstructionand Development
                   IDA              International DevelopmentAssociation
                   IDF              Institutional DevelopmentFund
                   IFMIS            Integrated Financial ManagementInformation System
                   IFPRI            International Food Policy ResearchInstitute
                   IHS              IntegratedHouseholdSurvey
                   IM               InformationMemorandum
                   IMF              International Monetary Fund
                   IPC              International ProcurementConsultants
                   JSA              Joint Staff Assessment
                   LDP               Letter of Development Policy
                   MACRA             Malawi Communications Regulatory Authority
                   MAP               Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDs Project
                   MITCO             Malawi International Transport Company
                   MPRSP             Malawi Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
                   MASAF             Malawi Social Action Fund

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipientsonly in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.

                         11

MDC       Malawi Development Corporation
MHC       Malawi Housing Corporation
MK        Malawi Kwacha
MOEP&D    Ministry of Economic Planning and Development
MOF       MinistryofFinance
MOP       Memorandumof the President
MPC       Malawi Posts Corporation
MPTC      Malawi Posts and Telecommunications Corporation
MRA       Malawi RevenueAuthority
MTs       Metric Tons
MTEF      Medium-TermExpenditure Framework
MTL       Malawi Telecommunications Limited
MTPP      Medium Term Pay Policy
NAC       National AIDS Commission
NASFAM    National Association of Smallholder Farmers of Malawi
NCPI      National Consumer Price Index
NFRA      National Food ReserveAgency
NLGFC     National Local Government Finance Committee
NSNS      National Safety Net Strategy
NSO       National Statistical Office
NWDP      National Water Development Project
OED       Operations EvaluationDepartment
OPC       Office of the President and Cabinet
ORT       Other Recurrent Transactions
PAF       Performance Assessment Framework
PAR       Project Audit Report
PCC       Petroleum Control Commission
PCR       Project CompletionReport
PER       Public Expenditure Review
PFP       Policy Framework Paper
PPEs      Pro-Poor Expenditures
PR        ProgressReport
PRGF      Poverty Reductionand Growth Facility
PRSP      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSRS      Power Sector Reform Strategy
PSD       Private Sector Development
PURP      Privatization and Utility Reform Project
PVHO      Plant and Vehicle Hire Organization
QERs      Quarterly Expenditure Reports
Rl3M      ReserveBank of Malawi
SDR       Special Drawing Rights
SNIC      Safety Net ImplementationCommittee
SPA       Special Program of Assistanceto Low-Income Debt Distressed
          Countries in Sub-SaharanAfrica
TAMA      Tobacco Association of Malawi
TCC       Tobacco Control Commission
TEAM      Tobacco Exporters Association of Malawi
TIP       Targeted Input Program
TOR       Terms of Reference
UNDP      UnitedNations Development Program
VAT       Value Added Tax

                                          iii

                        THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
         FISCAL MANAGEMENTAND ACCELERATING GROWTHPROGRAM
                                      (FIMAG)

Borrower                  Republic o fMalawi
Beneficiaries             The Poor inMalawi
Amount                    SDR 33.8 million US$50 millionequivalent
Terms                     Standard IDA terms: 40 year maturitywith 10year grace period
Description               The FIMAG will support structural reforms in: (i) Fiscal
                          Management, (ii) Parastatal Reforms, (iii) Agriculture, and (iv)
                          HIV/AIDS. The reforms in fiscal management are designed to
                          strengthen the Government's capacity to meet macroeconomic
                          stabilization targets while the parastatal reforms will help in
                          both reducingthe burden on the budget and improve delivery of
                          key infrastructure services crucial for growth. The reforms in
                          agriculture will contribute to growth by increasingthe returns to
                          smallholder farmers through creating better functioning land,
                          tobacco and maize markets. The reforms in HIV/AIDS will
                          provide the framework for channeling resources and
                          strengthening institutions in order to mitigate the health and
                          social impacts o f HIVIAIDS.
Benefits                  The FIMAG will benefitthe poor inMalawi through increased
                          growth, through improvingthe framework for deliveringsocial
                          servicesthrough decentralization and by addressingHIV/AIDS.
Risks                     There are four main risks to the oDeration. First, there is a risk
                          o f policy slippage. Malawi goes to general elections in May
                          2004. In the run up to the elections, there is a risk o f fiscal
                          slippages due to election related expenses. In addition, a new
                          Government after May 2004 may be less committed to reforms
                          than the present one. Second, there is a risk that delays in donor
                          inflows could create the need to approach the domestic market
                          to finance the Budget. Third, there is risk o f exogenous shocks,
                          especially    one    of    droughvfamine      destabilizing    the
                          macroeconomic agenda. Fourth, there is risk arising from the
                          high incidence o f HIVIAIDS. The first of these risks has been
                          mitigated by the wide consultations with all stakeholders,
                          including civil society organizations (CSOs) to create broad
                          support for the program and providing technical assistance to
                          firm up the analyticalbasis for the reforms. The second risk has
                          been mitigated by working closely with all our development
                          partners, includingthe CABS group and the AfDB to make sure
                          that all our operations are coordinated. The third risk is
                          mitigatedby efforts made to strengthenthe systems to respond
                          quickly to early warnings of a possible famine. The fourth risk
                          has been addressed by including HIV/AIDS as one of the four
                          reformareas.
EstimatedDisbursements    The Creditconsistsof a single component o funtied balanceo f
                          paymentssupport, which will be disbursedintwo equaltranches
                          as follows. The first tranche: SDR 16.9 million (US$25 million
                          equivalent)would be releaseduponBoardapprovaland credit
                          effectiveness(expectedFebruary2004). The second tranche:
                          SDR 16.9 million(US$25 million equivalent) would be
                          released uponcompletiono fthe tranche release conditions.
Implementingagency        Ministry of Finance
Project IDNumber          PO72395


                                                   MALAWI

        FISCAL MANAGEMENT AND ACCELERATING GROWTHPROGRAM


                                         TABLE OF CONTENTS


1.   EXECUTIVE SUMMARY..........................................................................
2,
     THE GOVERNMENT'SREFORMPROGRAMAND THE PROPOSEDCREDIT....
     BACKGROUNDAND RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS.......................
3.
4.   POLICY REFORMS SUPPORTEDBY THE PROPOSEDCREDIT.....................

     A. FiscalManagement.................................................................................
     B. ParastatalReforms ..................................................................................      9
                                                                                                                 12

     D. HIV/AIDSFramework for Action................................................................
     C. Agriculture ...........................................................................................   13
                                                                                                                  18

5.
     REQUIREMENTS ....................................................................................
     MACROECONOMIC PROSPECTS,EXTERNALDEBT AND FINANCIAL
                                                                                                                 20
6.   RELATIONSHIP TO THE CAS AND DESIGNOF THE CREDIT .......................                                     23
7.   RISKSAND BENEFITS.............................................................................              25


                                          TABLES AND BOXES

TABLE 1: KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS...........................................................                        2
TABLE 2: TRANCHE RELEASECONDITIONS FORFIRSTAND SECOND TRANCHES...                                                  6
TABLE 3: REFORMMEASURESAND INSTITUTIONS PROVIDING SUPPORT.............
TABLE 4: EXCEPTIONAL FINANCING REQUIREMENTS.........................................                               8
                                                                                                                 22


                                                  ANNEXES

ANNEX 1: LETTER OF DEVELOPMENTPOLICY
ANNEX 2: PROGRAMOF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
ANNEX 3: HIPC COMPLETIONPOINT TRIGGERS
ANNEX 4: PROGRESS WITH CAS TRIGGERS
ANNEX 5: POLICIES SUPPORTEDBY THE CABS GROUP
ANNEX 6: MALAWIAT A GLANCE TABLE


MAP: IBRD NO 31130




The StructuralAdjustment Credit (FIMAG) was preparedby an IDA team consisting of Sudhir Chitale
(TaskTeam Leader), Maxwell Mkwezalamba,Antonio Nucifora, Tejaswi Raparla (AFTPl), Francis
M'buka, Stanley Hiwa, Jean PaulChausse, Tijan Sallah(AFTRl), Christine Kimes, DonaldMphande,
JohnstoneNyirenda(AFTQK), Muthoni Kaniaru(LEGAF), and RajatNarula(LOAG2). Initial work on
the operation duringFY 01/02 was led by Mr. HassanZaman. Overall supervisionand guidance was
providedby Hartwig Schafer (CountryDirector), EmmanuelAkpa (Sector Manager) and DunstanWai
(Country Manager). The ProgramAssistant to the Creditwas EvangalineRose Kumsinda.


                   PROPOSEDADJUSTMENT CREDIT OF SDR 33.8 MILLION
                                   TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
                                          INSUPPORTOF THE
            FISCAL MANAGEMENT AND ACCELERATING GROWTHPROGRAM


                                       1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

1.1       This document proposes a Structural Adjustment Credit to the Republic of Malawi for SDR
33.8 million(US$50 million equivalent). The proposedoperation supports policy reforms designed to
accelerate economic growth and reduce poverty.

1.2      The proposed Credit is crucial to maintain macroeconomic stability by meeting financing
requirements (gap) in the balance of payments (BOP) of around US$80 million in 2004' (see Section
5).  Inthe fiscal accounts, the Credit will enable the Government to maintain an overall non-interest
expenditure level at about 24 percent of GDP which would allow the Government to protect outlays in
key social sectors while reducing domestic borrowing, thereby helpingto reduce inflation and interest
rates.

1.3      The reforms supported by the proposed Credit are consistent with the program outlined in the
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) approved by the Board on June 10, 2003. The CAS suggests
organizing the Bank's assistance to support the Malawi Poverty Reduction Strategy (MPRS) in three
pillars: (i)strengthening economic management, (ii)establishing a platform for growth, and (iii)
improving service delivery and strengthening safety nets. The FIMAG contributes to all the three
pillars by creating an enabling framework within which other Bank interventions could be effectively
designedand implemented. The reforms in fiscal managementsupportedby the FIMAG will improve
economic managementthrough improved budget formulation, execution and monitoring. In addition,
the FIMAG will also carry forward the decentralization process by supporting the devolution of
specific activities to the District Assemblies to improve service delivery. Reforms of parastatals,
including the progress on privatization, will not only protect the fiscal accounts from excessive
parastatal borrowing but also lay the basis for growth through improved service delivery, better
functioning utilities, and increased potential private investment. The reform program in agriculture
will create conditions for the acceleration in growth in a sector that is a source of income for 90
percent of the poor inMalawi. The program supported by this operation also strengthens the legal and
institutional framework for addressingthe impact of HIV/AIDS and thereby contributes to the growth
objectives by protecting human resources.

1.4      This operation being presentedto the Board follows up on the First Review under the Poverty
Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) and a Joint Staff Assessment (JSA) of the first Annual
Progress Report (APR) of the Malawi Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (MPRSP), both of which
were approved by the IMF Board on October 20, 2003, followed by an approval of the JSA by the
Bank's Board on October 23,2003.         Malawi's reform program is also supported by Norway, Sweden,
UK (DfID),andthe EUunder the Common Approach for Budget Support(CABS).




   After taking into account inflows from HIPC resources.

                                                              2

                 2. BACKGROUND AND RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS

2.1       Malawi has been implementing wide-ranging reforms since the mid-1990s supported by three
Bank Adjustment Credits, IMF ESAF-PRGF arrangements, and bilateral donor-supported adjustment
programs. These reforms, however, have had mixed success. Since the mid-1990s economic growth
has been low, sharply fluctuating and has worsened in recent years. Since 2000, the economy has
grown by less than 2 percent pea.. With the population growing by nearly 2 percent p.a., this has
meant a sharp fall in per capita consumption. The poor GDP performance has been accompanied by
chronic food insecurity for Malawi's poor. First, aggregate food production and productivity have
stagnated.      Second, maize markets have not efficiently delivered available maize to the poor at
reasonable prices.          Third, the Government's entitlement programs for the poor have not been
successful and have had large fiscal costs. Consequently, not only has Malawi experienced chronic
food shortages but also has faced famine-like conditions as recently as in 1998 and 2002, with
widespread hunger and malnutrition.


                                        Table 1. Key EconomicIndicators

                                                       1998    1999    2000   2001  2002  2003 1995-98 1999-03
                                                     Actual Actual Actual Actual Actual    Est.     **    Avg
GDP growth (constant,percent)                            3.3     4.0      1.1  -4.2   1.8   5.9    4.6     1.7
  Agriculture*                                           2.7    11.2      6.1  -6.3   2.7   9.2    7.6     4.6
   Industry                                              1.2     2.5     -0.9 -10.8  -7.4   4.3    2.8    -2.4
   Services                                              4.6     2.6     -0.7  -0.7   4.3   4.0    3.6     1.9

CPI (average, YO)                                       29.9    45.8    29.5   27.4  15.1  15.1   40.8    26.6
Treasury bill rate                                      33.0    42.9    39.5   41.7  41.7  42.7   32.1    41.7
Exchange rate (MW$, average)                            31.1    44.1    59.5   72.2  76.7  93.1   19.5    69.1

Money and quasi money growth (YO)                       60.0    33.6    42.4   12.1  23.4  15.0   39.5    25.3

Current account balance (%of GDP)
  Excludinggrants                                       -9.8  -16.8    -14.0  -12.7 -23.9 -15.1  -12.0   -16.5
  Including grants                                      -0.8    -8.2     -5.4  -6.9 -11.6  -8.1   -5.3    -8.0
Gross intemationalreserves (months o f imports)          4.6     3.8      4.4   3.6   2.2   2.3    3.2     3.3

Fiscal balance (%o f GDP)
  Excludingoffcial transfers                           -12.8  -11.0    -14.2  -14.6 -14.5 -13.1  -10.7   -13.5
  Including official transfers                          -6.6    -4.5     -4.9  -7.6  -7.7  -2.9   -5.1    -5.5

*Sources:IMF, IFS, and Bank staff estimates
**Includesforestrygrowthrate
                   and fishing.
    Least squares             for GDP, Agriculture, Industryand Services.




2.2       The low growth, food shortages, and fiscal pressures that have adversely affected the delivery
of social services have had disastrous consequences for poverty. Poverty has remained unchanged
over the decade and nearly 65.3 percent? of the Malawians live below the poverty line. Income
poverty in Malawi is also reflected in poor social indicators. Malawi has a life expectancy at birth of
only 38 years, under-five mortality of 190 per 1000 births, and nearly 49 percent of the children are
stunted, that is, have low height for their weight. Malawi's already poor health situation has been
worsened by the HIV/AIDS pandemic. Nearly 16 percent of the Malawian adult population is HIV



* As per the 1998 IntegratedHousehold Survey (IHS).

                                                    3

positive. Nearly 95 percent of these are potentially economically active adults inthe 15-49 age group,
which has disastrousconsequences for growth.

2.3     The low growth has been due to a combination of an adverse external environment, droughts
chronic macroeconomic instability, and slow progress on key structural reforms. Over the past four
years (1999-2003), average inflationmeasuredby the National Consumer Price Index (NCPI) has been
around 27 percent while interest rates measured by the Treasury bill rates have been around 42 percent
(Table 1). Such high inflation and interest rates have made it very difficult for both farmers and
businessmen to plan ahead, invest and expand production. The main reason behind these high
inflation and interest rates has been the high money supply (M2) driven mainly by high fiscal deficits.
The fiscal deficit after grants (Table l),  which was in the 4-5 percent of GDP range during 1998-
2000, has sharply increased to about 8.1 percent by 2003. The impact of the large fiscal deficit on
broad money was exacerbatedby large borrowing by the parastatals directly from the banking system
and by the sharp intra-year movements of the Government borrowing from the banking system due to
unpredictable aid flows.

2.4     High fiscal deficits combined with the reduction in donor inflows in the last three years3have
created potentially unsustainable domestic debt situation. By mid 2003, Malawi's domestic debt was
around 18 percent of GDP. Although this is not high compared to other countries at similar levels of
development, nearly 80 percent of this debt is short term, in the form of 9lday T-bills. Given the
small domestic market and limited range of holders, this debt has the potential to build up rapidly due
to high interest rates that stood at around 40 percent for most of 2003. Further, interest payments on
domestic debt in FY02/03 amounted to nearly 5 percent of GDP or 14 percent of the total
expenditures, and if not brought down by a drastic fiscal adjustment and a restoration of donor
inflows, could rapidly increase and crowd out critical expenditures on social services.

2.5     Malawi's high fiscal deficits that underpin the macroeconomic instability are mainly the result
of poor public expenditure management. At an aggregate level, there is a mismatch between the span
of activities that the Government of Malawi plans to carry out and the resources available to it
combined with a lack of internalmechanisms to prioritize. Despite the introduction of cash budgeting
and introduction of a series of administrative controls, fiscal discipline remains elusive. Public
expenditure management is beset by weak monitoring, lack of effective penalties for overspending,
unbudgeted spending for emergency relief, unpredictability of aid flows, and unplanned demands
resulting from parastatallosses.

2.6     An assessment of the structural reforms carried out in the 2003 Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) and more recently inthe JSA, shows a mixed picture. On the positive side, Malawi has an open
economy with a market based exchange rate and low trade tariffs. A high-quality full PRSP was
produced and allocations to health, education and community-based programs have doubled from 16
percent to 33 percent of the budget between 1993/94 and 1999/00. Further work has been done to
integrate the Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) in the budget and the Integrated
Financial Management System (IFMIS) is being piloted in four Ministries with assistance from the
IDA-supported Financial Management Accountability and Transparency Project (FIMTAP). Finally,
an independent and professional Malawi Revenue Authority has been establishedand has contributed
to increasedrevenue collection.

2.7     Substantial progress was also made in reforming the parastatal sector. Major progress was
achieved in banking, petroleum retailing, telecommunications and railways. A new national energy
policy was approved by Parliament and the national electricity company, ESCOM, was under the
management of ESKOM Enterprises of South Africa untilDecember 2003, and has realized efficiency


   Partly related to the Government's inability to adhere to a macroeconomic framework to stabilize the
economy.

                                                    4

gains. In water, the responsibility for rural water supply was devolved to districts and three regional
water boards have beenestablishedto serve the urban areas.

2.8      There are a number of reforms, however, where progress has been unsatisfactory. The
implementation of reforms in Malawi is seriously handicapped by a Government that suffers from
poor governance and lack of a strong political commitment to reforms. In addition, the inherently
weak implementation capability is exacerbated by the high prevalence of HIV/AIDS. Progress on
civil service reform remains modest, the number of ministries remains very large, and a serious reform
of the wage structure is needed to realign the incentive structure as well as avoid a sharp increase in
the wage bill. Similarly, despite the progress in privatization, many key public enterprises such as
MTL, Water Boards, ESCOM, and a number of ADMARC subsidiaries that are not crucial to food
security remain in Government hands.            Finally, key utilities such as water, electricity and
telecommunications face rising arrears from Government departments.

2.9      There was also a slowdown in agricultural reform resulting in falling output and productivity.
As indicated above, Malawi continues to suffer from food insecurity due to underdeveloped private
sector, logistical bottlenecks and unpredictable Government interventions inthe food markets through
ADMARC that create uncertain incentives for food production and periodic losses that have to be
borne by the budget. Tobacco, the country's most important crop, suffers from an inefficient and high
cost supply chain that results inthe farmer receiving only 50 percent of the price at the auction floor.
There have also been delays intranslating the Land Policy into law while nearly 32 percent of the land
remains unutilized. Finally, delivery of most agricultural services remains weak and unreliable due to
a lack of resources combined with a highly centralized delivery system.

     3. THE GOVERNMENT'SREFORMPROGRAMAND THE PROPOSEDCREDIT

A.       The Government'sReformProgram

3.1      The Government's strategy for poverty reduction is outlined inthe Malawi Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper (MPRSP), which was launched inApril 2002. The Malawi Poverty Reduction Strategy
(MPRS) is based on the following four pillars: (i)sustainable pro-poor growth, (ii)human capital
development, (iii)improving quality of life for the most vulnerable, and (iv) good governance. In
addition, the strategy addresses cross cutting issues of HIV/AIDS, gender, science and technology, and
environment. A BankAMF Joint Staff Assessment (JSA) presentedto the Bank's Board on August 29,
2002, concludedthat the MPRSP provided a credible framework for reducing poverty inMalawi.

3.2      The JSA of the first APR of the MPRS was recently discussedat the IMF and Bank's Boards,
on October 20 and 23, 2003, respectively. The Executive Directors concurred with the JSA that there
was limited progress in the implementation of the MPRS due to: (i)macroeconomic slippage and
weak fiscal management, (ii)drought in 2002 that required the Government to import large quantities
of maize at significant cost to the budget, and (iii)weak follow through on structural policies due to a
preoccupation with the drought and fiscal slippages. The Directors, nevertheless, concurred with the
JSA that the MPRS continued to provide a credible poverty reduction framework for concessional
IDA assistance to Malawi. The Directors commended the Government of Malawi on the recent
improvements in macroeconomic discipline, leading to the conclusion of the first review of the PRGF,
and welcomed the various policy initiatives underway, many of which will be pursued under this
operation, The Directors recommended that the authorities continue with the public sector reforms to
address weak fiscal management capacity, address the problems of high domestic debt, accelerate
parastatalreforms, and make progress in agricultural policies including a revised food security policy.
In addition, the directors also suggested improving the consultative process and more regular
evaluations ofthe MPRS implementation.

                                                       5


B.       The ProposedAdjustment Credit

3.3      The proposed Credit is a two-tranche operation designedto support the Government's reform
program described above. The proposedCredit assists the Government intwo ways. First,the Credit
will provide the critical balance of payments support needed to finance a sustainable balance of
payments and fiscal framework that will enable crucial social expenditures programs to be carried out
while arresting the growth of domestic debt. Second, the Credit will assist the Government in
designing and implementing specific structural reforms to support the growth agenda as described
above.

3.4      The main focus of the FIMAG is to support Malawi in achieving the objectives of the first
pillar of Malawi's Poverty Reduction Strategy (MPRS) and the Malawi Economic Growth Strategy
Paper4-generating sustainable growth. Our analysis shows that an acceleration ingrowth to around 4
percent over the medium term will reduce the percentage of Malawians living in poverty from 65
percenttoday to about 45 percent in2015. The proposedcredit supports the objective of the first pillar
of MPRS through the implementation of reforms aimed at creating a stable macroeconomic
environment by strengthening fiscal management, improving the business environment by improving
performance of key utilities, and stimulating agricultural growth.' The operation also supports the
objectives of the fourth pillar to improve governance, by strengthening public expenditure
management, and fighting corruption and fraud by strengthening the Corrupt Practices Act.                      In
addition, the operation supports the cross cutting MPRS theme of HIV/AIDS and will also support
other MPRS pillars of improving service delivery in health and education through progress on
decentralization.

3.5      The FIMAG will, therefore, support structural reforms in four areas: (i)Fiscal Management,
(ii)Parastatal Reforms, (iii)Agriculture, and (iv) arresting HIV/AIDS.                 The reforms in fiscal
management are designed to strengthen the Government's capacity to meet macroeconomic
stabilization targets while protecting the crucial pro-poor expenditures, and improve the delivery of
social services through accelerating fiscal decentralization. The parastatal reforms will help in both
reducing the burden on the budget as well as improve the delivery of key infrastructure services. The
reforms in agriculture will contribute to growth by increasing the returns to smallholder farmers
through creating better functioning land, tobacco and maize markets.                 Finally, the reforms in
HIV/AIDS, that will be carried out intandem with the Malawi HIV/AIDS Project (MAP), will assist
in creating the policy and institutional framework for channeling resources and strengthening
institutions for mitigatingthe health and social impacts of HIV/AIDS.

3.6      While the Credit will assist the Government in making progress on the broad reform agenda
defined above, the proposed Credit is selective. It is focused on a few important areas where a core set
of actions have already been initiated. While Section 4 provides the details of all the reforms being
pursued, implementation of six key reforms will be crucial for the success of the operation. The key
reforms to be pursued during the course of implementation of the operation and the specific triggers
for the second tranche release are listed inTable 2.




  The broad strategy for accelerating growth indicated inthe first pillar of the MPRS has been hrther elaborated
in the Malawi Economic Growth Strategy Paper presented by the Government in October 2003. The growth
strategy paper suggests that an acceleration in growth will require actions in the four "core" areas: (i) create a
stable macroeconomic environment; (ii) implement a set of reforms to increasereturns to agricultural production
and trade; (iii) improve the environment for manufacturingenterprises; (iv) strengthenthe legal, institutionaland
financial framework for programsto check the spread o f HIVIAIDS.
  The relevantPRSPpillar/actionsub-code for each specific action is provided below.

                                                                       6


                       Table 2 : Tranche Release Conditions for the First and Second Tranche
I
r                 Actions to be                   Triggers for second tranche                           Indicator                       Agency
                  implemented for the first                                                              (source)                      responsible
                  Tanche
IReform Area 1:
 Fiscal

                  Receivecabinet approval     Standardizeand consolidatesalary       Revisedsalary structure showing                   DHRMD
                  for the MediumTermPay       and allowance structure of the Malawi  consolidationo fallowances.
                  Policy (MTPP) for Malawi    civil serviceto form auniform salary
                  Civil-Service.              structure.                             Increasedwage compressionbetweentop and
                                                                                     low grades, and decompressionat low
                                                                                     grades.
                                                                                     (Revisedsalary structure issuedby DHRMD)

 Decentralization Decentralizethe extension   Decentralizethe following activities   Agricultural extensionservices, primary           MOF
                  relatedservices ofthe       in accordancewith the cabinetpaper     education,                                        MOH
                  Ministry of Agriculture in  on sector devolution by transferring   primary healthcare centers in cities and          MOL
                  accordancewith the cabinet  the associatedother recurrent          districts, and collectiono f land rent            MOM
                  paperon sector devolution   transactions (ORT) budgets from the    decentralizedat district level.
                  by transferring the         Ministry of Financedirectly to the
                  associatedother recurrent   District Assemblies.                   Increasein the percentageo f budgetfor
                  transactions(ORT) budgets                                          selectedactivities that goes directly to district
                  from the Ministry of        Ministry of Education: Primary         assemblies.
                  Financedirectly to the      education.                             (Budget)                                          MOF
                  District Assemblies.        Ministry of Health: Primary health
                                              care centers in cities and districts.
                                              Ministry of Lands: Collectionof land
                                              rent




                  Complete divestiture o f
                  non-coreassets of                                                                                                    PC

IADWRC:           ADMARC and select a
                  preferredbidderfor MTL.
 Restructuring    Repealthe ADMARC act        ImplementADMARC restructuring          Reductionthe levelo fbudgetarytransfersto         MOF
                  and incorporateADMARC       plan: (i)appoint anew Board; (ii)      ADMARC limited. (Budget).
 commercial and   as a limited liability      implementstaff retrenchmentof
 socialfunctions  companyunderthe             ADMARC Limited; (iii) separate
                  company act.                social activities.
 Reform Area 3:
 Agriculture
 Land utilization Gazette and publicizein     Gazetteand publicizein local           Increase inthe levelof tax on leaseholdfrom       MOF
                  local newspapersand radio   newspapers and radio the Government    MK 50ma to MK 1000/Ha                             MOL
                  the Governmentnoticeto      noticeto adjust land fees to MKIOOO    (Gazette)
                  adjust landfees to MK500    MWHafor leaseholdland, as per the
                  MWHa for leaseholdland,     existingLandAct.                       Amount of land sublet or revertedto public
                  as per the existingLandAct.                                        landtenure and/oroffered for sale increased
                                                                                     from 10,000 ha to 100,000 ha.                     MOL
                                                                                     (Estimatesfrom Ministry of Lands)
 Tobacco          Reducetobacco levies" and   Obtain cabinet approval and            Increasein the number o f smallholders'           MOA
 marketing        make TAMA levy              implementdetailedoperational           representatives on the boards o f TCC:
                  voluntary.                  strategy and necessary legal and       TAMA and AHL.
                                              regulatory instrumentsfor
                                              restructuring the tobacco sector's     Increasedmarketing efficiency, as measured
                                              institutionand improve the efficiency  by an increasein the percentageofthe
                                              of tobacco marketing in line with      auctionfloor pricesthat reachthe
                                              recommendationso fthe institutional     smallholder. The current leveland trigger
                                              review.                                targets will be determinedas part of the

 Reform Area 4:
 Combating
 HIV/AIDS
 HIV/AIDS         IncludeUS$ 1 million as     Government share of 2004/05 NAC         GOM funding for NAC basket increased to          MOF
                  Governmentshare of          basketbudgeted(US$2 million) and        US$2 million. (Budget document).
                  2003104NAC basket in the    releasedaccordingto agreed schedule
                  supplementarybudget to be   (US$500,000 per quarter).
                  submittedto the Parliament
                  in March2004.




          These include: TCC, AHL, Hessian, ARET and classification levies (See Annex 1Policy matrix for details).

                                                     7

3.7      Proposed Credit and Other Donor Programs. The reforms supported by the FIMAG should
be thought of as a component of the Government's overall reformprogramthat is beingdeveloped in
the context o f the MPRS,' and supported by a wide cross section o f stakeholders as indicated in
Table 3. A key component o f the Government's reform program is the stabilizationprogram that is
being supported by an IMF Poverty Reductionand Growth Facility (PRGF) that was reviewed and
approved by the IMF Board on October 20, 2003. As per the macroeconomic framework adopted by
the Government, the key to reducingthe high inflationand interest rates is a reductionin broadmoney
(M2) growth from 23.4 percent in 2002 to 10 percent p.a. by 2006 combined with reduced domestic
borrowing by the public sector. The key to achieving this is a reduction of the fiscal deficit (after
grants), from 8.2 percent of GDP in 2002, to a surplus of 0.4 percent of GDP by 2006 through
strengthening tax collection efforts, reducing non-priority expenditures and implementing cost
recovery measures announced in the 2003/04 Budget. The reduction in the overall fiscal deficit,
together with anticipatedinflows from donors, is expected to result in net repayments to the banking
system of between 2-4 percent o f GDP during 2004-06 and will result in a reduction in the stock o f
domestic debt from about 18 percent of GDP at end 2003 to around 14 percent of GDP by 2006. This
will create a virtuous circle whereby reducedmarket borrowingby the Government will resultin lower
interest rates (and therefore lower interest payments burden) and will create conditions for increased
businesslendingand growth.

3.8      In addition to the Bank and the IMF, a number of bilateral donors are also supporting
Malawi's reformeffort. The CABS Group, consisting ofNorway, Sweden, UK (DBD) andthe EU, is
providingbudget support within a PerformanceAssessment Framework(PAF). The PAF is designed
to guide the disbursement of budgetary support on the basis of selected MPRS and Millennium
Development Goals (MDG) indicators (see Annex 5).           The PAF focuses mainly on monitoring key
macroeconomic outcomes such as budget deficit and domestic borrowing, key reforms in expenditure
management, pro-poor expenditures       --especially in health and education-key        outcomes in human
development*, and reforms in governance. The PAF approach complements the reform-oriented
structural adjustment operation, by reinforcingthe focus on final outcomes. The Bank and the IMF
are also tracking a number of outcome indicators, presented in Annex 4, in the context of the HIPC
arrangement that is expected to reach the Completion Point by end 2004. The AfDB is currently
engaged in preparing an operation focused on governance. Finally, the EU is financing the
formulationof a food security and nutrition policy and will continue to assist inthe implementationo f
the findings ofthe NFRA audit.




'Thisisin  line with the Comprehensive DevelopmentFramework(CDF) principles o f donor coordination.
  These include: net enrollmentrate, primary dropout rate, immunization, percent o f births attendedby skilled
healthstaff, etc.

                                                               8

       Table 3. Institutions/Donors Providing Support to the Reform Areas Supported by FIMAG'


                                                   WB  FIMAG
                                                         WB   IMF  CABS UNDP  EU     DffD   NORAD GTZ    USAID

Macroframework
Overall budgetdeficit, monetarytargets, and
targets on domestic financing.                      X    X     X    X          X      X

Fiscal Management
(a) Budget Formulation
Structureof the Govemment.                          X    X

Medium term wage policy/implementation.             X    X     X

Other aspects of Budget formulation                 X    X     X    X          X      X

(b) Budget Execution
The CCS and CCA system                              X          X
Implementation of FinancialManagement,Audit
and ProcurementActs                                 X    X     X

IFMIS roll out                                      X
Amendmentsto the Corrupt PracticesAct and its
implementation.                                     X    X     X                             X     X       X

Other aspects of Budget execution                   X    X     X    X          X       X     X

(c) Budget Monitoring
Report on budget trends to cabinet committeeon
the economy                                         X    X     X

Expenditurereports on web - improving
transparency.                                       X    X     X

Electronic collection, publishingand tracking
PPEs.                                               X          X    X

Intemal audithacking of domestic arrears            X    X     X

TrackingExpendituresin education,health.            X          X    X                        X
Output targets: HIPCtargets for teacher training,
schools, vocational training, CMS. CABS targets     X          X    X
inhealthand education.
Other aspects of Budget monitoring                  X    X     X    X          X       X     X
(4FiscalDecentralization
Improving the working of general grants to
district assemblies.                                X    X                X                   X

Monitoring specific activitiesto be devolved.       X    X                X

Other asuects of decentralization                                         X            X      X     X

Parastatal reform/ privatization
Acceleration of privatizationo f key parastatals.   x    X     X
Tracking parastatalborrowing, privatization
revenueaccount and arrears.                         X    X

AgriculturelLand
Land law, land taxation                             X    X                     X       X      X
Food Security, ADMARC restructuring,NFRA,
and socialmarkets                                        X     X               X       X                   X

Tobacco markets                                     X    X

Other aspects of agriculture                        X                          X       X      X     X      X

                        ~~

HIV/AIDS
Improved resource allocationand management,        x     X                             X      X

Other aspects o fHIV/AIDS                                                 X            X      X            X




      ~



        Inaddition, CIDA, JICA and FA0 are involvedin agriculture;AfDB in governanceand the MAPSGroup in
      HIVIAIDS.

                                                    9

             4. POLICY REFORMS SUPPORTED BY THE PROPOSEDCREDIT

4.1 There are four main areas where specific actions are supported by the proposed Credit. The
discussion that follows outlines the main issues, the broad strategy of reform, progress to be achieved
by Board presentation, and subsequent actions. A summary of the reforms is given in the policy
matrix (Attachment 1 of the Letter of Development Policy (Annex 1)).

    Fiscal Management

    0   Improve overall budget formulation and allocation of expenditures to high priority activities.


    0   Improve budget execution by clarifying rules and responsibilities and improvedmonitoring.


    0   Improve service delivery by monitoring outlays for other recurrent transactions (ORTs) and
        through decentralization.

   ParastatalReforms

    0   Improve monitoring of parastatalfinances, borrowing and arrears.


    0   Accelerate the privatization program in telecommunications, power and ADMARC
        subsidiaries.

    Stimulating AgriculturalGrowth

    0   Create legal and tax frameworks to enable efficient and equitable utilization of land.


    0   Improve the returns to tobacco farmers by promoting direct exports, contract farming,
        reduction of levies and institutionalreforms.


    0   Improve the working of maize markets by separatingthe commercial and social activities of
        ADMARC and developing a food security policy.


    MitigatingSocial Impactof HIV/AIDS


    0   Complete the legal framework for the fight against HIV/AIDS.


    0   Create the institutionalframework for the public sector response at the national and district
        assembly level.


    0   Provide reliable domestic funding for the managementof national response and public sector
        mainstreaming.


A. Fiscal Management"

    (Q Issues andActionsAlready Implemented



loThis section deals with problems o f expenditure management. There have, however, been a number of
important reforms to improve the revenue performance. The most important o f these are the creation of the
Malawi Revenue Authority and the recent successful implementationo f surtax extension.

                                                   10

4.2 Weak fiscal managementhas beenthe main reason behind the macroeconomic instability as well
as the problems faced by the Government in ensuringthat critical pro-poor expenditures are protected.
There have been serious problems in the formulation o f expenditure programs, their execution and
their monitoring to take corrective actions and much of the fiscal management remains highly
centralized, reducingthe effectivenesso fpublic service delivery.

4.3 In formulating expenditure programs there has traditionally been a structuralmismatch between
optimal resource requirements o f various Government institutions and their actual budgetary
allocations, leading to severe under funding o f functions and institutions. Similarly, it has been
difficult to control the wage bill due to a proliferation of allowances and benefits and disparities
among different institutions. A study financed by IDA revealed that the top 0.4 percent of the civil
servants get 7 percent of the total wage bill. While the pay for the top civil servant is closer to that in
Botswana, medianand minimum monthly pay levels (US$45 and US$31) rank amongst the lowest in
Africa. Budget outturns have differedfrom allocations underminingoverall fiscal discipline mainly
due to weaknesses in forecasting of macroeconomic parameters, fluctuations in monthly allocations
and virement away from budgeted activities. Formal rules on expenditure control are not enforced
adequately and responsibilitiesfor budget execution are not clarified. Monitoring budget outcomes is
weak and not transparent. Key decisionmakers, the Cabinet Committee onthe Economy, Budget and
Finance Committee of Parliament as well as the general public have not hadtimely access to quality
fiscal and macroeconomicdata to take quick corrective action. Finally, although a lot of progresshas
been made in designing fiscal decentralization, there has generally been bureaucratidadministrative
inertiaintranslatingpolicy decisions into actions.

4.4 Over the past five years, the Government has initiateda number o f reformsto addressthe
problemsindicatedabove.

         Formulation: The Government is using MTEF as an expenditure-planning tool. A study to
         develop MediumTerm Pay Policy (MTPP) was completed in May 2003 with IDA assistance.
         Implementationof the findings of this study is expectedto result in a more predictable wage
         billand a rationalizedstructure o f wages. Inaddition, a line has been introducedinthe budget
         to track HIV/AIDS expenditures. A system to formulate and protect pro-poor expenditures
         has been developed. Further a limit (MK 60 million) has been placed on ADMARC subsidy
         in FY 2003/04. A PublicEnterprise Reformand MonitoringUnit (PERMU) was createdinthe
         Ministryof Financein 2000 to monitorthe financialperformanceo f parastatals.

     0   Execution: The Commitment ControlSystem (CCS) and the CreditCeilingAuthority (CCA)
         system were introduced to control expenditures. Commitment Control Officers were
         appointed to each vote to controlexpenditure. Public Finance Management, Public Audit and
         Public Procurement bills were formulated and passed by Parliament in June 2003. A fully
         functioning Internal Audit Unit (IAU) with Director and staff appointed was created in the
         Office of the President and Cabinet (OPC), and a contract system was introduced in 2000 for
         senior Government officials to improve accountability. A Debt Management Strategy was
         prepared, adopted and adheredto. Amendments to the CorruptPractices Act were approved
         by the Cabinet, amongother things, to make it easier for the Anti CorruptionBureau(ACB)to
         prosecuteanddispose off cases inatimely manner

     0   Monitoring and Control: A system of quarterly expenditure reports to be submitted to the
         Cabinet Committee on the Economy was set up. Pro-Poor Expenditures (PPEs) were
         identified and budgeted and actual expenditures are posted on the website o f the Ministry of
         Financeto enhancetransparency andaccountability.


     0   Fiscal Decentralization.     Malawi has developed an excellent framework for fiscal
         decentralization through manyyears o f analysis and extensive consultationswith stakeholders.

                                                   11

        In 1998, the Local Government Bill was passed, and in November 2000 elections were held
        for the District Assemblies. In 2001, the National Local Government Finance Committee
        (NLGFC) was established. In the future, all budget allocations for the devolved functions
        would be made to the NLGFC, which would then transfer the funds on to Local Assemblies
        on the basis of agreed formulae.        In 2002/3 budget, a system of general grants was
        implemented that transfers 5 percent of the revenue directly to District Assemblies for their
        unconditional use.

        (ii) Program Supportedby the FIMAG"

4.5 The government's program supported by the FIMAG builds on the actions already underway by
identifying new actions and accelerating key ongoing programs by organizing technical assistance to
strengthentheir analytical underpinnings and improvingtheir monitoring.

Budget Formulation.

        0    Carryout a study followed by adopting an action plan to streamline the structure and
             functions of the Government (PRSP Pillar 4, sub-goal 4.3.2).

        0    Appoint a Public Service Remuneration Board followed by the rationalization of the
             salary structure and allowances in line with the recommendations of the recently
             completed wage policy study (PRSP Pillar 4, sub-goal 4.3.2).

Budget Execution

             Issue circulars to operationalize the Public Finance Management and Public Audit Acts
             followed by fully-fledged Treasury instructions (PRSP Pillar 1, sub-goal 1.2.1; PRSP
             Pillar 4, sub-goal 4.3.1).

        0    Create a functioning Directorate of Public Procurement (DPP) by appointing the Director,
             eliminating the GCU clearance currently needed for public procurement and issuing
             procurement regulations and desk manuals (PRSP Pillar 1, sub-goal 1.2.1; PRSP Pillar 4,
             sub-goal 4.3.3).

        0    Prepare and implement an action plan to create an effective Internal Audit Unit in the
             OPC. (PRSP Pillar 1, sub-goal 1.2.1; PRSP Pillar 4, sub-goal4.3.3).

             Submit the amendments to the Corrupt Practices Act to Parliament for approval. This
             would allow the ACB greater latitude to prosecute cases (PRSP Pillar 4, sub-goal 4.3.3).

BudgetMonitoring and Control

        0    Submit Quarterly Expenditure Reports (QERs) to the Cabinet Committee on the Economy
             and the Budget and Finance Committee of Parliament within six weeks of the end of the
             quarter and simultaneously publish them on the Ministry of Finance website (PRSP Pillar
             1, sub-goal 1.2.1; PRSP Pillar 4, sub-goal 4.3.1).

        0    Post quarterly, budgeted and actual pro-poor expenditures on the MOF website and
             newspapers within six weeks of the quarter end (PRSP Pillar 1, sub-goal 1.2.1; PRSP
             Pillar 4, sub-goal 4.3.1).



 The relevantPRSPpillar/actionsub-code is providedinbrackets for each specific action.

                                                          12

Fiscal Decentralization

         0    Issue guidelines for the utilization of general grants including on HIV/AIDS activities
              (PRSP Pillar 4, sub-goal 4.3.4).


         0    Decentralize specific activities."        Staff for carrying out these activities transferred to
              District Assemblies and budgets for these activities to go directly from the MOF to the
              District Assemblies(PRSP Pillar 1,sub-goal 111;PRSP Pillar 4, sub-goal 4.3.4).


B. ParastatalReforms

     (0 Issues andActionsAlready Implemented

4.6 There are two reasons why improved management of Malawi's large parastatal sector is critical
for generating growth. First, in the past, financial position of many parastatals has been weak. As a
result, the Government has hadto provide budgetary support, guarantees, and at times make payments
on behalf of parastatals, contributing to high fiscal deficits and macroeconomic in~tabi1ity.I~In
addition to direct budgetary support, many of the parastatalshave borrowed directly from the financial
institutions creating contingent liabilities on the Government. Finally, the inherently weak financial
position of some of the utilities has been exacerbatedby the chronic problem of arrears owed by some
Government ministries. Second, expensive and unreliable infrastructure power-telecommunications,
railways, and water      -all of most of which was in the public sector, has been one of the principal
constraints to private sector development (PSD).I4

4.7 Since 1997, the Government of Malawi (GOM) began the process of reform of the parastatal
sector. First, the Government implemented a set of measures to create regulatory institutions and
pricing policies in electricity and telecommunications. Second, the Government adopted and passed a
Privatization Act in 1996 that led to the development of a Divestiture Sequence Plan (DSP) for the
privatization of a number of parastatals. A Privatization Commission was created with assistance
from IDA and all parastatals were put on the DSP.

4.8 To date, much has been achieved in restructuring the parastatal sector. As of June 2003, 54 out of

seller" situation and 13 require further policy decision^.'^
100 targeted privatizations had been brought to point of sale and a further 33 are now in a "willing
                                                                           Specifically, the following has been
achieved to date.


         0    By 2002, major parastatalsin petroleum retailing, bankingand railways had been
              privatized.




  A list of activitiesto be decentralized to district assemblies is given inthe Policy Matrix attachedas Annex 1.
l3Notably, ADMARC bail-outsinthe past have derailedthe macroeconomicframework (1.6 percent of GDP in
1998/99 and 1.9 percent o f GDP in 2000101). In addition, the recent reports o f mis-management of grain
reserves at the onset of the 2001/02 food crisis have reinforcedthe doubts surrounding ADMARC's role in food
security, and recommended a clear distinction between ADMARC's commercial and social functions in food
markets.
l4The low quality of services provided by the public utilities was identifiedby the manufacturingsector as the
second biggest problem it faces, after bureaucracy, in a survey of the private sector conducted for the 1997
World DevelopmentReport.
IsThese 13 include mainly entities that have been regarded as Governmental responsibilities since colonial
times, including ADMARC, the Government Press, CMS and CSC. Privatizationof ADMARC is discussed
separatelyunder the proposedFIMAG.

                                                    13

         0    Telecommunications.       The Government created a modern regulatory framework,
              separatingposts and telecommunications, createda regulatory authority called the Malawi
              Communications Regulatory Authority (MACRA), and liberalized the entry of cell phone
              operators with direct international access, bypassing the national carrier. There are
              currently two cell phone operators in Malawi and an additional mobile license has been
              issued to Mobile Malawi. One attempt at privatizing the national fixed line operator,
              Malawi Telecommunications Limited (MTL), failed due to due diligence failure by a
              prospective buyer. The second attempt has reached the stage of selecting the preferred
              bidder.

         0    Power. The Power Sector Reform Strategy (PSRS) was approved by Cabinet on January
              22, 2003. Three new bills: the Energy Regulation Bill, the Electricity Bill, and the Rural
              Electrification Bill are under preparation. Approval of these bills by Parliament will set
              the stage for the appointment of transactions advisors for the privatization of ESCOM.
              ESCOM, the Government utility for power, has been under a management contract to
              ESKOM Enterprises of South Africa until end 2003, and efficiency gains have been
              realized.

         0    ADMARC. By now many of the non-core assets (ones that are not related to food
              security considerations) have already been privatized or closed. These include: (a) David
              Whitehead and Sons - Sold, (b) Cotton Ginning Company - Sold. (c) Cold Storage
              Company (Blantyre Abattoire)     - Sold and Grain and Milling Company-brought to the
              point of sale.


         (ii) Program Supported by the FZMAG

4.9 The FIMAG will support progress in the privatization of (i)telecommunications services, (ii)
energy generation, transmission and distribution markets and (iii) divestiture of ADMARC's non-
                                                                     the
core assets.

    0    MTL:BringMTLto the pointofsale. (PRSP Pillar 4, sub-goal4.3.2).

    0    ESCOM: Present the Electricity Bill and the Energy Regulation Bill in line with the power
         policy to Parliament for approval (PRSP Pillar 4, sub-goal 4.3.2).

    0    ADMARC Subsidiaries: Complete privatization of Cold Storage Company (the Lilongwe
         abattoir), and Grain & Milling Company; and bring to the point of sale or sell entire
         shareholdings as appropriate in Shire Bus Lines, BlantyreMilling, Alexander Forbes, MITCO,
         MANICA and Indebank (PRSP Pillar 4, sub-goal 4.3.2).

C. Stimulating AgriculturalGrowth

    (i) Issues andActions Already Implemented

4.10     Agriculture accounts for 36 percent of the GDP and 90 percent of exports and nearly 85
percent of the population depends on it for its livelihood. Accelerating agricultural growth is therefore
crucial for accelerating overall growth. In addition to achieving macroeconomic stability that will
contribute to stable input and output prices and low interest rates, accelerating agricultural growth will
require actions in four areas. First, clear legal and tax framework needs to be created to improve the
efficiency and utilization of land - the most crucial input for agricultural growth. Second, marketing
arrangements (supply chain) in tobacco, the most important export crop for Malawi, need to be
improved to ensure that the grower realizes a larger share of world price. Third, the Government

                                                          14

needs to improve the functioning o f food markets including a system to manage periodic food
emergencies. Fourth, the delivery o f critical agricultural services such as extension needs to be
improved. The key to achieving this is the progress that is being made in the decentralization o f the
delivery o f these services that is discussed insection 4A.I6

4.1 1     Land. More than 60 percent o f rural households live on less than one hectare o f land and are
unable to produce enough food for their own consumption while about 28 percent o f total agricultural
land remains uncultivated, in particular in the estate sector where 400,000 ha are left unused out o f a
total o f about 1.2 million ha. With increasing potential for land conflicts and recurring food insecurity,
in 1994the Government launched a participatory review o fthe country's landpolicy that, in2002, led
to the adoption o f a comprehensive new Land Policy supportive o f the recognition o f customary land
rights, the protection o f vulnerable groups' access to land and a more efficient use o f available
resources. Government's new Land Policy must now be translated into a new land law clarifying land
rights, transactions, and use. The national Law Commission has started this process that will include
widespread consultations with all stakeholders before the land law can be completed for presentation
to Parliament's approval.

4.12      Changing the legal and regulatory framework for land management will also require a reform
o f the current agricultural land taxation system, which suffers from several deficiencies. The current
taxation system is not in line with the national decentralization framework that requires that land rents
be collected and retained by District Assemblies. Taxes are collected on leasehold estates but not on
freehold estates (customary, essentially smallholder, land is not taxed). The level o f taxes on leasehold
estates has not changed in more than 8 years and its current level (MK5O/ha) is equivalent to 10
percent of its level in 1990 in real terms. This very low level o f taxation on estates allows estate
holders to leave land unused, often for speculative purposes. Hence, increasing the land tax on
leasehold is expected to have a beneficial effect on poor smallholders, since their land would not be
taxed, and estate holders would face a higher opportunity cost to leave any land idle. Finally, tax
recovery i s very low, due to outdated land registries, a weak collection capacity o f the administration
and governance issues.

4.13      Tobacco. Tobacco accounts for about 10 percent o f Malawi's GDP and 60 percent o f its
merchandise exports. Nearly 20 percent o f the smallholder households, about 350,000, accounting for
close to 2.0 million people, are engaged intobacco production. Tobacco production grew rapidly since
the early 1990s but has leveled off since 1998 due to an erosion of profitability in both the estate and
the smallholder sector caused by a decline in international price, high domestic marketing costs and a
reduction in farm-level productivity.I' While a central component o f Government's agricultural policy
should be to support the diversification of the production base, growth in the tobacco sector will be
required for sustained economic growth and poverty alleviation. World demand for tobacco products
is expected to continue to rise by about 2 percent per annum and tobacco will continue to remain a
critical export crop for Malawi.

4.14      To take advantage o f this critical source o f growth and poverty reduction, a comprehensive
development strategy is needed to (i)improve the efficiency and transparency o f sector management,
(ii)improve the efficiency of the current marketing system, and (iii)strengthen smallholders'
organizations and improve their access to agricultural services and inputs. The last element o f this
strategy will be supported under a program to revitalize agricultural services and technology




l6The actions under the FIMAG will be followed by the IDA, Agricultural Services Project planned in FY05 to
strengthen the delivery o f research, extension, and irrigation.
"   The last systematic analysis carried out by NASFAM indicates that the net returns to smallholder burley
growers as a share o f the auction floor price have steadily declined from 23 percent in 1997 to only 8 percentby
2001.

                                                      15

development, currently under preparation.       The necessary policy and institutional reforms will be
supported under the proposed FIMAG, which will include three components:

         An "Immediate Impact Component", which aims at immediately increasing farm-gate prices
         through a government-driven decrease o f the excessive levies currently collected on tobacco
         production;

         A "Marketing Component", which aims at improvingcompetitionindomestic marketing; and

         An "Institutional Component", which aims at promoting good governance and efficiency in
         the sector by ensuring that its main institutions are accountable stakeholders and inparticular
         at giving more voice to smallholders who represent more than 80 percent o f the total
         production.

4.15.    Immediate Impact Component        --ReducingInstitutional      Levies: The profitability of tobacco
production is depressed by the high level o f the numerous statutory levies collected when tobacco is
sold at the auction floor. Auction Holdings Limited (AHL), the auctioning company, charges the
growers a fee o f 3.95 percent o f the gross revenue (very high by international standards).              The
smallholder farmers also pay levies for financing the activities o f the Tobacco Control Commission
(TCC), the Agricultural Research and Extension Trust (ARET), and the centralized Hessian bags
scheme, as well as a classification fee and a membership fee to the Tobacco Association o f Malawi
(TAMA). Finally, producers pay a withholding tax o f 7 percent o f gross revenues, even if they earn
less than the minimum income for taxation purposes. Although they can in principle claim back the
pre-paid tax, the process for filing for reimbursement is very cumbersome and out o f reach for the
majority o f smallholders. In addition, the tax base - gross revenue instead o f income - is clearly
regressive and penalizes smallholders.'8 It should also be pointed out that since these levies do not
accrue to the budget but are used to finance the operation o f the various sectoral institutions, a
reduction in their level will not have budgetary implications but simply entails a transfer from these
institutions to the pocket o f the smallholders.

4.16.    Marketing Component        - Improving Competition in Domestic Marketing.               The current
marketing system is non-competitive at all levels o f the value chain (domestic, auctioning, and
processing) and provides ample scope for rents and inefficiencies. Larger growers continue to deliver
their tobacco directly to the auction floors. A minority of very well organized smallholder clubs, under
the umbrella o f NASFAM, also effectively negotiate and hire transport services to bringtheir tobacco
to the auctions. All other growers, the large majority o f which are smallholders, are required to bring
their tobacco to TAMA satellite depots that are located at 88 sites around the country. The
transparency and efficiency of the Satellite Depot System has long been criticized for its high cost and
low accountability. An intermediate buyer system was introduced in 1994 to promote competition and
offer an alternative marketing channel to smallholders. Registered intermediate buyers (IBs) were
allowed to buy tobacco from smallholders and deliver it to the auction floor under their own names.
The IB program was successfully challenged by the vested interests that had also resisted the
liberalization o f the tobacco market, enabling the entry o f smallholders into production.lg In September
2000, the IB system was replaced by the Designated Tobacco Buyers Scheme (DTBS), designed to


   A civil servant earning MK 40,00O/year would pay 10 percent tax on income above 36000, i,e. MK 400. A
smallholder farmer delivering tobacco for MK 40,000 and not filing for reimbursement (99 percent of small
holders) ends up paying MK 2,800 in tax.
   IBs were accused of undermining Malawi's tobacco industry, causing massivetheft o f the burley crop from
grower-owners, undermining the agricultural credit system, weakening the overall quality of the burley crop
throughtheir purchasesof unripe crop and their poorilack of effective grading. Most ofthe above accusations are
inconsistentwith available evidence-regardless ofthe periodic occurrenceofthis or that development involving
particular IBs.

                                                        16

reduce some o f the opportunistic behavior associated with the previous un-regulated IB system and to
bring more transparency to the relationship between growers and intermediate buyers. The DTBS was,
however, never implemented.The necessary operational directives were never issued and the DTBS
scheme was recently officially canceled.

4.17     The Government has taken two measuresto encourage more competition indomestic
marketing by allowing direct exports and contract farming:

             Direct Export. There have been long-standing concerns in Malawi that growers are not
             paid a "fair" price by the intemational companies dominating the market. Some growers
             have argued that they would be able to get a better price by bypassing these intemational
             buyers and selling their tobacco themselves, in particular on "niche markets", to
             manufacturerdor other end users. These growers could increase their returns by saving on
             local auctioning costs and on intermediary profit margins.                 In response to these
             suggestions, Government officially allowed direct exports in 2001, but the necessary
             guidelines have never been issued.

             Contract Farming. Contract farming between farmers and processors/marketing firms
             involves the future sale/purchase o f the crop, and the possible provision o f selected inputs,
             finance and/or advice in conjunction with a marketing agreement. Such an arrangement
             would permit tobacco farmers to have easier access to inputdcredit and also to better
             manage price risks. In recognition o f these potential benefits to growers, in particular
             smallholders who need it most, the Government has recently taken a Cabinet decision to
             introduce contract farming, at first on a pilot basis before scaling-up. A set o f detailed
             operational guidelinesneeds to be introduced to this effect.

4.18.     After officially abolishing the IB and DTBS marketing arrangements, the Government
initiated a new review o f the options for improving the efficiency o f the domestic marketing o f
smallholder tobacco. This will be carried out under the proposed institutional audit o f the sector (para
4.19 below), which will include a review o f the TAMA satellite depot system and o f the smallholder
tobacco clubs.

4.19.    Institutional Component      -- Improving    the Transparency and Inclusiveness of the Sector's
Institutional Structure. The current institutional framework and governance structure o f the tobacco
sector is not supportive o f widely shared growth. It is not representative o f the sector's stakeholders
and lacks transparency and accountability".           For instance, many o f the sector's key constituent
institutions - TCC, TAMA, AHL - do not reflect the significant change inthe structure o f production
which began in the early to mid-1990s and has continued in recent years. Smallholder farmers, who
now account for some 70 percent o f the total nationaltobacco crop, still have very little voice in sector
management. It is, therefore, important to take stock o f the continued relevance, governance structure,
and operational policies o f institutions which were created when the Malawian tobacco industry was
dominated by large farmers o f flue cured tobacco.

4.20     ADMARC and the food markets. The role o f ADMARC in commercial input and output
markets has greatly diminishedover the last ten years. This is also the case for the social activities it
undertakes on behalf o f the Government for implementing emergency food distribution activities or
other safety nets programs such as those involving buying maize at a minimumfloor price and selling
it duringthe lean season at a maximum price affordable to the poor. However, ADMARC's continued
official mandate to intervene in the market is a strong deterrent to private sector activities and to the
establishment o f efficient markets. In addition, it imposes a large and non-transparent burden on
Government budget. The findings o f the recently completed Poverty and Social Impact Analysis


2o For instance, it would be useful to increase the representation of growers on the board ofthe TCC.

                                                     17

(PSIA) of the impact of ADMARC facilities on household welfare confirm that maintaining
ADMARC in its current form is wasteful. The findings also indicate that provision of ADMARC
marketing services is beneficial in areas where well-functioning market institutions and infrastructure
do not exist, and therefore markets operate inefficiently. However, many of Government's social
interventions could be, and sometime already are, carried out in a more cost-effective manner by
contracting private sector capacity, thus reducing the fiscal cost to the Government. In line with the
findings of the PSIA, the Government has therefore decided to (i)commercialize ADMARC's
commercial activities to establish a level playing field and avoid constraining private sector
development, and (ii)   review its strategy for the provision of maize marketing in remote areas to carry
out this service in a transparent and cost-effective manner.

         (io Program Supported by the FIMAG

4.21     The FIMAG would support priority reforms inthe four critical areas identified in
Government's PRSP.

    Land

    0   An intensive communication campaign in principal Malawian languages will be launched to
         explain the objectives and content of the new land law. This will support the completion,
        through participatory process, of the drafting of the new Land Bill (by second tranche) for
         presentationto Parliament (PRSP Pillar 1, sub-goal 1.1.1).


    0   Land fees for leasehold estates will be increased from MK5O/Ha to MK 1,00O/Ha (in two
         steps) and the capacity of the Government to collect land taxes will be overhauled. A review
         of the overall current land taxation system will be launched immediately and a new land
        taxation policy will be approved by Cabinet and submitted to Parliament (for second tranche).
        It should be pointed out that, although an increase in landtaxes on leasehold is not explicitly
        mentioned in the MPRS, this policy is proposed as an equitable intermediate instrument
        towards achieving the MPRS goal of reducing land shortage and facilitating land
        redistribution towards smallholders (PRSP Pillar 1, sub-goal 1.1.1).

    Tobacco"

    0   The levies will be restructured as indicated below, resulting in an immediate 2.5 percent
         increase in farmers' gross proceeds from tobacco (amounting to a 25 percent increase in net
        returdkg) (PRSP Pillar 1, sub-goal 1.1.1):

             o Withholding tax for farmers selling less than MK36,OOO worth of tobacco will be
                 eliminated (PRSP Pillar 1, sub-goal 1.1.1).

             o TCC levy will be immediately reduced from 0.13 cent/kg to 0.10 cents/kg; AHL levy
                 from 3.95 percent of gross proceeds to 3.25 percent of gross proceeds, to 2.5 percent
                 of gross proceeds (by second tranche); the Hessian bag levy from 0.92 cent/bale to
                 0.30 centlbale; ARET levy will be frozen at 1 percent of gross proceeds; classification
                 levy and function to move TCC and a lower levy determined and implemented based
                 on cost recovery for the task (PRSP Pillar 1, sub-goal 1.1.1).




*'OD #4.76 defines limitations to World Bank support for the tobacco sector and is therefore relevant to the
FIMAG. The team has obtained an appropriate waiver for the needs of the proposed reform program.

                                                    18

             o   TAMA levy will be reduced from 0.85 cent/kg to 0.7 cent/kg and, more importantly,
                 in recognition of the fact that the membership in TAMA and other grower
                 organizations is voluntary, will be made voluntary (PRSP Pillar 1, sub-goal 1.1.1).


    0   The Government will issue and widely publicize detailed operational guidelines for direct
        exports and contract farming of tobacco (PRSP Pillar 1, sub-goal 1.1.1).

    0   An in-depth policy, marketing and institutional review of the tobacco sector will be carried out
        and, based on its findings, an action plan for reforming sector institutions will be implemented
        (PRSP Pillar 1, sub-goal 1.1.1). The study will be carried out as a PSIA of current marketing
        and institutional arrangements, and indicate ways to improve the efficiency of the sector and
        facilitate the redistribution of income from tobacco towards smallholders.22

    ADMARC and Food Security

    0   The Government will prepare and adopt a food security and nutrition policy. Although the
        revision of the food security and nutrition policy is not explicitly mentioned in the MPRS, it
        has been highlighted inthe JSA ofthe MPRS as one of the major shortcomings of the strategy.

    0   ADMARC will be commercialized and efficient arrangements will be adopted to carry out
        government-mandatedsocial activities (Pillar 4, sub-goal 4.3.2).

    0   ADMARC Act will be repealedby Parliament, and ADMARC will be incorporated under new
        statutes as a limited liability company for commercially viable activities.              A detailed
        restructuring program of commercial ADMARC will be carried out, including a transparent
        and equitable staff recruitment and retrenchmentprogram (Pillar 4, sub-goal 4.3-2).

    0   The social activities formerly carried out by ADMARC will be restructured, in line with the
        new food security and nutrition policy. A performance contract will be signed betweenGOM
        and suitable implementation agencies for carrying out social activities23 and the budget
        subsidy to fund these activities will be clearly identified and capped starting with the 2004/05
        budget (Pillar 4, sub-goal 4.3.2).

D. HIV/AIDS FRAMEWORKFORACTION

        (i)IssuesandActionsAlreadyImplemented

4.22    Economic and social gains achieved in Malawi over the past decade are being weakened and
reversed as a result of the continuing spread of HIV/AIDS through the sexually active population.
Impacts include loss of skilled workers to the disease, reduced productivity of remaining adult family
members due to care-giving demands, diversion of household savings to medical expenses and
substitution for lost wages, and creation of a generation of orphans dependent on surviving relatives
(often aging grandparents). It is estimatedthat economic growth rates are between 1-2percent less per
annum than they would otherwise be inthe absence o f AIDS.

4.23    Recognizing the need for national consensus on the way forward in the midst o f such a crisis,
the GOM engaged in a stakeholder consultation process which resulted in the adoption in 1999/2000
of a National Strategic Framework 2000-04 for the national response to HIV/AIDS. This was
followed in July 2001 by the creation of the National AIDS Commission (NAC) responsible for



22The institutional review will be financed by the Government, while the other components, notably a value
chain analysis and beneficiary assessment, will be financed by the Bank. The study will be carried out in
collaborationwith all stakeholders, includingdonorsand civil society.
23Performancecontract would specify the agreed activities and targets, annual budget, and annual subsidy fiom
GOM, in line with approved action plan

                                                   19

coordinating, facilitating, and monitoring multi-sectoral HIV/AIDS programs. In FY2002/03, the
Government introducedan HIV/AIDS interventionline in the recurrent budget to provide resources
for mainstreaming in public sector institutions. The NAC complemented this fiscal intervention by
preparingmainstreamingguidelines for use by public-sectormanagers, and a strategy for pro-actively
managing HIV/AIDS interventions in the public sector was prepared. At the policy level, a draft
nationalAIDS policy has been extensively discussedwith local stakeholders and is ready for Cabinet
consideration.

4.24     Despite this progress, the legal, institutional, and financing frameworks for HIV/AIDS
interventionshave some gaps which are preventingaction from beingas effectiveas it could be. With
respect to the legal framework, for example, the draft national HIV/AIDS policy has not been
formally approved, adopted, and disseminated as GOM policy. In addition, although the National
AIDS Commissionwas established under Trust Deed as an autonomous institution, the absence of an
Act o f Parliament defining roles and responsibilities by law among the different bodies and GOM
institutions has resulted in some institutionalambiguities. With respect to theframework for public
sector interventions, approval o f the strategy for implementing HIV/AIDS programs within GOM
departments and institutions is still pending, delaying appointment o f staff responsible for managing
such activities.     Similarly, at the district level, the framework and staffing requirements for
coordinatingmulti-stakeholderaction have not been definedand approved. Lastly, domesticfunding
for the nationalresponsehas beenat a low levelandhas oftenbeenerratic, as allocatedresourceswere
redirectedto other capitalbudget andrecurrent fundingneeds.

         (ii)ProgramSupportedby theFIMAG

4.25     The Government's program supported by the FIMAG addresses the gaps mentioned above,
building on actions already underway.

Legal Framework

         0   Cabinet approval ofthe NationalAIDS Policy andpublic dissemination(PRSP Pillar 5,
             sub-goal 5.1).


         0   BillcreatingNACby law submitted to Parliament (PRSPPillar 5, sub-goal 5.1).

Institutional Framework

         0   Cabinet approval of the public sector HIV/AIDS mainstreaming strategy prepared by the
             Department o f Human Resource Management and Development, and implementation of
             this strategy in line with an agreedactionplan(PRSP Pillar 5, sub-goal5.1).


         0   Cabinet approval of a strategy for mainstreaming HIV/AIDS at the district and city
             assembly level, including definition o f coordination mechanisms and staffing
             requirements (PRSP Pillar 5, sub-goal 5.1).

         0   Implementationof the initial phase of the districthity assembly HIVIAIDS mainstreaming
             strategy, in line with agreedtargets (PRSP Pillar 5, sub-goal 5.1).

Financing Framework

         0   Classificationof KIV/AIDS budget lines as pro-poor expenditures and, as such, protected
             from diversionto other uses (PRSP Pillar 5, sub-goal 5.1).

                                                    20

         0   Guidelines for General Grants to Districts issued, specifying that HIV/AIDS interventions
             are eligible expenditures (included in Reform Area A above, Fiscal Decentralization)
             (PRSP Pillar 5, sub-goal 5.1).

         0   At least 2 percent of the non-salary recurrent budget ("other recurrent transactions")
             allocated to and spent on HIV/AIDS interventions in line with the public sector
             mainstreaming strategy (PRSP Pillar 5, sub-goal 5.1).

             In addition, at least US$2 million equivalent allocated and provided each year to support
             the coordination and management of the national response through the National AIDS
             Commission (PRSP Pillar 5, sub-goal 5.1).

        5. MACROECONOMICPROSPECTS,EXTERNAL DEBT AND FINANCING
                                          REQUIREMENTS

5.1     Real Sector and BOP Prospects: Malawi's macroeconomic framework presented below has
been developed in close collaboration with the IMF PRGF program.                 Malawi's medium-term
macroeconomic prospects are based on the assumptions of: (i)the sustained implementation of the
reform program (of which the FIMAG is part); (ii)the availability o f concessional bilateral aid
resources in line with past trends; and, (iii)continued access to resources from the HIPC initiative.
Under these assumptions, Malawi could achieve a GDP growth of around 4-4.5 percent p.a. over the
next five yearsz4.With population growing by about 2.0 percentp.a., the projected GDP growth would
result ina per capita consumption growth of between2     - 2.5 percentp.a. over the next five years.

5.2      The projected growth rate is well abovethe recent performance over the last few years (see
Table 1 above), which however has beencharacterizedby the impact of the drought, the absence of the
IMFprogram andhighly reduceddonor inflows. The envisagedgrowth rate is consistentwith average
growth experiencedduringthe 1990s. According to the recent CEM," this rate of growth is consistent
with a moderate reform scenario, and is consistent with a relatively slow growth in agriculture of only
3 percentp.a., while manufacturing and services could recover from their very low levels to grow by
around 4.8 percent per annum. Under this scenario, Malawi would increase its rate of investment from
the current 11 percentto about 15 percentof GDP. This scenario also requires Malawito achieve
export growth of about 4.5 percent p.a. and is in line with slightly increasedlevels of imports
consistentwith a higher GDP growth.

5.3     Balance of paymentsprojections consistentwith the GDP growth indicate that Malawi's
traditional exports, tobacco and other agricultural commodities, would respondto the reforms being
undertakenby the Government and grow on average by about 3 percentp.a. inreal terms over 2004-
2006 while the non-traditional exports of manufacturedproducts could grow by 6 percent p.a.
Manufacturinggrowth will take off from a very low base and will have to rely mainly on the exports
oftextiles basedon the AGOA arrangements. The import elasticity is projected to be about 0.8 over
2004-2006, which is in line with the long-term trends inMalawi. Net services balance is expectedto
marginally improve mainly due to a reduction in interest payments. As a result ofthese trends, the
current account deficit (including grants) is expectedto decline from 12 percent of GDP in2002 to
only about 5 percent of GDP by 2006.

5.4     At the end of 2002 Malawi's stock of external debt was 2.8 billion dollars, or 145 percent of
GDP. Nearly 93 percent of this debt is on concessional terms and about 80 percent is owed to
multilateral institutions, of which 63 percent is owed to IDA. Malawi reachedthe decision point under


24GDP growth is expectedto be around4.4 percent in2003 and about 4.7 percent in2004.
"CEM     growth projection is 5.2 percent under accelerated reforms, 4 percent as a realistic prospect (with
moderatereforms), and around 3 percentwith slow reforms.

                                                       21

the enhanced HIPC initiative in December 2000. Assuming Malawi stays on track with the HIPC
process reaching the completion point in 2004, the NPV of total debuexports would remain at about
180 until 2010 and would only reduceto less than 150beyond 2015.

5.5       Growth and Poverty Reduction: On the basis of the poverty elasticity of 1,073, under the
envisaged reform scenario, with a steady growth of 4 percent p.a. over the medium term, the
proportion of poor will fall from the 2002 level of about 65 percent to around 44 percent by the year
2015.26It is, however, important to observe that even though the proportion of poor would fall, the
absolute number of poor who spend less than US25 cents per capita per day will continue to remain
unacceptably highat between 4 to 5 million people.

5.6      Financing Requirements. Baseline projections with access to the HIPC resources show that
(Table 4) Malawi's gross financing requirements over the next three years 2004-2006 amount to about
$334 million p.a. These are to be met by the projected regular financing2' of about US$ 187 million
p.a. and HIPC resources of about 67 million p.a. This means that Malawi requires exceptional
financing (financing gap over and above regular financing and HIPC resources of on average of about
US$ 77 million p.a. during 2004-2006. For the next year, 2004, the exceptional financing requirement
i s estimated to be about US$ 80 million. As per the current timetable, this would have to be met by
resources from the proposed adjustment Credit, the AfDB and as possible co-financing from other
multilateraland bilateral donors.

5.7      Availability of these additional resources is also crucial for the Governments' fiscal program
that includes the outlays for health and education to a level consistent with its growth and poverty
alleviation objectives. Fiscal projections show that for 2004 the availability of $50 million of the
adjustment loan will allow: (i)average non-interest total public expenditures to be maintained at 24
percent of GDP during 2004-2006; (ii)       reduce the overall budget deficit (excluding grants) by about
3.8 percentage points of GDP by 2006 from the 2003 level of about 10 percent o f GDP; and (iii)
reduce domestic debt by about 4 percentage points of GDP from 18 percent f GDP in 2003 to about
13.8 percent of GDP by 2006 which is crucial for a reduction in inflation.




26 The impact o f growth on the incidence of poverty is captured by the poverty elasticity o f growth, which
measures the change in poverty ratios for a given change in average incomes, assuming no change in the
distributiono f incomes. Onthe basis ofthe 1998 IntegratedHouseholdSurvey (IHS), the poverty elasticitywas
estimated to be 1.073. This means that 1 percent rate of growth inper capita incomeswill result in 1.073 percent
reduction inthe proportionof poor living below the poverty line.
27   Regular financing is defined as the currently planned bilateral and multilateral project and BOP support.
Excludesthe Bank adjustment lending.

                                              22


                                  Table 4: Exceptional Financing

                                            Act     Est.   Proj.    Proj.  Proj.  Avg
                                          2002     2003    2004     2005   2006 2004-6

Requirements                               -346    -322    -338     -330   -333   -334

Current account deficit (minus interest)   -430    -239    -211     -220   -220   -217
Interest payments                           -24     -29     -29       -29   -28    -29
Amortization                                -57     -66     -71       -71   -76    -73
Other capital flows *                       165      13     -27       -10    -9    -15
    Foreign Direct Investment                38      39      46        51    53     50
    Short term capital and Net errors         4      -1        0        0     0      0
    Changes in Reserves                     124     -25     -73       -61   -62    -65

Financedby:
Regular financing  **                       316     254     179       187   194    187
  Grants (Net)                              235     124     109       117   124    117
      BOPAssistance                           13     46      50        55    55     60
      Donor Humanitariangrants              135       0        0        0      0     0
      Project                                76      67      60        67    74     67
  Loans                                      81     130      70        70    70     70
     BOP support                              0      60        0        0      0     0
     Projects                                81      70      70        70    70     70

Exceptional financing (gap )                 31      67     158       143   139    147
  Availability o f HIPC resources            31      52      78        63    59     67

  Financinggap after HIPC relief              0      16      80        75    75     77

Memo item

* GDP growth ( percent per annum)            1.8    4.4     4.7       4.4    4.5   4.3
    Includes change in internationalreserves, net FDIand other capital movements
** Includes committed project and BOP support

                                                     23



               6. RELATIONSHIPTO THE CASAND DESIGNOF THE CREDIT

6.1      The proposed adjustment Credit is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
approved by the Bank Board on May 14, 2003. The CAS outlined a transitionalstrategy, organizing
Bank's assistance inthree pillars: (i) strengthening economic management, (ii) establishing a platform
for growth, and (iii) improvingservice delivery and strengthening safety nets. At the time the CAS
was presentedto the Board, Malawiwas judged to be in a low case and could be eligibleto move into
a "base" case if a series o f triggers that restored Malawi's development prospects were met. Moving
to a base case made Malawi eligible for IDA resources o f up to US$ 215 million over a three-year
period(FY 04-06) and includes adjustment lending.

6.2      Malawi has now met all the CAS triggers to move from low case to base case lendingprogram
(see details inAnnex 4). Specifically, Malawi has achieved (i)   satisfactory progresstowards achieving
macroeconomic stability as demonstratedby the resumptiono fthe PRGF arrangement; (ii)         satisfactory
implementationof the national program to fight HIV/AIDS, as demonstratedby the steps undertaken
as part o f the MAP and the FIMAG Program; (iii)agreement and satisfactory implementationo f a
suitable program o f policy and institutionalreforms, particularlyinthe agriculturesector, as part o fthe
FIMAG program; (iv) satisfactory portfolio performance, as evidenced by the low percentage o f
problem projects (less than 10 percent) and the satisfactory disbursement ratio (around 20 percent).
Progress in implementationof poverty-reducingpolicies outlined in the MPRS has been limited, as
discussed in the recent JSA o f the          first APR of MPRS, due to problems with expenditure
management, protecting pro-poor expenditures and weak performance of structural policies.
However, the JSA focused on developments duringFY02 (over 12 months ago). More recently, since
early 2003, the Government has accelerated implementation o f reforms and brought the
macroeconomic program back on track. The resumption of donor inflows, and the renewed
commitment to reforms which is part of the agreement with the donors, can be expected to accelerate
implementationof the MPRS. In sum, the reforms implemented by the Government since the CAS
was presented, together with those being implemented in the context of the FIMAG, make Malawi
eligible for the "base case" levelo f IDA operations since it has met the triggers described inthe CAS.

6.3     The lending scenario for the CAS base case includes two Structural Adjustment Credits
(SACS; in FY04 and FY06 respectively) to support key structural reforms complementing the
Government's macroeconomic stabilizationefforts, with a view to establishinga foundationfor broad-
basedsustainable growth. The FIMAG constitutes the first of this two operations. The amount o f the
operation is of $50 million. This amount is higher than the $30 million envisagedfor this operation in
the CAS. It is possible to accommodatethis increase throughthe recent increase in IDA allocationto
Malawi in light o f its improvedIDA ratingmainly on account of governance and portfolio indicators
while the overall CPIA has remained constant. Nevertheless, if resource allocation should become a
constraint, this would entail reducing the allocations to some operations or moving out some
operations in the outer years for the overall lending program to stay within the CAS base case
allocation.

6.4      The CAS states that the measuresthat would be supportedby the SAC(s) would fall into three
categories: (i)improvingexpenditure management (includingprogress on fiscal decentralization); (ii)
advancing parastatal reform (which is expected to include privatizationo f some of MTL, MDC, Air
Malawi, and the power and water sectors; the divestiture of ADMARC's non-core subsidiaries; and
greater transparency in ADMARC's maize marketing operations; and (iii) implementing key policy
and institutional reforms in the agriculture sector (which is expected to include the devolution o f
selected agricultural services to the district assemblies and improved efficiency in tobacco marketing
arrangements).

                                                    24

6.5      The FIMAG follows closely the reform areas indicated in the CAS, and also focuses on the
fight against HIV/AIDS. In general terms, the FIMAG contributes to all the three pillars outlined in
the CAS and creates an enabling environment for growth.            The reforms in fiscal management
supported by the FIMAG will improve economic management. Parastatal reforms including the
progress on privatization will not only protect the fiscal accounts from excessive parastatal borrowing
but also improve the working o f utilities and lay the basis for growth. The reform program in
agriculture will create conditions for the acceleration in growth in a sector that is a source o f income
for 90 percent o f the poor inMalawi.

6.6      The FIMAG also creates a framework within which other ongoing bank interventions as well
as those proposed in the CAS could be effectively designed. FIMAG supports policy decisions on
privatization and therefore is closely tied to the Privatization and Utility Reform Project (PURP) that
provides technical support for the privatization program. The FIMAG also addresses the problem o f
Government arrears to the water utilities and is therefore is closely linked to the National Water
Development Project (NWDP) that supports water utilities.           The FIMAG supports expenditure
management policies and therefore is closely linked to the Financial Management, Transparency and
Accountability Project (FIMTAP) that provides technical assistance for improving expenditure
tracking, internal audit, performance monitoring and oversight institutions. The FIMAG supports
fiscal decentralization to the District Assemblies and thereby is closely linked to the MASAF project
that strengthens the role o f communities below the District Assembly level. Finally the policies
supported by the FIMAG are crucial for the success o f HW/AIDS program supported by the M A P
project.

6.7      A successful implementation o f the reform program outlined inthe FIMAG is also crucial for
our planned investment projects. Support for the preparation o f the Land Bill and land taxation system
will be necessary for the downstream community based land reform project while the fiscal
decentralization in the Ministry o f Agriculture, Irrigation, and Food Security (MOAIFS) will help us
designthe agriculturalservices project.

6.8      The analytical basisof the Credit is also strongly grounded inthe Bank's recent ESW which
were carried out in a collaborative manner with the Government o f Malawi. The joint Government o f
Malawi - IDA 2001 Public Expenditure Review (PER) exercise forms the basis for the fiscal
management part o f the FIMAG. The parastatals section part o f the PER exercise was used to
complement the knowledge gained through the PURP in designing the parastatal reform component o f
the FIMAG.Backgroundpapers from the 2003 Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA)
were also used for the expenditure management part o f the FIMAG. The draft Country Economic
Memorandum formed the backbone o f the growth strategy especially the actions proposed in the
FIMAG concerning the agriculture sector. The analytical work carried out to for the poverty and
social impact o f ADMARC was used to designthe reforms o f food marketing.

6.9      Design: The Credit consists o f a single component o f untied balance o f payments support,
which will be disbursed intwo equal tranches as follows. The first tranche: SDR16.9 million (US$ 25
million equivalent) would be released upon Board approval and credit effectiveness (expected
February 2004).     The second tranche o f SDR 16.9 million (US$25 million equivalent) would be
released upon satisfactory performance in macroeconomic management and in the overall
implementation o f the program and the completion o f the tranche release conditions. There is no
associated technical assistance component to this credit. The financing o f the technical assistance
activities required for the success o f this operation (as described in Annex 2 the Program Document
(PD) will be entirely carried out by the Government using its budgetary resources (including the
proceeds o f this credit), closely coordinated with assistance programmed under other Bank projects
and grant resources available under other bilateral assistance programs.

                                                    25

6.10      Disbursement and ImplementationArrangements: The fiduciary management in Malawi
i s satisfactory. A CFAA was completed in 2003 and key reforms from the agreed action plan have
beenincludedas part o fthe policy reforms supportedby this Credit.The proposedFIMAGwill follow
the Bank's simplifieddisbursementprocedures for structural adjustment credits. The untiedbalanceof
payments support will be disbursed against satisfactory implementationofthe adjustment programand
not tiedto any specificpurchases and no procurementrequirements will be needed. Oncethe Credit is
approved by the Board and becomes effective the proceeds o f the first tranche will be deposited by
IDA inan account at the ReserveBank o f Malawi at the request of the Borrower. The proceeds of the
secondtranche will be deposited after all the conditions o fthe secondtranche release are met. If,after
depositinginthis account, the proceeds of the Credit are usedfor ineligiblepurposes as defined inthe
Development Credit Agreement, IDA will require the Borrower to either: (a) returnthe amount to the
account for use for eligible purposes, or (b) refundthe amount directlyto IDA.

6.11      The administration of this Credit will be the responsibility o f the Ministry of Finance.
Although an audit o f the deposit account will not be required, the Bank reserves the right to require
audits at any time. Implementationof the subsequentactions under the program will be monitoredby
the inter-ministerialcommittee o f officials coordinated by the Ministry o f Finance. The Ministry of
Finance (MOF) is responsible for coordinatingthe implementationof the overall reformprogram. The
execution o f many o f the reform measures required for the second tranche is the responsibility o f
specific sectoral institutions,as indicatedin Table 2. Notably, the Ministry of Health(MOH), Ministry
of Education (MOE) and Ministry o f Lands (MOL) are responsible for the decentralizationo f selected
activities in their respective ministries. The Privatization Commission (PC) is responsible for the
privatization o f MTL. The Ministry of Agriculture is also responsible for the implementationof the
findings of the Tobacco Audit. Finally, the Ministry o f Lands is also responsible to finalize and
implement,jointly with the Ministry of Finance,the new landtaxationpolicy.


                                      7. RISKSAND BENEFITS

7.1       Risks: The operation clearly carries substantial risk. There are four main risks to the
operation. First there is a risk of policy slippage. Throughout the 199Os, the Government o f Malawi's
track recordon carrying through difficult reform has been weak. Further, as Malawi goes to general
elections inMay 2004, there is a risk that inthe runup to the elections there would be fiscal slippages
due to election related expenses. In addition, the new Government after May 2004 may be less
committedto reforms than the present one. Some o f the areas to be addressedinthe credit such as the
liberalizationof tobacco markets, a restructuringo f ADMARC and expenditure control are politically
sensitive, in particular since they will be carriedout in an electionyear and will have to be continued
by the next government. Second, there may be delays in donor inflows creatingthe need to approach
the domestic market to finance the Budget. Third, exogenous shocks, especially one of drought and
famine destabilizingthe macro agenda. Fourth, high incidence of HIV/AIDS will pose a substantial
risk to the operation. Even if environment for growth is substantially improvedand donor flows are
resumed, growthprospects will be adversely affectedby the continued erosion in human resources and
increasingprivate savings andpublic expenditure beingdivertedto HIV/AIDS relatedexpenditures.

7.2       These risks are mitigated by the following factors. First, we have been discussing structural
reform measures with the Government over the past two years. During this period, while the GOM
was not able to achieve macroeconomic stabilizationand conclude the first review of the PRGF, a
number of structural reforms were implemented and the process has accelerated since early 2003.
Indeed the approval of the PRGF was contingent on Malawi establishing a track record on
stabilization policies in the first half of 2003. The specific measures contained in the MOP should
therefore be thought of as a continuation of the ongoing reform program for which the Government
has shown renewed commitment. Second, the reforms supported by the FIMAG are a part o f an
overall reform program that is being supported by a wide cross section of donors includingthe IMF,

                                                      26

AfDB and the CommonApproach to Budget Support (CABS) group o f donors consisting o f Norway,
Sweden, EC and UK. We have had close consultations with all our development partners including
civil society organizations in formulating the reforms contained in the FIMAG, and we expect their
support, includingtechnicalassistance as needed, in the implementationo f these reforms.Finally, the
preparedness to cope with exogenous climatic shocks has improved as a consequence o f the
experience of 2002. The Governmenthas since strengthenedthe systems for preparingcrop estimates"
and the Famine Early Warning System (FEWS) to generate a rapid national and international
response. The Government is also implementing the recommendations of the 2003 Audit o f the
operations of the National Food Reserve Agency (NFRA), and is reviewing its food security policy in
cooperation with the donors. Fourth, the risk to the program arising from the HIV//aids is addressed
by strengthening the legaland institutionalframework for addressingHIV/AIDS.

7.3      Benefits: While there are substantial risks in the operation, in our assessment, the potential
benefits of our support to Malawi inthe form of this credit far outweighthe risks. The operation will
provide externalresourcesthat together with the resources under the PRGF and other bilateraldonors
will contribute to maintain fiscal stability and maintain key social expenditures and thus support
economic recovery during a period o f political change. The success o f the PRGF program largely
depends on the availability of up front financing to reduce both domestic debt and the interest bill.
Without the credit, the Government would be obliged to cut back the pro-poor outlays or borrow
domestically. This would exacerbatethe domestic debt problemandwouldhave serious repercussions
not just on medium term growth prospects but also on the direct poverty alleviation objective as
critical programs remain under funded and existing health and education facilities are starved of
resources.

7.4      Further,the reforms under the proposedCredit are expected to reduce poverty by accelerating
growth in three ways. First, the Credit will help to create the conditions for accelerating growth by
contributingto achievingmacroeconomic stability by strengthening fiscal management. Second, the
parastatal reforms supported by the Credit will not only reduce the risk of fiscal shocks by improving
parastatal finances and monitoring borrowing to reduce contingent liabilities; the reforms will also
result in better functioning utilities that are key to improvedinvestment climate for agricultureas well
as manufacturing. Third, the Credit will stimulate growth in agriculturethroughimprovedfunctioning
of food markets and by improving efficiency in the tobacco supply chain, with improvedtransfer of
benefits to smallholders. Finally, the program supported by the credit will also strengthen the legal
and financial framework for mitigatingthe impact o fHIV/AIDS and contributes to the growththrough
strengtheninghumanresources.

7.5      Finally, the reform program supported by this credit and the associated external assistance
strengthens the hands of the pro-reformelements within the Government and improves the chances of
maintaining fiscal discipline and continuation o f politically difficult reforms during the coming
electionperiod.




*'Thecrop  estimates are now beingpreparedbythe NationalStatistical Office (NSO) rather thanthe Ministry o f
Agriculture.

                                                27


                                                                                           Annex 1

RefNo 32/1/82                                                              January 15,2004


Mr.JamesD.Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
1818H Street N W
Washington, D.C. 20433




Dear Mr.Wolfensohn:


                           LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY


1.      IamwritingonbehalfoftheGovernmentofMalawitorequestaCreditofUS$50million
equivalent from the World Bank in support of the continuation of our structural reform program.
The Credit will        support the Government in two ways: First, the credit will assist the
Government in designing and implementing specific structural reforms to support the
Government' economic growth and poverty reduction agenda, as outlined in the Malawi Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (MPRSP). Second, the Credit will provide the crucial Balance of
Payment (BOP) support needed to finance a sustainable BOP and fiscal framework that will
enable the implementation of the Malawi Poverty Reduction Strategy (MPRS) while arresting
the growth of domestic debt, which currently stands at around 18 percent of GDP.
2.      The Credit will support a set of specific structural reforms in the following areas: (i)
Fiscal Management, (ii)Parastatal sector, (iii)Land, (iv) Agriculture, and (v) HIV/AIDS. A
detailed policy matrix describing the program is attached hereto as Annex 1. The reforms in
fiscal managementare designedto strengthenthe Government's capacity to meet macroeconomic
stabilization targets while protecting the crucial pro-poor expenditures (PPEs), and improve the
delivery of social services through accelerating fiscal decentralization. The parastatal reforms
will help in both reducing the burden on the budget and improving the efficiency of markets and
the delivery of key infrastructure services. The reforms in land policy will ensure increased
equity in access to land and reduce potential conflicts, and improve utilization of land. Reforms in
agriculture will contribute to broad-based growth and rural poverty reduction through increased
returns to small-holder farmers by creating better functioning land, tobacco and maize markets,
and decentralizing agricultural services to make them more responsive and accountable to
farmers. The reforms in HIV/AIDS will be carried out in tandem with the Multi-Sectoral
HIV/AIDS Project (MAP) and will assist in creating the policy and institutional framework for
channeling resources and strengthening institutions for mitigatingthe health and social impacts of
HIV/AIDS.

Reforms Implementedsince 1994

3.      Since 1994 (when the new Government came into power), Malawi has implemented a
wide range of structural reforms supported by three World Bank Structural Adjustment Credits
(SACS), IMF Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) and Poverty Reduction and

                                                 28


Growth Facility (PRGF) arrangements, and bilateral donor supported adjustment programs to
create conditions for broad-based growth and poverty reduction. The reforms introduced included
the introduction of the cash budget system, the liberalization of the foreign exchange market, the
liberalization of the financial sector, a continued implementation of the tax reform program that
was introduced in 1986 aimed at broadening the base and lowering tax rates, introduction of the
Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) as a budgeting tool in 1995, the introduction of
the Credit Ceiling Authority (CCA) system to prevent the Government from borrowing from the
banking system when it did not have to do so, and the introduction of the Credit Control System
(CCS) in 2000 to assist the Ministry of Finance to monitor and track Government ministries and
departmentsthat accumulatecommitments into arrears.

4.       In addition, the Government has since 1996 been developing a computerized Integrated
Financial Management Information System (IFMIS) as a core accounting system for the
Government, that has since July 2001 been applied on a pilot basis in selected ministries. Other
reforms included the introduction of cost recovery and cost sharing measures as part of budget
implementation, the privatization of state-owned enterprises (SOEs) since 1997 following the
enactment of the Public Enterprises Act in 1996, the liberalization of the growing of burley
tobacco, and the implementation of civil service reforms. Most of the reforms outlined above
were supported by the World Bank under the First Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation
Program (FRDP I)which was approved in 1996, the Second Fiscal Restructuring and
Deregulation Program (FRDP 11) approved in 1998, and the Third Fiscal Restructuring and
Deregulation Program (FRDP 111) approved in 2000; and the IMF under the ESAF arrangement
approved inOctober 1995 and the PRGF arrangementapproved inDecember 2000.

5.       These reforms, however, have had mixed success. Since 2000, the economy has grown
by less than 2 percent per annum, the country has experienced chronic food shortages due to
drought, and has experienced macroeconomic instability, that has constrained private sector
activity. High fiscal deficits combined with reduction in donor inflows in the 2001/02 and
2002/03 fiscal years have resulted in unsustainable domestic debt, that reached around 18 percent
of GDP as of June 2003. The high fiscal deficits, that are the underlining cause of macroeconomic
instability in Malawi, are mainly the result of poor public expenditure management. Significant
progress, however, has been made in reducing inflation. For instance, overall inflation rapidly
decelerated from 15.1 percent in August 2002 to 9.2 percent in September 2003, with annual
average inflation declining from 27.5 percent in2001 to 14.8 percent in 2002. Real interest rates,
on the other hand, have beenvolatile and consistently high at over 30 percent.

6.       The low economic growth performance combined with the food shortages and fiscal
pressures have adversely affected the delivery of social services, and negatively impacted on
the Government's poverty reduction agenda. Poverty remains widespread and deep, with 65.3%
of Malawians living below the poverty line.

Implementationof the MPRSP

7.       Since the launch of the MPRSP, the Government's over-arching development strategy, in
April 2002, the Government has accelerated its reform effort. The MPRSP was endorsed by the
Boards of the IMF and the World Bank in August 2002 and its overall goal is to achieve
"sustainable poverty reduction through empowerment of the poor". The strategy aims at reducing
the incidence of poverty to 59 percent in2005 from 65.3 percent in 1998 and it is built aroundthe
following four pillars:

                                                    29


     0   promoting sustainable pro-poor growth by offering the poor an opportunity to improve
         their living standards and providing the private sector with an enabling environment for
         investment;

         developing human capital, as a healthy and educated populationwill be more productive,
         and reduce income inequality;


     0   improving the quality o f life for the most vulnerable by strengthening their resilience to
         shocks through social safety net programs; and


     0   establishing good governance, thereby ensuring that public institutions and systems
         protect and benefit the poor.

8.      The MPRS has four cross-cutting issues that are crucial to the Government's efforts to
reducing poverty. These are HIV/AIDS, Gender, Science and Technology, and Environment.
Under HIV/AIDS, Government is paying attention to improving the quality o f life o f people
living with HIV/AIDS and implementing measures to mitigate against the economic and social
impacts o f HIV/AIDS. Under Gender, the Government seeks to establish a gender sensitive
formal and informal legal environment, eradicate gender-based violence, and enhance women's
participation in leadership and decision-making processes. Regarding Science and Technology,
the Government is improving the capacity and the capability o f the national system for science
and technology, intensifying the promotion and transfer o f technologies and increasing
investment in research and development. Finally, in relation to Environment, the Government
will strengthen the legal and institutional framework to encourage sustainable utilization o f
natural resources and create environmental awareness.

9.      A recent IMF/World Bank Joint Staff Assessment (JSA) o f the implementation o f the
MPRS conducted in October 2003 endorsed the strategies presented in the MPRSP as being
credible policies to reduce poverty. However, the JSA encouraged the authorities to take steps to
establish fiscal discipline, accelerate parastatal reforms, and make progress in agricultural policies
including a revised food security policy.

Specific Reformsto be Implemented

10.     The Government is aware that macroeconomic stabilization program is critical
precondition for the acceleration o f growth and reduction o f poverty. As per the macroeconomic
framework adopted by the Government, the key to reducing the high inflation and interest rates is
a reduction in broad money (M2) growth from 23.4 percent in 2002 to 10 percent p.a. by 2006
combined with reduced domestic borrowing by the public sector. The key to achieving this is a
reduction o f the fiscal deficit (after grants), from 8.2 percent o f GDP in 2002, to a surplus o f 0.4
percent of GDP by 2006. This will be achieved through strengthening tax collection efforts,
reducing non-priority expenditures and implementing cost recovery measures announced in the
2003/04 Budget. The reduction in the overall fiscal deficit, together with anticipated inflows
from donors, is expected to result in net repayments to the banking system o f between 2-4 percent
of GDP during2004-06 and will result in a reduction inthe stock o f domestic debt from about 18
percent o f GDP at end 2003 to around 14 percent o f GDP by 2006. This will create a virtuous
circle whereby reduced market borrowing by the Government will result in lower interest rate
(and therefore lower interest payments burden) and will create conditions for increased business
lendingand growth.

                                                30



FiscalManagement

11.      Reforms under fiscal management will have the following objectives: Improve overall
budget formulationand promote the allocation o f expenditures to high priority activitiesthrough
making the cost o f running Government sustainable and ensuring a stable wage bill; improve
budget executionthrough clarifying rules andresponsibilities, strengtheninginternalcontrols, and
facilitating deposition o f cases and timely prosecution; strengthen budget implementation
monitoring and control through improving transparency and monitoring of public expenditures;
and improve the efficiency of public service delivery by moving budget formulation and
execution to the Local Authorities. The reforms will be implemented to address a number of
issues and challenges within the area of fiscal managementincludingthe existence o f a structural
mismatch between optimal resource requirements of Government institutions and budgetary
allocations; lack o f transparency in the wage bill and difficulties of controlling it because o f the
proliferation o f allowances; existence o f weak internal controls; and the fact that the Corrupt
Practices Act does not facilitate timely depositionof cases. Furthermore, public service delivery
is currently inefficient owing to planning and budgeting o f public services being centrally
determined anddecisions not beingaccountableto local communities.

12.      The Government has already implemented a number of actions to achieve the objectives
outlined above, including undertaking functional reviews for Government ministries and
departments; completing a study on the Medium-TermPay Policy (MTPP) and approving the
policy; passing the Public Finance Management, Public Audit and Public Procurement Bills;
appointingthe Director of Public Procurement; and creating an InternalAudit Unit (IAU) in the
Office of the President and Cabinet (OPC), including appointing a Director for the Unit and
appointinga consultant to prepare InternalAudit Policy, draft Act and operationalprocedures. In
addition, the Government has proposed amendments to the Corrupt Practices Act to strengthen
the prosecutorial powers of the Anti-Corruption Bureau. The Government is also producing
Quarterly Expenditure Reports (QERs) that are beingsubmittedto the Cabinet Committee on the
Economy and the Budget and Finance Committee of Parliament within six (6) weeks o f quarter-
end and publishingthem on the website of the Ministry o f Finance (MOF) within twelve (12)
weeks o f quarter-end. Further, the Government is postingquarterly actual and budgetedpro-poor
expenditures on the MOF website and publishing them in newspapers within six (6) weeks of
quarter end.

13.      Furthermore, the      Government approved a General Grants formula and a Sector
Devolution Plan in June 2002 and January 2003, respectively, and developed and issued
guidelines for the utilization of General Grants, with HIV/AIDS being eligible expenditure and
trading investments ineligibleexpenditures.Inaddition, Cabinet has approved a Cabinet paper on
Sector Devolution and decentralized responsibility for specific activities in the Ministry o f
Transport and Public Works (District Roads Unit), Ministry o f Housing(District Building Unit),
Ministry of Commerce and Industry (Licensing o f Malawian owned businesses), Ministry of
Gender and Community Services (Provision of community development and social welfare
services as well as economic empowerment of vulnerable groups), Ministry of Water
Development (Provision o f boreholes and rural water supply systems), and the Ministry of
Agriculture,Irrigation andFoodSecurity (All extension related services).

14.      The Government will deepen these reforms by taking actions to streamline Government
structure and functions through developing and approving an Action Plan and reflecting its
recommendations in the 2004/05 budget. The Government will ensure a stable wage bill through
(i)establishing a Public Service RemunerationBoard(PSRl3) to implementand monitor the

                                                   31


MTPP, and (ii)rationalizing salary structure and consolidating allowances into a unified salary
structure; and operationalizing the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), the Public Audit
Act, and the Public Procurement Act (PPA) through (i)issuingTreasury Instruction Manuals for
the PFMA and the Public Audit Act, (ii)issuing Procurement Regulations and distributing desk
manuals, and (iii)establishing a fully functioning Directorate o f Public Procurement in line with
the PPA. In addition, recommendations o f an action plan for operationalizing the IAU will be
implemented, the IAU will be functional, and the Internal Audit Policy will be submitted to
Cabinet and amendments to the Finance Management Act will be submitted to Parliament and
operational procedures will be drafted.

15.      Regarding decentralization, actual expenditures under the General Grants allocation will
be published at district and national levels every quarter within six (6) weeks o f quarter end, In
addition, responsibility for specific activities in the Ministry o f Natural Resources and
Environmental Affairs (Energy extension, forestry extension, mining extension, fisheries
extension, and environmental extension ); Ministry o f Health and Population(Primary health care
services in districts and cities, public health inspection, and health technical support); Ministry o f
Lands (Processing o f land transactions, title registration, collection o f ground and land rent, and
lease covenant monitoring and enforcement); and Ministry o f Education, Science and Technology
(Primary education) will be decentralized. The staff carrying out these activities will be
transferred to the District Assemblies and budgets for these will be transferred directly from MOF
to District Assemblies.

16.      In order to provide the analytical basis for some of the reforms to be implemented under
fiscal management, the Government will commission the following studies and consultancies:
study to recommend how to streamline the structure and functions o f Government o f Malawi so
as to reduce the fiscal mismatch and a consultancy to support the implementation o f the MTPP
and to analyze the impact o f changes inthe wage structure on the wage bill.

Parastatal Reforms

17.      Reforms within the parastatal sector will have the objectives o f improving monitoring o f
parastatal finances, borrowing and arrears, and accelerating the privatization program in
telecommunications, power and ADMARC subsidiaries.                There are several reasons why
improved management o f Malawi's large public sector is critical for generating growth, including
that (i)the financial position o f many parastatals has been weak, leading to the Government
having to provide budgetary support, guarantees, and at times make payments on their behalf; (ii)
many o f the parastatals have borrowed directly from financial institutions, creating contingent
liabilities on the part o f Government; and that (iii)the inherently weak financial position of some
o f the utilities has been exacerbated by the chronic problem o f arrears owed by some Government
ministries.

18.       Since 1997, the Government o f Malawi (GOM) began the process o f reform o f the
parastatal sector. First, the Government implemented a set o f measures to create regulatory
institutions and pricing policies in electricity and telecommunications. Second, the Government
adopted and passed a Privatization Act in 1996 that led to the development o f a divestiture
sequence plan (DSP) for the privatization o f a number o f parastatals and a privatization
commission was created. Since 1997, more than 50 percent o f the parastatals in the DSP have
been privatized. Currently, a study is underway to develop a privatization strategy. Within the
telecommunications sector, the Government created a modern regulatory framework, separating
posts and telecommunications; created a regulatory authority, the Malawi Communications
Regulatory Authority (MACRA); liberalized cell phone operation; and Cabinet approved the

                                                 32


preferred bidder for Malawi Telecommunications Limited (MTL). Within the power sector, the
Power Sector Reform Strategy (PSRS) was approved by Cabinet in 2003. As for ADMARC,
many of its non-core assets, including David Whitehead and Sons, and Cold Storage and
Company, and Grain and Milling Company have been privatized. In addition, a plan for
restructuring ADMARC commercial activities has been approved by Cabinet, ADMARC Act has
been repealed by Parliament and incorporated under new statutes as a limited liability company
for commercially viable activities, and a framework for restructuring social marketing activities
formerly carried out by ADMARC has beenprepared.

19.     The Government will push forward the privatization program by completing the
privatization of the Malawi Telecommunications Limited (MTL) and bringing Blantyre Milling,
Alexander Forbes, Malawi International Transport Company (MITCO), MANICA, and Indebank
to the point of sale. Further, Government will issue an information memorandum (IM) for Shire
Bus Lines. In order to develop a systematic approach towards privatization of the remaining
state-owned enterprises (SOEs), the Government will revise the Divestiture Sequence Plan (DSP)
in line with recommendations of a study that is developing a privatization strategy, and action
plan for addressing privatization program implementation constraints, including weaknesses in
the legislative framework, lack of parastatalmanagementaccountability for prudent management
during pre-privatization period, and absence of a structure to manage a social action program in
support of privatization. Government will also implement the plan for restructuring ADMARC
commercial activities that has been approved by Cabinet through (i)      appointing a new Board for
the company, (ii)carrying out staffing reviews and (iii)separating social marketing activities
from ADMARC Limited. In the power sector, the Government will prepare the Electricity Bill
and the Energy Regulation Bill in line with the approved power policy and submit them to
Parliament for approval. Approval of these bills by           Parliament will set the stage for the
appointment of transactions advisors for the privatization of ESCOM. Under Parastatal Reform,
the studies and consultancies that will be undertaken to support implementation of some of the
reforms will include the preparation of detailed plan for social marketing activities formerly
undertaken by ADMARC, implementation of ADMARC commercial restructuring plan, and
design and implementation of a public awareness campaign on ADMARC.

Land Policy

20.     More than 60% of rural households live on less than one hectare of land and are unable
to produce enough food for their own consumption while about 28% of total agricultural land
remains uncultivated, in particular in the estate sector, among other factors, because the current
land taxation system does not create an incentive framework for efficient utilization of land. The
resulthas beenan increaseinthe potential for landconflicts and food insecurity.The Government
has already taken a number of policy measures inthe areas of land policy, including the approval
by Cabinet of a new Land Policy in January 2002. It also has launched a communications
campaign in principal languages on the objectives and content of the new land policy, published a
Government Notice to adjust land fees from K50.00lHa to KSOOlHa for leasehold land, and
contracted a consultancy team to review the structure of taxation for all categories of agricultural
land and make recommendations. Further, the Government has developed a short-term action
plan to strengthen capacity to collect land fees at the district and ministry levels.

21.     The Government will seek to create a clear legal framework for ensuring an equitable
access to land and its efficient use. The National Law Commission is already in the process of
preparing, through a comprehensive and participatory process, a new land law for providing the
legal and regulatory framework necessary for the efficient implementation of the new land policy.
A new framework for land taxation, in line with Government's new land policy and

                                                  33


decentralization strategy, will also be developed. The Government will also adjust ground rents
on leasehold estates from K5OO/Ha to K1000/Ha, as per existing Land Act, approve new land
taxation policy and submit it to Parliament and revise land taxation levels in line with the new
policy and consultancy recommendations. Finally, it will implement the action plan to strengthen
land tax collection capacity at the district and national levels. To provide an analytical basis for
these reforms the Government will contract a consultancy to review the structure o f taxation for
all categories o f agricultural land with a view to developing recommendations for a new land
taxation policy and taxation levels.

Agricultural Reforms

22.      Agriculture accounts for 36% o f the GDP and 90% o f exports and nearly 85% o f the
population depends on it for its livelihood. Accelerating agricultural growth is therefore crucial
for accelerating the overall growth. Given its importance for the rural and overall economy, and
for smallholders' income - 13% o f total GDP, 60% o f total export earnings, 350,000 farming
households or 20% o f the total number o f farming households -- accelerating agricultural growth
and reducing rural poverty will require sustained growth in the tobacco sector through improving
the efficiency o fthe current marketing system, to pass-through to farmers a larger share of world
prices,   and also on-farm productivity. Accelerating growth in agriculture will also require
improving the functioning o f food (maize) markets, including a system to manage periodic food
emergencies, and improving the delivery o f critical agricultural services such as research,
extension and information on market opportunities as well as the access to inputs and financial
services. The proposed Credit will deepen the reforms already undertaken inthe sector.

23.      Government has already approved direct exports o f and contract farming flue cured
tobacco and issued draft guidelines. The guidelines on contract growing and marketing o f flue-
cured tobacco allow the financing o f flue-cured tobacco by willing members o f the Tobacco
Exporters Association o f Malawi (TEAM) and any other parties and the selling o f this tobacco to
those that financed it. The guidelines on direct exports allow the export o f green leaf tobacco by
tobacco producers export formalities and documentation have been complied with, including
paying relevant tobacco levies and taxes. Further, Government has reviewed levies on tobacco
(including Tobacco Association o f Malawi (TAMA) levy, Hessian levy, Tobacco Control
Commission (TCC) levy, Classification levy, and Auction Holdings Limited (AHL) levy) and
implemented new tobacco levies         which would amount to a substantial reduction in their
aggregate level. It also has eliminated the withholding tax for smallholders under the agreed upon
poverty threshold and made Tobacco Association o f Malawi (TAMA) membership voluntary.

24.      Inorder to deepen reforms withinthe agricultural sector, the Government will implement
a further reduction in the AHL levy from 3.25 percent to 2.5 percent o f total proceeds. In
addition, it will launch a comprehensive institutional review o f the tobacco sector and its main
institutions - TCC, TAMA, Agricultural Research Extension Trust (ARET), AHL -to ensure that
all sector producers have an adequate voice in policy making and in the management o f the
sector, and to improve transparency, accountability and efficiency in sector's management. In line
with this, Government will develop and implement an action plan for reforming tobacco sector
institutions and produce the first annual performance audit o f AHL, TCC and TAMA by October
2004.

25.      Government food security strategy, largely based on ADMARC-implemented price
stabilization and     "safety net" schemes      in the maize market,    has not had the intended
effectiveness. It has constrained private sector involvement in the sector and become detrimental
to the efficiency o f the grain markets. It has also resultedinhuge losses and contingent liabilities

                                                34


for the Government. Thus, in additionto the proposedADMARC restructuring, the Government
will develop and approve a new Food Security and Nutrition Policy, based on a two-track
approach: the improved efficiency of the maize market and the development of private sector
initiative in grain marketing; and targeted safety net programs, based on income-enhancing
programs and improveddisaster mitigationarrangements.

Mitigating the Social and Economic Impact of HIV/AIDS


26.      The spread o fHIV/AIDS continuesto undermineGovernment attempts to reduce poverty
in Malawi, through its impact on availability of skilled human resources and through the
diversiono f savings/income from productiveinvestmentsto care-givingand consumption-related
expenditures. With 15 percent o f Malawians in the 15-49 age group infected with HIV, the
success of proposed structural reforms will depend on the extent to which public and private
initiativesto addressthe epidemic are effective inmitigatingimpacts on the economy and society.
As a Government, we recognize that current efforts to combat HIV/AIDS have been hampered,
among other things, by the absence of a legal framework for addressingHIV/AIDS, an undefined
institutional framework for the public sector response, and an insufficient level of domestic
funding for the national response. The Government will give priority to creating clear policy
frameworks for the national response (including the public sector response at the national and
local levels), and to increasing domestic funds for the management of the nationalresponse and
for public sector HIV/AIDS mainstreaming.

27.      Cabinet recentlytook actionto providethis strategic leadership, includingapproval of the
National HIV/AIDS Policy and the Public Sector HIV/AIDS Mainstreaming Strategy, and
appointment o fthe Public Sector HIV/AIDS Steering Committee which will oversee public sector
initiatives to mitigate the impact o f HIV/AIDS. Regarding financing, the Government has
created a separate budget line in the recurrent budget for HIV/AIDS mainstreaming interventions
for public sector institutions. The FY2003/04 budget includes about 0.5 percent o f other
recurrent transactions (ORT) for HIV/AIDS mainstreaming interventions. In future years
(startingwith the FY2004/05budget), at least 2 percent o f ORT will be budgeted for HIV/AIDS
mainstreaming interventions. In addition, the Government has decided that, startingwith budget
year 2003/04, it will contribute at least US$1 million equivalent to the national HIV/AIDS
program coordinated by the National AIDS Commission. In subsequent years the contribution
will be at least US$2 million to be disbursed on a quarterly basis. This contribution will be
reflected in the Development Budget. Lastly, in view of the adverse poverty-impacts that
HIV/AIDS is having on the economy and individual Malawians, the Government has classified
HIV/AIDS mainstreaming expenditures (including allocationsto the NAC-coordinatedprogram)
as Pro-Poor Expenditures (PPEs) beginningwith the 2003/04 budget and continuingthereafter in
subsequent budgets. To ensuretransparency and accountability inthe utilizationofthe resources,
NAC will issue quarterlyprogram monitoringreports on use of funds and outputs within 6 weeks
o f quarter end.

28.      Inthe comingyear, the Government will undertake additionalmeasuresto strengthenthe
policy and institutional framework for the fight against AIDS, by creating the National AIDS
Commission (NAC) by law and by approving an HIV/AIDS mainstreaming strategy for local
authorities (district and city assemblies). In addition, the public sector and local authorities will
begin to scale up their institutional response to HIV/AIDS by appointing full-time HIV/AIDS
Coordinators, establishing HIV/AIDS Institutional Committees within each institution or local
authority, and developing institution-specific or district-specific mainstreaming plans. It is the
Government's intentionto have at least 10 core public institutions and at least 8 local authorities

                                               35


implementing mainstreaming programs by the beginning o f FY2004/05. The core public
institutionsidentified for priority mainstreaming activities are: Department of Human Resource
Managementand Development(DHRMD); Ministryo f HealthandPopulation(MOHP); Ministry
o f Education, Science and Technology (MOEST); Ministry o f Agriculture, Irrigation and Food
Security (MOAIFS); Malawi Defense Force (MDF); Ministry o f Finance (MoF); Ministry o f
Labour and Vocational Training (MOL);Department o f Local Government and District
Administration (DOLGDA); Ministry o f Home Affairs and Internal Security; Office of The
PresidentandCabinet (OPC).

Implementationand Monitoring

29.      The Government o f Malawi is very committedto the successful implementation o f the
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC). In view o f this, a Steering Committee to oversee the
implementationof the reforms to be supported by the SAC has been set-up. It comprises the
Secretary to the Treasury (Chair); the ChiefEconomic Advisor to the President, the Secretary for
Lands, Physical Planning and Surveys (MOLPPS); the Secretary for Local Government and
DistrictAdministration; the Secretary for Agriculture, Irrigationand FoodSecurity; the Secretary
for Human Resources Management and Development; the Executive Director for NAC, and
World Bank Country Manager or his nominee.This SteeringCommittee will meet on a monthly
basis to review implementation progress and it will report to the Minister of Finance and the
World Bank Country Director for Zambia, Zimbabwe and Malawi.Inaddition, Governmenthas
appointed a senior civil servant from the Ministry of Finance to serve on a full-time basis as
Coordinator for the SAC. The SAC Coordinator will monitor the implementation of the reforms
being supported by the SAC on a day-to-day basis and serve as a Secretariat for the Steering
Committee, He will report to the Secretary to the Treasury through the Director of Economic
Affairs on a day-to-daybasis.

30.      The small program o f studies and consultancies intendedto providethe analytical basis
for some of the reforms to be implementedto ensure that they are well conceived and targeted
and achieve the desired outcomes will require US$1 million equivalent. The Government will
fund these studies and consultancies out of its domestic budgetary resources and donor grant
support, followingGovernment public procurementprocedures. Implementationo fthe proposed
program o f studies and advisory services will be the responsibility of the lead sectoral
ministrieddepartments althoughthe Steering Committee on SAC will have the overall oversight
on the implementation of the studies and consultancies, with the SAC Coordinator being
responsible for day-to-daymonitoring.

                                            36




Conclusion

3 1.   The Government remains committed to its overallobjectiveof poverty reductionthrough
sustainable economic growth and it has implemented a number o f reforms in order to promote
sustainable economic growth and reduce poverty. The approval by the World Bank to provide
the Government with the requested Credit will assist the Government in carrying out further
reforms in line with the MPRSP, bringingthe Governmentcloser to meeting its statedobjective.

                                         Sincerely,




                                      FridayA. Jumbe
                                MINISTER OF FINANCE





L 1
0

      e
      LI




     c
     &
     5      e
            L


            M
     5      e
     3      N
            0


c           E
d

                                            43


                                                                                   Annex 2


RefNo. ST/1/11                                       January 15,2004


Mr.Hartwig Schafer
Country Director, Malawi
The World Bank
1818 HStreet NW
Washington, D.C. 20433


Dear Mr.Schafer:


              AnalyticalProgramto support the FinancialManagement
                          andAccelerating GrowthProgram


1.      Iam writing onbehalfofthe Government ofMalawito informyou ofthe
complementary analytical program which we plan to carry out to ensure that second
phase reform actions, planned in the context o f the Financial Management and Growth
Acceleration Structural Adjustment Program, are well conceived and targeted and will
achieve the desired outcomes.

2.      The program of studies and advisory support is concentrated in the following
reform areas: (i)Fiscal Management; (ii)   Parastatal Reforms; (iii) Policy; and (iv)
                                                                      Land
Agriculture. The detailed list of studies to be carried out i s attached hereto as Annex 1.
Terms o f reference for these interventions have been extensively reviewed with donor
colleagues and technical experts prior to finalization, have been agreed and are on file.
We plan to continue this close collaboration and consultation process with our World
Bank colleagues as we proceed to the selection o f consultants and firms.

3.      We plan to fund these studies out of domestic budgetary resources or with donor
grant support, following Government public procurement procedures. We estimate that
the cost of carrying out this analytical program will amount to about US$ 1 million
equivalent. We plan to include a budget line to finance the cost o f these studies in the
FY2003/04 budget inorder to provide transparency inthis regard.

Specific Studies/Advisory Support to be Implemented

Fiscalmanagement

4.      Advisory services for fiscal management are focused on reviewing the structure
o f the Government.

                                           44



ParastatalReforms

5.       Studies to support parastatal reforms relate to the planned ADMARC
restructuring program and will include: (i) preparation of a detailed plan for the
restructuring of ADMARC's social functions; (ii)support for implementation of
ADMARC's commercial restructuring; and (iii) design and implementation of a Public
Awareness Campaignto explainto members of the public the nature andthe rationale of
the proposedreforms.

LandPolicy

6.       In the area of land policy, the main analytical gap involves the appropriate
structure of land taxes to support the Government's goal of promoting efficient use of
landresources inMalawi. Consequentlywe planto carry out a review of the structure of
taxationfor all categoriesof agriculturallands with consultantsupport, leadingto specific
recommendationsfor redesigningthe landtaxation framework.

Agriculture Policy

7.       The program of studies and advisory services for the agricultural reformprogram
i s limited to supportingdesign and implementationof tobacco reforms. Specifically, the
following studies are planned: (i)In-Depth Institutional Review of Tobacco Sector
Institutions; (ii) design and implementationof a Public Awareness Campaignto explain
to members of the public the nature and the rationale of the proposedtobacco marketing
reforms; and (iii) FirstAnnual PerformanceAudits ofAHL, TCC and TAMA.

Implementationand Monitoring

8.       Implementationof the proposedprogram of studies and advisory services will be
the responsibility of the lead agencies and officials indicated in the table set forth in
Annex 1. Oversight will be provided by the Steering Committee establishedto monitor
implementationof the structuralreform program. This SteeringCommittee will meet on
a monthly basis to review implementationprogress, and it will report to the Minister o f
Financeandthe World Bank CountryDirector for Zambia, Zimbabwe and Malawi.

                                             45


Conclusion

9.       The Government remains committed to its overall objective o f poverty
reduction through sustainable economic growth.        Implementation of the program o f
studies and advisory services described above will enable the Government to deepen the
reform process while ensuring that it i s well designedand well understood by the citizens
o f Malawi.   We look forward to the technical collaboration and partnership o f our
colleagues at the World Bank as we embark on this analytical support program.



                                          Sincerely,


                                    Patrick Chilambe

                        SECRETARY TO THE TREASURY

                                            46




SAC Reform Areas                       ProposedStudyIAdvisory Services         GOM Agency/
                                                                               Lead Officer
FiscalManagement
Reviewingthe structure of the          Preparationof an Action Plan.
Government                                                                    Secretaryto the
                                                                              Presidentand
                                                                              Cabinet.
Wage Policy                            Implementationof wage policy reforms
                                                                              Secretaryto the
                                                                              Treasu (ST).
Parastatalreform
ADMARC                                 Preparationof detailed plan for social
                                       functionrestructuring.
                                       Implementationof commercial            MoAIFS
                                       restructuring.
                                       PublicAwareness Campaignon
                                       ADMARC restructuring.                   PS Agriculture.

Land Policy                                                                  I
LandTax                               1Reviewof Structure o f Taxationfor all
                                       categoriesof Agricultural Landsand      PS Lands.
                                       Recommendationsfor Revision
LandReforms                            Implementationof a public awareness
                                       campaign for land reforms.
LandTax Policy                         Capacity building advise for
                                       strengtheninglandtax collection.
Agricultural Reform
Tobacco Sector Policyand Institutions  In-DepthInstitutionalReviewof
                                       Tobacco Sector Institutions
                                       PublicAwareness Campaignon
                                       Tobacco Reforms
                                       First Annual PerformanceAudits of
                                       AHL, TCC and TAMA.

                                                          47


                                                                                                             Annex 3

                    MalawiHIPC CompletionPointTriggers (As of October 31,2003)

Area                                                     Status and actions to accelerate
Poverty reduction
  The full PRSP has been prepared and satisfactorily      JSA discussedon October 23.2003
  implemented for one year, as evidenced by thejoint
  staff assessment o fthe country's progressreport.

Macroeconomic policies
  Maintenance o f macroeconomic stability and             First review o f the IMF PRGF approved by the IMF board on
  satisfactory implementation o f the PRGF-supported       October 20,2003.
  program.
Public expenditure
  Quarterly expenditure reporting as per format jointly   Met.Format agreed.Pro-poor expenditures are published on
  developed by MOF1IDA.                                   the government web site.
  Implement IFMIS in four pilot ministries.                Met. IFMISwill be rolled out to all ministries as part o f the
                                                           FIMTAP project.
M i c r o finance
  Approval by Cabinet of the `Micro-finance Policy'.       Met.Policyapproved at end-October 2002.
  Establishment o f a monitoring systemcovering all       Not met.
  micro-finance institutions.
  Increase the number o f micro-finance clients by         Likely to be met.
  20%.
L a n d Policy
  Submission of draft Land Law to parliament.             Not met. Land policy adopted by cabinet; submission to
                                                           Parliament expected for late 2004.

Governance
  Separation o f fiscal management and audit functions    Met.New Audit Act and Financial Management Act have
  under new legislation.                                   been approved by Parliament in May 2003. The Procurement
                                                           Act has also been passedin May 2003; however there may be
                                                           delays inestablishing the MalawiProcurement Authority
                                                           emanating from the new Act.
Safety nets
Progress on implementing the National Safety Net
Strategy by
  A Targeted Input Program for 2001/02.                   Met in2001/02. Decision to revertto universal TIP (donor
                                                           funded) in2002103, as a result o f recent food crisis.
  A rationalization and prioritization o f existing and   Not met. Concept paper approved by cabinet in February
  new programs.                                            2002. Implementation has not yet started. Inception phase
                                                           with donors' assistance is expected start in2003 andto runfor
                                                           2 years.
  Establishment o f a monitoring and evaluation o f the   Not met. Monitoring and evaluation has also not started.
  National Safety Net Strategy

                                                           48


Health
Progress towards a reduction ofthe human resource,
drugs and medical equipment constraints.
  A share of health expenditure of at least 13% of         Met.Respectively, 15.2% for 2001102 (revised budget) and
  discretionary recurrent budget.                           18.4% for 2002/03 (budget).
  Recruitment, training and deployment o f at leasttwo     Met.Currently training 500 nursestechnicians; 138 medical
  hundred nurse technicians, fifty new medical              assistantsand 20 radiography technicians, respectively, to
  assistants and twenty radiography technicians per         graduatethis year.
  annum.
  Completion o f `phase one' reforms o f the Central       Not met. Work on this issue is in progress, but has proceeded
  Medical Stores (CMS); and,                                slowly. Consultants have been hired to study the issues
  a budget for drugs and medical supplies in line with      further.
  BHA standard (US$1.25 per capita).                       Met.Drugsbudget at $1.44 and $1.23 in2001/02 and2002103
                                                            respectively, broadly in line with BHA standard.

HIV/AIDS
Progress in implementationof the National Aids            MAP project approved also supported by the adjustment
Strategy.                                                 credit.

  Fully staffed, functional and autonomous National        Met.National AIDS Secretariathasbeenoperational since
  AIDS Control Secretariat.                                 end-2001. Additional staffing planned in 2004 to enhance
                                                            NAC' coordination effectiveness.
  75% o f all condom outlet points with condoms in         Met.80% availability ingrocery shops, and 65 percent
  stock at any given time.                                  availability in public hospitals. (To be verified)
  Continuous availability of testing kits at all blood     Largely met. More than 2000 testing kits have been supplied.
  transfusion sites by increasing blood testing kits from
  1500 to 2500.                                             Met.Implementationofcommunication strategy has started.
  Implementation o f an effective Behavior Change
  Communication Strategy.                                   Met.
  Syndromic Management of sexually transmitted
  infections (STI) in all Central, District and major
  C H A M hospitals.
Education
Progress towards raising the quality o f education
through
  Share o f education sector' expenditure in                Met.Respectively, 29.1% for 2001102 (revised budget) and
  discretionary recurrent budget o f at least 23%.          29.1% for 2002/03 (budget).
  Yearly enrolment o f 6000 students for teacher            Not met.Only a total of 2849 teachers graduated in2001102
  training and institution o f in-service training for      and a total o f 3156 teachers are expected to graduate 2002/03.
  primary teachers (at least once each year).               Government plans to implement a double cohort system
                                                            starting in late 2003, bringing the total number of students
                                                            enrolled to over 6000.
  Reallocate budgetary resources from secondary             Largely met. Only four secondary schools are still operating
  school boarding (except for `special needs education)     as boarding. (To be verified)
  to teaching and learning materials.
  Pre-packaging o f donor-supplied primary textbooks        Met.Donor-suppliedtextbooks are pre-packed and directly
  for each school and direct supply directly from the       supplied.
  supplier to the schools.




   *Ministryof Education, Universities,MANEB, MIE, scholarship fund andPolytechnic Boardof Governors

                                                49


                                                                                           Annex 4

                              PROGRESSWITH CAS TRIGGERS

Malawi was in the low case scenario at the time of Board approval of the CAS in June 2003. As
discussed below, Malawi has met all the CAS triggers to move from low case to base case
lending program as of December 2003. This makes it eligible for adjustment lending.

Trigger 1:Satisfactory progress towards achieving macroeconomic stability (as demonstrated
by satisfactory implementationof a PRGF arrangemen?).
Malawi has establisheda track record on macro-stability. The first review of the PRGF program
has been completed in October 2003, based on a six-months satisfactory track record between
January-June 2003. The central component of the program is a sharp reduction of the fiscal
deficit which, together with anticipated inflows from donors, is expected to result in a reduction
in the stock of domestic debt from about 18% of GDP at end 2003 to around 14% of GDP by
2006. The second and third reviews of the PRGF are expected to be completed by February
2004.

Trigger 2: Satisfactory implementation of poverty-reducing policies outlined in the PRSP
(including maintainingpro-poor expenditures at agreed levels).
The recent JSA, reviewed by the Board on October 23,2003, suggests there has beenonly limited
progress on the implementation of the MPRS. The JSA, which focused on developments during
FY02 (over 12 months ago), highlights problems with expenditure management, protecting pro-
poor expenditures and weak performance of structural policies. However, since early 2003, the
Government has accelerated implementation of reforms and brought the program back on track as
evidencedby approval o fthe IMF'sfirst review of the PRGF on October 20,2003.

Trigger 3: Satisfactory implementation of the nationalprogram tofight HIV/AIDS.
The National AIDS Commission WAC) has finalized mainstreaming guidelines for use by
public-sector managers, and a strategy for pro-actively managing HIV/AIDS interventions in the
public sector. At the policy level, a draft national AIDS policy has been extensively discussed
with local stakeholders and is ready for Cabinet consideration. In addition, the MAP project,
approved by the Board in July 2003. will assist in creating the policy and institutional framework
for channeling resources and strengthening institutions for mitigating the health and social
impacts of HIV/AIDS.

Trigger 4: Government agreement to a suitable program of policy and institutional reform,
particularly in the agriculture sector, and satisfactory program implementation.
The FIMAG supports an ambitious program of reforms in fiscal management, parastatalreforms,
stimulating agricultural growth, mitigate health and social impact of HIV/AIDS. The satisfactory
achievement of first tranche conditions confirms that the Government has made satisfactory
progress in the agreed program of reforms. In Agriculture, the government is implementing a
reform program that improves the marketing arrangements in tobacco and maize, improves
utilization and efficiency of land and improves key agricultural services by decentralizing them to
the districts.

Trigger 5: Satisfactory portfolio performance, including a lowpercentage of problemprojects
(lessthan 10%) and a satisfactory disbursementratio (around 20%).
Finally, our performance of our portfolio has been satisfactory, as indicated by the number of
problem projects being less than 10% and disbursement ratio of more than 20%.

                                                      50



                                                                                                   Annex 5



                                  Policies Supportedby the CABS Group




              Issue                                                Indicators


Macro-economic stability         Ontrack with IMF; Domestic Borrowing.

Budget Implementation            Floor on Pro Poor Expenditure (PPEs); Reduction o f stock of domestic
                                 Arrears; Central Government Wages and Salaries.

Accounting & Reporting           Share of GM bank accounts supported by bank reconciliation on a
                                 monthly basis; Timely National Audit Office (NAO) Audit; Response
                                 givento NAO Audits Report submittedto PAC

Education                        Net primary Enrolment Rate (in %); Primary Drop Out Rate (in%); Pupil
                                 per teacher ratio inprimary schools inrural areas; Education ORTs
                                 disbursementto Educ ORT allocations as a share of Discretionary
                                 disbursement to Discretionary allocations; EMIS to produce updated
                                 annual datas.

Health                           Under 1Fullimmunization (in%); % o fBirthsattended by skilledhealth
                                 staff; Out Patient Department (OPD) Utilization Rate (per 1000
                                 population) inrural areas; Health ORTs disbursements to Health ORT
                                 allocations as a share o f Discretionary disbursementsto Discretionary
                                 allocations.

HIV/AIDS                         HIV prevalence among 15-24 age group (in%).

Gender                           Women in decision making positions (in%).

Governance                       Share o f ACB investigation finding a case to answer that are brought to
                                 court.




1/26/2004 - PAF for CABS Ver 10

                                                                    51

                                        MALAWIAT A GLANCE                                                                         Annex 5

                                                                       Sub-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                   Saharan        Low-      I
                                                           Malawi     Africa    income          Developmentdiamond'
                                                                                             ~

2002
Population, mid-year (millions)                               10.7      688        2,495
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                             180      450         430                     Life expectancy

GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                               1.9      306        1,072                           T
Average annual growth, 1996-02
Population (%)                                                 2.2       2.4         1.9
Laborforce (%)                                                 2.0       2.5         2.3        GNI                                Gross
                                                                                                                                  primary
Most recent estimate (latestyear available, 1996-02)                                            per
                                                                                                capita                          enrollment
Poverty (% ofpopulationbelow nationalpovefty line)              65
Urban population (% of totalpopulation)                         15        33          30
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                38        46          59
Infant mortality (per 1,000live bifths)                        112      105           81
Child malnutrition(% of children under51                        25                                   Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (% of population)             57        58          76
Illiteracy (% ofpopulationage 15+)                              38        37          37              -
Gross primaryenrollment (% of school-agepopulation)            137        86          95                     Malawi
    Male                                                       139        92         103                      Low-income group
    Female                                                     135        80          87     I


KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                 1982        1992      2001        2002         Economicratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                  1.3         1.8      1.7         1.9
Gross domestic investmenffGDP                     26.4        19.9       1.o        12.4
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP                 21.1        23.2     28.5         25.1                         Trade
Gross domestic savingslGDP                        20.5         0.7     -10.3        -5.7
Gross national savingslGDP                        16.5         4.1      -5.3         5.7                           T

Current account balancelGDP                      -10.1       -15.8     -12.7       -23.9
Interest paymentslGDP                              2.6          1.7      0.8          1.5       Domestic                + Investment
Total debt/GDP                                    68.6        95.0     169.1       151.7        savings
Total debt servicelexports                        40.9        21.5      14.9        17.8
Present value of debffGDP
Presentvalue of debffexports                                                                  I               Indebtedness
                                       1982-92 1992-02        2001     2002     2002-06
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                       2.9       3.5        4.2       1.8         5.4      I        .,-a   Malawi
GDP per capita                            -0.2      1.4        -6.2     -0.2         3.4                       Low-income group
                                                                                              ~
Exports of goods and services              3.7      3.7       11.1      -3.8         2.7


STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                  1982        1992     2001        2002       1 Growth of investmentand GDP (Oh)
(% of GDP)                                                                                                                                I
Agriculture                                       41.1        38.8      36.2        36.5        1500

Industry                                          21.1        31.5      16.3        14.8        1000
   Manufacturing                                  13.6        21.2      11.3         9.9         500
Services                                          37.9        29.7      47.5        48.7          0
Private consumption                               63.1        85.2      92.0        87.6        -500
General governmentconsumption                     16.4         14.1     18.3        18.2
Imports of goods and services                     27.0        42.5      39.8        43.2


                                               1982-92 1992-02         2001         2002
(average annualgrowth)                                                                          Growth of exports and imports ("A)        I
Agriculture                                         1.1         7.9     -6.3         2.7        30

Industry                                            4.3         0.5    -10.8         -7.4      20

   Manufacturing                                    4.4        -1.4    -14.2       -11.4        10

Services                                            3.8         2.5     -0.7         4.3         0
                                                                                               -10
                                                                                                                                          I
Private consumption                                 3.9         5.2      2.2         -2.4    1 -20
General government consumption                      5.8        -1.1      9.1          3.4      -30
Gross domestic investment                           0.5       -14.6    -87.4       992.6               -Exports         +Imports
Imports of goods and services                       3.4        -0.5       5.5       17.6

Note: 2002 data are preliminaryestimates
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold)comparedwith its income-groupaverage. If data are missing,the diamondwill
    be incomplete.

                                                     52




PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                        1982   1992   2001   2002
Domesticprices                                                        Inflation[%]
(% change)                                                         I E O T
Consumer prices                           9.7   23.8   27.2   14.7   60
Implicit GDP deflator                    14.3   13.3   25.2   17.5   40

Governmentfinance                                                    20
(% of GDP, includes currenfgrants)                                                                                          I
                                                                      0
Currentrevenue                           18.4  20.7    18.4   18.6                 97      98     99     00       01
Currentbudget balance                    -1.2   -5.9   -5.9   -7.1
Overall surplusldeficit                 -12.0  -13.9  -14.6  -14.5 I          -'--GDP         deflator  -CPI              O2


TRADE
                                        1982   1992   2001   2002
(US$millions)                                                         Export and Import levels (US$ mill.]
Total exports (fob)                             397    441    421    900   T
 Tobacco                                        286     236   246    800
 Tea                                              30     36     45   700
 Manufactures                                     28     60     60   600
                                                                     500
Total imports (cif)                             756     566   796    400
 Food                                             63     34     41   300
 Fueland energy                                  47      68     97  200

 Capital goods                                  278     217   317    100
                                                                       0

Export price index (1995=100)                   100      85     85          96       97      98    99    00     01      02

Importprice index (1995=100)                      95     91     91                     B# Exports       w Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       105      93     93

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                        1982   1992   2001   2002
(US$ millions)                                                        Current account balanceto GDP (%)                     I
Exportsof goods and services             263    418     481   477      0
Importsof goods and services             340    764     672    904
Resourcebalance                          -77   -346    -191  -427      5


Net income                               -70     -39    -33    -37   -10

Net currenttransfers                      20    101      10     10   -15

Currentaccount balance                  -127   -284    -214  -455    -20

                                                                                                                            I
Financingitems (net)                     134    284     203    345   -25
Changes in net reserves                    -6      0     12    109   -30 1
Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$ millions)      54      47    203    162
Conversionrate (DEC, loca//US$)           1.1    3.6   72.2   76.7

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                        1982   1992   2001   2002
(US$millions)                                                         Composition of 2002 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed      865   1,709  2,855  2,885
  IBRD                                    73      74      4      2
  IDA                                    177    919   1,877  1,941
Total debt service                       108    103      76     89
  IBRD                                      4     16      4      2
  IDA                                       2     10     35     33
Compositionof net resourceflows
  Official grants                       Error   153      98   235
  Official creditors                      58    108      74     20
  Privatecreditors                       -16      -2      0      0
  Foreigndirect investment                         0     28     38
  Portfolioequity
World Bank program
  Commitments                                                         A IBRD                                E - Bilateral
  Disbursements                           48      86    108     40    B IDA          D Other multilateral
                                                                                         ~                  F Private
  Principal repayments                      2     13     27     23    C IMF
                                                                        ---                                 G Short-term
                                                                                                             --
  Net flows                               46      73     81     17
  Interestpayments                         4      13     12     12
  Nettransfers                            42     60      69      5

DevelopmentEconomics                                                                                                11/3/03

MAP SECTION


