Page  1
 1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
 
 
Report No.:                          
27423
 
Project Name:
                 Fiscal Management and Accelerating Growth Project (FIMAG) 
Region:
 
 
         Africa 
Sector:
                                 Non-Specific 
Project ID:                           
P072395
 
Borrower:
                            Malawi Government 
Implementing Agency:
       Ministry of Finance 
                                              P.O. Box 30049 
                                              Lilongwe 3 
                                              MALAWI 
 
                                              Tel.: (265) 1 789 355 
                                              Fax.: (265) 1 7 
                                              E-mail:  
Environmental Category :  
N/A 
Date PID Prepared :  
          November 2, 3003 
Project Appraisal Date:
      November 24- December 5, 2003 
Project Board Date:
            January 14, 2003 
 
1. Background 
 
Malawi is an agricultural-based economy in South East Africa. It has a population of 
about 10.8 million people, 85 percent of which are rural-based, depending on subsistence 
agricultural production for their livelihoods. Agriculture is the most predominant 
economic activity, accounting around 36 percent of  gross domestic product (GDP) and 
90 percent of the country’s exports. Tobacco is the main export crop and accounts for 
about 60- 70 percent of total export receipts, followed by tea, sugar and cotton. Maize is 
the stable food crop.  
 
 
Malawi’s economic growth performance since the mid- 1990’s has been dismal. Except 
for 1999 when real GDP grew by 3.6 percent, real GDP growth has on average been less 
than 2 percent since 1998, with real GDP declining by more than 4 percent in 2001 and 
growing by 1.8 percent in 2002. The dismal performance in economic growth is 
explained by a number of factors, including stagnation in agricultural production owing 
largely to unfavorable weather conditions; declining manufacturing output owing to the 
existence of unfavorable macroeconomic and business environment characterized by a 
situation of macroeconomic instability; deterioration in fiscal performance leading to 
high interest and inflation rates; and the high incidence of HIV/AIDS estimated at 16  
percent at the national level. The unsatisfactory growth performance has been 
accompanied by chronic food insecurity for Malawi’s poor, as aggregate food production 
and productivity have stagnated. The low economic growth performance combined with 
the food shortages, among other factors, have negatively impacted  on Government’s 
poverty reduction agenda. Poverty in Malawi is widespread, and it is reflected in poor 
social indicators (life expectancy at birth in 2000 was 39 years, and infant mortality and 
Page  2
 2
mortality rates were 104 and 189 deaths per 1,000 live births), with 65.3 percent of the 
population living below the poverty line.  
 
In recent times, high fiscal deficits, combined with the reduction in donor inflows in the 
2001/02 and 2002/03 fiscal years have created a potentially unsustainable domestic debt 
situation, that reached around 20 percent of GDP as of June 2003. The high fiscal 
deficits, that are the underlining cause of macroeconomic instability in Malawi, are 
mainly the result of poor public expenditure management.  
Significant progress, however, has been  made  in reducing inflation.  For instance, 
overall inflation rapidly decelerated from 15.1 percent in August 2002 to 8.5 percent in 
June 2003, with annual average inflation declining from 27.5 percent in 2001 to 14.8 
percent in 2002.  The gains in inflation have been made possible by the implementation 
of a tight monetary policy and  improved availability of food owing to maize imports by 
the Government in 2002/03 to cover the food shortage the country experienced. On the 
other hand, interest rates have been volatile and consistently high, reflecting an 
expansionary fiscal policy and off-setting open market operations by the Reserve Bank of 
Malawi (RBM), Malawi’s central bank. Real interest rates, for example, have averaged 
over 30 percent.  
The Government has since July 2002 been implementing  its poverty reduction strategy 
as  outlined in the Malawi Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (MPRSP). The MPRSP is 
the Government’s over-aching development strategy that was developed through a highly 
consultative process that began in 2000. It  was launched in April 2002 and was endorsed 
by the  Boards of the IMF and the World Bank in August 2002. The overall goal of the 
Malawi Poverty Reduction Strategy (MPRS) is to achieve “sustainable poverty reduction 
through empowerment of the poor”.  It has four pillars, namely: promoting sustainable 
pro-poor growth; developing human capital; improving the quality of life for the most 
vulnerable; and establishing good governance. In addition, the MPRS has four cross-
cutting issues that are crucial to Government’s efforts to reducing poverty. These are 
mitigating the social and economic impact of HIV/AIDS, promoting gender equality, 
promoting science and technology culture, and promoting sustainable environment.  
 
2.0 
Objectives of the Proposed Structural Adjustment Credit 
 
The proposed Credit, which is an integral part of the World Bank strategy as outlined in 
the Malawi Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), is intended to deepen the implementation 
of the structural reforms and lay a basis for generating growth. Specifically, the  Credit  
will  assist the Government in two ways.  First, the credit will assist the Government in 
designing and implementing specific structural reforms to support the Government’s 
economic growth and poverty reduction agenda, as outlined in the MPRSP. Second, the 
Credit will provide the crucial  balance of payments (BOP)  support needed to finance a 
sustainable  BOP and fiscal framework that will enable  the implementation of the MPRS  
while arresting the growth of domestic debt.  
 
Page  3
 3
The reforms to be supported by the Credit will build on reforms Malawi has been 
implementing  since the early 1980s with the support of the World Bank and the 
International Monetary Fund (IMF). Since 1994 (when the new Government came in), 
Malawi has implemented a wide range of structural reforms  supported by three World 
Bank  Structural Adjustment  Credits (SACs), namely, the First Fiscal Restructuring and 
Deregulation Program (FRDP I) approved in 1996, the Second Fiscal Restructuring and 
Deregulation Program (FRDP II) approved in 1998, and the Third Fiscal Deregulation 
Program (FRDP III) approved in 2000; and the IMF’s Enhanced Structural Adjustment 
Facility (ESAF) arrangement approved in October 1995 and Poverty Reduction and 
Growth Facility (PRGF) arrangement approved in December 2000.  
 
The reforms introduced included  the introduction of the cash budget system, the 
liberalization of the foreign exchange market, the liberalization of the financial sector, a 
continued implementation of the tax reform program that was introduced in 1986 aimed 
at broadening the tax base and lowering tax rates, introduction of the Medium-Term 
Expenditure Framework (MTEF) as a budgeting tool in 1995, and the introduction of the 
Credit Ceiling Authority (CCA) system and  the Credit Control System (CCS) in 2000. In 
addition, Government has since 1996 been developing a computerized Integrated 
Financial Management Information System (IFMIS) as a core accounting system for the 
Government, that has since July 2001 been applied on a pilot basis in selected ministries. 
Other reforms have included the introduction of cost recovery and cost sharing measures 
as part of budget implementation, the privatization of state-owned enterprises (SOEs), the 
liberalization of the growing of burley tobacco, and the liberalization of the importation 
and pricing of petroleum products.   
 
3.0 Description 
      
  
  
The proposed Credit is for US$ 50 millionA. It is a two tranche operation and will 
support a set of specific structural reforms in the following areas:  (i) Fiscal Management. 
(ii) SOE Reforms, (iii) Agriculture, and (iv)  HIV/AIDS.  The reforms in fiscal 
management are designed to strengthen the Government’s capacity to meet 
macroeconomic stabilization targets while protecting the crucial pro-poor expenditures 
(PPEs), and improve the delivery of social services through accelerating fiscal 
decentralization.  The SOE reforms will help in both reducing the burden on the budget 
as well as improve the delivery of key infrastructure services.  The reforms in agriculture 
will contribute to growth through increasing the returns to small-holder farmers through 
creating better functioning land, tobacco and maize markets. The reforms in HIV/AIDS  
will be carried out in tandem with the Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS Project (MAP)  
approved by the Board of the World Bank in July 2003 and will assist in creating the 
policy and institutional framework for channeling resources and strengthening 
institutions for mitigating the health and social impacts of HIV/AIDS. Reforms in these 
arrears will support implementation of Pillar 1 of the MPRSP as well as the cross-cutting 
issue of HIV/AIDS.  
 
 
Page  4
 4
Reforms in Fiscal Management 
 
The reforms to be supported by the proposed Credit will include taking actions to 
streamline Government structure and functions; rationalizing salary structure and 
consolidating allowances into a unified salary structure; and enacting the Public Finance 
Management Act, the Public Audit Act, and the Public Procurement Act. In addition, the 
proposed Credit will ensure that Government submits Quarterly Public Expenditure 
Reports (QEPs) to the Cabinet Committee on the Economy and the Budget and Finance 
Committee of Parliament,  and support fiscal decentralization.  
 
SOE Reforms 
 
The proposed Credit will push forward Malawi’s privatization program that began in 
1997 following the passing by Parliament of the Public Enterprises Act of 1996 by 
supporting progress in the privatization of (i) telecommunications services and (ii) energy 
generation, transmission and distribution markets, and (iii) supporting the divestiture of 
non-core assets of the Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation 
(ADMARC). Specifically, the privatization of Malawi Telecommunications Limited 
(MTL) will be completed, and the Electricity Bill and Energy Regulation Bill will be 
presented to Parliament for approval. In addition, some of ADMARC subsidiary 
companies (Cold Storage Company and Grain & Milling Company) will be privatized 
whereas the other ADMARC subsidiaries (Shire Bus Lines, Blantyre Milling, Alexander 
Forbes, Malawi International Transport Company (MITCO), MANICA and Indebank) 
will be brought to the point of sale.  
 
 
Agriculture   
 
 
The proposed Credit will deepen reforms in the agricultural sector by supporting the 
implementation of direct exports and contract farming arrangements for tobacco; 
implementing a program of tobacco levy reduction; and carrying out an institutional 
review of the tobacco sector, including implementing recommendations of the review. In 
addition, the Credit will support the preparation of a Food Security and Nutrition Policy 
and ensure that the policy is approved by Cabinet. 
  
The proposed Credit will also support Land Policy reforms that will result in increased 
access to land, a more equitable distribution of land, and improved utilization of land. In 
this regard, Government will, among other things, adjust land fees from the current level 
of MK50.00 per hectare, as per existing Land Act, review land taxation policy and revise 
land taxation levels, and strengthen land tax collection capacity at the district and national 
level.   
 
 
Mitigating the Social and Economic Impact of HIV/AIDS 
Reforms to be supported by the Credit will include the creation of the National AIDS 
Commission (NAC) by law, ensuring that HIV/AIDS expenditures (including allocations 
to National AIDS Commission (NAC)) are classified as PPEs, ensuring that at least 2 
percent of other recurrent transactions (ORT) is budgeted for HIV/AIDS, ensuring that 
Page  5
 5
NAC provides quarterly program monitoring reports on use of funds and outputs, setting 
up a Steering Committee on HIV/AIDS to report to Cabinet regularly on performance, 
and appointing full-time HIV/AIDS coordinators in some Government ministries and 
departments.  
 
4.0 Benefit 
 
The FIMAG will benefit the poor in Malawi through increased growth. 
 
5.0 Risks 
 
There are three main risks to the operation.  First, there is a risk of policy slippage.  
Malawi goes to General Elections in May 2004. Therefore, there is the risk that in the run 
up to the elections, there would be fiscal slippages due to election related expenses.  In 
addition, there is the risk that a new Government elected may be less committed to 
reforms than the present one. Second, there is the risk that there may be delays in donor 
inflows creating the need to approach the domestic market to finance the Budget.  Third,
 
there is the risk of exogenous shocks, especially one of drought/famine destabilizing the 
macroeconomic agenda.  
 
The first of these risks has been mitigated by having wide consultations with all 
stakeholders, including the civil society organizations (CSOs) on the proposed program 
to create a broad support for it and providing technical assistance to support 
implementation of the reforms.  The second risk has been mitigated by working closely 
with all our development partners, including the Common Approach to Budget Support 
(CABS) Group comprising the European Commission (EC), the Norwegian Agency for 
Development (NORAD), Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA), and the 
Department for International Development (DfID) of the United Kingdom (UK); the 
African Development Bank (AfDB); the United Nations Development Program (UNDP); 
German Agency for International Development (GTZ); and the United States Agency for 
International Development (USAID) to make sure that all our operations are coordinated. 
The third risk is mitigated by efforts made to strengthen the systems to respond quickly to 
early warnings of a possible famine and the preparation of the Food and Nutrition Policy.          
 
 
6.0 Financing 
 
The Credit will consist of an untied balance of payments support to be disbursed in two 
tranches. One tranche of US$ 20 million will be released upon Board approval and credit 
effectiveness (expected in January 2004) and the other tranche of US$ 30 million will be 
released upon completing implementation of actions for the tranche release.   
 
7.0 Implementation 
 
The reform program under this proposed Credit will be implemented by the Ministry of 
Finance. Implementation of the overall program will be monitored on a monthly basis by 
a National Steering Committee of Principal Secretaries comprising the following: the 
Page  6
 6
Secretary to the Treasury (Chair); the Secretary for Agriculture, Irrigation and Food 
Security; the Secretary for Lands, Physical Planning and Surveys; the Secretary for Local 
Government and District Administration; the Executive Director of the National AIDS 
Commission; and the World Bank Country Manager. In addition, the Ministry of Finance 
will create a full-time position of Coordinator for the Project to monitor on a daily basis 
progress made in implementing the Project. The Coordinator will report to the Secretary 
to the Treasury through the Director of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance, and 
will also serve as the Secretariat for the National Steering Committee. In addition, there 
will be weekly meetings to monitor program implementation between the Secretary to the 
Treasury and senior Ministry of Finance officials and the World Bank Country Manager 
and his senior staff.   
 
8.0 Sustainability 
 
By supporting the deepening of the implementation of the structural reforms and laying a 
basis for generating growth, the expected socio-economic impact of the Credit should be 
largely positive. The provision of the crucial  balance of payments (BOP)  support needed 
to finance a sustainable  BOP and fiscal framework will assist in restoring 
macroeconomic stability whereas by providing budget support, the Credit will help 
Government efforts in ensuring that PPEs are fully funded. However, some groups may 
be negatively affected by the following measures: restructuring of Government functions 
and institutions, ADMARC restructuring, privatization of MTL and ADMARC 
subsidiary companies, increase in land fees, the reduction in tobacco levies, and provision 
of adequate funds for management of HIV/AIDS national response and for public sector 
mainstreaming.  
 
The negative impact of privatization will be mitigated by Government making a 
provision for retrenchment benefits. The negative impact of ADMARC restructuring will 
be mitigated by the provision of technical assistance to ADMARC (through the Credit) to 
undertake public awareness campaigns, hire a technical advisor and  pay retrenchment 
benefits. The increase in land fees will be mitigated by improved agricultural productivity 
to be supported by a proposed National Agricultural Development Project, improved 
provision of extension services (this is a PPE), and increased tobacco output owing to the 
introduction of direct exports and contract farming for tobacco. The reduction in tobacco 
levies will have negative impact on the tobacco support institutions in the short-run only 
as in the medium- to long-run, the institutions will adjust their operations and make them 
efficient, and hence cut costs. The provision of adequate funds for HIV/AIDS should 
emanate from reduced allocations on non-PPE and non-priority activities.  
 
9.0 
Lessons Learnt from Past Operations 
 
A number of lessons have been learnt from previous operations, including that some 
reforms such as the restructuring of ADMARC and privatization of SOEs are difficult to 
implement and require a lot of public awareness campaigns for the general populace to 
buy in. Other lessons are that implementation of reforms require political commitment at 
the highest level, that the National Steering Committee ought to be active in monitoring 
Page  7
 7
the implementation of reforms and needs to comprise individuals at the policy making 
level, and that there is need for a full-time Coordinator for the Project to follow on the 
progress of implementation on a day to day basis. The Coordinator should be a senior 
civil servant or someone hired from outside the civil service with experience in managing 
donor-funded projects. 
 
10.0 
Program Targeted Interventions (PTI):     
N/A
 
 
11.0 
Environmental Aspects:                                
N/A
 
 
12.0 
Contact Point:                                                
 
Sudhir Chitale 
Lead Economist and Task Team Leader
                                                                           
                                   
World Bank Zimbabwe Office 
88 Nelson Mandela Avenue 
Harare Zimbabwe.  
Tel.: (263) 4 729 611 
Fax: (202) 614 1119  
 
 
