                                          CREDIT NUMBER 3881 MAI




Development Credit Agreement

(Fiscal Management and Accelerating Growth Adjustment Credit)


                         between



                REPUBLIC OF MALAWI


                            and



    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




              Dated  Sewb       Q-j
                                    3 , 2004

                                                          CREDIT NUMBER 3881 MAU




                            DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMEN T

                                                   A


         AGREEMENT, dated 2004, between REPUBLIC OF   3,
MALAWI (the Borrower) and T NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATIO N
(the Association).


         WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter date d
January 15, 2004 (the "LDP"), describing a program of actions, objectives and policies
designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter calle d
the Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, an d
requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during the
execution thereof; and


         (B) on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided i n
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit
available in two tranches as hereinafter provided ;


        NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows :


                                        ARTICLE I


                              General Conditions; Definitions


        Section 1 .01 . The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through October 6 ,
1999) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute a n
integral part of this Agreement:


        (a)       Section 2 .01, paragraph 12, is modified to read :


                          "`Project' means the Program, referred to in paragraph A of th e
                  preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, in support of which th e
                  Credit is made.";


        (b)       Section 4.01 is modified to read:

                                            - 2


                         "Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwis e
                 agree, withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the
                 currency of the deposit account specified in Section 2 .02 of the
                 Development Credit Agreement.";


        (c)      Section 5.01 is modified to read:


                         "The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of th e
                 Credit from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the
                 Development Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions" ;


        (d)      The last sentence of Section 5 .03 is deleted;


        (e)      Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:


                         "(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or suc h
                 later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and
                 the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to th e
                 Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Associatio n
                 shall reasonably request, on the execution of the Program referred to in
                 paragraph A of the preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, th e
                 performance by the Borrower and the Association of their respectiv e
                 obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and th e
                 accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit."; and


        (f)      Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9 .07
and 9 .08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9 .04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9 .07.


        Section 1 .02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions and in the preamble to this Agreement have the respectiv e
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the followin g
meanings :


        (a)      "ADMARC" means the Agricultural Development and Marketing
Corporation, a statutory corporation established under the Agricultural Development and
Marketing Corporation Act, Chapter 67:03 of the laws of the Borrower, dated April 1 ,
1971 ;


        (b)      "ADMARC Restructuring Plan" means the plan to be prepared by th e
Borrower and approved by the Borrower's cabinet, setting forth the framework for the






                                               - 3


    restructuring of both ADMARC's commercial and social operations addressing issue s
    including but not limited to the appointment of a new Board of Directors, staff
    retrenchment and the separation of ADMARC's commercial and social operations;


            (c)      "AHL" means Auction Holdings Limited, a company established under
    the Borrower's Companies Act, Chapter 46:03 of the laws of the Borrower;


            (d)      "ARET" means the Agricultural Research and Extension Trus t
    established under the Trustees Incorporation Act, Chapter 5 :03 of the laws of the
    Borrower;


            (e)      "Cabinet Paper on Sector Devolution" means the paper approved by th e
    cabinet in January 2003, setting out the Borrower's strategy for the devolution of define d
    functions from the central government to the local government ;


            (f)      "Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Section 2 .02 (b) of
    this Agreement;


            (g)      "District" means a local government area established pursuant to th e
    Local Government Act, Chapter 22:01 of the laws of the Borrower;


            (h)      "District Assembly" means a local authority constituted pursuant to th e
    Local Government Act, Chapter 22:01 of the laws of the Borrower, with jurisdiction ove r
    a District ;


            (i)      "Fiscal Year" or "FY" means the Borrower's fiscal year beginning o n
    July 1 and ending on June 30 of the following year ;


            (j)      "HIV/AIDS" means the Human Immuno-Deficiency Virus/Acquire d
    Immune Deficiency Syndrome;


            (k)      "LDP" means the Letter of Development Policy dated January 15, 2004 ,
    referred to in paragraph A of the preamble to this Agreement ;


            (1)      "Malawi Kwacha" or "MK" means the currency of the Borrower ;


            (m)      "MOAIFS" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture, Irrigatio n
    and Food Security;






                                               - 4


            (n)     "MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance ;


            (o)     "NAC" means the National Aids Commission of Malawi, establishe d
    within the Office of the President and Cabinet and operating pursuant to Trust Deed
    TR/INC.NO.1400, dated March 16, 2002 ;


            (p)     "NASFAM" means the National Association of Smallholder Farmers o f
    Malawi, established under the Trustees Incorporation Act, Chapter 5 :03 of the laws of
    the Borrower;


            (q)     "Reserve Bank of Malawi" means the Borrower's central bank ;


            (r)     "TCC" means the Tobacco Control Commission established under the
    Tobacco Act, Chapter 65 :03 of the laws of the Borrower;


            (s)     "TAMA" means the Tobacco Association of Malawi, established under
    the Trustees Incorporation Act, Chapter 5 :03 of the laws of the Borrower; and


            (t)     "Tobacco Sector Institutions" means the AHL, ARET, MOAIFS,
    NASFAM, TAMA and TCC .


                                           ARTICLE II


                                            The Credit


            Section 2.01 . The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
    conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in
    various currencies equivalent to thirty-three million, eight hundred thousand Specia l
    Drawing Rights (SDR 33,800,000) .


            Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of thi s
    Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from th e
    Credit Account in support of the Program.


            (b) The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first
    request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in the Reserve
    Bank of Malawi, a Deposit Account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to
    the Association. All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the
    Association into the Deposit Account.






                                                - 5


              (c)     The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be
    used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to thi s
    Agreement. If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the
    Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the
    Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association : (i) deposit into the Deposit
    Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Association shal l
     so request, refund such amount to the Association . Amounts refunded to the Association
     upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for cancellation .


              (d)     No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account after th e
     aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account shall hav e
     reached the equivalent of sixteen million, nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
     (SDR16,900,000), unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views a s
     described in Section 3 .01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to th        e
     Association:


                      (i)     with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out
                              of the Program;


                      (ii)    that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower i s
                              satisfactory, as measured on the basis of indicators agreed
                              between the Borrower and the Association; and


                      (iii)   that the actions described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement hav e
                              been taken.


    If, after said exchange of views, the Association is not so satisfied, the Association may
    give notice to the Borrower to that effect and, if within 90 days after such notice, th e
    Borrower shall not have taken steps satisfactory to the Association, in respect of (i), (ii)
    and (iii) above, as the case may be, then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower ,
    cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof.


              Section 2.03 . The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005, or such later date a s
     the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower o f
     such later date.


              Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitmen t
     charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate t o
     be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one -
     half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.

                                            - 6



         (b)     The commitment charge shall accrue : (i) from the date sixty days after
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amount s
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rate  s
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above . The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified i   n

Section 2.06 of this Agreement.


         (c)     The commitment charge shall be paid :         (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request ; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, o r
in the territory of the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4 .02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to th e
provisions of that Section .


         Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at th e
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time ,


         Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.


         Section 2.07 . (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shal l
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
February 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 2014 and ending February 15, 2044.
Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 15, 2024, shall be
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be tw o
percent (2%) of such principal amount .




          (b) Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as
 determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the leve l
 established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access th e
 Association's resources ; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy fo r
 Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
 Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by the Association o f
 the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments unde       r

 paragraph (a) above by :

                                              7


                          (A)    requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of eac h
                                  such installment not yet due until the principal amount o f
                                 the Credit shall have been repaid ; and


                          (B)    requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the
                                 principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannua l
                                  payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six
                                  months or more after the date on which the Association
                                  notifies the Borrower that the events set out in thi s
                                  paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, tha t
                                  there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years
                                  on such repayment of principal .


        (c)      If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise th e
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of th e
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rat e
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn an d
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repaymen t
modification.


        (d)      If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b )
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, furthe r
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided i n
paragraph (a) above.


        Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions .


                                       ARTICLE III


                                   Particular Covenants


         Section 3 .01 . (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, a t
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement .


         (b) Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to th e
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out
the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request .

                                           - 8


        (c) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section ,
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, includin g
any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement .


        Section 3.02. Upon the Association's request, the Borrower shall  :


        (a)     have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriat e
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;


        (b)     furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than four months after the date of the Association's request for such audit, a certifie d
copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested ; and


        (c)     furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested   .


                                      ARTICLE IV


                             Additional Event of Suspension


        Section 4.01 . Pursuant to Section 6.02      (1) of the General Conditions, the
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shal   l
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out .


                                       ARTICLE V


                                       Termination


        Section 5.01 . The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement i        s
 hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.






                                             - 9


                                        ARTICLE VI


                          Representative of the Borrower ; Addresses



            Section 6.01 . The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as th e
    representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11 .03 of the General
    Conditions.


            Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Sectio n
    11 .01 of the General Conditions:


            For the Borrower:

                    Minister of Finance
                    Ministry of Finance
                    P.O. Box 30049
                    Lilongwe 3
                    Malawi


                    Cable address:                 Telex:                  Facsimile:


                    FINANCE                        44407 (MI)              (265) 789173
                    Lilongwe


            For the Association:


                    International Development Association
                    1818 H Street, N.W.
                    Washington, D.C. 20433
                    United States of America


                    Cable address:                 Telex:                  Facsimile:
                    INDEVAS                 248423 (MCI) or                (202) 477-639 1


                    Washington, D.C.                64145 (MCI)


                                       -10 -


       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names i n
 ,asofthedayandyearfirstabovewritten.




                               REPUBLIC OF MALAWI




                               By
                                                            Authorized Representativ e




                               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATIO N




                               By
                                                            Authorized Representative






                                                -11 -


                                          SCHEDULE 1


                                     Excluded Expenditures


            For purposes of Section 2 .02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credi t
    shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:


    1.      expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplie d
    from the territory of the Borrower;


    2.      expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any nationa l
    or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association
    shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank shall have
    financed or agreed to finance under another credit or a loan;


    3.      expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of th e
    Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev .3), published by the
    United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No . 34IRev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any
    successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by th e
    Association by notice to the Borrower:


                Group                             Subgroup          Description of Items


                 112                                                Alcoholic beverages


                 12 1                                               Tobacco, unmanu-
                                                                    factured, tobacco
                                                                    refuse


                 122                                                Tobacco, manufactured
                                                                    (whether or not
                                                                    containing tobacco
                                                                    substitutes)


                525                                 -               Radioactive and
                                                                    associated materials


                667                                                 Pearls, precious and
                                                                    semiprecious
                                                                    stones, unworked






                                                -12 -


                                                                     or worked


                 718                              718.7              Nuclear reactors, and
                                                                     parts thereof; fuel
                                                                     elements (cartridges),
                                                                     non-irradiated, for
                                                                     nuclear reactors


                728                               728.43             Tobacco processing
                                                                     machinery


                 897                              897.3              Jewelry of gold,
                                                                     silver or platinum
                                                                     group metals (except
                                                                     watches and watch
                                                                     cases) and
                                                                     goldsmiths' or
                                                                     silversmiths'
                                                                     wares (including
                                                                     set gems)


                971                                                  Gold, non-monetary
                                                                     (excluding gold
                                                                     ores and concentrates) ;


    4.      expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or fo r
    luxury consumption;


    5.      expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of thi s
    paragraph the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture ,
    use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or internationa l
    agreements to which the Borrower is a party ;


    6.      expenditures : (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of th e
    Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories ; or (b) on
    account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment o r
    import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under
    Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations ; and


    7.      expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines
    that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrowe r

                                          - 13 -


or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such contract ,
without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the
Association to remedy the situation.






                                                  -14 -


                                            SCHEDULE 2


                    Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement


             The Borrower has furnished to the Association evidence in form and substanc e
    satisfactory to the Association that it has taken the following actions :


    1 .      Improving Fiscal Management


                      (i) standardized and consolidated the salary and allowance structur e
                              of its civil service to form a uniform salary structure, as set forth
                              in paragraph 14 of the LDP.


                      (ii) decentralized to the District Assemblies the responsibility fo r
                              primary education, primary health care centers and land ren t
                              collection, in accordance with the Cabinet Paper on Sector
                              Devolution, and transferred the associated budgetary allocatio n
                              reflected in the "other recurrent transactions" budgetary line ite m
                              from the MOF to the said Assemblies, as set forth in paragraph 1 5
                              of the LDP.


    2.       Parastatal Reform:


                      (iii)   completed the implementation of the ADMARC Restructurin g
                              Plan, as set forth in paragraph 19 of the LDP .


    3 .     Land Policy:


                      (iv) published in the Borrower's official gazette a notice setting forth
                              the new rate of leasehold land rent of one thousand Malaw i
                              Kwacha (MK1,000) per hectare and publicized this new rate t o
                              members of the public by carrying out a public awarenes s
                              campaign in the local newspapers and the radio, as set forth i n
                              paragraph 21 of the LDP.


    4 .      Agriculture :


                      (v) received cabinet approval of an operational strategy to restructure
                              the Tobacco Sector Institutions and improve tobacco marketing,
                              prepared in line with the recommendations of the institutional






                                         - 15 -


                       review of the tobacco sector carried out by the Borrower, an d
                       amended, as necessary, the governing legislative and regulator y
                       framework to put into effect the said restructuring, as set forth i n
                       paragraph 24 of the LDP.


    5 .  Framework for Combating HIV/AIDS:


               (vi) allocated the amount of two million Dollars ($2,000,000) in the
                       FY2004/05 budget for HIV/AIDS interventions, to be disbursed t o
                       the NAC in the amount of five hundred thousand Dollars
                       ($500,000) for each quarter of the said Fiscal Year, as set forth i n
                       paragraph 27 of the LDP.

