                                                                                          79898

                                Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
         Emergency Project to Assist Jordan Partially Mitigate Impact of Syrian Conflict

                                                           Chair’s Summary

                                              Meeting of the Executive Directors

                                                               July 18, 2013


        Executive Directors approved the loan for the Emergency Project to Assist Jordan
Partially Mitigate Impact of Syrian Conflict for the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan in the amount
of US$150 million on the terms and conditions set out in the President’s Memorandum
(R2013 - 0135).

       Directors welcomed this first project by the World Bank to assist neighboring countries
impacted by the outbreak of conflict in Syria and emphasized the need for the Bank to be
proactive in this regard. Directors expressed their appreciation to the Jordanian authorities and
the Jordanian people for their efforts to accommodate Syrian refugees. They also welcomed the
Bank’s rapid response to the client, and urged equally rapid implementation of this emergency
operation. That said, they encouraged the Bank to monitor and, when possible, mitigate risks
and to help strengthen implementation capacity, particularly related to procurement. More
broadly, they encouraged the Bank to increase its engagement and support for the neighboring
countries impacted by the conflict.

        Directors acknowledged the Bank’s collaboration with bilateral and multilateral partners
in the preparation of this project and in the overall response to the regional impact of the Syrian
crisis, and emphasized the importance of continued close coordination in the months ahead.
Given Jordan’s fiscal stress, Directors underscored the need for continued dialogue on subsidy
reform to ensure that, over time, subsidies are increasingly well-targeted to the poor and
vulnerable. Along these lines, Directors also noted the broader need for the Bank to support
Jordan‘s ability to cope with mounting fiscal and external imbalances.




                                                            

  This summary is not an approved record. 
