 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14734

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




      1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 06/30/2015

               Country: Jordan
             Project ID: P145865                                                    Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Mitigate The Impact          Project Costs (US$M):                       150.0                149.9
                         Of Syrian
                         Displacement On
                         Jordan
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                       150.0                149.9
      Sector Board:      Social Protection            Cofinancing (US$M):

          Cofinanciers:                                Board Approval Date :                                 07/18/2013
                                                              Closing Date:             07/31/2014           07/31/2014
         Sector(s):       Other social services (60%); Health (40%)
         Theme(s):        Nutrition and food security (37%); Child health (33%); Other social protection and risk
                          management (16%); Other economic management (7%); Health system performance (7%)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:            ICR Review                  Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Susan Ann Caceres         Judyth L. Twigg         Lourdes N. Pagaran          IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    According to the Project Appraisal Document (p. 6) and the Loan Agreement (p. 5), the project development
    objective was "to help the Borrower maintain access to essential healthcare services and basic household needs
    for the Jordanian population affected by the large and increasing influx of Syrian refugees."

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:

    There were three components:

        Maintaining Access to Essential Healthcare Services (appraisal, US$ 70 million; actual, US$ 69.9 million)
         was to provide resources to sustain services such as vaccines, drugs, and use of non-Ministry of Health
         facilities for approximately 2,500 Jordanian patients.

        Supporting Household Basic Needs (appraisal, US$ 79.9 million; actual, US$ 79.5 million ) was to co-finance
         a government subsidy program to ensure the uninterrupted supply of commodities, specifically bread and
         liquid petroleum gas, to the Jordanian population, as the influx of refugees increased the demand for these
         goods and services.

        Project Monitoring, Auditing and Verification (appraisal, US$ 100,000; actual US$ 100,000) was to finance
         two audits to provide documentation of retroactive disbursements for vaccines and drugs and verification of
         the lists of medical bills of patients referred to non-Ministry of Health facilities. For prospective payments,
         bills were to be tracked to measure against the baseline in the results framework.
d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   Project Cost: The total cost of the project was US$ 149.9 million, or 99.9% of appraised value. While component
   costs were similar to appraisal estimates, funds were shifted from medical treatment to drugs and vaccines within
   component one, as a delay in the external audit made it difficult for the Government to recover its expenditures
   for financing of health care services for Jordanians in non-Ministry of Health facilities (ICR p. 22).

   Financing: The project was financed by an IBRD loan.

   Borrower Contribution : The borrower made no contributions, nor were any planned.

   Dates: The operation was prepared within six weeks. The loan fully disbursed within a year, as planned, and
   closed on schedule.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   Substantial

   With the prolonged conflict in Syria, the Government of Jordan has committed to not closing its borders, and up
   until December 2014 it provided free health services to refugees. Approximately 619,000 people had crossed
   into Jordan from September 2014 through project closing. The majority of these refugees are living in Jordanian
   communities, which puts pressure on public finances. Given high demand for health services and the
   Government's provision of these services to refugees, drugs and vaccines were being depleted at a rapid rate.
   At the same time, the country's macroeconomic conditions have become vulnerable (e.g. rising government
   deficits from gas supply disruptions, deterioration in foreign exchange reserves, and decline in exports with
   closure of Syrian transit routes). The combination of all of these factors threatened Jordan's human development
   and poverty reduction achievements, as most costs associated with the refugees living in communities has been
   borne by the Jordanian government. The majority of international support has been channeled to the needs of
   the displaced Syrians residing in camps. Providing temporary support for household needs of Jordanians was
   also intended to mitigate the potential for social instability.

   The project development objective is substantially relevant to the Bank's current Country Partnership Strategy
   (FY12-FY15), which aims to build resilience and mitigate risks to internal and external shocks, and to improve the
   population's living standards. The objective is also consistent with the government's priority to mitigate the
   effects from the regional conflict on its citizens.

b. Relevance of Design:

   Substantial

   There was a logical and plausible link between both objectives, goods and services funded, and the outcome and
   output measures used to demonstrate maintenance of health and household basic services for the Jordanian
   population. The use of Investment Project Financing under Situations of Urgent Need of Assistance was
   appropriate. It allowed the operation to avail higher retroactive financing (40%) for payments made before the
   loan signing date (on or after June 30, 2012) to alleviate fiscal pressure, as gas and bread subsidies were a
   heavy fiscal burden on the government's budget (1.6% of GDP) (ICR p.15). Disbursements were based on a
   positive list that was developed during appraisal, but flexibility was permitted to ensure that services and goods
   continued without a gap. The rationale for supporting universal subsidies was that refugees added fiscal
   pressures for theses goods and services, which constitute a larger share of poor households' expenditures than
   that of rich households (PAD p. 18). The government has subsidized wheat and bakeries, which sell subsidized
   bread at regulated retail prices that have been unchanged since 1996 (ICR p. 8). Existing structures and
   implementation arrangements were utilized, which facilitated simple processes and rapid implementation.
   Estimation of financing was based on recent usage data and incremental volumes of bread and gas consumed
   beyond the level reached prior to the onset of the Syrian conflict to address the temporary need.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   Maintain access to essential healthcare services for the Jordanian populatio n: Substantial
    Outputs:
      117 types of drugs and vaccinations were purchased from the rational drug list, exceeding both baseline (90)
        and target (112). Exceeding the target was due to the reallocation of funding from reimbursement of
        uninsured patients in non-Ministry health facilities. According to the ICR, the number of beneficiaries of
        drugs and vaccines slightly increased from its baseline value (6.23 million) to 6.37 million, which exceeded
        the target of maintaining the baseline value. However, this target represents the entire population of the
        country. While it is unlikely that nearly all of the population would receive medication or vaccines in a single
        year, this figure was derived from calculations of the Ministry of Finance based on payments to the Ministry
        of Health to maintain stock for universal healthcare.
      Ministry of Health warehouses with no drug stock-outs declined from 7 to 2 by the end of the project,
        meeting the target (2).

    Outcomes:
      The immunization rate of children (0-6) remained at 97% throughout the life of the project, which met the
        target.
      The ICR reports that the per capita outpatient utilization rate at primary health centers remained at 0.58% or
        nearly one visit per person, which met the target. The region clarified that this number was the primary
        health care utilization rate from the four governorates most affected by the Syrian crisis (i.e. Irbid, Ramtha,
        El-Mafrak, and El-Zarka). MOH data and the Borrower's ICR (p. 38) also indicate that the outpatient
        utilization remained at 2 visits per capita per year for the entire population.
      The ICR reports that per capita inpatient admission rates at hospitals remained at the baseline value (1.1%),
        which met the target. The region clarified that this figure represents hospital deliveries (72,611 in 2012 and
        74, 188 in 2013). In addition, the MOH Annual Report 2013 shows that a rate of 141 admissions per 1000
        persons was maintained during this period. The Borrower's ICR (p. 38) reports a 5.5 % hospital admission
        rate.
      48.6% of beneficiaries of drugs and vaccines were women, which was maintained throughout the project.



    Maintain access to basic household needs for the Jordanian population : Modest

    Outputs:
      77,773 metric tons of wheat were purchased, which exceeded the target (64,811).
      3,196,622 metric ton of liquified petroleum gas was purchased, which met the target (3,196,622).

    Outcomes:
      The number of beneficiaries in safety net programs for bread and fuel was 2.5 million and continued to be
        maintained at the end of the project, which met the target. While this subsidy is universal, the Bank's
        financing was to cover a portion of the population.
      48.6% of beneficiaries of safety nets were women, which was maintained throughout the project.

    The ICR does not provide data to demonstrate that access to basic household needs was maintained.

5. Efficiency:

    The appraisal document stated that financing US$ 80 million of basic goods would prevent the incidence of
    poverty and its depth from worsening. For example, the wheat subsidies would prevent the price from rising by
    35%, pushing about 45,000 people into poverty (representing a 5% increase in the number of poor in Jordan). It
    further estimated that maintaining the subsidy would prevent 14.4% (or one million people) of the Jordanian
    population already in poverty from becoming poorer. The appraisal document also noted the negative impacts
    that could result from disruption in access to medicine and vaccines, including disease outbreaks. Some of these
    assumptions have not materialized, as the government has continued to subsidize wheat and bakeries, which sell
    subsidized bread at regulated retail prices that have been unchanged since 1996 (ICR p. 8). The Government
    has accompanied a subsidy phase out with the implementation of a cash transfer program (PAD p. 23).

    The ICR (pp. 18, 29-31) repeats the economic analysis from the appraisal document and augments it with other
    information. The ICR notes that the financing mechanism established was efficient and flexible. However, the
    final audit has not been completed. While it was estimated that the operation would provide US $20 million to
    finance services for Jordanians using non-Ministry of Health facilities, as data showed an increasing trend in the
    numbers and cost of referrals before the influx of refugees, these costs were reallocated due to delays in hiring
    an audit firm. The operation was implemented within a year, as anticipated, with the provision of retroactive
    reimbursement. On balance there was modest efficiency.
   Efficiency: Modest

a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :

                               Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

   Appraisal                       No
   ICR estimate                    No
                                      * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

   The Outcome rating is Moderately Satisfactory based on substantial relevance of objectives and design,
   substantial achievement of one objective, modest achievement of the other objective, and modest efficiency.
   Design was simple, with its streamlined financial management approach, 40% retroactive financing, use of a
   positive list of vaccines and drugs that minimized transaction costs. Data from the MOH demonstrate the
   maintenance of essential health care services, but information is not provided to demonstrate maintenance of
   access to household basic needs.

a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   While the ICR (p. 20) reports that the risk to the development outcome is low because targets were met, other
   risks such as the fiscal strain due to the prolonged conflict, a continuing influx of refugees, high rates of poverty
   and unemployment, and large budget deficits were not discussed. Considering these other factors, the risk to the
   development outcome is likely higher than indicated in the completion report and is rated as significant.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   A multi-sectoral team prepared the operation in six weeks. Existing structures and systems were utilized to
   quickly provide resources to the Government given the fiscal pressure from the influx of refugees. Fiduciary
   assessments previously undertaken were used by the Bank, as well as a simplified review process during
   preparation (e.g. Directorate of Purchases and Supplies). This was augmented with several ex-post controls
   and reviews. A positive list of drugs was established to minimize the number of transactions and required
   documents. Preparation clarified how the Borrower's national anti-corruption rules governed contracts under
   the operation. Financial management procedures were specified, as well as coordination mechanisms
   between departments to ensure documentation was provided to the Bank. An accountant from the Ministry
   of Finance was identified during preparation. Simulations were developed during preparation to estimate the
   project's impact on poor and lower middle class households, if bread and fuel subsidies were not maintained.
   There were differences between the lending agreement and appraisal document in terms of eligibility for
   retroactive financing (ICR p. 21). There were also shortcomings in the selection of indicators thus making it
   difficult to demonstrate attainment of one of the objectives (See Section 10a).


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                        Satisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

   Supervision was undertaken by staff in the region and across several units in the Bank (e.g. financial
   management, procurement, social protection, and social development). Two supervision missions were
   conducted during the year of implementation. Financial management training was provided by Bank staff for
   the Implementing Agency. Clear specification of the documents that the Borrower had to provide for
   disbursements was established.



  Quality of Supervision Rating :              Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :            Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   The Government of Jordan has committed to not closing its borders, and up until December 2014 it provided
   free health services to refugees. The King requested Bank involvement in the spring of 2013. The
   government provided its full support during preparation and implementation. There was a delay in
   establishing the Designated Account, which was expected to have been done before effectiveness. The
   project team indicated that funds were transferred into the account on October 3, 2013, indicating a delay of
   nearly three months. The project team reported that this resulted from lack of understanding of Bank
   guidelines, but this delay did not have a negative impact on disbursements. While the Government had
   implemented multiple Bank operations in recent years, the team indicated that this was the first one
   implemented by the Ministry of Finance.


  Government Performance Rating                               Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   The implementing agency was the Ministry of Finance, which managed the operation through its financial
   management of bills and verification of expenditures. The Ministry of Finance established baseline data and
   coordinated project indicators. An accountant from the Ministry was identified during preparation. The
   Ministry of Finance worked with staff in the Joint Procurement Department, which provided necessary
   information and documentation. There was a delay in hiring an auditor, which impacted the project's ability to
   recoup health services costs for 2500 people who used non-Ministry of Health facilities, as required
   documents were unavailable. Two agencies (Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation and Ministry
   of Finance) were engaged in the financial management and disbursement arrangements. There were issues
   with coordination between these two agencies on a few occasions, which caused delay in submission of
   documents to the Bank (ICR p. 24). There were issues with the final audit submitted to the Bank; the report
   was initially expected in March 2015 and is now expected on September 15, 2015.


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Unsatisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   Given the development objective, maintaining and not increasing the baseline level in terms of coverage and
   access to the Jordanian population in relation to essential household needs (i.e. bread and liquified petroleum
   gas) and health services was appropriate. However, indicators were obtained only from the financial
   management and verification system. In the case of health services, this was supplemented with MOH data to
   demonstrate that health services were maintained. However, there were no indicators to demonstrate
   maintenance of household needs. The implementing agency had responsibility for data collection, reporting, and
   analysis.
b. M&E Implementation:

   The financial management and verification system provided the monitoring evaluation data related to universal
   subsides and indicators generated from the payments and invoices for vaccines, drugs, and medical treatment.

c. M&E Utilization:

   The ICR did not report how data were utilized except in relation to tracking of payments and indicators, as the
   Government's completion report did not provide information on the monitoring and evaluation aspects of the
   operation (ICR p. 25).

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

   No safeguard policies were triggered by the operation (PAD p. 29).

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

   Financial Management: Qualified staff within the Ministry of Finance oversaw the financial management and
   disbursement functions under the project. An external firm was to conduct audits of vaccines, drugs, and medical
   bills of patients referred to non-Health Ministry facilities, and subsidies. While the final audit has not been
   completed, interim financial reports were deemed acceptable by the Bank. The project team indicated that the
   final audit report initially submitted was rejected by the Bank, and the final audit is expected by September 15,
   2015.

   Procurement: Procurement monitoring was done by the Joint Procurement Department and was evaluated by a
   visiting agency that interviewed staff and reviewed documents. Procurement of vaccines and drugs followed the
   procedures of the Joint Procurement Department for contracts up to US$ 5 million. The first audit revealed that
   payments were made for invoices dated from 2011 and later for retroactive financing, as the legal agreement
   specified payment date, not invoice date.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

   None reported.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                            ICR                IEG Review                     Reason for
                                                                                   Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Satisfactory           Moderately             The Outcome rating is Moderately
                                                      Satisfactory           Satisfactory based on substantial
                                                                             relevance of objectives and design,
                                                                             substantial achievement of one
                                                                             objective, modest achievement of the
                                                                             other objective, and modest efficiency.
                                                                             Design was simple, with its streamlined
                                                                             financial management approach, 40%
                                                                             retroactive financing, use of a positive
                                                                             list of vaccines and drugs that
                                                                             minimized transaction costs. Data from
                                                                             the MOH demonstrate the maintenance
                                                                             of essential health care services, but
                                                                             data are not presented to demonstrate
                                                                               maintenance of access to household
                                                                               basic needs.
          Risk to Development Negligible to Low             Significant        There are several risks that pose a
                     Outcome:                                                  substantial risk to the development
                                                                               outcome such as the fiscal strain due to
                                                                               the prolonged conflict, a continuing
                                                                               influx of refugees, high rates of poverty
                                                                               and unemployment, and large budget
                                                                               deficits, none of which are noted in the
                                                                               ICR.
            Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory           Satisfactory       The ICR substantiates satisfactory
                                                                               performance by the Bank consistent
                                                                               with expectations in preparing and
                                                                               supervising an emergency operation.
       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Moderately         Based on OPCS Harmonized Criteria,
                                                            Satisfactory       the outcome rating determines the
                                                                               overall Borrower Performance Rating.
                Quality of ICR:                             Unsatisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

The ICR provides several lessons (ICR pp. 24-25) that have been synthesized by IEG as follows:

    Utilizing existing delivery mechanisms and services allows quick preparation , implementation, and response,
     but technical assistance is also required . In this case, project preparation minimized time-intensive financial
     management and procurement reviews and relied on country systems already assessed by the Bank. A
     positive list of drugs and vaccines minimized the number of transactions and documents to be audited, thus
     reducing transaction costs. Strong ex-post audits ensured compliance with project requirements. Retroactive
     financing provided immediate fiscal relief. However, technical assistance related to fiduciary management was
     also needed for successful project implementation.
    Temporary time-bound support in emergency situations can help mitigate social instability . The universal
     subsidies played a role in maintaining social stability in the country, despite being burdened by a large refugee
     population (with no end in sight).
    A strong relationship between the Bank and the government facilitates rapid response . The Bank was able to
     provide rapid preparation and intensive implementation support drawing on the multi-sectoral staff in the
     region. This may not have been possible without the working relationship that existed between the Bank and
     the government.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No

Why? A field based assessment could bring additional data to assess attainment of the project development
objectives.




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


     The ICR is thin, with a number of shortcomings. The ICR draws heavily upon the information contained in the
     appraisal document. The ICR repeats the same information across sections, rather than providing quality
     evidence. Several of the sections suffer from lack of analysis, contributing to disconnects in ratings between the
     ICR and ICRR. The ICR does not provide much description and analysis in relation to Government and
    Implementing Agency Performance and Bank Performance. The ICR provides only a superficial discussion of the
    risk to the development outcome, rather than examining evident risks. Some information that would be expected
    is not reported (e.g. compliance with covenants and interim financial reports, assessment of financial
    management performance and explanation of how beneficiaries of subsidies were verified). The ICR did not
    report on the external audits. Overall Bank Performance, Quality at Entry, and Quality of Supervision are
    inconsistently rated in the ICR, making it unclear whether overall Bank Performance is rated as Satisfactory or
    Highly Satisfactory. Data contained in the ICR and PAD are inconsistent with MOH data and that in the
    Borrower's ICR (p. 38).

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Unsatisfactory
