Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7489-SO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SOMALIA
FARAHAANE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
JUNE 30, 1989
Agriculture Operations
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Region
This documeit has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents (as of September 1988)
Official Exchange Rate US$1.00       250 Somali Shillings (SoSh)
SoSh 1.00      =    US$ 0.004
Weights and Measures
mm n      Millimeter (0.039 inches)
cm    =   Centimeter (0.397 inches)
m     =   Meter (39.37 inches)
Km    -   Kilometers (0.62 miles)
Sq km -   Square Kilometers (0.386 square miles)
Ha    =   Hectare (2.47 acres)
CMS   =   Cubic Meter per second
MCM   =   Million Cubic Meter
L     =   Liter (1.05 quart)
L/S   =   Litre/Second (0.035 cubic feet per second)
Kg    =   Kilogram (2.2 pounds)
T     =   Metric ton (2,205 pounds)
Calendar
Fiscal Year: January 1 - December 31
Cropping Year:  A.ril - June (Gu Season)
: October - December (Der Season)
Abbreviations
ADC      Agriculture Development Corporation
AFMET    Agricultural Farm Management, Extension and Training
CARS     Central Agriculture Research Station
CHWS     Community Health Workers
CSBS     Commercial and Savings Bank of Somalia
DILU     Directorate of Irrigation and Land Use
FAO      Food and Agriculture Organization
FEA      Field Extension Agent
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GOS      Government of Somalia
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
IDA      International Development Association
IFAD     International Fund for Agricultural Development
IMF      International Monetary Fund
LCB      Local Competitive Bidding
LEUD     Land Evaluation and Use Division
MOA      Ministry of Agriculture
MOF      Ministry of Finance and Revenue
MOH      Ministry of Health
NPK      Nitrogen, Phosphorus and Potassium
ONAT     Farm Mechanization and Agricultural Services
Organization
PHC      Primary Health Care
RWRAD    Regional Water Resources Allocation Division
SDB      Somali Development Bank
SOE      Statement of Expenditure
SRMD     Shebelli River Management Division
SWMP     Shebelli Water Management Project
UNCDF    United Nations Capital Development Fund
UNDP     United Nations Development Program
USAID    United States Agency for International Development
WHO      World Health Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONL'
SOMALIA
FARAJHAANE lRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Credit and Project Sumary .......     .......................   i-Li
I.    BACKGROUND
A. Project Origin ...........   .......................  1
B. The Agricultural Sector ......     ...................  1
C. IDA Lending ............. ........................  3
II.   THE PROJECT AREA
A. Location, Climate and Water Supply ....    .......... 4
B. Topography, Soils and Land Use .....    .............  5
C. Farm Size and Land Tenure ......    .................  6
D. Irrigation and Drainage Facilities .....    ......... 7
E. Agricultural Services .......    .................... 9
F. Agricultural Inputs ........    .....................  11
G. Health and Social Aspects ......     .................  12
H. Institutions ............ ........................  13
III.  THE PROJECT
A. Project Description ........    ....................  16
B. Detailed Features   .......    .....................  19
C. Agricultural Support Services .....    .............  23
D. Health and Social Aspects ......    ................  25
E. Institutional Development and Training .........  27
F. Implementation Assistance ......    ................  27
G. Project Costs and Financing Plan .....    ...........  30
H. Procurement and Disbursem-nts .....    .............. 31
I. Accounts and Audits .......    .....................   35
J. Environmental Impact .......    ....................  35
IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management .....     ...............  36
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Somalia in
september/October 1988 comprising Messrs. Aizad N. Khan, James Coates (Bank),
Henning Pedersen (IFAD) and Kalidas Sengupta, Harold Lemel and Ms. Mariam Warsame
Yusuf (Consultants). Messrs. W. J. Ochs (Bank) and R. Klump (Consultant) visited
project area prior to appraisal miusion and contributed to the report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii -
Page No.
V.    AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES AND PRODUCTION
A. Support Services      ...............................   38
B. Farm Inputs ....................................   38
C. Present and Future Cropping Pattern .......... ..  39
D. Yields and Production ...........................  41
VI.   MARKETING, PRICES, FARM INCOME AND COST RECOVERY
A. Marketing and Prices      ...........................  41
B. Farm Family Incomes ...........  .................  43
C. Cost Recovery        .........                      ...........  45
VII.  BENErITST, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. E(..onomic Analysis .....................   46
B. Risks .........         ..       ..........   47
VIII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION
A. General Conditions ............................   48
B. Dated Covenants   .             .49
C. Condition of Disbursement .50
D. Conditions of Effectiveness .50
LIST OF TABLES
2.1   Land Use in the Project Area
2.2   Farm Size Distribution
3.1   2roject Cost Summary
3.2   Financing Plan
3.3   Procurement Arrangements
3.4   Disbursement Schedule
5.1   Current and Projected Crop Yield in Farahaane
5.2   Incremental Production
6.1   Farmgate Prices Used in Production Analysis
6.2   Farm Income Levels for Project Farm Families
7.1   Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Tests
ANNEXES
ANNEX I - Cost Estimates and Procurement
Table 1     Cost Summary - Summary Accounts
Table 2     Project Components Base Cost by Year
Table 3     Project Components Cost Incl. Contingencies
by Year
Table 4     Summary Account Base Cost by Year
Table 5     Summary Account Cost Incl. Contingencies by Year
Table 6     Proposed Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Table 7     Projected Disbursements



- iii -
Table 8     Proposed List of Building Facilities
Table 9     Estimated List of Vehicles and Equipment
Table 10    Summary of Consultants Input
Table 11    Proposed Civil Works and Procurement Schedule
ANNEX 1I -  Water Balance
Table 1     Climatological Data
Table 2     Proposed Water Requirement for Farahaane Area
Table 3     Water Balance Computations Downstream of Awdegle
ANNEX III - Agricultural Production
Table 1     Present and Proposed Land Use
Table 2     Incremental Production
Table 3     Present and Projected Crop Yield
Table 4     Annual Agricultural Input Requirement
Table 5     Total Annual Agricultural Input Requirement
Table 6     Annual Labor Force Required and Available
ANNEX IV -  Economic and Financial Aspects
Tabie 1     Cost Recovery Analysis
Table 2     Farm F' dels
Table 3     Econc,.ic Analysis
ANNEX V - Selected Documents and Data in the Project File
CHARTS
1.    Ministry of Agriculture Organization
2.    Project Organization
3.    Ministry of Health and Credit Institution Organization
4.    Implementation Schedule
MAPS
1.    Shebelli River Basin (IBRD No. 21076)
2.    Farahaane Irrigation Scheme (IBRD No. 21077)



SOMALIA
FARAHAANE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                      Somali Democratic Republic
IDA Credit:                   SDR 21.2 million (US$28.5 million equivalent)
Terms:                        Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
Beneficiaries:                Smallholder farmers and the Ministries of
Agriculture and Health
Project Objectives and Description:
The main objectives of the project are in line with the
Government's development and food production strategy for the agriculture
sector. Food production would be raised by about 5,600 smallholders in the
Qoryooley district through rehabilitation of a net irrigated area of 5,100
ha in Farahaane, reconstruction of two barrages, and strengthened services
such as extension, input supply, and on-farm trials and demonstrations.
Special emphasis would be given to strengthening the Department of
Irrigation and Land Use in the Ministry of Agriculture to implement
rehabilitation activities and simplified land registration procedures. To
ensure maintenance of irrigation facilities rehabilitated under the
project, cost recovery mechanisms would be developed and water users
organizations would be strengthened to eventually take over the operation
and maintenance of the entire system.
Benefits:
The benefits of the project would be obLained from increased
yields and higher cropping intensities possible with a more efficient,
reliable irrigation system and improved water management in the Shebelli
river basin, on the scheme and at the farm level. This will permit (a)
increased crop production; and (b) increased incomes and more stable and
reliable livelihood for some 5,600 subsistence farmers. Malaria and
schistosomiasis disease control will improve health standards and the
quality of life in the project area.
Risks:
The main risk to the attainment of the above mentioned results is
that expectations for improved management of the Shebelli basin may not b-
met. The Government is taking many steps to strengthen its control of the
Shebelli water resources, and with the support provided by IDA and USAID it
is expected to be able to greatly improve the efficiency and equity of
water allocations. A second important category of risk is the non
performance of key agricultural support services. A series of donor
supported projects, combined with the Government's efforts to liberalize
product and input markets, provide foreign exchange to the productive
sectors and rationalize and increase the efficiency of agricultural support
services, should permit these bottlenecks to be overcome. A third risk is
that projected yields depend on the availability of water in specified



quantities and timely availability of agricultural inputs. Steps to be
taken, such as reSulating the flow of Jowhar reservoirs, and project
provisions for input supply would reduce this ri.k. A fourth risk is that
the water users associations and other institutional arrangements for water
charges may not work. Special care has been taken to involve those
associations in the planning and design of the project.
Project Components and Estimated Costs: !J
US $ million
Local     Foreign    Total
Irrigation Development
Rehabilitation Works                 1.85        11.68     13.53
Vehicles and Equipment               -            2.49      2.49
Implementation Assistance
and training                        0.23         5.72      5.95
Incremental Staffing and
recurrent expenses                  0.62        0.04       0.66
Subtotal                       2.70        19.93      22.63
Agriculture Development              0.14         2.33      2.47
Health and Social Aspects            0.09         0.64      0.73
Total Baseline Costs                 2.93        22.90     25.83
Physical contingencies               0.22         1.73      1.95
Price contingencies                  0.45         3.87      4.32
TOTAL PROJECT COST                   3.60        28.50     32.10
a/ Net of duties and taxes
Financing Plan:
US$ million      Z of Total
(equivalent)
GOS                                 3.60           11.21
IDA                                28.5v           88.79
TOTAL                              32.10          100.00
Estimated Annual Disbursements (US$ million):
FY 90   FY 91   FY 92   FY 93   FY  .   FY 95   FY 96        Total
IDA         1.50    1.50    5.50    7.50    6.70    4.;         1.50     28.50
GOS         0.15    0.25    0.40    0.50    1.00    0.85    v.t5          3.60
TOTAL       1.65    1.75    5.90    8.00    7.70    5.15    1.95         32.10
2 of Total  5.1      5.4    18.4    24.9    27.1    16.0        6.1     100.0
Economic Rate of Return:  13Z
Maps:                      IBRD Nos. 21076 and 21077



SOMALIA
FARlAHAANE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Project Origin
1.01     The Government of Somalia (GOS) has requested assistance from the
International Development Association (IDA) to finance the rehabilitation of
the Farahaane Irrigation Scheme and the Qoryooley and Falkeerow barrages. The
project is located in the Qoryooley district of the Lower Shebelli region.
The irrigable area covered by the Farahaane ScheL.s and two barrages is about
12,600 ha and is farmed by about 5,600 families. The project would increase
farmers' incomes through increased production arising from rehabilitating
inoperative irrigation infrastructure, better irrigation management and
strengthening of agriculture support services.
1.02     The Government began project preparation in September 1985 with the
assistance of consultants and finalized preparation in October 1986 (para.
3.13). IDA pre-appraised the project in November 1986 and appraised it in
September/October 1988.
B. The Agriculture Sector
1.03     The Economy.  Somalia is a poor country with a per capita income of
about US$170 (in 1987 prices), a serious foreign debt problem, and a harsh
physical environment that poses major challenges to economic growth. Its 5.7
million people (and probably an additional half million refugees) occupy some
64 million hectares of land, and the population is growing at about 3.0
percent a year. The country is located on the horn of Africa, shares its
borders with Djibouti and Ethiopia to the Vest, Kenya to the South, and has a
3,300 kilometers coastline to the East and North.
1.04     The Government's relaxation of economic controls since the early
1980's, coupled with a shift from Government ownership and management toward a
more market oriented economy, exchange rate adjustments, trade liberalization
and the dismantling of agricultural pricing and marketing controls have helped
stimulate a recovery in production and exports and a rise in per capita GDP.
Growth in GDP was an estimated 2 percent per annum between 1980 and 1987,
whereas growth was less than 1 percent per annum from 1977 to 1980. These
economic reforms have been supported by several adjustment programs funded by
the International Monetary Fund (IMF), IDA and various multilateral and
bilateral donors.
1.05     However, the country continues to have serious macroeconomic
problems. Export earnings never covered more than half of the value of
imports in the period from 1975 to 1985. Trade deficits have been financed by
foreign grants, official concessional loans, private transfers and
accumulation of trade arrears. Domestic savings have generally been negative.
All of the Public Investment Program is supported by donor funds. The country



- 2 -
has serious external debt problems, with total debt estimated at US$1.74
billion at end 1987. Large debt service arrears have piled up. Current
service obligations at around $160 million per year constitute over 90 percent
of projected exports and private transfers. Budget deficits average some 10%
of GDP, covered in part by foreign grants and loans. The Government decision
in September 1987 to stop floating the exchange rate and place price controls
at the retail and wholesale level affected IMF and IDA support, and reduced
the availabilicy of foreign funds for production inputs. In mid-1988 price
controls were lifted, and the exchange rate devalued to levels closer to
market determined rates. This and recent discussions between the IMF, IDA and
the Government have restored the economic adjustment program. A second
agricultural adjustment program (ASAP II) financed by IDA (Cr. 2030-SO) was
approved recently. With macro-economic adjustment programs in place, the
proposed project will be able to respond to the strong incentives for food and
export crop production which exist in Somalia.
1.06     Agriculture Sector.  The agriculture sector provided 62Z of Somalia
GDP on average between 1977 and 1987. Over this period, agricultural output
grew at an annual average rate of 2.4 percent, a little below the population
growth rate of 2.9 percent per annum. Per capita food production has declined
only marginally. Over the 1977-1987 period, crop production has increased at
an average annual rate of 5.3 percent, over twice the growth rate for the
sector. This is due in part to the liberalization of marketing arrangements
as well as good weather. GOS recognizes the vital importance of agricultural
development. Objectives include achieving food security, increased production
of import substitution crops, development of export crops and increasing
livestock productivity and exports.
1.07     Rainfed cropping varies from year to year and, while nearly 900,000
hectares are reported as used for cultivation, only 500,000 to 700,000
hectares are used in any one season. The bulk of the sorghum, sesame and
groundnut crops is produced under rainfed conditions.  Due to the erratic
pattern of rainfall, scope for rapid increases in the productivity of rainfed
crops is minimal. The scope for area expansion of rainfed crops may be
substantial however, and is being explored in the IDA supported Bay Region
Project, the Northwest Project, and the Semi-mechanized Rainfed Pilot Project.
1.08     The Irrigated Agriculture Subsector.  Flood and controlled irrigation
along the Juba and Shebelli rivers occupies some 200,000 hectares, about 20
percent of the country's cultivated area. Irrigated agriculture produces the
bulk of marketed food stuffs, maize, rice, legumes, and vegetables. In
addition, the entire sugar output and all the bananas, from which the country
derives more than 801 of its export earnings, is produced under irrigation.
Livestock also depend on irrigated areas for dry season feed and water.
1.09     Somalia's irrigation potential is confined to the flood plains of the
two major rivers the Shebelli and the Juba. The Shebelli originates in
Ethiopia, enters Somalia near Belet Weyn and travels about 640 km before
terminating in a swamp abo"t 30 km from the Indian Ocean. Offstream storage
exists at Jowhar with an active capacity of 200 million cubic meters. A
second offstream reservoir with a live storage capacity of about 130 million
cubic meters is proposed at Duduble, upstream of Jowhar. The existing and



proposed reservoirs could provide a more uniform supply of irrigation water
throughout the year if water control and reservoir regulation is properly
practiced.
1.10     A variety of irrigated perennial and annual crops are grown along the
Shebelli. The perennial crops include sugar, bananas and citrus grown on
mainly well established large public and private irrigation schemes. The
annual crops include vegetables, paddy, maize and sesame grown mainly by small
farmers using flood irrigation and residual moisture. There is no system for
water allocation and management although regulation structures do exist.
Water allocation is practiced on an ad-hoc basis, as the river level declines
in November/December. Virtually all irrigation schemes on the Shebelli are in
need of physical rehabilitation. The Genale-Bulo Marerta complex is the
oldest of these schemes, established with Italian Assistance in 1926. This
scheme is on a fertile level plain and has excellent production potential.
The proposed project is situated in this area.
C. IDA Lending
1.11     IDA commitments to Somalia to date total about US$400 million
consisting of 36 IDA credits. Fifteen projects are under implementation.
Over thirty percent of IDA lending has been for agriculture. The ten projects
in the agriculture sector under implementation include four rainfed semi-
mechanized farming projects, one fisheries project, one livestock health
project, one rangelands development project, one agriculture extension
project, a technical assistance credit for the Baardhere Multipurpose Dam and
an agricultural sector adjustment credit. In addition ASAP II was approved by
the Board recently.
1.12     The performance of agricultural development projects in Somalia has
been mixed, reflecting the technical and institutional constraints, and the
financial difficulties faced by Government. Shortages of fund, spares and
inputs affect agricultural performance. Inadequate salaries and poor
infrastructure and equipment hamper the efforts of the civil service. In
spite of these problems advances have been made in developing the research and
extension establishment, in designing improved approaches to rainfed and
irrigated agriculture, and in developing strategies for rangeland and animal
health development. The agricultural sector adjustment programs have
contributed to removing constraints to productive private sector development,
and to providing the foreign exchange necessary to revitalize the economy.
1.13     Rationale for IDA Involvement.  IDA has played a major role in
assisting the Government of Somalia to make substantial adjustments in
economic and financial policy to promote economic growth and food self
sufficiency. IDA has also contributed to building up the basic public
infrastructure needed to stimulate private sector investment. Within the key
objective of increasing agricultural productivity, food production and
incomes, this project would focus on rehabilitation of small irrigation
systems along the intensively used Shebelli river. Increasing the efficiency
of the poorly managed irrigation schemes along the Shebelli river has been
identified as one of the most cost effective ways of increasing agricultural



- 4 -
output.  Water use efficiency can be doubled through th , type of investment.
This has important implications, with the development or additional irrigated
areas in the Shebelli valley now seriously constrained by lack of water.
1.14     Under this project, the capacity of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
to manage the allocation and distribution of Shebelli water will be
strengthened. With the rehabilitation of irrigation infrastructure, the
efficiency of water use by small farmers will increase. These efforts would
be coordinated with the United States Agency for International Development
(USAID) which plans to assist the MOA to strengthen water management in the
Shebelli basin. Strengthening of MOA abilities to manage and direct the
development of irrigated agriculture will also support the development of the
Juba Valley and the Baardhere dam.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Location, Climate and Water Supply
2.01     Location and Access.  The project area is located in Qoryooley
district of the Lower Shebelli region, about 100 km southwest of Mogadishu
along Somalia's major north-south highway. The asphalt road to Qoryooley
passes along the northern boundary of the project. Access to the project
area is by earth road, and is relatively good, although problems are
experienced during the rainy seasons.
2.02     Climate.  The climate of the project area is semi-arid tropical.
Temperatures are fairly constant throughout the year, varying between a
high of 310 C and low of 220 C. Relative humidity is uniformly high at
around 80Z. The average annual rainfall of about 470 mm is distributed
across in two distinct seasons: the Gu season from April to June and the
Der season from October to December. Rainfall distribution within each
season is erratic which makes irrigation necessary for high yield crop
production. Climatological data at Genale in Lower Shebelli is shown in
Annex II, Table 1.
2.03     Irrigation Water Characteristics.  The Shebelli River rises in the
Ethiopian highlands and crosses the semi-desert Ogaden region before
entering Somalia. It has a catchment area of about 300,000 km2 and the
mean annual flow at Belet Weyn (near Ethiopian border) is about 2,200 MCM.
The flow decreases as it flows towards the Juba River. The mean annual flow
in the lower Shebelli just upstream of the Genale barrage close to the
project area is about 1,4C0 MCM. The waters of the Shebelli do not contain
toxic concentrations of ions, and salt concentrations vary between 250 and
750 micromhos/cm. This level of salinity is acceptable for the crops
grown. Salinity is usually high (1,500 micromhos/cm) during the dry months
of March and April. Sediment concentration is high and ranges from 50
parts per million in the dry season to more than 2000 parts per million in
the flood seasons.



2.04     Water Rights.  Irrigation development along the Shehelli in
Ethiopia is limited. Recent studies show that the Melka Wakana
hydroelectric dam recently constructed on the upper reaches of the Shebelli
will not reduce water availability, and will serve to even the flow.
Studies also indicate that the effect of any future irrigation development
along the Shebelli in Ethiopia would be partly mitigated by the large
swamps upstream of the Somalia-Ethiopian border. If an additional 15,000
ha of irrigation were to be developed in Ethiopia, the average annual flow
currently reaching Somalia would be reduced by only two percent. It is
unlikely that Ethiopia can develop an area exceeding 15,000 ha in the next
15 to 20 years in the Shebelli river basin, due to high cost of
development, the remoteness of the area, and the country's limited
implementation capacity. The proposed project is rehabilitation, which
will not require additional abstractions of water from the river.
B. Topography, Soils and Land Use
2.05     Topography and Soil.  The project area is flat and slopes to the
southwest at a rate of 7 to 8 cm per km. The soils are heavy clay
Vertisols which swell when wetted and shrink on drying resulting in deep
wide cracks. The soils store a large amount of water but only a small
proportion is available to the plants, due to heavy clay content. The soil
characteristics also limit root development and tillage. Salinity levels
are not presently a problem but were noted to increase with depth. The low
quality of the present irrigation facilities and poor drainage conditions
indicate the need for careful water management and monitoring to avoid
salinity build up. About 522 of the soils in the project area are
classified as class II and 452 as class III, which makes them relatively
suitable for irrigation. The soils in the project area will require
careful management to maintain favorable structural characteristics and
avoid a salinity buildup.
2.06     Land Use and Cropping.  Only annual crops are grown in the project
area. Cultivated land represents 751 of the net irrigated area of 5,100 ha
for Farahaane and 7,500 ha for Qoryooley and Falkeerow. Data on land use
is given in Annex III. Currently there are two levels of irrigation.
Firstly there is partial irrigation for those areas with viable access to
irrigation water. Secondly, there is marginal irrigation for areas which
receive irrigation water only when there Is an unusual surplus of water.
2.07     Land use in the project :::^ is given in the Table 2.1 below:
Table 2.1   Land Use in the Project Area
(ha)
Farahaane           Falkeerow & Qoryoolev
Maize                      2800                      4000
Sesame                     1200                      2900
Legumes                     300                         _
Vegetables                  300                       300
Watermelon                   50                       300
Fallow                      450                         _
Net Irrigable Area         5100                      7500



Maize is the most widely cultivated crop followed by sesame. Maize is
virtually the only crop planted in the Gu season. If the Gu season harvest
is good then farmers reduce the cultivated area by 40 percent. The
remaining 60 percent is planted under sesame during the Der season.
Vegetables, cowpeas, mungbeans, tobacco and more recently watermelon are
also grown, on a smaller scale. Crop rotation is not practiced which
results in poor soil fertility and low yields. Present cropping intensity
is about 1252 in the Farahaane Scheme area and 10O for the areas served by
the Qoryooley and Falkeerow barrages. Cropping intensities are low. This
is due to the inadequate water supply, poor management of the Shebelli
waters, the poor condition of diversion barrages, and primitive conveyance
and distribution facilities. About 25% of irrigable land is currently
uncultivated. This will permit an expansion of the cropped area with
improved water management and water availability.
C. Farm Size and Land Tenure
2.08     Farm size.  The farm size distribution in the Farahaane scheme
area is characterized by the dominance of small parcels and a skewed size
distribution. Nearly 902 of all parcels are smaller than two hectares
(average size = .9 ha). Yet they account for only about 40% of the land.
The 2% of all parcels which are over 30 ha account for 40% of the project's
land area. These patterns are even more pronounced in areas served by the
Qoryooley and Falkeerow barrage. Multiple parcel ownership is evidently
widespread. Average land holding size per household is estimated to be
about 1.7 ha for an average household size of 7.3 persons. Farm size
distribution is summarized in Table 2.2.
Table 2.2   Farm Size Distribution
Farahaane Scheme Area         Qoryooley & Falkeerow Barrages
Holdings      Farms      Area    Av. Farm    Farms      Area        Av. Farm
Range (ha)  No.   I      ha   2  size (ha)  No.   2    ha       2   size (ha)
0.1-2      1965  88.2  1965  38.5   0.9   3045  90.2  3045  40.6    0.9
2.1-10      215   9.7   860  16.9   4.1    280   8.3  1680  22.4    6.2
10.1-30      15   0.7   225   4.4  16.2       30   0.9   600   8.0   18.6
30.1-100     30   1.3  1650  32.3  53.2       15   0.5   975  13.0   63.5
over 100      2   0.1   400   7.9 202.5        5   0.1  1200  16.0  239.5
Total      2227 100.0  5100 100.0           3375 100.0  75u,u iUO.O
2.09     Legal Framework for Land Tenure:  Land law and practice diverge
sharply in the project area, as is evidently the case in the rest of the
country. Formally, land tenure in Somalia is governed by Agricultural Land
Law no. 73 of 1975 and subsequent decrees and amendments, most notably Law
23 of 1976. The 1975 Land Law establishes state control over all of the
country's land resourres with rights to land granted in the form of
variable term leases. Conditions vary depending on whether the lease is to
an individual or family, or a corporate body whether public or private.



- 7 -
Under the law, most of the small farmers in the project area would be
eligible for 50 y.ar renewable leases of up to 30 ha. These lease rights
are inheritable by immediate kin. The only permissible transfers of land
are through inheritance; sale and rental are prohibited. Furthermore, only
one lease per family is allowed. However, la reality, land is dealt with
by most farmers as if it were private property. It is bought, sold and
rented. Multiple parcel holdings are common and ownership above the
allowed ceilings by individuals is encountered. All evidence for the
Farahaane scheme area indicates that the incidence of land disputes is
minimal. Clauses of Law 23, a decree passed in 1976 contain several
articles which spell out conditions and procedures for repossessing land
and establishing compensation. These are of obvious relevance to the
Farahaane project. The decree also sets levels of land taxation.
2.10     Tenure security and registration: The existence of well-
established and apparently cohesive communities has mitigated problems of
tenure insecurity. People know and for the most part respect each other's
boundaries thereby minimizing the incidence of land disputes.
Nevertheless, several considerations mandate a rapid and comprehensive land
registration campaign. In particular, smallholders, most of whom lack
documented title, may be exposed to competing claims by those attracted by
escalating land values and productivity afforded by the advent of a greatly
improved irrigation network. To the extent that tenure insecurity exists
it may constrain long-term investment and thus productivity. Thus,
registration will be important to allow the project to achieve its goal of
enhancing the productivity and incomes of small farmers. Currently, less
than half the land area and 85-90Z of parcels and farmers remain
unregistered. Registration is largely restricted to larger parcels over 10
hectares. Failure to register has largely been due to the lengthiness,
complexity and costliness of the process.
D. Irrigation and Drainage Facilities
2.11     River Diversion Control Structures.  The Shebelli River has long
been used for irrigation. Construction of control structures along the
river started in the late 1920's and much of the flow could be controlled,
if the control structures were in operating order. The Duduble flood
relief facility completed in 1985 has a spillway 15 km upstream of Mahaddey
Wayn. An ungated overflow weir at Sabuun completed in 1986 is used to
divert water to the Jowhar Sugar Estate and to the Jowhar off-stream
storage reservoir. Another barrage at Balad was completed in 1980 for the
Balad irrigation project. The oldest control structure is Genale barrage
completed in 1927 which serves a total area of about 24,000 ha. Most of
the gates are damaged due to lack of maintenance caused by insufficient
budgets, and inoperable, so water control is limited. About 16 km
downstream from Genale, another barrage near Gayweerow was completed in
1980 which will be used for diverting flow to the new main canal of
Farahaane scheme.  About 10 and 18 km, respectively downstream from
Gayweerow two more barrages named Qoryooley and Falkeerow were built in
late 1950's.  Gates, bridge decks and downstream protection works of the
two barrages are in a state of disrepair.  Both of these barrages were
built to serve a total area of about 10,000 ha on both banks of the river.
Effective control from these barrages is not possible. All of the schemes



- 8 -
served by two barrages suffer' due to lack of controlled irrigation supply.
Extensive rehabilitation work will be required to put these two structures
into a safe operative condition. The last barrage on the Shebelli river is
located about 7 km from the village of Kurtenwarey. It was completed in
1983 but is reported to be inoperative due to the malfunction of the gate
lifting device.
2.12     The structures described above were built to provide control of
the water level at key locations along the Shebelli River, and control of
the amount of water diverted through the main canal regulators. In
addition to the areas irrigated by gravity from these control structures,
about 300 pumping installations abstract water directly from the river for
irrigation of small schemes of 20-200 ha. These facilities (gravity and
pumping) were built to serve a total area of about 132,000 ha. Of the
132,000 ha cultivated about 124,500 ha are planted in annual crops (maize,
sesame, sorghum, rice, pulse crops and vegetables). The remaining 7,500 ha
are in perennial crops, (sugarcane, bananas and some grapefruits). All of
these areas receive inadequate supplies of water due to the limited run-of-
river water supply from the Shebelli river during the dry months of January
to March. Also the distribution systems are in very poor condition due to
lack of maintenance, insufficient field staff caused by budgetary
constraints. Management of water distribution is practically impossible.
2.13     River Management and Water Availability.  The proposed project
lies at the downstream end of the Shebelli river and is vulnerable to
upstream management of the water supply particularly between November and
December, when the Der season crop of sesame is maturing. Proper
management of the Jowhar off-stream reservoir is crucial during this
period. The rapid expansion of the irrigated agriculture area along the
Shebelli in recent years (upstream of Qoryooley) threatens the viability of
downstream schemes; of particular importance is the uncontrolled
proliferation of individual farmers pumping water from the river. A
detailed simulation model would be developed under USAID, Shebelli Water
Management Project (SWMP) to address this issue. The simulation model
would take into account the characteristics of river flows, as well as the
requirements and features of the irrigation schemes to develop required
water supply releases at each diversion point, and from Jowhar reservoir.
The implementation and management of the river basin is a difficult task.
Successful management of the river depends on the development of additional
storage facilities upstream such as proposed Duduble reservoir. During the
next few years the availability of water to the project area during the
months November and December can only be guaranteed if following points are
carefully considered (see para 3.35 below):
(a)     Expansion of the irrigated areas upstream is contained
through strict licensing of pumps;
(b)     Expansion of sugar cultivation for Jowhar sugar factory is
restricted to the maximum area cultivated during the last
five years, about 2,000 ha; and
(c)     An operation rule curve for monthly releases from the
Jowhar reservoir is established and enforced, particularly
during the period of November to January.



2.14     Irrigation Facilities of the Farahaane Scheme.  The scheme covers
a gross area of about 6,200 ha between the Shebelli river to the north, the
Wadajir canal to the east, the villages of Modhulow and the Sisab canal to
the south and the Bakore canal to the west. Currently the area is
commanded by the Qoryooley barrage and served by the Wadajir canal, the
Fi.rahaane primary canal and three secondary canals offtaking from the left
bank of the Shebelli. All of these canals are privately owned and a number
of users Associations operate and maintain all these facilities from the
river diversion point to the farm level. The Wadajir canal also serves
areas to the south of the project area. There are few control or
regulation structures and existing structures are inoperable. There is no
drainage system. Excess rainfall or irrigation water either infiltrates
into the soil or ponds in the lower areas until it is evaporated or
absorbed by the soil.
2.15     Current irrigation practice is to use basins, filled to a depth of
about 25 cm. This results in one irrigation in the Der season and two
during the Gu season. The schedule is based more on water availability
than on crop water requirements. Irrigation efficiency is estimated at a
very low 20 percent, due to the lack of control structures, inadequate
maintenance of canals and uneven distribution of water in the field.
Maintenance of the canal system is poor. It is carried out by three
village committees and their respective canal based water users
associations. Water charges are based on the area irrigated along a given
canal. Farmers pay these charges in cash or kind. Local participation in
water users organizations and levying of water charges is an encouraging
beginning to a system of user financed system operation and maintenance.
E. Agricultural Services
2.16     Extension.  The second phase Agricultural Farm Management and
Extension Training (AFMET) supported by IDA (Cr. 1794-SO), under the MOA,
remains responsible for extension. The AFMET project has established an
extension service based on the Training and Visit methodology that covers
eight of the ten regions in which arable agriculture is important. AFMET
has succeeded in gaining the confidence of farmers and in demonstrating
practices that result in profitable yield increases. Extension service
staff include 7 Regional Extension Officers, 19 Subject Matter Specialists,
24 District Extension Officers, and 216 Field Extension Agents (FEAs). The
ratio of the number of farm families to FEAs is about 800:1. At present
one District Extension Officer at Qoryooley and four FEAs provide extension
services in the Farahaane area.
2.17     Agricultural Research.  The Directorate of Research (DR) of the
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) is responsible for crop research, while the
Ministry of Livestock, Forestry and Range handles livestock research. The
DR is responsible for the Central Agricultural Research Station (CARS) at
Afgoi and for regional stations at Gelib, Bonka and Aburrin. CARS and
Gelib deal with irrigated agriculture. CARS is of particular importance to
the project area. Among its major achievements are the development of
improved composite maize varieties and introduction of tomato and onion



- 10 -
varieties. However, the present agricultural research by the station is
inadequate and lagging behind the requirements of agricultural extension
services.
2.18     The Second Agricultural Extension Project (Cr. 1794-SO) is
strengthening agricultural research through (i) the establishment of a
Research Directorate headed by a high level Director within MOA supported
by an internationally recruited Research Advisor; (ii) support for on-going
rainfed agriculture research at the Bonka station; and (iii) establishment
of a research support fund, to be used to commission adaptive research
focussing on farmers priority problems.
2.19     The USAID supported Shebelli Water Management Project (SWMP)
supports irrigated agriculture research at CARS. Promising results will be
subject to on-farm verification trials in Shalambood, organized in
collaboration with extension personnel at Genale Extension Training Center.
Due to proximity of the Farahaane scheme area to Shalambood there is no
need to duplicate similar research in the project area. AFMET will
disseminate proven results of SWMP research in the project area.
2.20     Livestock. There are both settled and semi-nomadic herds that
range in and around the project area. During the Jilal dry season,
(December to March), the herds enter the project areas. At the onset of
the Gu season, (April) they move towards the Merka and Brava coastal areas,
and in-land towards the Bay region. There are also herds of cattle, sheep
and goats which remain in the project area year round, feeding on pastures
and crop residues. During the dry season there are some 80,000 cattle,
8,000 sheep and goats and 500 camels in the project area. During the wet
season this declines to 20,000 cattle, due to trypanosomiasis infection.
About 50Z of farmers in the project area own livestock, mostly cattle, with
an average of 9 head per livestock owning household. There is no tradition
of using animal-drawn implements in the project area due mainly to the
presence of tsetse flies.   The National Trypanosomiasis and Tsetse Control
Project jointly funded by the British Overceas Development Administration
and the Arab Fund for Economics and Social Development has completed
surveys of tsetse infested areas, and has completely eradicated tsetse from
the Shebelli valley north of Jowhar. Funds are being sought for a tsetse
control project on the Lower Shebelli.  Where this becomes effective there
could be large influx of cattle into the project area. Possibilities of
integrating fodder crops with irrigated food crops have to be explored to
avoid potential friction between the two systems.
2.21     Marketing and Storages.  The Agricultural Development Corporation
(ADC) was established in the 1970s as an autonomous public enterprise under
the authority of the MOA as the sole authorized buyer and seller of
domestic food grains. Grain marketing was liberalized in the early 1980s.
Farmers are no longer required to sell to the ADC. At present ADC operates
as a buyer of last resort, at a published minimum price. Th.is price was
SoSh 32 per kg of maize in the Gu harvest of 1988. The liberalizing of the
food grain market has brought large income gains to the farmers in the
project area. There is a small ADC facility of 5 warehouses and 2 storage
areas with a total capacity of 7,000 tons at Qoryooley serving the project
area.



- 11 -
F. Agricultural Inputs
2.22     Fertilizers.  Use of fertilizers in Somalia, almost exclusively
urea, has been limited to a maximum of 7,000 to 8,000 tons. About 3,000
tons per annum is used in the banana plantation. This implies about 7
kg/ha of cropped land compared to an average 18 kg for the rest of Africa.
Urea was produced locally at an inefficient parastatal fertilizer plant
whose cost of production is higLer than world market CIF price. Donor
foreign exchange programs and Government supported Somalfruit export
earnings from the banana industry finance urea imports. Chemical
fertilizers and other chemical inputs are not sold commercially in or near
the project area. The market in inputs has yet to develop in the country.
The use of chemical fertilizers, pesticides and herbicides is being
promoted in the Lower Shebelli region through a FAO fertilizer project, and
a UNCDF/UNDP funded agricultural credit project operated by the Commercial
and Savings Bank of Somalia. In Gu 1988, 3,320 farmers participated in the
scheme. A total of 110 tons of seed, 384 tons of urea, 64 tons of NPK,
7,700 kg or basudin and 6,400 liters of herbicides were distributed on
credit.
2.23     Pesticides and Herbicides.  The Plant Protection Directorate of
MOA imports pesticides and herbicides. Due to shortage of funds, the
quantities imported are inadequate to meet farmers' requirements.
Pesticides are sold to farmers at a discounted prices from district stores.
The Directorate currently handles about 50 tons of chemicals every year
distributed into 10 types of pesticides, 4 types of fungicides and 4 types
of herbicides. DDT, BHC, dieldrin, addrin and endrin are on the banned
list and are not imported. The Directorate advocates integrated pest
management. The current level of pesticide and herbicide use is extremely
low.
2.24     Seeds.  There were no seed multiplication or certification
facilities in Somalia until 1970. A cotton Seed Multiplication Center
(SMC) was established near Afgoi in 1970 which was transferred to MOA in
1972. The center was re-established for multiplication of maize and other
annual crops in 1978 as a part of a UNDP/FAO assisted project. From 1980,
the SMC at Afgoi has continued production as a FAO trust fund project
supported by Denmark (DANIDA), with a total area of 135 ha, of which 60-100
ha are irrigable. The planted area in the 1988 Gu season was 45 ha of
maize, producing 80 tons of maize seed of Somtux variety (1.85 MT/ha graded
seed equivalent). At present all essential physical facilities for seed
production are available at this station. While breeder seed should
normally be supplied by the Agriculture Research Institute this linkage is
not effective. Multiplication to produce certified (commercial) seed
through contracted farmers is practiced. Lack of seed inspection and
certifiLation staff and logistics are a constraint. Purification of the
local white strain of sesame continues. Commercial seed may be available
from Gu/Der season of 1990. Under a UNDP/FAO assisted project cotton seed
multiplication and extension program would commence from end of 1988.
Under this project breeders seed produced in Jowhar would be multiplied in
the SMC which would be further multiplied through contract growers in Lower
Shebelli to produce commercial seed.



- 12 _
2.25     The current low level of input use among small farmers is a
disincentive to growth in input supply. Importers and suppliers are, for
the most part, still cautiously evaluating input demand prior to
accumulating significant inventories of fertilizers, pesticides and other
inputs. Sales of inputs at large discounts by MOA further discourages
private investment in this area. Limited supply of foreign exchange at
official exchange rates creates a greater demand for fast moving imports in
preference to slower moving agricultural inputs. There is a clear need for
increased amounts of foreign exchange to finance agriculture inputs.
Shortage of working capital, credit, and knowledge of technology have
restrained input demand growth while shortage of credit and low-level
demand have restrained input supply. The net effect is a failure to
achieve full agricultural growth potential. A push-pull interventior.
strategy is needed. The catalytic elements of such a strategy would
include: (i) elimination of Government subsidies, so that all inputs are
sold at market prices; (ii) increased demand due to improved irrigation
system and extension work; (iii) increased revolving seasonal credit for
farmers; (iv) good grain markets, and (v) investme-it credit to assist
private sector input suppliers in entering the market. These countrywide
issues are being addressed in the recently approved Second Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Project (ASAP II).
G. Health and Social Aspects
2.26     Malaria and Schistosomiasis Disease Control.  Malaria is still the
major health problem of the country. Plasmodium falciparum is the
predominent species (79.52). The Anopheles arabiensis mosquito is the main
vector.  Plasmodium falciparum resistant to chloroquisue has been reported
from the Lower Shebelli region since 1986. Along Sbebelli and Juba rivers
perennial hyperendemic malaria foci exist.
2.27     Urinary schistosomiasis (Schistosoma heamatobium) or 'Kaadi Dhiig"
as it is known in Somali is endemic in Shebelli and Juba river valleys.
Bulinas abyssimicus is the only snail intermediate host and its
preferential habitat is standing water bodies containing water lilies
(Nymphaea lotus) and other aquatic plants. Most infections occur just
after the two main rainy seasons. Under a WHO project 14 villages in
Qoryooley district surveyed in 1977 indicated 48.2Z prevalence of S.
heamatobium. In 1978, the WHO project launched a full-scale control
program in Qoryooley and Merca districts. Infected people were treated
with metrifonate and snail-infested water bodies were sprayed locally with
tin- and copper-based slow release granules. Overall prevalence rates
dropped after a few years but are creeping up again. In 1987 a WHO
consultant found a 60Z prevalence rate of urinary schistosomiasis amongst
screened primary school children in Farahaane village. The prevalence rate
is low in Haduman village of the project area due to lack of standing water
in the village. But with many depression pools, schistosomiasis is
relatively high in Madhulow village of the project area. Overall, it can
be concluded that malaria and schistosomiasis constitute a serious public
health problem in the project area. Presently schistosomiasis control
activities are being conducted in four districts of Lower Shebelli,
including Qoryooley. Technical aspects of schistosomiasis control
currently lack: (i) training; (ii) community participation; (iii)



- 13 -
laboratory diagnosis; (iv) chemotherapy with antischistosomal drugs such as
metrifonate and praziquantel; and (v) environmental management. Inadequate
funds restrict transportation at.d logistical support to implementation of
control of schistosomiasis as well as malaria in the project area.
2.28     Women's Development Activities.  It is necessary to address social
issues among beneficiaries, particularly those affecting women. Household
water situation has improved through recently completed water points under
a Japanese-assisted program in the villages of Farahaane and Bulo Sheikh.
A provision has been made under the project to provide imilar facilities
in Madhulow village. The increased production will demand more time in
women's already overburdened daily schedule. Women i'pend much time daily
in transporting heavy loads of fodder, foodstuffs, fuelwood and offspring.
Introduction of simple push carts made from locally avai'lable materials and
tailored to women's typical loads will help. Women give high priority to
home improvements, so ideas using locally available material can improve
quality of family life and may generate income in a variety of home
improvement activities. Home weaving and tailoring is another activity
recently introduced. Training and orientation would be needed to introduce
those activities. The Women's Education Institute is active in the project
area and can provide assistance in the training aspects.
H. Institutions
2.29     Ministry of Agriculture.  MOA and its associated agencies have the
major role in agricultural development of the project area. Development
and management of surface water resources and irrigation, and
administration of land, agricultural research and extension are exclusively
the responsibility of MOA. Supply of agricultural inputs such as
agricultural machinery services, seeds, pesticides, and fertilizers, is
also handled by MOA parastatals and autonomous projects under the Ministry
in competition with the private sector. The role of MOA in providing these
inputs is gradually diminishing as the private sector develops. Assistance
in grain marketing, purchasing and storage is provided by ADC.
2.30     In each administrative region and district, the Ministry is
represented by an agricultural coordinator. The MOA parastatals and
directorates concerned with the project activities would be ArMET, and the
Directorates of Plant Protection and Research as described in previous
paragraohs. The Department of Land and Water Resources will play a key
role in project implementation. It has been elevated to the status of
Directorate of Irrigation and Land Use (DILU) under the USAID-supported
SWMP. It is headed by a Director, who reports to the Vice Minister,
Services through the Director General.
2.31     Directorate of Irrigation and Land Use.  DILU will initially be
composed of four divisions: Shebelli River Management Division (SRMD),
Regional Water Resources Allocation Division (RWRAD), Land Evaluation and
Use Division (LEUD) and Finance and Administration Division. Existing
personnel have been absorbed into DILU and new graduates will be recruited
for the expanded organization.



- 14 -
2.32     SRMD will, over time, become responsible for the zehabilitation,
construction, maintenance, operation and management of: (i) all the
barrages and weirs located on the main stream of the Shebelli River
including the Kurtanwarey barrage and the Balad barrage; (ii) the off-
stream storage reservoirs and flood control facilities; and (iii) the head
regulators controlling the discharge of water from Shebelli into the main
canals for irrigation. RWRAD will be responsible for the maintenance of
the primary and secondary irrigation canals along the Shebelli that is
currently being carried out as the "Desilting Project", including repair
and operation of the regulators and all of the turnouts and miscellaneous
structures of these canals through the region and district offices and
participat'on of water users associations. LEUD will take over all
responsibi.ities of the former DLWR Land Resources and Registration office,
including land registration. It will benefit from a major UNDP/FAO-funded
project "Land Resources Survey for Land Use Planning". The Finance and
Administration Division will serve as a staff office charged with all
personnel, administrative and financial control functions for the
Directorate.
2.33     Credit Institutions.  There are two banks that offer credit
facilities to the agricultural sector - the Commercial and Savings Bank of
Somalia (CSBS) and the Somali Development Bank (SDB).
2.34     CSBS, owned by Government, is the only commercial bank in the
country. CSBS deals only in short-term credit, i.e. working capital for
inputs for crop production up to a period of one year. Interest rates for
short term credit are now 50? per annum, up from 15% per annum in 1987 and
early 1988. There is a branch of CSBS in Qoryooley serving the project
area. This branch makes short-term loans for purchase of inputs to large
scale farmers - usually banana farmers - as well as loans to small farmers.
The security requirements for qualifying for these large loans are strict
and the farmers must demonstrate adequate collateral and an ability to pay.
The loan requirements are verified by the managers and the applications
forwarded to the central branch in Mogadishu where the decision to grant or
deny the loan is made. Lending from the Qoryooley branch for large farmers
has been around US$100,000 per year, to between 15 and 25 farmers.
2.35     CSBS, in conjunction with financial assistance from the United
Nations Capital Development Fund and technical assistance from UNDP/FAO, in
1983 began a revolving fund for providing seasonal inputs in kind for small
farmers having less tharn 12 ha. Eligible recipients are those with
registered land, guaranteed by village headman and extension agent
endorsement. The program is administered through a National Inputs and
Credit Committee and Regional Inputs and Credit Committees consisting of
representatives from the CSBS, MOA, MOF and National Cooperatives. During
Gu, 1988, 110 tons of somtex seed, 384 tons of urea, 7,700 kg of basudin,
64 tons of NPK and 6,400 liters of herbicides were distributed to 3,320
farmers. The Merka branch covering the project area is a participant in the
UNDP/FAO small farmers input credit program. The loan applications are
reviewed by the Regional Inputs and Credit Committee. Following review, the
National Inputs and Credit Committee meets and agrees on which applicants
will be granted credit. The manager then signs a letter of authorization
which is forwarded to the FAO sponsored store in Bulo Sheikh for Farahaane
where the seeds and fertilizers can be obtained. During Gu, 1988 only 17



- 15 -
farmers in the Farahaane area participated in the program. The repayment
of loans is quite good at about 90X . Its major weakness has been the
meager number of farmers reached, over-centralization of the loan approval
process, subsidies in the prices charged for inputs, and the narrow range
and low quality of inputs delivered.
2.36     Long term financing is available from the Somali Development Bank.
Agriculture loanb over 2,000,000 SoSh require a feasibility study. The
maximum period for loan terms is five years, which is insufficient for
long-term development projects. The rate of interest on loans is now
between 18 and 21 percent per annum depending on the term and nature of
activities to be financed. The liquidity of the SDB has been a difficulty
and its capital was recently increased to SoSh 2.4 billion. Recent changes
in its mandate will permit SDB to provide short term loans in the
productive sectors, including agriculture.
2.37     Ministry of Health (MOH).  The MOH is responsible for dealing with
all aspects of health problems in the country. The GOS has adopted a
national strategy for health care for all by the year 2000 which places
priority on Primary Health Care (PHC) approach. PHC programs are now under
way in 13 of 18 regions in Somalia. At the Ministry level, an office of
Primary Health Coordination has been established. It is responsible for
national coordination of bilateral and multilateral support of PHC as well
as preparation of training curricula, community health worker and
traditional birth attendee manuals, and training of teams at district
levels in two national training schools. This program will be implemented
at village level through health posts and coordination at the district
level by the District Medical Ofricer and at the regional level by the
Regional PHC Coordinator. Since Primary Health Care is a national policy,
many governmental and non-governmental agencies are supporting the program.
In Lower Shebelli, the WIIO assisted program is coordinated by WHO staff
with the regional PHC coordinator.
2.38     PHC is well developed to deal with malaria.  The Community Health
Workers (CHWS) at village posts are frequently provided with chloroquine
and aspirin to treat malaria symptoms. Non-responding patients are sent to
the district hospitals where quinine and fansidar are often available. A
malaria unit laboratory exists in Qoryooley where blood slides are analyzed
to aid in treatment. however, the CHWS are not provided with any drugs to
deal with schistosomiasis and even at the district level, the more
effective one-dose treatment drug praziquantel is not available. CHWS
should be trained (a) to take, stain and examine blood slides; (b) to
examine water bodies for mosquitos or aquatic snails; and (c) to perform
local spraying to control the intermediate hosts. The laboratory staff at
the district level should be trained to diagnose malaria and
schistosomiasis.



- 16 -
III. THE PROJECT
Objectives
3.01     The main objectives of the proposed project follow the
Government's development and food production strategy for the agriculture
sector. Food production would be raised by improving the productivity of
about 5,600 smallholders in the Farahaane scheme and contiguous areas
served by two existing barrages. Such improvements would be achieved
though better irrigation management, higher cropping intensity,
strengthened services such as extension, input supply, on-farm trials and
demonstration, improved incentives and cost recovery mechanisms.
A. Project Description
3.02        The project would include:
a) Irrigation Development
(i)     Rehabilitation works and construction of various
facilities
1) Rehabilitation of the existing Qoryooley and Falkeerow
Barrages and repair of structures on both river banks
between these two barrages serving as direct diversions;
2) Rehabilitation of existing primary and secondary canals
(50 km) including replacement of water control and
distribution structures;
3)  Construction of a new Gayweerow primary canal (7.4 Iin)
and new secondary canals (about 12 km);
4) Rehabilitation and/or construction of tertiary canals to
serve quaternary blocks of 10-12 ha size including two
pilot water management demonstration tertiary units
(about 100 hia) to monitor and improve water management;
5) Construction of about 50 km of primary and secondary
drains and provision of a new drainage pumping station at
the end of the primary drain with supply and installation
of pumps and diesel engines;
6) Provision of tertiary drainage for a low area of about
250 ha around the Farahaane village with high water table
to demonstrate and closely monitor the effectiveness of
drainage in lowering the water table;
7) Provision for about 20 km of coral surfaced road,
connecting four villages and major project facilities of
the scheme; and



- 17 -
8) Construction of a field office, workshop/store, five
staff houses, a guest house at Qoryooley and eight
operator quarters at various locations within the
Farahaane scheme.
(ii) Vehicles and Equipment
1) Procurement of maintenance, survey and office
equipment; and
2) Procurement of project vehicles in two batches and
furniture.
(iii)    Surveys, Mapping and Investigations
1) Aerial photography (1:10,000 scale) covering about
40,000 ha and a topographic map (1:10,000 scale) with
1.0 m contour interval for the areas of lower Shebelli
not covered in previous surveys; and
2) Strip topographic maps (1:2,000 scale) along the
proposed alignment of tertiary laterals for an
estimated length of about 250 km.
(iv)    Implementation Assistance
1) Revision of Tinder Documents for the main ICB civil
works contract (retroactive financing up to
US$50,000);
2) Engineering services for construction supervision, and
development of a drainage master plan for the lower
Shebelli area including economic justification and
detailed design for priority drains;
3) Specialized services and studies related to water
management (pilot), monitoring of drainage
effectiveness, water users association organization
and assessment of future role in the O&M activities,
assessment of water charges, mid-term review and
completion report; and
4) Engagement of an advisory team to assist DILU during
project implementation composed of three advisers in
the field of engineering, finance/procurement and
irrigated crops.
(v)    Institutional and Training
1) Salaries for additional senior staff and professionals
engaged on contract terms and project allowances
permissible under GOS rules;



- 18 -
2) Incremental operating costs for the project field
office and the headquarters advisory unit, including
operation of vehicles; and
3) On-the-job training for the project field office and
MOA staff associated with the project, two graduate
study scholarships in irrigation engineering and water
management and short term study tours abroad.
b) Agriculture Development
(i)    Construction of various facilities and works
1) Construction of an extension/training facility in
Farahaane village, two houses for the field extension
agents and rehabilitation of an existing store in
Qoryooley for plant protection activities;
2) Land leve'lling for the proposed rice area (250 ha) and
light levelling covering about 250 ha of fallow area;
3) Provision for concrete drying floors; and
4) Provision for promotion of agro-forestery activities.
(ii) Eqtiipment, Vehicles and Input Supplies
1) Procurement of plant protection equipment/clothing,
hullers and threshers for rice cultivation; and
2) Purchase of agricultural inputs.
(iii) Cadastral Surveys and Land Titling
1) Cadastral surveys, maps and details covering about 6,000
ha gross area of the Farahaane scheme; and
2) Assistance to GOS in simplification and issue of land
titles to all landholders within the Farahaane scheme.
(iv) Monitoring and Evaluation
Baseline surveys covering agricultural, water management
and social aspects of the project with continuous
monitoring and periodic evaluation primarily for the Mid-
Term Review and Completion Report.
(v) Agronomic Trials
On-farm trials and demonstration for newly introduced
crops such as rice, cotton, forage and vegetables.
(vi) Specialized Services



- 19 -
Specialized services and studies related to land tenure,
input supply, agronomic trials and integrated pest
management.
(vii) Implementation Assistance
1)  One vehicle and two motorc cles each to AFMET and the
Plant Protection Directorate for project activities.
2)  Incremental operating expenses for vehicles and project
allowances for staff engaged in the project; and
3)  A graduate scholarship in agriculture aFpects of water
managemer.t, study tours and on-the-job training.
c)  Health and Social A3pects
(i)   Construction of a field laboratory at Qoryooley and four
health posts;
(ii)  Annual provision of drugs and chemicals for spraying and
treatment of diseases covering 14 villages in the project
area;
(iii) One vehicle for the project coordinator and a motorcycle for
the laboratory technician in Qoryooley;
(iv)  Basic laboratory equipment and other equipment and supplies
needed for annual screening survey;
(v)   Incremental operating expenses, including annual screening
survey, etc;
(vi)  Short-term specialists engaged during annual screening
survey;
(vii) A drinking water supply system for Madhulow village; and
(viii)  A family affairs officer, a motorcycle, training and
demonstration of various women's development activities in
three villages of the Farahaane scheme.
B. Detailed Features
3.03     Water Requirement.  The water requirements for various crops were
calculated using the modified Penman method. This method taKes into account
monthly crop consumption, rainfall, leaching, a farm application efficiency of
60 percent and a conveyance and distribution efficiency of 70 percent. Total
water demand from Sbebelli River for the proposed cropping pattern in
Farahaane Scheme of the project area is 51.66 million m3 (Annex II, Table 2).



- 20 -
3.04     Water Availability and Demand.  A preliminary water balance based on
75 percent reliability stream flow data at Awdegle gauging station was carried
out, which is summarized in Annex IT, Table 3. The water balance at Gayweerow
barrage shows an annual deficit of about 91.1 million m3 with monthly deficit
of 20.1, 33.1 and 17.6 million m3 during the months of December, January,
February and March respectively. Jowhar reservoir has a live storage of about
200 million m3, so the annual as well as monthly deficit can easily be met
through Jowhar releases.
3.05     Qoryooley and Falkeerow barrages.  The aim of rehabilitation is to
retain, repair and modify structural components so as to protect the existing
structures from further effects of scour. Remedial works would include
structural improvements to accommodate new lifting gates, roadbridge, decks,
stabilizing of existing large scour pools by constructing a properly designed
concrete stilling basin and protection works immediately downstream of the
barrages. New gates will be installed by extending existing piers upstream
for sufficient length to accommodate a walkway and two stoplog grooves
upstream and downstream of the walkway. New lifting gates have been designed
as counter balanced, wheel and axle type and manually operated. In order to
provide a better control of river diversion, the gates of _ntakes structures
on both banks of the river just upstream of the barrages would also be
repaired or replaced. Most of the works at the barrages would be undertaken
in the low flow season between December and March, which would require a well
planned intensive program at those times.
3.06     Farahaane - Main and Secondary System.   The improvements would
include the construction of a new Gayweerow primary canal 7.4 km long with an
offtake just upstream of the Gayweerow barrage. The canal would run parallel
to the river and would serve about 3,100 ha. The existing Wadjir canal will
serve area on its left bank and will not be used to feed the project area.
Instead a new parallel secondary canal would be constructed. The existing
Farahaane primary canal Skm long will be rehabilitated to serve about 2,000 ha
in the western part of the project area. Existing Bokora and Sisab canals
primarily serve areas on their right banks outside the project area. Ten
secondary canals for a total length of about 43 km would generally follow the
alignment of existing canals from north to south. About 12 km of secondary
canals would be ..ew construction. The improvements would include enlargement
of canal cross sections to accomiaodate the peak designed flow, provision of
sediment settling basins in the initial reaches of two primary canals and
provision of new water regulating and delivery structures. Inspection roads 4
m wide would also be provided along one side of primary canals and 3 m wide
along larger secondary canals with flow capacity exceeding 0.4 cms. Gated
head regulators and broad-crested weir type measuring structures would be
provided at the river intakes for the Gayweerow and Farahaane primary canals.
A gated cross regulator would be built on the Gayweerow primary canal just
downstream of the Wadajir canal and a new secondary canal to provide better
water control. All other cross regulators on primary and secondary canals
would be of fixed-crest duckbill type configuration. Secondary canal head
regulators would comprise single or twin gated pipe inlet sections and a
broad-crested weir measurement device at the downstream end.



- 21 -
3.07     Tertiary and quaternarY system.  Tertiary canals with turnouts from
secondary and in some cases from primary canals would serve areas of about
25-60 ha.  Tertiaries would be split into quaternary blocks of 10-12 ha.  The
construction of quaternaries (para 4.04) would be the responsibility of
farmers through water users associations. Tertiary laterals would be
maintained by the farmers once they are established. Tertiary canal head
regulators would be of similar design as secondary canal head regulators,
although built to a smaller scale. Checks to control and regulate flow would
be precast 3 piece structures, bottom slab, two side walls with slots at upper
end for flashboards.
3.08     Drainage system.  The drainage system would comprise quaternary and
tertiary drains as infield drains and the secondarJ and primary drains forming
the main disposal system. The primary drain about 5 km long would run east to
west parallel to the existing sisab canal and would discharge into the Bokora
canal using the new drainage pumping station. Ten secondary drains with a
total length of about 48 km would run north to south and discharge into the
primary drain. Primary and secondary drains have been designed on basis of
1.2 m deep tertiaries which would be deepened in later years to accommodate
required subsurface drainage at the farm level. About 20 km of tertiary and
quaternary drains would be constructed only for limited low lying areas near
the village of Farahaane where the water table is high and in the
demonstration pilot area of about 100 ha to test the spacing and depth of open
drains. The construction of tertiary, quaternary and farm drains for the
remaining area will be postponed to a later phase until water table levels
rise to 2-3 m depth in the area.
3.09     The drainage system is designed to evacuate peak flow of a flood of 5
year recurrence period and 24 hours duration with a maximum of four days
ponding on the fields. The pumping station is designed with a provision of
four 1.2 CMS capacity vertical axial or mixed flow pumps to deliver the design
peak of 4.8 CMS against a maximum static head of 6 m. Each pump will be
powered by a 150 kw diesel engine. Provision will be made for bulk storage
tanks to adequately store fuel required for each flood season. The drainage
water will be pumped into the existing Bokore canal, therefore it is necessary
to ensure that the quality of the drainage water will not be injurious to
downstream users. The quality of the drainage water would be monitored from
the beginning of the project and if required the drainage water will be
diluted with river water flowing down the Bokore canal. To ensure the
quality, assurances were obtained at negotiations that daily water samples
will be taken by MOA in the primary drain upstream of the pumping station and
in the Bokore canal downstream to check water salinity during the pumping
period, that a record of the salinity, dilution from the river will be kept
and a report submitted for IDA review by March 31 and September 30 of each
year.
3.10     A monitoring system to closely watch water table fluctuations will be
critical. Evaluations of the observation wells and piezometers installed
adjacent to 2 m deep drains would indicate drawdown potential and would assist
in future determination of spacing of subsurface drains or deep open drains
for water table and salinity control. The monitoring of water table
fluctuation will also provide advance warning of water table rise in isolated
areas thus allowing time to design and install additional deep open drains or
subsurface drains. About ten observation wells and twenty piezometers will be



- 22 -
installed under the project. Five observation wells would be located at one
km intervals along the primary drain and the remaining five at low locations
of five critical secondary drains. Piezometers will be installed at one km
interval along the primary drain in between observations wells and along the
secondary drains 2 to 3 km apart. The top of the observation wel'ls and
piezometers would be marked with a permanent concrete slab of 0.5x0.5 meters
and tied to national bench mark.   MOA would keep a bimonthly record of these
observations, evaluation of which would be submitted in a short report form
semi-annually to IDA for review and comment.
3.11     The potential for waterlogging and salinity build-up is real
throughout the lower Shebelli basin. Excess surface water removal and flood
control are also important considerations. An outfall drain is needed for the
entire lower Shebelli. A drainage master plan would be developed under the
project.
3.12     About 20 km of existing major earth roads connecting the Qoryooley
and Falkeerow barrages to Farahaane village and the proposed drainage pumping
station, and the villages of Haduman and Madhulow, would be surfaced with
coral stone during the third year of project implementation. These roads
would have a surfaced width of 4 m with 1 m berm on each side and coral stone
surfacing of 20 cm thickness over a raised embankment of about 50 cm above the
adjacent ground level.
3.13     Status of project preparation.  A feasibility report for the
Shalambood (5,000 ha) and Farahaane (5,000 ha) schemes was completed in
October 1986 by USA consultants under an IDA Project Preparation Facility
(PPF) advance (P301-SO) of US$1.0 million. The feasibility report was
reviewed by IDA, IFAD and USAID. An IDA/IFAD pre-appraisal mission visited
the area in November 1986 and recommended IDA/IFAD consider participating in
the rehabilitation of the Farahaane scheme and the barrages at Qoryooley and
Falkeerow. USAID has committed US$50 million to finance the rehabilitation of
the Shalambood area in two phases. Phase I focuses on Shebelli river basin
management, restoration of the Shalambood scheme regulating structures and
adaptive irrigated agriculture research. After the pre-appraisal mission,
another advance under the PPF in an amount of US$500,000 (P301/1-SO) was
approved in October 1987 for detailed design and preparation of tender
documents. Sir M. McDonald and Partners, consultants, of UK completed the
design and submitted draft tender documents in April 1988. Final
prequalification documents for major ICB civil works contract became available
in November 1988, which would allow the process of tender processing to be
completed before credit effectiveness. Due to the changes made during
appraisal, some revision and updating of tender documents are required. As
additional funds are not available under the PPF, these changes would be made
and consultants paid after credit effectiveness, thus permitting early award
of the contract. The project would finance cadastral surveys, issue of
titles, procurement of equipment and vehicles, development of a drainage
master plan for the lower Shebelli and planning of additional on-farm works.
Detailed documents related to procurement of these works and services would be
prepared during the first year of project implementation.



- 23 -
C. Agricultural Support Services
3.14     Agricultural Extension and Research.  Agricultural extension in the
project area would be carried out by AFMET in collaboration with the scheme
agricultural staff. The number of FEAs in the Farahaane scheme area has been
increased from 3 to 4 in view of the increased agricultural development
program envisaged with improved irrigation. The proposed project would
provide 2 motor cycles and 2 houses and the Second Agricultural Extension
Project (Cr. 1794-SO) is providing 2 motorcycles and 2 houses, so that each of
the four FEAs of the Farahaane scheme area has a motorcycle and a house. Six
FEAs cover the area on the right bank upstream of the Qoryooley barrage and on
both banks between Qoryooley and Falkeerow barrages. The FEAs would receive
in-service training at Genale Extension Training Center and Afgoi. Training
would focus on irrigation, water management, soil management, and new crops to
be introduced in the project area.
3.15     The project would provide funds for conducting on-farm trials based
on the technical packages developed under the USAID/GOS funded research under
SWMP. Funds would also be provided for demonstrations and field days in the
project area by the FEAs with the assistance of project agricultural staff.
3.16     The project would provide funds for upgrading the plant protection
store at Qoryooley, procurement of plant protection equipment and protective
clothing and training of plant protection staff in safe handling and transport
of pesticides. The project would also provide funds for establishment of an
"extension demonstration center" for cotton cultivation and construction of
threshing floors and procurement of threshers, hullers and sickles for rice
cultivation.
3.17     Agricultural Credit and Inputs.  The project would stimulate demand
for agricultural inputs. The demand for imported agricultural inputs from
this project is expected to be satisfied in the medium term (5 to 10 years) by
the private sector. The large quantities of foreign exchange made available
under various structural adjustment programs (such as ASAP I) will be
available to the private sector for purchasing inputs for agricultural
production. Private sector participation in input supply, however, would take
time to develop. Thus, at the beginning, the project would contract the CSBS
department for Seasonal Credit for Small Farmers, which is already engaged in
the importation, stocking and distribution of chemical agricultural inputs, to
import and sell inputs for the Farahaane region. Project funds would be put
into a Rotating Inputs Fund in CSBS, with which the appropriate inputs would
be imported. Inputs from the fund would be sold for cash. The CSBS could
finance their purchase on credit if desirea (see below). Input prices would
be set so as to encourage the development of a retail trade in inputs in the
district. Prices would be comparable to market prices in the region. A 15%
discount would be given to wholesalers who committed themselves to sell in the
district. In the absence of a local market in the input, the retail price
would be based on the purchase, transportation and handling costs, with
foreign costs calculated at the market rate of exchange. A margin of 202
would be added to reflect the returns to trade in these goods, and provide an
incentive for the development of a retail trade. This pricing policy would be
applied to the Seasonal Credit for Small Farmers.



- 24 -
3.18     The possibility of contracting the inputs supply operation to private
wholesalers would be investigated. Such a contract would be established to
encourage competition in privately supplied inputs. Once private trade had
started carrying agricultural inputs in local stores, the project association
with CSBS would be discontinued, and the Rotating Inputs Fund would be
returned to the Central Bank. An agreement between the Ministry of
Agriculture and the CSBS would have to be signed prior to putting the inputs
supply mechanism into operation. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that: (i) inputs procured under the project for use in the Farahaane area
would be sold at open market prices; (ii) prior to any disbursement by the
Association for the provision of inputs under this project, MOA and CSBS would
have signed an agreement satisfactory to the Association covering operation of
the Revolving Inputs Funds; and (iii) an assessment of the functioning of the
inputs supply mechanism, and the desirability of continuing it, would be
completed by December 31, 1992, and an action plan agreed with initiation of
agreed plan by June 30, 1993.
3.19     Credit to finance the purchase of inputs and on-farm operations would
be provided by CSBS under its normal credit lines, and by the Seasonal Credit
for Small Farmers Credit Scheme, as ;s done at present. The credit program is
scheduled to expand into Farahaane, haduman, Abdi Ali, Falkeerow, Jeerow and
Bulo Sheikh for the Gu 1989 season. Credit for these villages would be
directed from the Qoryooley branch of CSBS.
3.20     Equipment For Land Preparation and Land Levelling.  Tractors are used
for land preparation. Other farming operations are carried out manually by
smallholders. Medium size farms use machinery during harvesting and periods
of labor shortages. On large farms (above 30 ha) most farming operations are
mechanized except nursery care, thinning and harvesting of vegetables and
watermelons. The ONAT station at Qoryooley has about 17 tractors in operating
condition and it is reported that about 200 private tractors are operating in
the area, which are hired out to small farmers. The shortage of a few
tractors would be met easily by private tractors through ASAP II provisions.
3.21     Land Levelling.  Land levelling would be required on about 500 ha of
the Farahaane project area, particularly the 250 ha area proposed for rice
cultivation. This work will be carried out by private contractors on the
basis of annual requirements, as requested by the various farmers who will pay
for these services.
3.22     Cadastral Surveys and Land Registration.  A rapid and comprehensive
cadastral survey and land registration campaign will proceed within the
currently recognized legal framework to ensure the validity of leases granted.
The process will rely on the close collaboration of local authorities. Group
registration on a canal by canal basis plus on-the-spot adjudication of what
are expected to be few boundary disputes will allow the process to advance
quickly. Maps at a 1:2,000 scale are required as base maps for recording
parcel boundaries. These already exist for an area of about 1,100 hectares;
for the rest of the area they will be produced from enlargements of existing
1:10,000 scale maps and aerial photos. Field operations are expected to begin
in October 1989. At the rate of 5-7 parcels per day, and with two teams in
the field, the cadastral work is estimated to extend over an 8-9 month period.



- 25 -
3.23     The cadastral survey and registration activities will be
simultaneously conducted under the direction of the Land Evaluation and Use
Department who will assign a senior land evaluation officer to the Farahaane
Field Office at Qoryooley. He will work closely with other resident MOA
district officials. Work will be divided between two field teams and an
office that will process all required documents, together with the survey
sketches produced from work in the field. After cadastral base maps are in
hand, two field teams will conduct boundary definitions, parcel drawing in the
base map, and adjudication work. Teams will each consist of a
surveyor/enumerator, an assistant and an MOA official trained and experienced
in dispute adjudication. A field supervisor and a cadastral mapping
specialist will be shared between both teams. In each village, the teams will
be accompanied by village committee representatives. Boundary disputes unable
to be resolved by the village committee will be heard by an MOA designated
official. Headquarters for the effort will be established in either Qoryooley
or Merca. As a first step in the registration effort, assurances were
obtained at negotintions that the MOA would complete the registration of
approximately 200 parcels in a 300 ha area for which a cadastral survey has
already been done. This work is to be concluded by December 31, 1989, and the
entire Farahaane scheme cadastral surveys would be completed by March 31, 1991
with issue of titles by March 31, 1992. The proposals for the modification of
the land registration process and for the adjustment of land law developed
under the USAID assisted Shebelli Water Management Project would be subject to
review and comments by the Association prior to final approval by the
Government.
D. Health and Social Aspects
3.24     Malaria and Schistosomiasis Disease Control.  The control strategy
against malaria and schistosomiasis would be integrated into the PHC
infrastructure with support from the National Antimalaria Service and
schistosomiasis control program. The control program would be carried out by
the Community Health Worker (CHW) in the project area. These control programs
would train CHWs, assist in baseline surveys, annual treatment and
chemotherapy. At the district level there would be tbh reference laboratory
with one technician who would supervise all the field activities under the
direction of the District Medical Officer at Qoryooley. Control measures
against malaria would be mainly chemotherapy using passive case detection
except for pregnant women. The latter would be given chloroquine weekly
during pregnancy. For schistosomiasis, 6-9 year old school children (high
risk group) would be screened annually and all positive cases treated. The
rest of the population would be examined and treated by CHWs on an outpatient
basis. Praziquantel would be used for school children and metrifomate for
outpatients. Vector control for malaria using both indoor residual spraying
by DDT and biological control would be carried out during the annual screening
survey.
3.25     The project would provide funds for the purchase and supply of (a)
drugs for chemotherapy such as metrifonte and praziquantel for schistosomiasis
disease control, and chloroquine, primaquine and Pansidar for malaria control;
(b) chemicals such as nielosamide for spraying of water bodies and populated
areas; (c) equipment for diagnosis of malaria and schistosomiasis such as
slides, lancets, sLales, tally counters, microscopes, urine cups,



- 26 -
pastaisyringes, Nytel filters, haeamastixs etc; and (d) printing and
distribution of educational pamphlets, describing malaria and schistosomiasis
disease control measures, in schools and village health posts. The project
would also provide funds for training of laboratory technicians, transport for
MOH field staff, equipment for basic laboratory analysis and household
spraying. Existing MOH facilities at Qoryooley would be expanded to provide
additional space for the laboratory and storage. Four health posts would be
built at Farahaane, Abdi Ali, Jeerow and Haduman. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that the drugs and medicine used in the health component for
malaria and schistosomiasis disease control program would be subject to the
Association's review and concurrence.
3.26     Constultancy Services.  Specialized services of individual consultants
would be needed to assist the project coordinator and MOH to (a) finalize the
control methodology, organize the logistics and means of data collection, and
data analysis; (b) help design and execute the first baseline examination and
treatment; (c) assist in annual screening survey and treatment exercise; (d)
evaluate project's success after 3 years and at the end of the project; and
(e) help fit the project into the ongoing PHC system.
3.27     Drinking Water Supply.  A rural water supply project has recently
been completed in the Lower Shebelli area under Japanese bilateral assistance.
A main pipeline running in the east-west direction connects most of the
villages of the Qoryooley district except Madhulow village, which is
programmed for phase II of the program. The project would provide funds to
extend the water supply line to the Madhulow village by a 5 km long PVC
pipeline of 75-100mm diameter. Two public stations with 10 taps each would
also be built in Madhulow under the project. This would improve the household
water situation and significantly reduce the time spent in daily transport of
water from far away sources.
3.28     Women's Development.  The project would provide funds to improve the
welfare and productivity of women and their families by establishing a
sustainable system to respond to locally-defined needs in three villages in
the Farahaane scheme area. A Family Affairs Officer position would be created
in the Qoryooley field office of the Ministry of Agriculture. The officer
would coordinate activities with the District Commissioner's Office in
Qoryooley and work closely with the village administration and the women's
associations at both District and village levels. The Family Affairs Officer
would define activities and develop a five-year implementation program during
the first four months after appointment. The activities would focus primarily
on (a) training and demonstration materials; (b) demonstration of various
activities on an experimental basis such as home improvements, local
manufacture of roofing materials, toilet construction and village hygiene,
weaving and tailoring; and (c) support to women entrepreneurs willing to
invest in activities mentioned under (b). The suggested list of activities is
indicative.



- 27 -
E. Institutional Development and Training
3.29     Buildings.  A field office would be established at Qoryooley which
would include construction of an office, workshop and store, and five houses
for the project staff. Eigl:t cperator quarters would also be built, located
at the new drainage pumping station and seven other major diversion points
from the river and main canals. A detailed list of building facilities is
given in Annex 1, Table 8.
3.30     Equipment and Vehicles.  In order to improve the maintenance of the
system, the project would provide a limited fleet of maintenance equipment,
and vehicles for the project staff, MOA and MOH field operations related to
the project. Provision has also been made for communication, survey, drafting
and office equipment.   An estimated list is given in Annex 1, Table 9.
3.31     Training.  Training and upgrading of MOA staff and training of the
water users associations is one of the objectives of the project. On-the-job
training would be conducted by various consultants engaged for design,
specialized studies, construction supervision and plant protection. Field
training for O&M staff would cover formulation and application of O&M
procedures, planning and supervision of activities such as water management
practices in the pilot units. The project would also provide scholarships for
study tours and graduate studies in irrigation engineering and water
management.
F. Implementation Assistance
3.32     On-farm water management.  The objectives of the program are to: (a)
improve the efficiency of on-farm water application; (b) organize farmers to
construct quaternary laterals, and irrigate and cultivate effectively the
tertiary block units under a pre-arranged rotation schedule; (c) assure timely
and frequent maintenance of tertiary canals and on-farm ditches; and (d)
determine constraints to a timely and adequate supply of water. Two tertiary
blocks serving about 30-50 ha would be selected one at the upper and the other
at the lower end, with a different mix of crops. The tertiary laterals of
these blocks would be provided with a water measuring device and simple
control structures for diversion of water to the quaternary lateral and the
farm ditches. The procedure and program related to surveys and field
measurements would be established by a specialized consultant who would also
train HOA technical staff during the first two months of the program. The
consultant would visit for two weeks twice a year for three years to evaluate
the program and train MOA staff to extend this program to other parts of the
scheme through demonstration.
3.33     Water Users Associations.  The project would support and strengthen
existing village committees and their associated canal-based water users
assrciations. Initially, these organizations would be consulted in the
planning of tertiary and quaternary canals, foot bridges and livestock and
watering points. Once construction is completed, committees would be made
responsible for the operation and maintenance of tertiary and quaternary
canals and the collection of water charges.



- 28 -
3.34     The project would promote the active involvement of farmers in
various critical phases of water delivery. Existing farmers organizations
would be strengthened to create the nucleus for an effective water users
organization that would participate on a regional and Shebelli basin level for
the allocation of water to various users along the Shebelli river. These
associations would be instrumental in the timely maintenance of tertiary
canals and on-farm ditches. Farmers in the Farahaane irrigation scheme area
already contribute towards the maintenance of the system with labor and small
cash payments. This type of contribution would continue to be used in the
maintenance of the tertiary and quaternary canals. In addition a water charge
would be levied on farmers in the Farahaane scheme as a contribution towards
the operation of the scheme and mechanized maintenance of the primary and
secondary irrigation and drainage system including drainage pumping station.
The collection of water charges would be the responsibility of each water
users association. In order to develop this capacity, the following
assurances were obtained at negotiations that:
(i)   An intervillage committee be established for the system
served by the Gayweerow primary canal by June 30, 1990;
(ii)  Village committees would be made responsible for the
construction of quaternary canals and operation and
maintenance of tertiary and quaternary canals;
(iii) A study recommending the role and responsibilities of water
users associations, village committees and MOA in the
operation and maintenance of the scheme and assessing the
capacity of village committees to assume such responsibility
for operation and maintenance of the entire irrigation
scheme would be provided to IDA by June 30, 1993.
Recommendations agreed on with Government would be put in
place by March 31, 1994;
(iv)  An agreement satisfactory to IDA would be signed between MOA
and village committees specifying their responsibilities and
funding mechanism by December 31, 1993;
(v)   Village committees would be involved in the planning of the
tertiary and quaternary canals, footbridges and watering
points;
(vi)  Water charges adequate to cover at least the operation and
maintenance costs for the scheme would be assessed. Charges
would be assessed at levels and according to procedures
agreed upon completion of the study financed under the USAID
funded Shebelli Water Management Project. The Association
would review the recommendations of this study and would
comment on the proposed assessment methods and rates prior
to implementation.
3.35        River basin water management.  As explained in para 2.13 the
proposed project is vulnerable to upstream management of water supply. To
ensure the water availability during the months of December and January
assurances were obtained at negotiations that:



- 29 -
(a) future expansion of the irrigated areas upstream of the Genale
barrage would be restricted to 1,500 ha through strict licensing
of pumps;
(b) existing as well as planned cultivation downstream of Genale and
upstream of Gayweerow barrage would not exceed 15,000 ha of
annual crops during either Gu or Der seasons, and 4,500 ha of
perennial crops area under banana;
(c) expansion of sugar cultivation for the Jowhar sugar factory
would restricted to the maximum area of 2,000 ha cultivated over
the last five years;
(d) to supplement run-of-the-river supplies during dry periods of
December to end-January, reservoir operations rules for the
Jowhar reservoir would be established through a detailed
simulation hydraulic model expected to be developed under USAID
assisted project. The study is expected to have adequate
information to establish Jowhar reservoir operation rules by
June 30, 1991. These will be reviewed by IDA and an
understanding established between GOS and IDA by December 31,
1991 which would then be enforced by June 30, 1992; and
(e) to submit an annual report to IDA for review of items covered
under (a) to (c) above in a format and with details to be agreed
with IDA by June 30, 1991.
3.36     Mid-term review.  A full mid-term review of all project activities
and related agricultural support services would be conducted by MOA and MOH
with the assistance of consultants. IDA would participate in the review.
Assurances were obtained that GOS would cause MOA to submit a mid-term report
for IDA review by June 30, 1953 and by December 31, 1993 to: a) agree to an
action plan; and b) start implementing such action plan.
3.37     Consultancy Services would be required for the supervision of
construction. Provision would be made for a total of about 87 staff months of
expatriate and 66 staff months of local consultants for these services. MOA
would require assistance for the development of a drainage master plan for
lower Shebelli with economic justification and detailed design of priority
drains with an estimated input of about 20 staff months of expatriate and
about 12 staff months of local consultants. Services would be required for
cadastral surveys, and land tenure and water charges studies for which a
provision is made of 10 staff months of expatriate and 20 staff months of
local consultants. Specialized services of experts would be required for the
agricultural inputs study, integrated pest management program, on-farm water
management program, drainage monitoring, water users associations, assessment
of water charges, monitoring and evaluation, baseline surveys, mid-term review
and completion report. A total of about 53 staff months of expatriate and
About 125 staff months of local specialist time would be provided for these
specialized services. Provision is also made for the advisory unit requiring
three expatriate advisers in the fields of engineering, financial/
administration and irrigated crops with a total input of about 72 staff
months, and local professionals on contract basis for an estimated input of
about 150 staff months. Details of the consultants input are given in Annex



- 30 -
1, Table 10. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that MOA would prepare
the terms of reference for the required consultancy services and submit those
for IDA review by December 31, 1989. The services would be contracted with
consultants whose experience, qualifications, terms and conditions of
employment are acceptable to IDA.
G. Proiect Costs and Financing Plan
3.38          Cost Estimates.  The total project cost is estimated at US$32.1
million (SoSh.15.5 billion) of which US$28.5 million (SoSh.13.6 billion) or
89Z is foreign exchange. The implicit exchange rate reflects price
contingencies based on constant purchasing power parity of the Somali
shilling. Project costs are based on quantity estimates for the draft
detailed design and unit rates prevailing in the foreign assisted projects in
Somalia, adjusted to conditions in the project area. Unit rates for
equipment, materials and supplies are based on recent quotations received by
HOA and consultants. The Government exempts HOA from paying taxes and duties
for imported equipment, materials and services procured under foreign assisted
projects, so the cost excludes such taxes. All costs are indexed to a common
level of December 1988. Physical contingency factors were based on the degree
of preparation and level of design completed to date, and are 1O0 for
rehabilitation and civil works including building facilities and roads. No
physical contingency was applied to incremental staff, staff housing, vehicles
and maintenance equipment. Costs due to expected price increases over the
implementation period amount to about 16! of the base cost plus physical
contingencies, assuming the following annual inflation rates:
1989   1990   1991 1992  1993 1994 1995 1996
Annual Inflation Rate                      ---------                -percent-------------------
Foreign exchange component 5.3    5.3   4.1   4.1   4.1  4.1  4.1  4.1
Local currency component  33.0   28.0  24.0  24.0  24.0 24.0 24.0 24.0
3.39          Details of cost estimates are presented in Annex 1, Tables 1-5,
and summarized in Table 3.1.
Table 3.1:   Project Cost Summary
ISOSH ttlliaM                                 (USS 0001
.._       _      .................... ........I.......... ........  ........... ..................................
I Total                                     I Total
I Foreign  Base                             I forrign  Bass
Local  foreign   lotal   ExChange   Cosas   Local  foreign   Fotal   Exchange   Costs
A  IRRIGATION OEVEtOPNLNF
I RIHA8II1:IAIION Of GOFEIOlEY
AND fIAK[EEROW BARRAGES                          78.1   600 7   679.S          88      II   314.9  2 402.9  2.717 8        88       It
2  REIABIIIIaTIOH of 0 IRECI
RIVER OFFTAKES REIWILN GAYWEEROW
Atn FAIKIFROW BARRAGES                            0 8     19.2    20 0         .6       0      3 4     76 7    30 I        9b       0
3 PR'IART/(ECON OAAY IRRIGAIION
* IRRIGATION fACILITIES                          93.9   685.2   779.1          88     12   375.7  2.7408  3.116 S          88      12
4  TERIIARY/TQUIERNARY IRRIGATION AN0
DRAINAGE SYSFEN IPIlOI  AREAS ONLYI               7 2    29 3    36.5        . so       1    28 9    117 2    146 2         80       I
S  ItRIIARY IRNIGAFIOt  SYSIEtt                     54 I   181 3   235 S          77       4    216 6    725 3   941 8         77      4
6  DRAINAGE SYSIEN                                 138 8  1.034   1. 173 3        RB      is   566.1  4. 1382  4.693 2        88      l8
7 ROADS AND BUItDING FACIIITIES                     87 I   371.9   469.0          RI       7   348 s  1.487 6  1.836 0        Rl       7
B VEHICLES AND EIUIPNENT                               -   621 B   621.8         100      10        - 2,487 3 2.487 3         100     10
9  SURVEYS.  APPIiNG. INVESTIGATION SQRVICES.
CONSUTlING SERVICES AND TRAINING                 587  l.430.3  1.489 0         96      23   234 8 5.721 I 5.955 9          96      23
10. INCREMENIAt SITAfICNG fOR
IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT                          154 7     10 0    164.7         6      3   6l8 a       40 0    658 8        6       3
.......     ........    ........ .....     ...    .........   ..........  --- --   -------   -------   --- -- --...--
Su. lolal IRRIGAIION DIVELOPMENT                     674 2  4.984 3 5.658 4         88      88  2.696 7 19.937 0 722633 7       88      88
B  AGRICtIIFURE DEVELOP"HENt                           34 0   583.3   617 2          94      10   13s 9  2.333 I 2.469 0         94      10
C. HEALth AND SOCIAL SERVICES                          2 4    161 7    183 t         88       3    85 4    646 8    732 2        88       3
,.......    ........    ........ .......... .......   ........ . .. ... ..    .. . .....    ..........   .. .. . -.
lotal ASWELINE COSTS                                    729 S 5.729 2  6.458 1         89    100  2.918 0 22.916 8 2b.834 8        89    100
Physical Contingencies                                64 I   432 0   486 0          89       8    216.3  1.727 8  1.944 2        89       8
Prico Contingencies                                 I'068 S 7.442.8  8.611.         87    132   532 6 3.820 8  4.353 4           88      17
10.. .EC  CI  ....... 10... ..... ........                      341......... ......2. ...   - -     .   .   -------
lota  PROJECI COSIS                                   t.852  Il3. 604.. 0 15.456 1     88    232  3.666 9 28.465  s 32. 132 4       69    124
:::::::~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~  :::::    ::::  .::tS  .: s  .:::  .::::::::  :::::



- 31 -
3.40     Financing Plan.  The IDA credit of US$28.5 million would finance
about 89Z of the project cost (including PPF advance), net of duties and
taxes, and would meet all foreign costs. The financing plan is summarized
in Table 3.2.
Table 3.2: Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Activities                    Foreign       Local
IDA         GOS            Total
A. Irrigation development       23.3       3.3               26.6
B. Agriculture development       2.9        i.2              3.1
C. Health and Social             0.8       0.1               0.9
D. PPF Advance                   1.5      -                  1.5
TOTAL                    28.5        3.6              32.1
3.41     The Government would make available the funds for irrigation
development (US$3.3 million), for agricultural development (US$0.2 million),
and for health and social aspects (US$0.1 million) through the development
budgetary allocations.
H. Procurement and Disbursements
Procurement
3.42     Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.3 and proposed
civil works, equipment and consultancy services processing and completion
schedule is shown in Annex 1, Table 11.
3.43     Civil Works.  International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures in
accordance with bank guidelines would be used for the main civil works
contract (US$11.7 million) composed of rehabilitation of Qoryooley and
Falkeerow barrages, rehabilitation of primary and secondary irrigation
systems, new drainage system including some tertiary and quaternary drains and
tertiary the canals for the demonstration tertiary units. The coral stone
surfacing of ruads, building facilities, drinking water supply, land
levelling, rehabilitation of gates and direct river diversion structures, and
the construction of tertiary laterals (US$4.2 million) would be packaged into
about 12 smaller contracts. Because most of these works are widely dispersed
and would be tendered over a six-year period, they are unlikely to attract
international contractors. Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures
acceptable to IDA would therefore be used with foreign contractors eligible to
participate; these procedures would include advertising in local papers,
public bid opening, clarity of evaluation criteria, and award to lowest
evaluated bidder.
3.44     Equipment.  ICB procedures in accordance with bank guidelines would
be used for pump station equipment (US$0.74 million) vehicles and equipment
(US$1.42 million), and agricultural inputs (US$0.84 million). These items
would be grouped to the extent feasible, in order to attract major dealers and
suppliers. Contracts for less than Us$50,000 (up to an accumulated total of



- 32 -
US$150,000) would be procured through LCB in accordance with GOS procedures
acceptable to IDA. Comparative shopping, based on at least three quotations,
or purchasing off-the-shelf, would be allowed for contracts under US$20,000 up
to an accumulated total of US$100,000.
3.45     Medical supplies and chemicals for malaria and schistosomiasis
control (US$0.16 million) are supplies of limited source, so these would be
procured for MOH by the UNICEF emergency drugs import program, which goes
through a proper competitive process every six months. As the annual
requirement for such procurement would be less than US$20,000, this would be
the most economical and efficient way.
3.46     Consultants.  Consultants for the engineering services would be
engaged under three separate contracts for (a) construction supervision
(US$1.55 million); (b) lower Shebelli drainage master plan (US$0.75 million);
and (c) issue of titles and deeds (US$0.3 million). Specialized consultants
(US$2.6 million) either as individuals or through specialized firms would be
engaged for a specified period to carry out (a) agriculture inputs study; (b)
organization of water users associations and assesament for these
associations' future role in operation and maintenance of the system; (c) on-
farm water management study and assessment of drainage effectiveness; (d) base
line surveys with monitoring and evaluation input; (e) assessment of water
charges; and (f) study and training related to integrated pest management.
Surveys, mapping and investigations (US$0.66 million) would be carried out by
firms specialized in such works. Consultants for these services would be
engaged in accordance with IDA guidelines. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that (a) formalities to engage consultants for the consttuction
supervision would be completed before September 30, 1989 for which terms of
reference were cleared during project appraisal; and (b) GOS would cause MOA
to prepare terms of reference for other services for IDA review by December
31, 1989.
3.47     Review of Procurement.  IDA would review, prior to tendering and
award, the ICB civil works and equipment contract (US$14.7 million) and about
four LCB contracts, one for roads, one for tertiary development and two for
building facilities each exceeding US$250,000 in value (US$1.6 million), thus
covering about 86Z of total contract value of about US$18.9 million. Other
civil works contracts (US$2.6 million) each valued at less than US$250,000 and
contracts for miscellaneous equipment and supplies (US$0.50 million) each
valued at more than US$50,000 would be procured using standard documents which
will be prepared by the engineering advisor to be employed under the project,
such documents to be reviewed by IDA. After the first review of such
documents, IDA would only review on a sample basis after the award.



-33-
Table 8.3:  PrmE       t    *Arrn   t /
ICe             LCB       Other      N/A           TOTAL
Civil Works
Main Contract (Barrages, Irrigation                11.70                                                 11.70
and Drainage System)                             (11.70)                                               (11.70)
Roads                                                               0.80                                  0.80
(0.40)                               (0.40)
Building Faclltiote                                                 1.40                                  1.40
(0.70)                               (0.70)
Drinking Water Supply                                               0.10                                  0.10
(0.06)                               (0.06)
Tertiary and Quaternary System                                      1.10                                  1.10
(0.66)                               (0.66)
Land Levelling, Direct River                                        0.80                                  0.80
Diversion and filling depressions                                  (0.40)                                (0.40)
Subtotal                                       11.70            4.20                                16.90
(11.70)          (2.10)                              (13.80)
atnd Materials
VehIcloIi nd  intenence Equipmnt                    1.42                                                  1.42
(1.42)                                               (1.42)
Pumping Station Equipment                           0.74                                                  0.74
(0.74)                                               (0.74)
Survey and Office Equipment                                                     0.24                      0.24
(0.24)                   (0.24)
Agricultural Implements                                                         0.10                      0.10
(0.10)                   (0.10)
0.84                                                 0.84
Agricultural Inputs                                (0.84)                                                (0.84)
Medical SuppIles A Chemicals
for Malaria A Schisto control                                                  0.16                      0.16
(0.16)                   (0.16)
Subtotal                                        8.00                        0.60                     3.60
(3.00)                     (0.60)                    (8.60)
Surveys, Mapping
Consultant. and Training
Surveys, Mapping and Investigations                                             0.68                      0.66
(O.t)       (0.88)
Consultants for                                                                (
Design revisions and constr. supvn.                                            1.66                      1.66
(1.66)                   (1.66)
Drainage master plan                                                           0.76                      0.76
(0.75)                   (0.75)
Land Tenure  Titles                                                           0.31                      0.1
(0.31)                   (0.81)
Specialized Services and Studies                                               2.60                      2.60
(2.50)                   (2.60)
Training                                                                       0.63                     0.68
(0.63)                   (0.63)
Subtotal                                                                     6.40                     6.40
(6.40)                   (6.40)
Miscellaneous
Incremental Opersting Expenses                                                             2.90           2.90
(1.65)         (1.55)
Physical Contingencies (unallocated)                                                       1.90           1.90
(1.76)        (1.76)
PPF Advance                                                                                1.60           1.60
(1.60)        (1.50)
Subtotal                                                                                6.30           6.80
(4.80)        (4.80)
TOTAL                                              14.70            4.20        6.90      6.30           82.10
(14.70)          (2.10)     (6.90)    (4.80)         (28.60)
a/Numbers In parenthes6s indicate IDA credit disbursements



34 -
Disbursements
3.48     IDA credit funds would be disbursed against the following categories
at the rates shown belowt
Table 3.4    Disbursement Schedule
Category                          Disbursement Rate
1. Civil Works
(a)  Main ICB Contract                   10O2 of all expenses
(b)  Local LCB Contracts                  502 of all expenses
2. Equipment and Materials
(a) Imported                             1002 of foreign expenditure
(b) Locally manufactured goods           1002 of ex-factory costs
(c) Imported equipment and
material procured locally            65Z of contract cost
3. Consultants and Training                100? of total cost
4.  Incremental Operating and               60? through June 30, 1992 and
maintenance costs                      40X thereafter
Disbursements would be made against full documentation, except for payments
against contracts of less than US$25,000 equivalent, training and incremental
operating and maintenance costs which would be disbursed against statements of
expenditures (SOEs). Supporting documents for SOE claims would be retained at
MOA headquarters and made available for Inspection by IDA supervision missions
and project auditors. To facilitate disbursements, MOA would establish a
special account to be maintained in foreign exchange at a full service
offshore commercial bank, and to be operated on terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA. This account would have an authorized allocation of
US$500,000 and would be replenished upon receipt and approval of monthly
replenishment applications accompanied by appropriate supporting documents and
reconciled bank statements reflecting all transactions to the account. In
addition, a project account in local currency, with an initial deposit of S.
Shilling 50.0 million from GOS, would be opened. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that GOS would: (i) open and maintain in dollars a special
account in a commercial bank; and (ii) open and maintain a project account
with an initial deposit of SoSh 50 million and provide local counterpart funds
as estimated in the annual program through quarterly replenishment of this
account with amounts necessary to meet local costs not eligible for financing
under the credit. The opening of the project account with the initial deposit
would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
3.49     The proposed allocation of credit proceeds is presented in Annex 1,
Table 6. The proceeds would be disbursed over a period of six and a half
years from January 1990 to June 1996. The profile follows fairly closely the
disbursement for all projects in Sumalia during the initial three years,
(taking into consideration repayment of PPF advance) while initial
mobilization activities of revision of design, tender documents and
procurement of equipment are under way. With these activities either
completed or fully under way at the end of the second year, project activities
are expected to be slightly (about 5?) ahead of the current disbursement
profile. Credit is expected to close by June 30, 1996.



- 35 -
I. Accounts and Audits
3.50     Separate accounts and records would be kept by MOA and MOH for all
project related contracts and documents. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that: (a) all project-related contracts and documents for SOEs,
and orders and receipts would be kept for at least one year after IDA has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the credit account was made; (b) accounts would be audited by an
independent auditor acceptable to IDA; (c) the audit would include examination
of SOEs submitted to IDA for reimbursement; and (d) the unaudited reports
would be submitted to IDA in English within four months of the end of the
financial year, and audited accounts, together with the auditor's reports,
both in English, would be furnished to IDA within nine months of the end of
the financial vear.
J. Environmental Impact
3.51     Crop protection and agro-chemicals.  Pest control by spraying with
insecticides is not extensively practiced in Somalia. All chemicals
introduced, although small in quantity, will be tested for residue analysis
and for compliance with the prescribed u3e. An integrated pest management
program would be initiated in the project area and coordinated further with
the USAID assisted program in irrigated research. MOA plant protection staff
will be trained in population dynamics of pests, predators and parasites and
monitor the crops and the accompanying insect populations. Pesticides used
and procured under the project will have characteristics of effectiveness,
safety such as low mammalian toxicity, non-persistence, shelf life and safety.
Application of insecticides by farmers will be under the strict supervision of
MOA trained plant protection staff. MOA would engage a specialized short-term
consultant to advise on probable pest problems which may arise, effective and
feasible control methods and related research/extension/training needs to be
provided under the project. A total input of about 3 staff months is
estimated, six weeks initially to establish the integrated pest management
program and three visits of two weeks each during project implementation.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that GOS would cause MOA (a) to
submit for IDA's review the recommended types of pesticide to be procured
under the project; (b) to provide training to plant protection staff according
to a program acceptable to IDA in the use and safety of pesticides; and (c) to
engage an integrated pest management expert to jstablish the program under
terms of reference acceptable to IDA.
3.52     The proposed use of nitrogenous fertilizer in the project area
amounts to about 7 kg/ha and only a negligible amount of phosphate. The small
quantity, combined with a high conversion efficiency in the growth of
vegetables, would produce negligible residual effects, ensuring that there
will be essentially no pollution effect due to nitrogen being washed into the
river or remaining in groundwater.



- 36 -
3.53     Drainage.  The construction of a drainage system under the project
would provide positive environmental benefits. The drainage of excess surface
water will redure salinity build up in soil root zone areas and improve water
table control to minimize water logging. Malaria incidence would be reduced.
Other environmental factors related to human wellbeing, such as less flooding
in the villages, will improve the quality of life and reduce health hazards.
The fildlife habitat should not be affected negatively since water flows to
the swamp areas downstream from the project would be stabilized. A reserve in
the swamp areas of the Shebelli is being supported under the Semi-Mechanized
Rainfed Farming Pilot project (Cr. 1774-SO). Water quality may not be as good
as the present situation after drains are installed; however, this will not
have a significant impact on habitat.
3.54     Health Aspects.  The proposed malaria and schistosomiasis control
program would improve general hygiene through sanitation and bealth education,
and by intensive yearly screening surveys and treatment. The parasite
reservoir would also be reduced. A requiremenv under the project to fill
depressions around the villages of the Farahaane scheme and regrade and drain
borrow areas along the roads, canals and drains would have a positive impact
in reducing the breeding areas of malaria mosquitos and the schistosomiasis
parasite.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMEHTATION
A. Organization and Management
4.01     Project Coordination.  The project would be implemented primarily by
four agencies, MOA, AFMET, MOH and CSBS. The Directorate of Irrigation and
Land Use (DILU) in MOA would be the main executing agency responsible for
overall coordination (under the policies determined by the Project
Coordination Committee), execution of rehabilitation works and procurement for
all agencies involved in project implementation. AFMET would be responsible
for providing extension services and conducting on-farm trials and
demonstrations in collaboration with DILU agricultural staff. The Director of
Malaria and Schistosomiasis Control (DMSC) in MOH would be responsible for the
health component of the project. The Commercial and Savings Bank of Somalia
(CSBS) under the guidance of the Ministry of Finance (MOF) would implement the
credit components of the project. A Project Coordination Committee would be
established. The Committee would be chaired by the Vice Minister of
Agriculture in charge of services with members representing MOF, Ministry of
Planning and Juba Valley Development, DMSC of MOH, Directors of Irrigation and
Land Use, Plant Protection, Production and Research, and representatives of
AFMET and CSBS. The Coordination Committee would guide agencies involved in
project implementation, and be responsible for review and approval of annual
work programs and budgets.



- 37 -
4.02     Directorate of Irrigation and Land Use (DILU).  The Director of DILU
would administer the irrigation and titling related components of the project
through four departments in Mogadishu, a field office at Qoryooley and a small
Farahaane Advisory Unit in Mogadishu. The Shebelli River Management
Department (SRMD) would undertake river basin water management studies and
other related activities with the assistance of specialized consultants input
and additional staff provided under the project. The Regional Water Resources
Allocation Department (RWRAD) would be responsible for operation and
maintenance activities through the Qoryooley field office, on-farm water
management program including water users associations. The Land Evaluation
and Use Department (LEUD) would undertake cadastral surveys and the land
tenure study, and issue deeds with the assistance of specialized consultants.
The Finance and Administrative Division would provide support through a newly
established Farahaane Advisory Tlnit for all project procurement, disbursement
and administrative matters.
4.03     An implementAtion field office would be established at Qoryooley to
undertake the implementation of rehabilitation works. The field office will
be run by a project manager. The appointment of a qualified project manager
acceptable to IDA would be a condition of credit effectiveness. The project
manager would report to the Director of DILU and would be responsible for day
to day activities of the project at field level. Four sections headed by a
Civil Engineer, an Irrigation Engineer, an Agriculturist and an
AdministratorlAccountant, would supervise,respectively construction; operation
and maintenance; agricultural field operations including water users
associations and on-farm field activities; and administrative/accounting and
financial operations. Staffing requirements are given in Chart No.2.
4.04     Water Users Associations.  The water users associations will continue
to be responsible for O&M of the tertiary and quaternary canals, where these
correspond to existing canals. These associations would be strengthened to:
(a) construct irrigation and drainage ditches within a 10-12 ha service
quaternary block with technical supervision provided by DILU; (b) operate and
maintain the tertiary and quaternary system; and (c) assist MOA in the
collection of water charges. Changes in the canal network will alter existing
canal based water users associations. The project would provide for a local
rural sociologist with experience in community organization to work with the
farmers in developing a new user organization and an inter-village committee
for the new Gayweerow primary canal. Users groups would be strengthened in
order to eventually assume full responsibility for.the operation and
maintenance of the entire system (para 3.33).
4.05     Health Aspects.  The Director of Malaria and Schistosomiasis Control
in MOH would act as project coordinator for the health component of the
project. He would supervise initial organization, training of laboratory and
field staff, distribution of drugs and supplies to the district laboratory at
Qoryooley and health posts, baseline and annual screening surveys. The
District Medical Officer (DMO) in Qoryooley would be responsible for day to
day activities of the component at the field level. A senior laboratory
technician would assist the DMO in the analysis of suspected malaria and
schistosomiasis cases referred by the village health posts and handle cases in
Qoryooley town. He would also participate in the annual screening surveys.
At the village level, the community Health Worker (CHW) of each health post



- 38 -
would provide routine treatment to malaria and schistosomiasis patients and
refer non-responsive cases to the district laboratory or hospital at
Qoryooley.
V. AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES UND PRODUCTION
A. Support Services
5.01     Research.  The Central Agriculture Research Station (CARS) at Agfoi
with its limited resources would provide research services needed to support
the project. Research on irrigated crops would be further strengthened
through the adaptive irrigated agricultural research under the SWMP funded by
USAID. The research themes would include; (a) irrigation practices; (b) soil
management; (c) maize; (d) sesame; (e) legumes; (f) forages/fodder; (g)
cropping system; (h) vegetables; (i) farming system (j) rice; and (k) cotton.
The technical packages developed would be presented by agricultural
researchers of SWMP in annual research/extension conference of the
agricultural research council established under the Second Agricultural
Extension Project (Cr. 1794-SO).
5.02     Extension.  AFMET, which has been strengthened under Cr. 1794-SO,
would provide extension services in the project area. At national and
regional level there would be close liaison between AFMET, the Research
Directorate and SWMP through a coordination mechanism established under Cr.
1794-SO to ensure that farmers' problems are identified and investigated by
researchers, and that useful research results are disseminated by extension
agents. The research results of CARS and SWMP would be further tested in on-
farm trials in the project area by Field Extension Agents (FEAs) under the
guidance of Subject Hatter Specialists with assistance from research staff.
The technical packages found suitable for the project area would be further
demonstrated by FEAs and project staff for general adoption by farmers.
B. Farm Inputs
5.03     Fertilizers and Agricultural Chemicals.   Current recommendations are
based on the results of AFMET and CARS fertilizer trials in similar growing
conditions. The use of herbicides to control weeds and reduce labor costs is
almost unknown in the project area, with the exception of bananas. While the
small farmers can manage weeding operations on their farm with their own
family members, the large farmers have to hire labor for weeding operations.
During peak periods, scarcity of labor often adversely affects weeding
operations of large farmers for whom it may be advantageous to use herbicides.
5.04     The use of pesticides is also very limited.  The farmers are
acquainted with the use of seed dressing. Seed dressing can be applied by
trained technicians in the course of processing and bagging seed. Since there
is still a hazard of human and animal consumption of treated seed, heavy metal
dressing such as mercury would be avoided and safer organic compounds would be
used. All treated seed bags would be labelled with appropriate symbols and
warnings written in Somali language. Other fungicides and insecticides would



- 39 -
be used as recommended by FEA and the Plant Protection Directorate and would
be applied as needed under professional direction.
5.05     Improved Seed.  Due to unavailability of certified or commercial
seeds, over 60? of the farmers in the project area use local seeds. The rest
of the farmers use improved seed, either exchanged or secured freely. No
improved varieties of crops other than maize have so far been released by
CARS. All vegetable seeds occasionally sold by ADC are imported. The project
will generate greater demand which would be met through provisions of the
project.
C. Present and Future Cropping Pattern
5.06     Present Crc.pping Pattern.  In the project area annual crops
predominate (99Z) over perennial crops. There are no rainfed crops. Sixty
seven percent of crops have viable access to irrigation while 33? receive
marginal irrigation only in cases of unusual surplus water availability. The
present area of annual crops and the cropping intensities are shown in Annex
III, Table 1.
5.07     Annual crop production in the project area of Farahaane, Qoryooley
and Falkeerow is presently undertaken by: (1) 5,000 smallholders with under 2
ha, (2) 600 larger scale private farmers with over 2 ha, and (3) one state
owned farm. Smallholders comprise the vast majority of farmers growing mainly
maize and sesame. Although the large farmers are few in number they are of
considerable importance as a source of both farm machinery for hire to
smallholders and off-farm income through hiring labor. The only state-owned
farm is the animal husbandry farm of Bola. It is estimated that about 25? of
the farmers intercrop maize and sesame crops. The important intercrops in the
area are cowpeas, mungbeans, tomatoes, groundnuts, pumpkin, watermelon, and
sweet potatoes.
5.08     Future Cropping Pattern.  Soil and climate conditions in the project
area allow for a wide selection of crops, some of which are successfully grown
in other parts of Somalia. Crops suitable for cultivation include cotton,
sugarcane, fodder, rice, sunflowers, soybeans, vegetables, and fruits such as
grapefruit, papaya, limes, mango, guava, avocado, muskmelon and honeydew. In
selecting the crops to be included in the proposed cropping pattern, the
followLig factors were considered: (a) profitability of production; (b) the
Somali government policy of increasing food crop production; (c) the length of
the growing season, to reduce risk of drought and allow double cropping; (d)
the water requirements of each crop, in order to maximize land and water use,
and cropping intensity and; (e) the familiarity of farmers with the
recommended crops and the history of successful cropping under local
agroecological conditions. For the Farahaane scheme, the proposed land use
(Annex III, Table 1) would raise the cropping intensity to 165%, while
providing annual fallow of 35? of each farm or a total fallow period for the
cropped area every three years. The basic characteristics of the proposed
cropping pattern are emphasis on maize production during the Gu season and on
sesame during the Der season, and distribution of legume production among both
seasons. Vegetable (5?) and watermelon (5?) production would be restricted to
the Der. The incremental production of maize and sesame would help reduce
national imports of maize grain and vegetable oils. Increased production of



- 40 -
legumes, mainly cowpeas and mungbeans, would contribute to decreasing import
of legumes as well as to an improvement in per capita consumption of legumes.
Vegetables (mainly tomatoes, but also onions, peppers, carrots, etc.), would
contribute to the national objective of improving the nutritional value of the
Somali diet. Watermelon would be grown mainly for export. With improvement
in availability of irrigation water the cropping intensity in the Qoryooley
and Falkeerow barrage area is expected to rise from lOOZ to about 130Z.
5.09     Four farm unit models of 1, 5, 55 and 200 ha size for the Farahaane
Scheme and 4 models of 1, 7.5, 66 and 240 ha for the area served by the
Qoryooley and Falkeerow barrages have been selected as representative of
average farm size of each group in the farm size range (Table 2.2). Small
farms would be more labor intensive while large farms would have to depend
more on mechanization and agrochemicals. The projected crop yields for the
Farahaane Scheme (shown below) are conservative estimates based on improved
irrigation, adequate use of inputs, farm mechanization, and better farming
practices and represent an average between the higher yields obtainable from
experimental plots in the area and the current lower yields achieved without
the benefit of the project. The projected crop yields for the areas served by
the Qoryooley and Falkeerow barrages are based on only improved water supply
due to the rehabilitation of barrages. No additional inputs are proposed for
these areas.
Table 5.'. Current and Projected Crop Yield in Farahaane Prosct Area
(Tons/ha)
Crop                 Pre-project          Full Development
Yield                   Yield
Maize                   0.75                      3.00
Sesame                  0.25                      1.00
Legumes                 0.25                      1.00
Vegetables              6.00                     20.00
Watermelons             6.00                     16.00
Rice                    -                         3.50
Cotton                                            1.50
Fodder (green)                                  20.00
5.10     Three new crops would be introduced in the Farahaane scheme area, and
depending on farmer acceptance, up to 750 ha developed. Should the country
achieve self-sufficiency in maize, alternative crops which are being imported
now may be grown. Two such crops are rice and cotton. Rice is a crop well
suited for cultivation of the heavy clay soils, particularly the class III
soils, in the project area. Cotton is also ideally suited for the project
area but it requires considerable care and good management. Cotton seed and
pesticides would be provided by Somaltex to the farmers and drainage of the
cotton growing area would be improved under the project. The overall shortage
of grazing and forage supplies and the development of a milk market in
Mogadishu indicates potential for increasing forage availability. The
inclusion of a short-season drought tolerant forage crop in the late Gu season
would help increase forage availability. A cereal/legume forage crop would
provide high quality fodder. Bulrush millet appears to be a suitable cereal
crop and the bonevist bean a suitable legume. Alfalfa, el)hant grass and
leucaena are also promising fodder crops. Economics of rice, cotton and
forage production under irrigation would be evaluated.



- 41 -
D. Yields and Production
5.11     Yields and total production for the present, and the future with
project are presented in Annex III - Table 2. The incremental productions are
summarized in Table 5.2.
Table 5.2   Incremental Production in Project Area (Tons)
Qoryooley and
Farahaane     Falkeerow Barrage
Annual Crops            Area           Service Area        Total
Maize                     5778            2230              8008
Sesame                    2908             784              3692
Legumes                   1460               -              1460
Vegetables                3482            2181              5663
Watermelon                3863            1995              5858
Rice                       805               -               805
Cotton                     300                               30C
Forage (green)            4000                              4000
5.12     Livestock.  The project area suffers from overall shortage of forage.
The project would increase the production of maize stover stalks by over 49
million stalks annually at full development. The project would also provide
for cultivation of forage crops. Depending on farmer adoption, up to 250 ha
of irrigated forage would be developed. If demand for forage crops outstrips
production and if forage production under irrigated conditions proves viable,
more area would be diverted to forage production in future.
VI. MARKETING, PRICES, FARM INCOME AND COST RECOVERY
A. Marketing and Prices
6.01     A large proportion of incremental projef . production of grain,
foodstuffs and fodder will be consumed by the subsistence farmers on the
irrigation schemes and their livestock. The surplus grain, sesame, legumes
and crop residues produced under the project will be marketed by private
merchants. After the liberaltzation of food marketing systems in the early
1980's, merchants have been free to trade in these commodities. Government
provides a support price for maize and sorghum, which prevents prices from
declining too far at harvest times. The support price for maize at appraisal
(September 1988, Gu harvest) was SoSh 32 per kg (about US$128 per ton),
between the import parity and the export parity prices at the official
exchange rate. Rice has become an important part of the local diet. Only
five to ten thousand tons a year are produced, but total annual consumption is
in the order of 80 thousand tons. Local prices are much higher than import
parity, and are sharply affected when imported rice arrives in the country.
The import parity price for rice is usually well below the local financial
price, reflecting high local demand, import taxes and charges, and the
discontinuity of imports.



- 42 -
6.02     Sesame is grown for sale.  it is a lucrative crop for small farmers,
and with its short growing season, fits well into the wild flood irrigation
practiced to date by the area's small farmers. Sesame is processed mainly
into oil for consumption in the country. An export market exists, mainly to
Japan, although the USA imports small quantities. Market prospects are good.
Only half of the edible oil consumed in the country is produced locally.
Sesame oil is of high quality, and preferred over imported oils.
6.03     Vegetables produced under the project have a market in the nearby
towns of Qoryooley, Genale, Shalambood and Merca, as well as the larger market
of Mogadishu, 100 km away. A vegetable processing plant in Afgoi absorbs a
small amount of tomatoes. This plant has a large, underutilized capacity, and
pays below market prices for produce. Refurbishment e; this plant would
provide a significant increase in the market for irrigated fruit and
vegetables from this and other projects. Marketing is also undertaken by
small farmers and traders in the private sector.   No cold storage is
available in the project area for vegetables. Minimal cold storage facilities
exist in Mogadishu. Prices fall sharply at harvest for perishable crops,
especially if harvests are good.
6.04     Watermelons have been exported successfully to the Middle East and
Italy by Somalfruit. Current exports are about 2,000 tons per year.
Somalfruit is a joint venture between the Government and Italian investors,
which manages banana production and marketing in the country, and has started
to diversify into other fruits. Somalfruit expects that the market for the
highly regarded Somali watermelon could be further developed.
6.05     The project area is well served by public and private transport, and
access to the surrounding towns in the Lower Shebelli area and Mogadishu is
unrestricted. Competition amongst traders is adequate to prevent monopolistic
behavior. Grain storage facilities in the project area are good. ADC
maintains 10,000 tons of warehouse capacity, half of it constructed in the
past two years.
6.06     Prices used in the financial analysis of productive activities are
based on mission observations at appraisal, and price series obtained by the
Food Early Warning Project in the Ministry of Agriculture. The prices used in
the economic analysis are based on the World Bank projections of Commodity
Prices (January 27, 1988), adjusted to farmgate levels using an import or
export parity calculation.



- 43 -
Table 6.1 : Farmgate Prices Used in Production Analysis
Financial           Economic        Economic   1/
(SoSh/Kg)           (SoSh/Kg)       (US$/ton)
Maize               50                  49              150
Sesame             159                 175              540
Legumes (Cowpea)   85                   77              240
Vegetables          85                  85              260
Watermelon          30                  53              160
Rice (Paddy)        69                  51              155
Cotton (Seed)      128                 246              760
1/  At shadow exchange rate of US$ 1.00 = SoSh 325.  Farmgate prices also
include import and transport taxes and charges.
6.07     Prices for project outputs, especially vegetables, drop at harvest.
The vegetable price has been adjusted downwards for this reason. The
Government support price for maize helps to overcome this disincentive to
production. Grain prices also depend closely on the existence of supplies of
imports.
B. Farm Family Incomes
6.08     Returns and incomes to the small farmers in the Farahaane and
Falkeerow irrigation areas were estimated on the basis of the production
parameters given in Chapter V. Eight farm models were prepared (para 5.09).
The first four portray farmers in the Farahaane region. Model 1, with one
hectare of land, represents some 90 percent of the farmers in Farahaane,
although only 40 percent of the area cultivated. The second four models
portray farme-.s in the areas irrigated from the Falkeerow and Qoryooley
barrages.   Model 5 with one hectare of land, represents some 90 percent of
the farmers in this region, and 40 percent of the area. These two models,
which represent the vast majority of the farmers in the project area, are
described in more detail below. The larger farms are more highly mechanized,
and better off. Data on all the models is available in Project Files (Annex
V).
Farahaane Model I (1 ha)
6.09     Under Model 1, as the Farahaane irrigation scheme is refurbished, the
small farmer cultivates with increasing intensity, going from a current fax-m
utilization level of 120 percent to 165 percent by the end of the project
period. A new and lucrative crop of watermelon is introduced on 0.05 of a
hectare.   With the guarantee of reliable irrigation water during the growing
season, chemical fertilizers and other inputs are applied, and maize and
sesame yields increase to four times the without project levels. Maize yields
of 3 tons and sesame yields of 1 ton per ha are reasonable to expect under
efficiently managed irrigated conditions. Der season plantings of sesame go
from 0.19 of a hectare, to 0.60 of a hectare. Annual water use goes up to



- 44 -
4,700 cubic meters per farm at full development Although the farm labor
inputs increase by half, going from some 90 days per year to 160 days per
year, they are well distributed and can be met by the farmer's family.
6.10     Family income from farming including consumption of grain produced,
and the returns to the labor supplied to run the farm, increases from US$255
prior to the project, to some US$1,100 at full development. Family size is
estimated at 7.3, which implies per capita annual income of US$150 from
farming activities at full development. This is about equal to the current
national average.    Family members normally obtain wage labor during the off
peak agricultural seasons, to supplement their earnings. During the project,
consumption of grain from the farm doubles, from 60 kg to 130 kg per capita
per annum. Returns to the family labor day are almost triple present levels,
going from about SoSh 680 per day to an estimated SoSh 1,700 per day. This is
after the payment of water charges assessed at SoSh 3,000 per 1,000 cubic
meters, or SoSh 8,750 (US$35) per hectare. If productivity indeed increases
as projected, there would appear to be room to increase the water charge
assessment even further without affecting farm income too drastically. With
the proposed development program, the small farmer's financial risk increases
somewhat. Cash outlays during the growing season increase from SoSh 7,600
(US$30) per year, mainly for mechanized land preparation, to SoSh 47,700
(US$190) per year.
Falkeerow, Model 5 (1 ha)
6.11     Under this farming system, the principal contribution of the project
to agricultural production is to maintain the availability of water from the
Falkeerow barrage, which is in imminent danger of being undercut and
collapsing. With the collapse of the barrage, the farmers who depend on water
from its command area would be reduced to rainfed subsistence farming. The
longevity of the current deteriorated barrage is estimated at three years for
the purposes of the economic analysis, after which the pre-project yields are
assumed to drop to 50Z of current levels. Benefits from the project also
include the returns to be obtained from more reliable water availability and
improved water management which will result from the refurbishment of the
structure and improved agricultural services. Farmers in the Falkeerow and
Qoryooley area would continue with their current cultivation of maize, sesame,
vegetables and watermelon. The intensity of farm use would increase from 100
to 130 percent. Yields would go up 20 to 50 percent, depending on the crop.
These increases would be due to improved husbandry, better water management,
and a more reliable source of water. The increased use of agro-chemicals is
not foreseen.
6.12     Family incomes from the farm, including returns to family labor, are
expected to double over the life of the project. Prior to the project, family
farm incomes from cropping are estimated at US$210, and rise to US$490 by full
development. The full development level income implies a per capita rate of
only US$70 per annum. The need for supplementation from livestock activities
and off farm employment is greater here than in Farahaane. Grain consumption
on farm goes from 130 to 150 kg per capita. Water use charges would not be
assessed in this area, as the irrigation schemes would be left in their
current, rudimentary state. Returns per family labor day rise from the going
wage of some SoSh 400 per day, to SoSh 900 per day by full development.



- 45 -
6.13     The levels of farm income for the predominant farm types considered
in the project analysis are shown below.
Table 6.2 Farm Income Levels for Project Farm Families
Pre-project           Full Development
SoSh       US$         SoSh           US$
Farahaane Model 1 (1 ha) I/
Return to Family Labor       63,800        255      274,600         1,100
Net Cash Income               42,000       170      226,600           900
Return Per Labor Day             680         2.70    1,700              6.8
Falkeerow Model 5 (1 ha)
Return to Family Labor        52,600       210      122,900           490
Net Cash Income                5,200        20       68,100           270
Return Per Labor Day             670         2.70       890             3.6
1I After water charges.
The financial analysis of the other six farm models is summarized in
Project Files (Annex V).
C. Cost Recovery
6.14     Farmers in the Farahaane irrigation scheme already contribute towards
the maintenance of the current canal system with labor and small cash
payments. This type of contribution would continue to be used in the
maintenance of the tertiary and quaternary levels of canals. In addition, a
water use charge would be levied on farmers in Farahaane, as a contribution
towards the operation of the scheme, and the mechanized maintenance of the
primary and secondary canals. The annual cost to Government of operating the
Farahaane scheme is estimated at about SoSh 76.1 million (US$300,000) (Annex
IV, Table 1). The water use charge would be assessed on a "per hectare
cultivated" basis. A charge of SoSh 3,000 per 1,000 cubic meters of water
used, equivalent to a charge of SoSh 8,750 (US$35) per hectare cultivated,
would cover these operating costs. Farm model financial analysis shows that,
if expected yield increases are realized, farmers will be able to make these
payments comfortably (para 6.10). The actual methods for assessment of water
charges, and determination of the amounts to be assessed, will be determined
in a study to be undertaken by USAID in their Shebelli Water Management
Project. It is expected that charges would be phased ir, gradually. The
Government and IDA would agree on a schedule (para 3.34). The full
contribution would be reached by 1998, ten years after the initiation of the
project.



- 46 -
VII. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
7.01     The project will increase agricultural production for local
consumption and e.port.  Vulnerability to drought will be minimized.  With the
improved management of the Shebelli basin, and the rehabMlitation of
irrigation infrastructure, the project will provide increased incomes and more
stable and reliable livelihoods for some 2,200 subsistence farmers in the
Farahaane region. About 3,400 subsistence farmers in the Qoryooley and
Falkeerow regions will be able to continue the current low input, low output
type of irrigation with the rehabilitation of the Qoryooley and Falkeerow
barrages. These two barrages are at present almost unoperable, and threaten
to collapse. All of the farmers in the Lower Shebelli region will benefit
from the improvements i'n river basin management, and the improved regulation
of water use. The organization of irrigation scheme maintenance, to be
undertaken with the collaboration of a strengthened Ministry of Agriculture
and water user associations, will improve the efficiency of water use in the
Shebelli valley for many years. The collection of user charges will provide
partial financing for these maintenance activities, and help ensure that they
continue and are effective.
A. Economic Analysis
7.02     The economic analysis of this project captures only some of these
benefits. The returns to improved irrigation and cultivation practices in the
rehabilitated Farahaane scheme, and in the Qoryooley and Falkeerow areas, have
been estimated using eight farm models. Two of these, representing 90X of the
farmers and 402 of the area to be cultivated, are described in Chapter VI.
The value of the returns to production have been assessed using prices derived
from the most recent revision of World Bank Commodity Price Forecasts, dated
January 27, 1988. Maize is priced between the import and export parity value.
Sesame and watermelons are priced on an export parity basis. Rice and cotton
are priced on an import parity basis. Legumes and vegetables are valued at
local prices. The shadow exchange rate for the shilling was estimated at SoSh
325 to the US dollar. The official exchange rate at time of valuation was
SoSh 250 to the US dollar. Farm labor was priced at the full market wage, due
to the need for work at times of peak demand for agricultural workers, and the
availability of wage employment during these periods at the banana, grapefruit
and other plantations contiguous to the project area.
7.03     Off farm project costs, mainly Ministry of Agriculture expenditures,
were taken from the project cost tables and adjusted to reflect the shadow
cost of foreign exchange. Only the cost of investments with a direct effect on
agricultural production were included.  Thus, all project expenditures, with
the exception of expenditures on health facilities (1X) and 502 of the PPF
(2Z), were included in the economic analysis. The recurrent costs to the
Ministry of Agriculture to continue to maintain and operate the scheme were
included after the end of the six year roject investment period. On-farm
costs for inputs and labor were included in the farm models.



- 47 -
7.04     The benefit stream is developed from the agricultural intensification
program described for the eight farm models in chapters V and VI. Farms are
assumed to begin producing incremental benefits starting in year 3 of the
project. Farm benefits are phased in under the following schedule: Year 3: 20
percent; Year 4: 30 percent: Year 5s 30 percent; Year 6i 10 percent; Year 7:
10 percent.
7.05     The economic rate of return to the project, under the above-
mentioned assumptions, is estimated to be 13 percent. The results of some
sensitivity tests are shown below:
Table 7.1        Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Tests
( in percent )
Base Rate:                 13
Costs Down 20 Z:           16
Benefits Down 20Z:         10
Costs up 20?               10
Costs Up 20Z and
Benefits Down 202 :       8
Benefits lag 1 year:       11
As the above tests show, the base ERR of 13 percent although not very high, is
acceptable and robust. An escalation in costs, and a reduction in benefits of
twenty percent would still yield an ERR of 8 percent.   This range of returns
is reasonable in the agricultural sector in Somalia.
B. Risks
7.06     The main risk to the attair.ment of the above mentioned results is
that expectations for improved management of the Shebelli basin may not be
met. Improvements in river basin management would include the limitation of
unregulated pumping in the Upper and Middle Shebelli, and the operation of the
Jowhar reservoir to provide adequate water for downstream users in the initial
stages of the dry season (December and January) when the sesame crop is
growing. The Government is taking many steps to strengthen its control of the
Shebelli Water resources, and with the support provided by IDA and USAID it is
expected to be able to greatly improve the efficiency and equity of water
allocations.
7.07     A second important category of risk is the non-performance of key
agricultural support services, both public and privace. These services become
increasingly important as the level of productivity and input use increase.
Bottlenecks in the development of research recommendations, in the importation
and distribution of fertilizers, and in production and distribution of
improved seed have limited productivity improvements in the Shebelli valley
for many years. A series of donor supported projects in recent years is
addressing these problems. This, combined with the Government's efforts to
liberalize product and input markets, provide foreign exchange to the
productive sectors and rationalize and increase the efficiency of agricultural
support services, should permit these bottlenecks to be overcome.



- 48 -
7.08     A third category of risk is that projected yields depend on the
availability of water in specified quantities as well as timely availability
of agricultural inputs. Steps taken to regulate the flow of Jowhar reservoir
during the months of December and January and restrictions imposed on further
development of perennial crop areas with licensing of pumps would ensure the
availability of water. Provisions made under the project for supply of
required agricultural inputs would also ensure their timely availability.
7.09     A fourth risk to the longer term sustainability of the project is
that the water users associations and other institutional arrangements for
water charges may not work out. To reduce this risk, special care is taken to
involve those associations in planning and design of the project.
VIII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
A. General Conditions
8.01     The following agreements were reached with the Government at
negotiations:
a)   Quality of drainage would be monitored and a report submitted
for IDA review by March 31 and September 30 of each year;
(para 3.09);
b)   Inputs procured under the project would be sold at open market
prices. (para 3.18);
c)   Drugs and Medicine used for malaria and schistosomiasis
control program will be subject to the Association's review
and concurrence (para 3.25);
d)   Village committees would be responsible for the construction
of the quaternary canals, and the operation and maintenance of
tertiary and quaternary canals, and these committees would be
involved in the planning of the tertiary and quaternary
canals, footbridges and watering points (para 3.34);
e)   Water charges would be assessed at levels and ac~.ccrding to the
procedures agreed upon completicn of the study financed under
USAID funded Shebelli Water Management Project. These charges
would be adequate to cover at least the operation and
maintenance costs of the scheme. The Association would also
review the recommendations of this study and will comment on
the proposed assessment methods and rates of water charge
prior to implementation (para 3.34);
f)   GOS would cause MOA to (i) contain future expansion of
irrigated area upstream of the Genale barrage to 1,500 ha
through licensing of pumps; (ii) contain existing as well as
planned cultivation downstream of Genale and upstream of
Gayweerow barrage to 15,000 ha of annual crops during either
the Gu or the Der seasons, and 4,500 ha of perennial crops
under banana; and (iii) restrict sugar cultivation for Jowhar
sugar factory to a maximum of 2,000 ha (para 3.35);



- 49 -
g)   GOS would open and maintain in dollars a special account in a
commercial bank; and would open and maintain a project account
with an initial deposit of SoSh 50 million and provide local
counterpart funds through quarterly replenishment of this
account (para. 3.48);
h)   All project related contracts and documents for SOEs would be
kept for at least one year after IDA has received the audit
report for the fiscal year; and accounts, including SOEs,
would be audited by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA
(para 3.50); and
i)   MOA would submit for IDA review the recommended types of
pesticides to be procured under the project and provide
trair.ing to the plant protection staff according to a program
acceptable to IDA in the use and safety of pesticide. MOA
would engage an integrated pest management expert to establish
the program under terms of reference acceptable to IDA (para
3.51).
B. Dated Covenants
8.02       Agreements were reached at negotiations that:
a)   An assessment of the functioning of the input supply mechanism
would be submitted to IDA for review by December 31, 1992; by
June 30, 1993, an action plan relating to the assessment would
be agreed and implementation of such action plan started (para
3.18);
b)   MOA would complete the registration of approximately 200
parcels in a 300 ha pilot area for which cadastral surveys
were completed earlier by December 31, 1989 and the entire
Farahaane scheme cadastral surveys by March 31, 1991 with
issue of titles completion by March 31, 1992. The proposals
for the modification of the land registration process and for
the adjustment of the land law developed in the USAID assisted
Shebelli Water Management project would be subject to review
and comments by IDA prior to final approval by the Government
(para 3.23);
c)   GOS would cause MOA: (i) to establish an intervillage
committee for the Gayweerow primary canal by June 30, 1990 to
coordinate the distribution of water; (ii) to undertake a
study for IDA's review by June 30, 1993 to recommend the role
and responsibilities of water users associations, village
committees and MOA in the operation and maintenance of the
scheme and to assess village committees' capacity to assume
such responsibility, and implement the agreed recommendations
by March 31, 1994; and (iii) to sign an agreement with village
committees by December 31, 1993, satisfactory to the
Association, specifying their responsibilities and funding
mechanism (p&ra 3.34);



- 50 -
d)   MOA woutd establish Jowhar reservoir operation rules according
to the simulation hydraulic model to be developed under the
USAID assisted Shebelli Water Management Project by June 30,
1991 which will be reviewed by IDA and an understanding
established between GOS and IDA by December 31, 1991 which
would then be enforced by June 30, 1992 (para 3.35 (d));
e)   MOA would submit an annual report to IDA for review of items
covered uider 8.01 (f) in a format and with details agreed
with IDA by June 30, 1991 (para 3.35 (e));
f)   GOS would cause MOA and MOH to appoint consultants to prepare
a mid-term report and submit for IDA review by June 30, 1993
and by December 31, 1993: (i) agree to an action plan; and
(ii) start implementating such action plan (para 3.36);
g)   GOS would cause MOA (i) to prepare terms of reference for
various consulting services required under the project and
submit these for IDA review by December 31, 1989; and (ii)
formalities for engagement of consultants for the construction
supervision would be completed before September 30, 1989
(paras 3.^.7 & 3.46); and
h)   The unaudited reports would be submitted to IDA in English
within four months of the end of the financial year, and
audited accounts, together with the auditor's report, both in
English, would be furnished to IDA within nine months of the
end of the financial year (para 3.50 (d)).
C. Condition of Disbursement
8.03     Agreement was reached at negotiations that prior to any disbursement
by the Association for the provision of inputs under this project, GOS and
CSBS would have signed an agreement satisfactory to the Association covering
operation of the Revolving Input Funds (para 3.18).
D. Conditions of Credit Effectiveness
8.04     Agreement was reached at negotiations that prior to credit
effectiveness:
a) A project account would be opened in local currency with an
initial deposit of SoSh 50 million (para 3.48); and
b) A qualified and experienced project manager acceptable to IDA
would be appointed by MOA to direct day to day field
activities of the project (para 4.03).
Recommendation
8.05     With the above assurances and conditions the project would be
suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 21.2 million (US$28.5 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity.



SOMAL IA
FAR4AHAANE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUMMARY ACCOUNTS COST SUMMARY
ISOSH Million)                                          TUSS '0001
% Total                                               I Tota;
% foreign  Bases                                         Foreign  Base
local  foreign    Total   Tiichange    Costs          Local  Foreign    Iota)   Exchan.je    Costs
IINVESTMENT .ZSIS
A  civil WORKS
I lEUABIIITATION WORKS                                        379 8  2.55265  2.93? 4              A7        45   T.519 110.210 'a TT.729 6               87        45
2  BUILDING fACILIlIES                                           64 3      241 3      305 6           79        5      257 2     985 3  1.222.5             79         5
3   DON  WATER SUPPIY                                             3 4       19 1       2? 5          85         0       13 5       76 5      90 0           85         0
4  ROADS                                                          198      1482       1T8 O           88         3      792      592 8      672 0           88         3
Sub Total CiVYT  WORKS                                             4672  2.961 3  3.428.5                88        53  1,869 011.845 T 13.714 1                 86       53
Et EQUIPMINI, VIHlIrIES AND INPUtS
I  DRSAINAG[ PUMPING STAiITIN                                     0 I      IbI4       151 53        100         2        0 5     505 53    5050            100         2
2  08 It   FOUTPMFNI                                                       2236       2238           100        3                895 0      895 0          TOO         3
3  AGRICULIURAL EQUIPMENT                                                   12 3       12 3          1OO        0           -      49 0      49 0          too         0
4  lAB  '~UNYlYS 3 OfIlCI EQIIIPHENT                                        54 7       54 7          100         1               218 5      218 6          Too         I
VEPICIES                                                                890        890           TOO         T                34,6 0     356 0         100          I
b  AGRICLIITliRl  INPUTS                                                   174 9      174 9          100         3               699 8      699 B          100         3
S.b told] [QUJIPH'1N1. WEHIICILS AND INPUTS                           0 I    70650         065  I       10         itI      0 5   2.823 9  2.824 4             tOO       Il
C  IMPtIMENIA18ilU ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING
I  SURVEYS AND MAPPING                                           if 5      135 0      149 5          92         2      46 0      552 0      598 0           92         2
2  CONSUITANI SIRVICES                                           28 I    874 0        902 1          97         14     112 3  3.496 1  3.608 4              97        14
3  SPECIALIZED CONSULTANTS                                       203       521 1    5414             96         8       81 0  2.084 52.16555                96         A 
4  FILLOWSIFIPS 8 TRAINING                                       33 4      102 8      135.1           75        2      133 5    411 0    544.5              7ti        2
Sub Total IMPILMENTA]ION ASSISIANCE AND TRAINING                     93 2  1.635 9  1.729 I              95        27     372.8  6.543 6  5.916 4               95       27
bida  INVISIMINI  COSTS                                                5606  5.303 2  5.863 7               90        91  2.242 321.212 723.454 9                  90        91
Physical Contingencies                                               52 9     424 0      477 0           89         7     211 A   1.696 1  1.907 8             89          7
Price Contingencies                                                 751 7  6.501 0  7.262 7              90       112     395 1  3.414 1  3.809 3               90      __l
bloaT  INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                       1.375 2 12.228 2 ii.803.4              90       211  2.849 2 26.322 8 29. 172.1               90       113
II RECURRENt COSTS
A INCREMENtAL STAFF
I  MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE                                     155 1      35 9      191 0           19         3     620 3      143 7      764 0          19         3
2  MINISTRY Of HEALTH                                            2 6       23 2       25 8          90         0      10 3       9? 9      Io-q 2         90         0
Sub Total INCREMENTAL STAFF                                        1577       59 I    216 8             27         3     63~ 6      236.5     857 2           27         3
B  OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
1  FOR O&M LQUIPMENT                                                      162 6     1626           too         3                5505       550 5         TOO         3
2  FOR AGRICULTURE EQUIPMENT                                      I 5      13 5       15 0          90         0        6 0      54 0       50.0           90         0
3  FOR VEHICLES                                                  2 4      137 6      140 1          98         2        ? 7    550 5       560 2                      2
4  FOR OTHER FACILITIES                                          6 8       28 3       35 0          81          1      27 0     113 0      140 0           81         1
s.b total OPERATION AND MAINIENANCE                                 to 7    342 0       352 7           97         5      42 7  1.368 0   1.410 7             97         5
C  DRUGS AND CHEMICALS                                               0 5       24 9      255      5      8         0       2 4       99.6      102 0          98         0
Total RECURRENT  COSTS                                                  1689      4250       595 0           72         9     675 7   1. 704.2  2. 379 9           72         9
Physical  Contingencies                                                I I       7 9        9 I          87         0        4 6      31 8       36 3           87         0
Price ContiNgenc,es                                                 3069       941 8  1,248.6            75        19     137.5      406 7    544.2             75         2                                                                 -  o
Iota1  INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                         475_9   1.375 8  1.852 7              74       29      817 7  2.142 2  2.950 4              72  .... 1
total BASElINE COSTS                                                     729 5  5. 7292   6.458 7             89       TOO  2.918 022.916 825.834.8                 89       tOO
Physical Cortingencies                                                54 1    432 0        486 0           89        8     715 3   1.727.8   1.944 2             89         8
Price Comtingencies                                                1.068.5   7.4428  8.511 3              87       132     53256  3.820.68  4.353. 4             88        17
total PROJECT CDSTS                                                   1. 852 I 13. 604 0 15.456 I             88      239  3. 666. 928.465 5 32. 132. 4             89       124



SOMEL IA
FARAHAANE IRRIGATION REIIABlILTAT ION PROJECT
Project Ctriponents by Year
IS05" MfillionI
Base Costs                                  Total
1989    1990     1991     1992      1993    1994  1995       SOSH    1US$ .000)
A IRRIGATION DEVELOPMNTN
I REHABILITAT ION 0f GORTOLLE
AND FALKEERON BARRAGES                                     - 102.4   325 9   251.2              -6 79.5    2.711 A
2 RIFHABIL ElATION OF DIRECT
RIVER8 011188ES BiTWEEN GAYWIEROW
AND fALKEEROW BARRAGES                                     -20 0                                -      -              20 0         80 I
3 PRIMARY/SECONDARY IRRIGATION
IRRIGATION FACILIIITS                                         87 4   275 4   303 9    125 4   5 0                  779 I    3.1iTS 5
4 LERTIARYIQUATERNARY IRRIGATION AND
DRAINAGE SYSTEM  IPILOT AREAS ONLY)                                           -    15 9      15. 1   5.56             35.5        14652
5  ItRTIARY IRRIGATION SYSTEM                                                          81 1    98 3  56 0                235 5       941 A
S  DRAINAGE SYSTEM                                                  67B  3   378 4   440 9   284 4   2.5          -    . 173.3    4.593 2
7  ROADS AND BETIDIBNG FACILITIES                                   51 A   III 5   190 5        87 8   7 5  10.0         459.0     1.835 0
8  VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT                                  23B   118.3   141 2   159.5    58 3  70 3  70 3               521 A    2.457 3
9 SURVEYS. MAPPING. INVESTIGATION SERVICES.
CONSULTING SERVICES AND TRAINING                      401. 1   227 9    380 I   354 2    100.2   5.8  I9 8    1,489.0           5.955 9
IC INCREMENTAl SlATTING 10R
IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT                                  5 5    22 0    27 7    23D 5    28 1  25 2  25 9             164 7        558 a
Sub Iotal IRRIGAI ION DLVELOPMENT                            411 4    56 9 1. 661 2 1. 825 7   798 5 178.9 125.9   5.658 4   22.6533 7
B  AGRICULTURE DEVElOPMENT                                     15 9     89 7   172 3   172 0    T32 7  19 5  15 I           6T7 2    2.459 0
C  HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES                                           51 9    50 4       17 4     17 7  17 A  17.8        183.1 I      732 2tr
Total BASELINE COSTS                                            427 2   808 5 1.883 9 2,015 1   948 9 215.2 158.9   6.458 7   25.834 8
Physical Contingencies                                         3 2    59.3    157.3   171 5        79 3   10.4   5 I       485 0      1.944 2
Price Contingencies                                          71 0   448 0 1.850 7 2.983 2 1,985.2 597 I 575 I   8.511 3    4.353 4
lotla  PROJECT COSTS                                           501 4 1.315 83.891 9 5.159 8 3.014 3 823 7 739.1  15. 458 1   32. 132 4
foreign Ixchange                                            491 8 1. 155 93.452 0 4.518 1 2.655 I 534 3595 9   13.504 0   28.465 5
Novembter 14. 1988  II 00



SOMAL IA
fARAHAANE IRRIGAIION REHABTIITATION PROJECT
Project Coffponents by Year
lotals Includring ContIingencies                                           lotaTs In.cluding Conltingencies
ISOSH NillionI                                                               fuss '0001
1959    1990      1991     1992      1993    1994   1995    lotaI         1989     1990      1991       1992     1993      1994    1995    Total
A IRRIGATION OEVELOPMENI
1  REHABIliTAIION Of GORIOLEY
AND FALKEIRBOW BARPAGES                                            170 7    6835i   653 4                              1.507 5               48668  1.622 5   1.302 1                                3 411 3
2  REHABtILAIION OF DIRECT
RIVER OIffAK(S BIIWIEN GAYWEIROId
AND fALtKFEROW BARRAGES                                                      42 0                                         42 0                          99 7                                             9
3  PRINARY/SECONDARY IRRIlGAIION
IRRIGATION IACILIIIES                                           112 4    5?9 B   790 5    407 6  20 0               1.910 2                320 4  1.376 3   1.575 3    681 9        28 I          3.982 0
4 1IRIIARY/QIIAT[RNARY IRRIGAILON AND
DRAINAGE SYSIIM  IP1L01 ARIAS ONLY)                                                    41 2    48 6  22 53               112 3                                     82 I    61 3    31 6                 195 0
5  IEATIARY IRRIGATION SYSTEM                                                            211 0   317 1 223 9                 752 0                    .420 5   530 6   314 5                             1.265 5
6  DRAINAGE SYSTEM                                                    112 2   793 5 1. 146 5   917 0   10 0               2.979 2                319 8 1.883 7  2.284 9 1.534 2            14 0          6.036 7
2  ROADS AND BUILDING FACILITIES                                       86 3   233 9   495 4   283 0  30 0  49 6  1.178 2                    - 246 I   555 1    987 3   473 4              42 1  58 5  2.362 6
8  VEHICIES AiND EQUIPMENT                                     4 4    179 4   269 3   377 3    171 0 255 7 317 0   1.574 0               IS 4   511 5   639 2         751 9   256 I   359 1 373 8  2.937 0
9  SURVEYS. NAPPING   INVESTIGATION SERVICES.
CONSUIIING SIRVICES AND TRAINING                         471 0   380 1   797 3   921 0    323 1  23 0  97 9  3.013 4   1.659 9 1.083 9 1.892 6  1.835 5   540 6                        32 3 115 5   7.160 3
10  INCREMFNIAI S1AFFING FOR
IRRIGATION DEVEIOPMEIN                                     7 6     33 3    52 7        67 3    82 5  95 2 116 5          455 0       26 7    94 9    125 1        134 0    138 0    133 6 137 4        789 8
S'.b Iotal IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT                               482 9  1.074 3 3. 451 94.2703 6 2. 5498 680 2 581 I 13 523 8   1. 7020 3.063 5 P.194 2   9.3737 4.266 0    9955 A 685 1 28.239 9
B  AGRICUkLTURE DEVELOPRENI                                       18 5    138 2   334 3   420 9   407 5  72 3  69 8  1.46T 5                65 2   394 I   793 5,    538 7   681 7    lOT 6  82 3  2.957 2
C  HEALtH AND SOCIAL  SERVICES                                            103 3    lOS 8      45 3      57 0  71 2  88 3        470 8                294 5    251 I       90 3      95 4    100 0 104 I    935 3
....   .......  ------  - -  .......   .....   ..   ..... ~ ~ ~
total PROJECT  COSTS                                             5301 4 1.315 8 3.891 9 5.169 8 3.014 3 823 7 739 1 15.456 1  1. 767 2 3.752 I 9.238 8  10.302 7 5.043 I i.157 0871 5 32. 132 4ti
No~sembe   14.  1988   11 00



SOMAt  A
FARAILAANE IRRIGATION REHAS111IAI ION PROJLECT
S.maurwy Acco.~ts by Yea,
1989              1990                1991                1992               1993               1994             1995               EcLaI
IINVESIMINT COS1%
A  CIVIL NORKIS
I  REHABlIEIAIION WORKS                                                           426. 492. 815 8 2.223.207.509 5 2.765.369.514 0 1.523 902. 320 I 275. 421. 932 9-  7.215.394.292 3
2  BUIJIOING  FACHITIIES                                                           100. 903. 103 I   287. 099. 557 9   276. 976. 954 I                                                                664. 979. 615 0
3  DDM  WAlFR SUPPLY                                                                37. 525. 947 4                                                           ..-                                       37.525. 947 4
4  ROADS                                                                                                                  218.480. 698 0    270.891.263 9                                       -    489.351.961 8
S.b lotal CIVIL  WORKS                                                                564. 921.86 8522.510.307. 167 4 3.260.807.26650  1,794.793.584 0 275. 421. 932 9                                 8.407.251.8165
8  EQUIPMENI  VEHIClES AND IRPUIIS
I  DRAINAGE PUMPING SIATION                                                                                               198. 9!55.280 2    241. 867. 201 7                                         440. 822. 481 9
2  0& M EQUIPMFNI                                                                                    212. 119. 051 5    265.982.994 9                                        .478.102.046 4
3  AGRICUITURAI EQUIPMENT                                                                                2.860,032 2        16. 550. 053 0     10. 993. 963 7                                  -       30.404.048 9
4  lAB. SUIRVEYS II OFFICF EQUIPMENT                             4.358.749 6        69. 608. 736 3      10. 582. 119 0                                                                                 84. 559. 604 8
5  VFHICLES                                                                        106.8592. 091 2       7. 885.088 4      34.873. 32650                     ..149.630.505 6
6  AGRICUE TUR[ INPLUTS                                                             23. 624. 668 3      63. 623. 322 0    156. 485. 479 8   204. 393. 909 9   13. 358 227 7   17. 603. 028 7    479. 085. 636 5
Sub loala  IQUIPMENI, VEHICtIS AND INP'UTS                           4.368.749 5   200. 125. 495 8   297.049.613  I   872.847. 133 9   457.255.075 4   13.355.227 7  17.603.028 7  1.662.605.324  1
C   IMPLIMENIAT TON ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING
I  SIJRVI YS AND MAPPING                                         5.446.249 3    135 699. 889 7    109. 396. 229 5          13. 003. 613 0       4 031. 120 0                                         270. 577. 101 5
2  CONSULTANT SERVICES                                         448.871. 547 8       72.383.383 4   401.119.508 9    590. 103.960 3    182.851.604 5                                                 1.695.330.004 8
3  SPECLAMLID CONSULTANIS                                       29.037.522 4    231.713,246 4    315.962.051 8   278.631.962 8   228.088.100 0   54.893.587 0 122.725.341 I  1.261.051.911 5
4    IEIONSHIPS 8 TRAINING                                                          38. 208. 237 0    117.404.318 6    120. 756. 277 4          12. 679. 704 3   10.587. 919 0   6.930. 770 I    306.567.226 5
Sub Total IMPIkAENIAIION ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING                  486. 355.419 la   478.004.15566   943.882. 108 8  1. 002. 495. 813 4   427. 650.528 7  65. 481. 506  I 129. 656. 111.23  3.533.526.244 4 
loalA  INRESIMiFNI COSTS                                              490. 724. 159 I 1.243.052. 118 6 3.75b1. 238. 889 2 4. 935. 150. 213 3 2. 679. 699. 188  I 355.259.6566_7 147.259. 139 9 13.603.383 384.0
11 RFrCURRNT1 COSTS5
A INCREMINIAl STAfF
I  MINISTRY Of AGRICUL TURE                                    ID 688. 874 7      44. 481. 516 6      64. 279. 220 0      73. 499. 953 1    90. 187. 144 I 104. 743. 149 2 126. 416. 464 7          516. 296. 332 5
2  MINISTRY 0f H11811H                                                              7. 17 T. 625 5     9. 018. 634 7      Iti. 183. 107 2     13. 867. 052 8   17. 195. 143 6  21. 321. 978 5        79. 757. 542 2
S,b  Totla  INCR1MINTAL  STAlE                                     10.688.874 7           T. 653. 142 I    73.297.854 7       84. 683.070 3    104. 054. 1969  121. 938.292 8 149. 738.443 2            596.053.874 7
U  OPERAIION AND MAINTENANCE
I  FOR DAM IQUIPPENI                                                                                  14.061.824 8        57 629.648 9    104 442. 355 3 173. 132. 919 0214.584.824 9               563.951.672 9
2  IOR AGRICUIlITIRE  EQUIPMENT                                                     2 757 064 8         4 433. 049 6       5.679. 128 5        4 282. 119 3   10. 269. 826 8   12. 734. 585 5         45. 165. 774 6
3  fOR VFHICLfS                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~11. 219. 879  1    36. 179. 406 6  67. 559. 680 6  83. 774. 003 4 103. 879. 751 5) 128. 810. 895 0      431. 423,616.4
4  FOR OTHER FAI.ILI1IFS                                                                                3. 813. 376 2      6. 028. 947 9      20. 375. 4792   42. 260. 791 8  64. 799. 882  I        137. 278. 4 772
Sub  lotla  OPIRATLON AND MAINTENANCE                                                  13. 985. 943 9     58. 487. 657 5    137. 897. 405 9    216. 874. 257 1 329. 543. 289 1 421. 030. 187 5   1. 177.819.741 0
C  DRUGS AND CHIMILAIS                                                                  7.088.234 4        8.913.756b 9       11.053.071 1        13. 705.8608 1  I6. 995. 199 9  21. 074. 048 4          78. 820.128 9
lotal RECURRENI COSIS                                                   I0.688. 874 7      72 728. 320 3    140. 699. 279 1   233. 633. 547 3   334.6534. 262 1 458. 476. 781 9 591. 842. 579 1  1. 852.703.744 5                                    . 
total PROJECT COSIS                                                    501. 413.043 9 1.315.780.438 9 3.891.938. 168 3 5.159.783.760 5 3.014.333.450 2 823. 736.448 6 739.101,819.1 15.456.087. 129 0(06
No~embe, 14. 19C8B 11 00



SOMAL IA
FARAEEAANE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
S.msary Accounts by Year
(SOSHI
Base Costs
1989            1990              1991              1992              1993             1994           1995             total
I tNVESIMENEI COStS
A  CIVIL WORKS
I  RtHAE8ILIATLON WORKS                                                   255.718.750 0 1,064.686.250 0 1.067.990.000 0   474.884,000.0  69.125.000 0                        -2.932.404.000.0
2   BUILDING FACIIIIIES                                 ~~~61.375.000 0    137.750.000 0   106.500.010 0                   --                                   305.625.000.0
3  DON  WATER SUPPLY                                                        22. 500. 000 0-.-                                                                                       22. 500.000.0
4  ROADS                                                                                         -             84. 000. 000.0    84.000.000.0                                      268. 000. 000. 0
Sub Total CIVIl WORKS                                                         339. 593. 750 0 1.202.436.250 0 1.258.490.000 0   558. 884. 000 0  69.1225. 000 0-  3.428.529.000 0
8  EQUIPMENT   VEHIClES AND INPUTS
I  DRAINAGE PUMPING STATION                                                                                    76.500.000.0    75. 000. 000 0                                     151.500.000.0
20 & N EQUIPMENT                                                                           11T.250.000 0   112.500.0000                                     . -                  223.750.000.0
3  AGRICULTUJRAI EQUIPMENT                                                                     1.500.000 0      7.000.000 0       3.750.000 0                                       22.250.000.0
4  LAB. SURVEYS & OFLICE EQEUIPMENT                        3.750.000 0      45.410.000 0       5.500.0000 0                                                   .-                    54.5680.000 0
S   EHLCIES                                                          .    70. 500. 000 0     3.750.000 0    14. 750. 000 0                                  .89.000.000.0
6  AGRICULTURE  INPUTS                                                      14. 165. 000 0    30.335.000 0    60 170.000 0    63.380.000 0   3.340.000.0   3.550.000 0             174. 940,000.0
Sub lotal EQUIPMENT. VEHICLES AND INPUTS                      3.750.000 0    130.075.000 0    152.335.000 0   270.920.000.0   242.230.000 0   3.340.000 0   3.550.000.0    706. 100.000.0
C IMPLEMNINA1 I0N ASSISTANCE AND [RAINING
I  SURVfYS AND NAPPING                                     7.250.000 0    82. 750. 000 0    53. 250. 000 0      5.000.000 0       1.250.000.0                                      1  49. 500. 000 0
2  CONSUL TANT SERVICES                                  383. 857. 500 0    43. 400.000.0   191. 250. 000 0   226. 900. 000.0    56. 700. 000 0                      -             902. 107. 500 0
3  SPEELIAl  ED CONSULTANTS                               23. 200. 000 0   242. 750. 000 0   154. 825. 000 0    108. 500. 000 0    73. 200.000 0  24. 250. 000 0  24. 750.000.0    541. 375.000 0
4  ECIONSHLLPS Al TRATNING                                                  23.000.000 0    57,125.000 0    47.625.000 0           4.125.000 0   2.750.000.0   1.500.000 0         136.125.000.0
Sub loala  IMPLEMENTATION ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING           414.307.500 0   291.900.000 0   456.450.000 0   388.025.000 0    135.275.000 0  16.900.000 0  26.250.000 0  1.729. 107.500.0
Iota] INVESTMENT COSTS                                         428. 051.500 0   762f. 5686. 750 0 1. 821.221. 250 0 2. 92t7. 435. 000. 0   836.289.000 0  89. 365. 000. 0  29. 800. 000. 0  5. 863. 736. 500. 1
LI  RECURRENT COSTS
A INCREMEfNTAL SIAfI
I  MINISTRY Of AGRICUTrURE                               9. 175. 000 0    29. 275.0C00.0    33. 650. 000 0    32. 025, 000. 0    30.700.000 0  28.750.000 0  28. 425. 000 0    291. 000. 000 0
2  MINLISTRY GE HEALTH                                                     4.300.000 0       4.300.000 0       4.300.000.0       4.300.000.0   4.300.000.0   4.300.000.0          25.800.000.0
Sub- Total INCREMIENTAl srAff                                9.1T75. 000 0    33. 575. 000 0    37. 950. 000 0    35. 325. 000 0    35.000.000.0  33.050,000. 0  32.725.000 0    226. 800, 000. 0
8  OPERATION AND MAINTINANCI
1  FOR OAM LQUIPHENT                                                                         7. 375. 000 0    24. 375. 000.0    35. 625. 000. 0  47. 625. 000. 0  47. 62%. 000 0    162.625.000.0
2  fOR AGRTCUI TURE EQUTPMENT                                               I. 750. 000 0    2.250.000 0       2.750.000 0       2. 750. 000.0   2.750.000 0   2.750.000 0         15.000,000.0
3  EOR VEHICLES                                                             7.400. 000 0    28. 850. 000 0    28. 450. 000.0    28. 450. 000.0  28. 450. 000 0  28. 450.000 0    240.050.000.0
4  fOR OTHER fACtIITIS                                              .2.000.000 0                              2.500.000 0       6.500.000 0  20.750.000 0   13.250.000 0          35.000.000.0
Sub Iotal OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE                                            9.150.0000       30.475.000 0    58.075.000 0    73.325.000 0  89.575.000 0  92.075.000 (~   352.675.000 0
C  DRUJGS AND CHEM[NCALS                                                       4. 250. 000 0     4.250. 000 0      4.250.000 0       4.250. 000. 0   4.25)0.000 0   4.250.000. 0      25. 500. 000 0
Totla  RECURRENT COSTS                                           0.2175. 000 0    46. 975. 000.0    72.675.000 0    97.650.000 0    1 12, 57b,000 0 126.875. 000.0 229.050.000 0    594.975.000 0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                            427. 232.5!00 0   808.5$43. 750 0 1.8$83.896. 250 02. 015. 085. 000 0   948.884.000 0216.240.000 0 258.850,000 0  6.458.712.500 TI                                
Phys,cal Conltngenc,es                                         3. 165. 000 0    59.270.875 0   157. 307. 125. 0   171. 523. 500.0    79. 313.900.0   LO.351. 500. 0   5. 110. 000. 0    486.041.900.00 
Pt"ce Com- gem,e s                                            71.015. 543 9   447. 965. 813 9 1. 850. 734. 793 3 2. 983. 175. 260 6 2.986. 155. 550 1 597. 144. 948 6 575. 141. 819 1  8.511.333. 729 4
. . .   . .   . . - - - - -   - - - -   - - -   - - - - -   - - -   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - - -
Iotal PRO.JECT COSIS                                            501 413.043 9 1.315,780.438 9 3.891.938. 168 3 5.169.783.760 6 3.014.333.450 2 823. 736.448 6 739.1T01.819 1 15.456.087.129 00
fo.e,gn 1achangc                                             491 822 181 4 2.2156.6B57. 235 2 3.451.964,871 5 4. 628,065. 706 0 2. 655. 074. 405. 4 634.2o6.317 0 595.919.995 8 13. 603. 960. 712 0
Noaenber 24. 19I88  1I 00



SOMALIA
FARAMAANE IRRIGAkTION REHIABILITATION PROJIECT
Suary Accounts by Year
Totals Including Contingencies
'US,'
1989          1990          1991            1992           1993          1994          1995         Total
1.INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS
I REIIASILItAtTON WORKS
2  BUILDING FACILITIES                                                             1. 216. 193. 2 5.277. 522 7  5. 511. 024. 1 2. 549. 550. 4    388. 248.5- 14. 942. 548. 8
3  DON. WATER SUPPLY                                                                 287.736 8   681.528.3          551.979.3               -              .              1.521.242.3
4  ROADS                                                                              107,009.5               -              ---                                             107,009.5
-             ~~~~~435.363 9   453.213a 8                                88.577 8
Sub-Total    CIVIL    WORKS.. . .                                                . .   .. . . . I- - - -            -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -           - - --   - - - - - -
6  EQUIPMENT. VEHICLES AND INPUTS                                                      1,610,939 6 5.959.048 9   6.498.367. 3 3.002.774 2    3A88248 5                       17.459.378.5
1IDRAINAGE PUMPING STATION
20 CAM  EQUIPMENT                                                                                            -     396.492 1    404.6552                  -            -    809. 941.4
3  AGRICLILTURAL EQUIPMENT                                                                          503. 535 9      30. 069 7                             -                .033.604 8
4  LAB. SURVEYS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT                                                                    6. 789 2       32. 982. I    18. 393 4--                                58. 154.89
S  VEHICLES                                                             1% 397 5    998. 497 3       25. 120.2                                            --                239,015 0
6  AGRICULTURE INPUTS                                                                304.895  1      18. 670 4       69. 498 0              -                               392. 983 5
67. 368 5    959.031 1    311.,855 3    341.9506           98 759. 5  20. 756 5       919,731. 5
Sub-Total   EQUIPMENT.    VEHICLES   AND   INPUTS                                  .    . .. . .         - - - -    -- - - - - - - - -      - --   - - -- --      - - - --    - - - - - -
C  IMPLEMENTATION ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING                                   I  391 b   520.680 &    705.91460   9 .340.897 3   765,009 3              98, 759 5  20. 7565   3.436.647.0
I SURVEYS AND MAPPING
2  CONSULTANT SERVICES                                                  29.768 5    386.963 8   259.588 3           25.994 5        6.7443 3                                709. 079 4
3  SPECIALIZED CONSULTANTS                                          1.582.031 5   206.409. 5    952.91906   9 .176.000 9    305.9 19.3                                    4. 222. 551. 9
4  FELLOWSHIPS 8 TRAINING                                              902. 342 9   660.756 9   750.041 0          555 277 5   381.602 1    77. 100 8 144. 710 7  2.679.831 1
Sub-Total  TMPITM~~NT8TION ASSISTANCE  AND TRAININC               9~08.955 2   278.698 2        240.,651 6    29.213 7         14.,871 3   8.9172 4       572 ,552.4 
1.7194.1942 I 1.363.085 4 2.240.618  9  1.997.844 5   715. 479.5             9T. 972 T 152. 683 0  8. 276. 024.7                                                          t
Total   INVESTMENT   COSTS                                                                                    .. . .     . . . . .     . . . . .            .. . .     . . . .     . . . . .-(
9. 723.539 63 544 705 88. 904.813 1   9. 83?. 109324.483.263 0    498.980 0173,639.5 29.172.050 2
II  RECURRENT COSTS
6 INCREMENIAL STAFF
I MINISTRY of AGRICULtURE
2  MINISTRY OF HEALTN                                                 37. 672 6    926.844 2    152.588  I        946. 475 9    150.887 3    147. 117 0 151. 421 3    913.006 4
20. 450 7     21.408.7        22. 286 5     23.200 2       24. 151 4  25. 141.7       136.,639 ,3
Sub-Total   INCREMIENTAL    STArF                                                               .   ..                    . .        .     . .     . .           .    - -- - - --
6  OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE                                             37.672 6    147.294 9    173.9968a    168.752.4    974.087 6    171.268 5 976,563.0   1.049.645 7
1 FOR DAM EQUIPMENT
2  FOR AGRICULTURE EQUIPMTENT                                                                      33. 380 4      914.648 4    974. 7:' 5   243. 173.9 253. 144 0         819. 284.2
3  FOR VEHICLES                                                                      7.890 6       90.523 3        13.390 6      93. 8564       14.424 5   15.015 9        75. 021 3
4  FOR OTHER FACILITIES                                                             31,994 8       85. 883 9      134. 637 7    940. 157 9    145.904 3 951,886.4         690. 464.9
9.052 3       12.014 9       34.089 1    59.357 4   76.408 3          990.922 t
Sub    Totla   OPI RATION    AND   MAIA NTENANCE                           - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -              - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
C  DRUGS AND LHEMILAIS                                                                  39. 885 4    138. 839 9      274.811 7   362.8640 8   462. 860 I 496. 454 6  1.775.692 5
20. 212 9     21. 159 8       22. 027 3     22. 930 5      23.8670 6  24. 849. 3      135. 050.4
Total   RECUERENT     COSIS                                                      -  - - -       - - - - -      - - - - - - - - - -       - - - - -      - - - - -     - - - -          - - - - -V                                                 -
bLaT  PROIJECI COSTS                                      ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~37. 672 6   207. 393 2   333. 996 5  485.60OT 5   559. 858 9   657. 999 2 697. 866 9  2. 960. 388. 6coP
9. 767. 212 1 2 752. 029 0 9.238, 809 6 10, 302. 710 6 5.043. 121 9 1. 156. 979. 2 871. 506. 4 32. 132. 438.8                                                         t 
Oc;tober    28.   1988  96   59                                                   . .  .   . .  . . .      . . . .  . .       . . . . . . . .  . .  . .  . . . . .   . . .    - - - -  - - - 



* 57
ANNEX I
Table 6
SOMALIA
FARAHA.ANE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of Credit Proceeds
(US$ million)
Base Cost        Credit      Disbursement
Plus expected    Amount          (X)
Price increases
1. Civil Works
(a) Barrages, Main and
Secondary System                 11.70          11.70        100
(b) Building Facilities, Roads
and Tertiary System               4.20           2.10         50
Subtotal                   15.90         13.80
2.  Equipment and Materials                                        100
(a) Pump Station                      0.74           0.74
gb) Vehicles & Main Equipment         1.42           1.42
(c) Office and Surveys                0.24           0.24
(d) Health-chemicals and Medicines   0.16            0.16
ge) Agricultural Inputs               0.84           0.84
(f) Agricultural Implements           0.10           0.10
Subtotal                     3.50          3.50
3. Consultants and Training                                        100
(a) Surveys, Mapping and
Investigations                    0.66           0.66
(b) Constr. Supervision               1.55           1.55
(c) Drainage Master Plan              0.75           0.75
(d) Land Tenure and Training          0.31           0.31
(e) Specialized Services Studies      2.50           2.50
(f) Training                          0.63           0.63
Subtotal                      6.40           6.40
4. Miscellaneous
(a) Incremental Staff Salaries
& other Recurrent Expenditures      2.90           1.55   Declining 602
to 40X
(b) PPF Advance                       1.50           1.50
5.  Unallocated                        1.90           1.75
Subtotal                          6.30           4.80
TOTAL COSTS                       32.10          28.50



_ 58 -
ANNEX 1
Table 7
SOMALIA
FARAHAANE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Projected Disbursements
IDA Fiscal                 Disbursements                       Profiles
Year and             Semester           Cumulative        Project    Somalia
Semester             -----     US $ million -------                 All Sectors
1990
Second                     1.5                1.5             5.3         0
1991
First                      0.5                2.0             7.0         3
Second                     1.0                3.0            10.5         7
1992
First                      2.5                5.5            19.3        14
Second                     3.0                8.5            29.8        22
1993
First                      3.5               12.0            42.1        33
Second                     4.0               16.0            56.1        44
1994
First                      3.5               19.5            68.4        58
Second                     3.2               22.7            79.6        70
1995
First                      2.5               25.2            88.4        80
Second                     1.8               27.0            94.7        87
1996
First                      1.0               28.0            98.2        93
Seconda/                   0.5               28.5           100          97
a/ Closing Date - June 30, 1996



59
ANNEX I
Table 8
SOMALIA
FARAHAANE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Proposed List of BuildinR Facilities
DILU   (MOA)          PL      AFMET &  DMSC
_--------------------------   Prot.   Others   (MOH)  Total
(MOA)   (MOA)
Drainage
Unit Qoryooley Station Oper. Total
New Facilities
Field Office        Sq m    250        -       -     250        -              250
Workshop/Store      Sq m    250        -       -     250        -              250
Staff Housing(5)   Sq m    800         -       -     800        -              800
Guest House         Sq m    200        -       -     200        -              200
Operator Quarters    No        1       1       6       8                         8
Field Extension
Agent Quarters        No                                        2                2
Field Extension
Training Center    Sq m                                        80               80
(Farahaane ,
Health Posts          No                                                   4     4
Laboratory/Office  Sq m                                                  80    80
(Qoryooley)
Threshing Floors   Sq m                                       400              400
(Bulo Shiekh)
Rehab. Exist. Facilities
Plant Protection
Store (Qoryooley)  LS                                     1              1



-60                                     ANNEX I
Table 9
SONALIA
FA1UALhANE IRRIGATION RZRUAILITATION PROJECT
estimated List of Vehicles and EguiDment
DILU (HOA)              AFHET Plant      DMSC
Proj.  DILU   Consult  Total  (MOA)  Protect.  (MOH)        TOTAL
Office                                 (MOA)
Excavator
Tractor 140 UP       1                          1                                  1
Dragline Crawler   1                            1                                  1
Motor Grader
120 125 HP          1                         1                                   1
Hyd. Backhoe
Crawler 0.4 cu.yd   2                           2                                  2
Ind. Tractor with
Backhoelloader       1                          1                                  1
Flat bed trucks
5-6T               2                         2                                   2
Generator 50KVA      1                          1                                  1
Workshop Equipment  1                           1                                  1
Sedan Cars                  1        1         2                                   2
Station Wagon
Double Cab 4WD      3      1        4         8                                   8
Light Jeeps/
Pick-up 4WD         3      3        4        10       1      1         1         13
Motorcycles
100-125 CC         4      2        6        12       2      2         2        18
Transit with Tripod
and Staff           1      1        1         3                                   3
Levelling Instrumt.
with Tripod & Staff 2        1       2          5                                  5
Misc. Rods, Tapes &
Chains, etc.         4      2        2          8                                  8
Drafting Table       1      1        -          2      -       -                   2
Drafting Equipment  2       1        -          3      -      -                    3
Printing Machine    -       1                   1      -      -                    1
Photo copiers        2      1        1         4                        1          5
PC computer and
software            1      1        1         3       -                           3
Table Calculators   3       3        6        12                        1         13
Project Calculators 6       4        5        15                        2         17
Typewriter (Manual) 1       1        2         4                        2          6
Typewriter
(Electric)          2      2        2         6                        6
Field Soil Testing
Equip. L.S.                                   1
Agricul. & Water
Testing Equip. L.S.                             1
Spraying Equip. for
Malaria Control L.S.                                                    1
Basic Lab Analysis
Equip.  L.S.                                                           1
Plant Protection Sprayors
& Protective Clothing L.S.                                   1
Threshers & Hullers L.S.                               1



ANNEX 1
- 61 -                               Table 10
SOVALIA
FABALAAZIE IRRIGATION RIUAILITATION PROJECT
Sunmra of Consultants Input
(Staff Months)
International      Local Consultants
Consultants        Professional  Techniciane
Construction Supervision
Revision of T. Documents
(Retroactive Finance) 11                   4                0               0
Irrigation, Planning, Design
and O&M 24                                 0               20
Construction Supervision                   63               66              34
Subtotal                          91               66              54
Drainage Master Plan
Surveys                                     3                6               6
Drainage, Planning & Design                20                6               6
Subtotal                          23               12              12
Cadastral Surveys & Misc. Studies
Cadastral Maps and Titling                 21               2/              2/
Misc. Studies                              10               20              20
Subtotal                         10               20               20
Specialized Services
Assessment of Water Charges                 3               10               0
Water Management (Pilot)                   18               30              30
Integrated Pest Management                  3                6               0
Water Users Associations                    8               30               0
Drainage Monitoring                         9               33               0
Mid-term Review and Completion Report       7               10              10
Subtotal                         53              125               50
Headquarter Advisory Unit 3/
Engineering Advisor                        24               45              20
Financial/Admin. Advisor                   24               45              20
Irrigated Crop Advisor                     24               60              20
(Agronomist)
Subtotal                          72             150               60
TOTAL                           249              373              196
1/ To be carried out by Sir M. McDonald & Partners of U.K.
2/ Based on Area
3/ Individual Engagement



P_ms.ad C;wi l WoqM and Prco.ement Schedule
Bids Pr_pl-                                         C~eat
JkU-i*V~~~~~~~~~sd Pr pi Stla                                                       contrac   Stta w Sl 
Activi%W ~ ~     ~     ~     i_                                                       Amriie  .eiin   ad EMlie    D
M  P.,                 m ted "0eJM     Eaumation                     Ms        Date
Fialt
A. 
1b     bar g          i;n A Second      02-15-S9   03-15-89       04-15--S   07-15-89 09-15-89       09-3D-89    11-15-9   06-31-93
5%_Um ilac. soil  test irrigo.
drainag  works at tertiary level
2.   La8Cc
. ) Triry Latral ( contracts)           -         -               06-16-91 06-3D-91   7-81-91       06-8141      09-3D41   @841-4
/92/93   /92/93    OX" /92/9          3 /'g2/   /9V'3    /94/95
*) Delding Facilitis (2 contracs)       -          -              0-1-l  0-159  06-1549             07-15-89    09          051-91
104-31-9  12-15-89  01-15-90      02-15-90    04-01-91   06-4-141
c) Coral S.rfaced RI (1 ctract)         -          -              0141-92 06-15-92  04-15-92        OS-15-92    06---92   03-31-92
d) Orlaing Dete -u Sly
for Mundholoe vii lage (1 ecntact)    -        -                 S011-90  03-15-90 04-jO-90     05-1S-90    07-01-90   12-S1-90
*) Filling depreion- *round 15
Willages (1 contract)               ___---                    07-15-89  08-31-89  09-30-89       10-S1-89    12-15-89   04-15-90
f) Direct River diveraio-  tructurea
(1 contract)                        ---       ---             03-31-90 O6-18-90 06-15-90        07-15-90    0901-90   06-30-91
g) Land leelling (8 contrect.)          ---       ___             0-15-90/ 09-80-90/ 10-3S1-90/     11-/-90/    01-01-91/ 08-81-91/
91/93    91/93     91/93          91/93       92/94      92/94
1. ps photegrap y *nd toNpographic
m_ps for drain. pln (LIC8)            04-30-90   05-15-90        6-15-90  06-S1-90  10-1U-90      11-15-90    014-1-91  0940-91
2.   Strip top aurvey for tertiary
laterala (local contract)             ---        ---             11-80-90  01-31-91  02-28l-91     05-80-91    04-8-91   09-o0-91/
/92/93   /92/9    /92/93          /92/93.     /92/93     /92093
S.   Cadastral aurvey- and mp- (LICS)         03-15-89   04-15-89       016-1-89  07-41-09  08-31-49      09-1-n      101-4-o9   07 1-90
4.   Instal.& Monit. Pi-ometers for V.toblo ---         ---             05-15-09  06-30-9  07-3149        08-1-..-     0940-09   09-30-
S.   Misc. Surveys and Inveetigatione         ---       ---             --        --        ---           ---                     -
C.  _F#11*01  tlF VB4IC9S
1. 9I       s kin twoh-c   ICe               -          -               06-30-90 09-13-10  10-81-90       11-l-Sl    01401-0   07 41-0                                                      t
2.   Ihiatemece Equ;ip_*n  X                  -         -               06-1S-92  08-1-2   O-W092         10-41-2      1141-2   124111-0
3.   Survey REqlpeant (LICS)                  --        --06-80-90  09-15-90  10431-90                    1141.490    01-01-90   08-30-90
H4 elt  Lab. Equipet   C)---                            ---             06-80-90 09-15-90  10-S1-90       111-S90    01-01-90   06-30.40
S.   Ncdl-_  *    _icale   r
HIalt Di_sease Coateo  (eerly)         -          -              --        --        06-309        0-             049   0940-69/
/90/94        /90/94       /90/94     90/94
S.   Au.icastere Inputs cmearls) (ICS                                   03-15-09  0843149/ 07-16049/       -084049/   0940.66   058-11140/
tl.   ricPro. fmiture. etIc.                                            go90/94    90/94    90/94         90/94        91/94      91/94
7.   Iiac. Proc. furnitore. etc.
8.   Agrie. Mach/Plant Prot. Equipment        ---       ---             01-1-90 03-15-90  04-15-90        05-81-90    06-90    12-1-90
a   av.  en ndr Doca_nte (retroactive)   ---      ---             --        ---       --            -            10-15-W   06-15-9
b Ceastrdcniao Super, icica             ---       92-15-l9 028-180   6s-1-   08-15-0                09-18-06    11-18-0    12-92
c Drainage Mta Pla_ A detailed
dee Pg for priority dr ins          ---        10-15-91       U-11-91  01-15-92  08-15-2        0-30-92      0430-92   08-1-9
d) Tertiarie  design A T. Doc (local)   ---       ---             11-80-90 01-S1-91  02-28-91       08-30-91     04-30-91   09-O0-91/
92/93
a Waer _         8 (eioti               ---       090-90          2041-90 01-S1-91  08-31-91        (_-0-91      0640-91   08-3o-94
b                   -- Pet  - -t        ---        11-30-90       12-31-90 02-291  @8431-91         0440-9       08-31-91   081l-91
C Water 11_ i-.
(strenghening/org. A training)      ---       02-15-90        03-30-9  06-30-90  06-30-90       08-30-90    09-30-    08-30-94
d) Aeent   W. Ueors A-ecctation
future role and W. Charge.          ---       07-15-91        09-30-91  11-80-91  01-15-92      02-15-92    04-30-92   06.30-92
) s" l ine Sur eys                      ---        ---            08-15-89  05-15-69  06-15-89      07-15-9    06-16-89   10-15-9
Wad-be  Rewiew                      ---        12-15-92       01-1608  0S-1S-95 0440-95         06-15-08      @7-48-    09-18-U
g)Asseessmnt of Input Supply          ---        10-15-92       11-15-93  01.48-93  02-28-93      04-15-93    05-15-93   07-15-93
h    ieae Prevalence Surveys            ---       01-S14d9        03-15-9  05-16-89  07-3049        08-30-69     09-30-69   09-30-94
i  Completion Report                   ---        06-30-95        0641-95  10-3-95  12-S1-96       02-15-96     0430-90   06-30-96
3.   AirSff
a) Eapat. *taff engagemnt  
Eng and Financial Adviser            ---        03-15-89       04-15-89  06-15-89 07-15-89       08-1,589     10-15-69   04-30-9S                                                   (D
Irrigated crop. Adviser              ---       01-15-90        02-15-90  03-15-90  04-15-90      05-15-90    07-15-90  06-30-9                                                   DX
b) Local Contract Profession Staff
Engineer/Financial                   ---        03-15-89       04-16-89  05-15-69 06-15-89       07-15-9      09-18-89   04-80-95                        ~l11
Sociologist                          ---        03-15-89       04-15-89  05-15-89  06-15-89      07-15-89    09-15-89   04-30-95
Land titling special ist             ---        03-1549g       04-15-89  05-31-89  06-30-99      07-3149      0940149   09-30-91
Agronomiat                           ---        03-16 -9       04-15-89  05-31-89  06-30-89      07-31-89    G9-01-49   09-30-94
Field Professionals                  ---        ---            ---       ---       -__           07-3189    09-01-9   09-80-94
Field Sub-professional               ---        ---            ---       ---       ---           09-01-89    09-019   09-30-94
Fild - Support staff                 ---        ---            --        ---       ---           09-01-87     09-01-49   09-30-94



63 -                                            Annex II
Table 1
SOMALIA
FARAHAANE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
CLIMATOLOGICAL DATA
Month              Temperature C          Relative    Wind         Sunshine    Rainfall
Max.   Min.   Moan      Humidity    Speod          (hr./      Mean
(X)      at 2m         day)        mm
(m/a)
.anuary          82.3   21.0   26.6          76          1.4         9.38           1.2
February         32.7   21.6   27.2          74          1.8         9.12           0.1
March            53.5   22.9   28.2          76          1.4         9.42           3.4
April            38.1   23.6   28.8          77          1.2         8.21          80.6
May              31.6   23.2   27.4          81          1.8         7.74          76.0
June             29.6   21.8   26.7          82          2.2         6.60          76.7
July             28.6   21.4   24.9          82          2.4         6.28          54.8
August           28.9   21.2   26.1          82          2.4         7.59          62.1
September        29.6   22.1   26.8          81          2.6         8.52          17.8
October          30.6   22.7   26.6          81          1.8         7.90          82.8
November         81.8   22.2   26.8          82          0.9         7.09          62.3
December         81.0   21.6   26.6          80          1.2         8.63          22.7
Yearly
Average          81.1   22.1   28.6          79.6        1.7         8.08         470.0



SOMIALIA
FARAIIAANE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Proposed Water Reouirement for Farahaane Scheme Area 1/
Jan    Feb    Mar     Apr    May    Jun      Jul    AM       SeP   Oct   Nov    Doc   Total
Crop
Ou Season          Area Cult.
Maize                 2820         -        -       -      -     0.90   3.30   6.85   5.42    1.57    -        -      -      17.84
Legumes                766          -       -       -      -     -      0.74   1.72   1.18    -        -       -      -       3.84
Rice                   230          -       -       -      -     -      0.46   0.76   0.96    0.89    -        -      -       2.84
Cotton                 200          -       -       -      -     0.13   0.34   0.08   0.58    0.6B    0.14    -       -      2.39
Forage Crop            125          -       -       -      -     -      0.10   0.22   0.16    0.02    -        -      -      0.49
Der Season
Sesame                3210          2.57    -       -      -     -      -       -      -       -       1.84    4.87   4.62  13.70
Legumes                765         0.74    -        -      -     -      -       -      -       -       0.84    1.51   2.04   4.93
Vegetables             280          0.54    -       -      -     -      -       -      -       0.10    0.54    0.66   0.87   2.71
Watermelons            280          0.87    -       -      -     -      -       -      -       0.10    0.21    0.44   0.87   2.49
Forage Crop            100         0.10    -        -      -     -      -       -      -       -       0.08    0.19   0.28   0.63
TOTAL                 8510          4.82    -       -      -     1.03   4.93  10.00   8.28    3.04    3.46    7.47   8.68  51.68
_    =         __   -          _
Efficiency Assumption Current Proposed
Field Efficiency          37%       80%         Total Cultivated Area   8S10 ha
Conveyance Efficiency     40%       70%         Total Farm Area         5100 ha
Overall Efficiency        15X       42%         Intensity                168.9 %
1/     Monthly and annual Water Requirement shown above are based on loss of water by (a) evapotraspiration from standing crops, (b)
leaching, (c) conveyance and (d) distribution and do not coincide with the time of withdrawal of water from Shebelli river for
i rrigation.



-65-                                                    ANNEX II
Table 3
SULA
Water Balmeilli Ofe               a of Audala
DROtZPI                              Jl   FM    PMR  AR    AY   JNM    JL    NA    SEP   OCT  NO    DM              TOTAL
1. Water Avail AI dgl 4
753 R.ti l bit,                  14.8   8.5   9.0 20.0  119.9 66.9  48.S  106.4 181.2  176.5111.8   42.5           901.7
2. Urn. Awdwgle-Gon%le%
(1300 he a 10.000  /hYl )     2   0.6   0.0   0.0  0.6   2.6  2.0   1.3  0.6   2.0   1.3   1.8    0.7               13.0
3. Eot. Water Avail. Oanal.
7$1 Rel bi I a tty               14.2   3.5   9.0 20.3  117.3 64.9  47.0  106.8 179.2  175.2110.5   41.8           888.7
4. Existing or Planned Developmenta
Oenale-&alo llerta Project Area
4.1 Qoryoley Phae 1          4
lS50 ha (GM) 22S0 ha (Dr) 8/ .0   0.5   0.0  0.0   2.1  2.6   2.8  1.5   2.9   4.8   4.8    6.0                 29.5
4.2 Aayla. Der flood
_*Ako =uis. Golveyn Proj.
- 0. 1450 ha Dar 56   ha       8.6   0.2   0.0  0.0   0.8  1.2   2.5  9.5   2.0   3.7   8.2   15.5               51.7
- Perennial 280 ha             1.0   1.0   1.2  0.8   0.8  0.6   0.6  0.8   1.0   1.0   0.7    0.9               10.4
4.8 Qrapefruit Scheme S/ (1400 ha) S.7   5.5   6.4  4.S   4.4  8.5   3.7  4.6   5.6   5.8   3.9    S.0              S8.1
4.4 Bnanas & Other P.irenniale S/
(Approx 3700 ha)           15.1  14.7  17.0  12.1  11.7  9.8   9.9  12.8  14.8  14.1  1O.S   18.4            154.9
4.5 Shalamboid Project a/
(Cult 4150 ha)              7.5   1.9   2.0  1.4   2.1  4.2   7.5  6.S   8.1   4.1   6.7   11.8               S8.6
4.6 Farahaane Scheme 7
(cult 5100 ha)              4.8   0.0   0.0  0.0   1.0  4.9  10.0  8.3   3.0   3.5   7.5    8.7               51.7
Total Canale-Bulo Ibarrta            45.7  23.8  26.6  18.8  22.4 26.3  36.5  43.5  32.4  36.S 42.3   60.3             415.1
S. Current Devloope" 9yonatreas
of bulo MArert-a                 1.6   0.0   0.0  1.6   6.6  S.0   8.8  1.7   S.0   3.8   8.8    1.6               88.0
(Kurten Waarey, Sabl.ale H,aay
Sattlemeta (3300haxk60; /ht/yr)
C. Irrigation Water Requirtnta
Do   tream of Ganals            47.3  23.8  26.6 20.4  29.0 31.3  39.8  45.2  37.4  39.8  45.6   61.9             448.1
7. Water Availability at Baysarce Barrae
(prior to use in Farahaane)   (26.7) (20.8) (17.6) 1.5  89.8 43.5  70.6  70.7  149.7  142.2 7S.7   (9-8)         S2S.5
8.  arahane Scheme 7/                 4.8   0.0   0.0  0.0   1.0  4.9  10.0  8.3   3.0   3.5   7.5    8.7              51.7
9. current DoveloaaeO Ogntream 
of WuI MArertap   '              1.6   0.0   0.0  1.6   6.6  5.0   3.3  1.7   S.0   3.3   8.3    1.6               33.0
(Kurten Waarey, Sableale. ll5aay
Settlents (39DOhau1000. /ha/yr)
10. Water Balance et Caywro. Barrage(33.1) C20.3) (17.6) (0.1) 68.3 S3.6   7.2  60.6  141.8  135.4 64.9  (20.1)       440.6
Notemt:
bsad on monthly flawe from 19S1 to 1984.
2P prom existing inventory of trojecte. TAN6  eetimtea on areas n water u-e. bamd.
3  Ammuns expanaion uaee local resourcee and/return flma.
4Fro rWm id Ilpian Delge Raport. 1983
S/ Ara taken from MP lsaer Plan and inventor; of xistinty project.
6   TANS calculated cartoin water rewurmnts for per nniel
6/ Aa calculated by TAMS in Feaibility Study.
A/ A calculated for the propoaed project (Ann*e II, Table 2)
e Tippets - Abbott - McCarthy - Stratton



_66 -                             ANNEX III
Table 1
Page 1 of 4
SOMALIA
FARAHAANE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Land Use in Fersheane
Total      Total
Crop    Preproject  Full Dev    Number of   Preproject  Full Dev
Cult Area Cult Area      Farms     Cult Area  Cult Area
Model 1 (0.5 - 2 ha):         I he                              lsSs
Maize            0.75      0.55         1965       1473.75   1080.75
Sesame           0.30      0.70                     S89.50   1375.50
Legumes          0.10      0.30                     196.50    589.50
Vegetables       0.05      0.05                      98.25     98.25
Watermelons                0.05                       0.00     98.25
Total            1.20      1.65                    2358.00   3242.25
Intensity         120%      165%
Model 2 (2.1 - 30 ha):        5 ha                              1150
Maize            3.10      2.50         230         713.00    575.00
Sesame           0.90      3.00                     207.00    690.00
Legumes                    1.25                       0.00    287.50
Vegetables       0.50      0.25                     115.00     57.50
Watermelons                0.25                       0.00     S7.S0
Rice                       1.00                       0.00    230.00
Total            4.50      8.25                    1035.00   1897.50
Intensity          90%      165%
Model 3 (30 - 100 ha):       S5 ha                              1650
Maize           15.90     27.50          30         477.00    825.00
Sesame          11.60     33.00                     348.00    990.00
Legumes          2.50     18.50                      75.00    555.00
Vegetables       1.80      2.75                      54.00     82.50
Watermelons      1.20      2.75                      36.00     82.50
Cotton                     3.00                       0.00     90.00
Fodder                     3.00                       0.00     90.00
Total           33.00     90.50                     990.00   2715.00
Intensity          60%      165%                       60%       165%
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



- 67                                 ANNEX III
Table 1
Page 2 of 4
SOMALIA
FARAHAANE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Land Use in Faraheane
Total      Total
Crop    Preproject  Full Dev    Number of   Preproject  Full Dev
Cult Area Cult Area       Farms      Cult Area  Cult Area
Model 4 (100 + ha):          200 ha                      400       400
Maize            57.80     70.00            2         115.60    140.00
Sesame           42.00     80.00                       84.00    160.00
Legumes           9.20     50.00                       18.40    100.00
Vegetables        6.60     10.00                       13.20     20.00
Watermelons        4.4     10.00                        8.80     20.00
Cotton                     56.00                        0.00    110.00
Fodder                     55.00                        0.00    110.00
Total           120.00    330.00                      240.00    660.00
Intensity           60%      165%                         60%      165%
Overall Totals                                                 5165.00
Maize                                 2227.00        2779.35   2620.75
Sesame                                               1228.50   3215.S0
Legumes                                               289.90   1632.00
Vegetables                                            280.45    258.25
Watermelons                                            44.80    258.25
Rice                                                               230
Cotton                                                             200
Fodder                                                             200
Total                                                4623.00   8514.75
Intensity                                                 90%      16S%



68                                ANNEX III
Table I
Page 3 of 4
SOMALIA
FARAHAANE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Land Use in Falkeerow
Total     Total
Crop    Preproject  Full Dev   Number of  Preproject. Full Dev
Cult Area Cult Area     Farms    Cult Area  Cult Area
Model 5 (0.5 - 2 he):         I ha                            3045
Maize            0.50      0.70        3045       1522.50   2131.50
Sesame           0.44      0.50                   1339.80   1522.50
Vegetables       0.03      0.05                    91.35    152.25
Watermelons      0.03     0.05                      91.35    152.25
Total            1.00      1.30                   3045.00   3958.50
Intensity         100%      130%
-----------------------------------------------..------------------__
Model 6 (2.1 - 30 ha):      7.5 ha                             2325
Maize            4.00      5.25         310       1240.00   1627.50
Sesame           2.80     3.70                     868.00   1147.00
Vegetables       0.30      0.40                     93.00    124.00
Watermelons      0.40     0.40                     124.00    124.00
Total            7.50      9.75                  232'.00   3022.50
Intensity         100%     130%
-------------------------------------------------------------------_
Model 7 (30 - 100 ha):      66 ha                              990
Maize           40.00     46.20          IS       600.00    693.00
sesame          20.00     33.00                    300.00    495.00
Vegetables       3.00     3.30                     45.00     49.50
Watermelons      3.00      3.30                    45.00    49.50
Total           66.00     85.80                   990.00   1287.00
Intensity         100%      130%                     100%      130%
- - - - -- - - - - -- -- -- - -- - --- -- -- - --- -- - - -- - - -- - - - - --    -- - -- -- - - - - - - - -- - - - - -



69                                        ANNEX III
Table 1
Page 4 of 4
SOMALIA
FARAHAANE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Land Use in Falkeerow
Total      Total
Crop    Preproject  Full Dev    N',mber of   Preproject  Full Dev
Cult Area Cult Area       Farms      Cult Area  Cult Ares
Model 8 (100 + ha):          240 ha                     1200      1200
________________________________
Maize           144.00    168.00            5         720.00    840.00
Sesame           76.00    120.00                      380.00    600.00
Vegetables       10.00     12.00                       50.00     60.00
Watermelons      10.00     12.00                       50.00     60.00
Total           240.00    312.00                     1200.00   1560.00
Intensity          100%      130%                        100%      130%
-------------------------------------------------------------------_
Overall Totals                                                 7560.00
Maize                                 3375.00        4082.50   5292.00
Sesame                                               2887.80   3764.50
Vegetables                                            279.35    38S.75
Watermelons                                           310.35    385.75
Total                                                7560.00   9828.00
Intensity                                                100%      130%
-------------------------------------------------------------------_



-70-                                 ANNEX III
70  a[le z
Page 1 of 4
SOMALIA
FARAHAANE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Incremental Production
Pre-             Pre-             Tncre-
Crop    Project Full Dev  Project Full Dev mental
Yield   Yield   Prod'n   Prod'n  Prod'n
(t/ha)   (t/ha)   (tons)   (tons)   (tons)
Model 1 (0.
Maize         0.75    3.00      1105    3242    2137
Sesame        0.25    1.00       147    1376    1228
Legumes       0.25    1.00        49      590      540
Vegetables    6.00   20.00       590    1965    1376
Watermelons    6.00    16.00       0    1572    1572
Tot.a I
Intensity
--------------------------------------------------------
Model 2 (2.
Maize         0.75    3.00       535    1725    1190
Sesame        0.25    1.00        52      690      638
Legumes       0.25    1.00         0      288      288
Vegetables    6.00   20.00       690     1150      460
Watermelons   6.00    16.00        0      920      920
Rice          0.00    3.50         0      805      805
Total
Intensity
--------------------------------------------------------
Model 3 (30
Maize         0.75    3.00       358    2475    2117
Sesame        0.25    1.00        87      990      903
Legumes       0.25    1.00        19      555      536
Vegetables    6.00   20.00       324    1650    1326
Watermelons    6.00   16.00      216    132.0    1104
Cotton        0.00     1.50        0      135      135
Fodder        0.00   20.00         0     1800    1800
Total
Intensity
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -_



-71-                                   ANNEX IlI
rable Z
Page 2 of 4
SOMALIA
FARAHAANE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Incremental Production
Pre-             Pre-             Incre-
Crop    Project Full Dev Project Full Dev mental
Yield   Yield  Prod'n  Prod'n  Prod'n
(t/hs)   (t/ha)   (tons)   (tons)  (tons)
Model 4 (10
Maize         0.75    3.00        87      420      333
Sesame        0.25    1.00        21      160      139
Legumes       0.25    1.00         5      100       95
Vegetables    6.00   20.00        79      400      321
Watermelons   6.00    16.00       53      320      267
Cotton        0.00    1.50         0      165      165
Fodder        0.00   20.00         0    2200    2200
Total
Intensity
--------------------------------------------------------
Overall Tot
Maize                           2085    7862    5778
Sesame                           307    3216    2908
Legumes                           72    1532    1460
Vegetables                      1683    5165    3482
Watermelons                      269    4132    3863
Rice                               0      805      805
Cotton                             0      300      300
Fodder                             0    4000    4000
Total                           4416   27012   22596
Intensity
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - -



72                                   ANNEX III
Trable -Z
Page 3 of 4
SOMALIA
FARAHAANE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Falkeerow Incremental Production
Pre-             Pre-             Incre-
Crop    Project Full Dev Project Full Dev mental
Yield   Yield  Prod'n  Prod'n  Prod'rn
(t/ha)  (tlha)   (tons)  (tons)  (tons)
Model 5 (0.
___________
Maize         0.75    1.00    1142    2132        990
Sesame        0.25    0.40       335     609      274
Vegetables    6.00   10.00       548    1523      974
Watermelons   6.00   10.00       548    1523      974
Total
Intensity
--------------------------------------------------------
Model 6 (2.
Maize         0.75    1.00       930    1628      698
Sesame        0.25    0.40       217     459      242
Vegetables    6.00   10.00       558    1240      682
Watermelons   6.00   10.00      744    1240       496
Total
Intensity
Model 7 (30
Maize         0.75    1.00       450     693      243
Sesame        0.25    0.40        75     198      123
Vegetables    6.00   10.00      270      495      225
Watermelons   6.00   10.00      270      495      225
Total
Intensity
- -- - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - - - - - -- - -- - -- - - - - -- - - - --



ANNEX III
73                                     Ta-ble 2
Page 4 of 4
SOMALIA
FARAHAANE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Falkeerow Incremental Production
Pre-             Pre-             Incre-
Crop    Project Full Dev Project Full Dev mental
Yield   Yield  Prod'n  Prod'n  Prod'n
(t/ha)  (t,/ha)   (tons)  (tons)   (tons)
Model 8 (10
___________
Maize         0.75    1.00       S40      840      300
Sesame        0.2S    0.40        95      240      145
Vegetables    6.00   10.00       300      600      300
Watermelons    6.00   10.00      300      600      300
Tota l
Intensity
--------------------------------------------------------
Overall Tot
___________
Maize                           3062    5292    2230
sesame                           722    1506       784
Vegetables                      1676    3858    2181
Watermelons                     1862    3858    199S
Total                           7322    14513    7191
Intensity
--------------------------------------------------------



SOMALIA
FAfaHAANR IRRIGATION ERABTILITATION PROJECT
Present and Projected Crop Yield (ton/ha)
--------------------------Y E A R----------------------
CROP                   0-2         3          4          5         6       7-20
Farahaane Area
Maize                  0.75       1.0        1.5        2.0        2.5      3.0
Sesame                 0.25       0.4        0.55       0.70       0.85     1.0
Legumes                0.25       0.4        0.55       0.70       0.85     1.0
Vegetables             6.0        8.0       11.0       14.0      17.0      20.0                                      8
Watermelon             6.0        8.0       10.0       12.0       14.0     16.0
Rice                   -          1.5        2.0        2.5        3.0      3.5
Cotton                            0.5        0.75       1.0        1.25     1.5
Forage (grain)         -          8.0       11.0       14.0      17.0      20.0
Qoryooley and Falkeerow
Barrage Areas
Maize                   0.75      0.8        0.85       0.90       0.95     1.0
Sesame                 0.25       0.28       0.31       0.34      0.37      0.4
Vegetables             6.0        6.5        7.0        8.0        9.0     10.0
Watermelon             6.0        6.5        7.0        8.0        9.0     10.0
m x
w I



-75- -
ANNEX III
Tabie 4
FARAHAANE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Annual Aaelcultural Input Reoul _.mte at Full revelosment
INPUT                   MAIZE    SESAME    LEGWMES   VEGETABLE  WATERMELON
FARM UNIT MODEL 1       e.66 ha 6.7 he       0.8 he    6.o6 he    0.06 he
Seeds (kg)             11.6      4.2        12         6.65        6.126
Fertilizer
Ursa (kg)            82.6
DAP (kg)             27.5                 22.6
NPK (kg)              -       85.6                   8.0        10.6
Herbicides              -         -          -         -           -
Pesticide (kg/It)       1.0      0.7         -         0.1         0.1
Rice
FARM UNIT MODEL 2       2.6 ha   8.0 ha      1.25 ha   0.26 ha     0.25 ha    1.0 ha
Seeds (kg)             50.0      18.0       50.6       0.26        0.88       20.0
Fertilize
Urea (kg)           376.0                                                  200.0
DAP (kg)            126.0      -          98.8       -           -         100.0
NPK (kg)              -      156.0         -        87.5        60.0
Herbicidec              -         -          -         -           -
Pesticides (kg/It)      5.6       8.0        -         0.6         0.6         2.0
-  cotton  Fodder
FARM UNIT MODEL 8      27.6 ha  88.0 he    18.6 he    2.76 ha      2.76 ha    3.0    8.0
Seds (kg)             660       198.0      740.0       2.76        6.9        60.0   90.6
Fertilizer
Ure  (kg)         4125        -           -         -           -        660.0
DAP (kg)          1876.0      -        1888.0       -           -        800.0  226.0
NPK (kg)             -     1856.0         -       412.6       66a.0
Herbicide             187.6    182.0        87        11.0        11.0
Pesticide (kg/It)     116.0      82.5       58         8.8         8.8        18.0    8.o
FARM UNIT MODEL 4      140.0 he   80.0 he  10.0 he   16.6 ha      10.0 he    55.0  55.0
Seeds (kg)           2800.0   480.0    2000           10.0        26.0      1160.0 1860.0
Fertilizer
Urea (kg)        21000.0      -           -         -           -       11600.6    -
DAP (kg)          7000.0      -        8760
NiPK (kg)            -     4000.0         -      1660.6      2000.0      6600.0 4125.0
Herbicide             700.0   826.0        100        40.0        40.0         -
Pesticide (kg/It)     660.0   200.0        ISO        80.0        86.0      380.0  110.0



- 76 -
ANNEX III
SOIAIAU
FARANAAME IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Total Annual Agricultural Input Requirement at Full Development 1/
F A R A H AA N E A R E A
Form Unit        Form Unit    Farm Unit    Form Unit              Totrl
Model 1          Model 2       Model a       Model 4
1966 farmers     280 farmers  80 farmers   2 farmers
Seeds
Waize (tons)          21.62             11.50         16.60          6.60              66.22
Sesam  (tons)          8.26              4.14           6.94         6.96              19.29
Legumes (tons)        23.68             11.50         22.2           4.00              61.28
Vegetable (tons)       0.10              0.08          0.08          0.02               0.28
Watermelon (tons)      0.26              0.14           0.2          0.06               0.64
Rice (tons)                              4.8            -            -                  4.80
Cotton (tons)                            -             1.80          2.20               4.00
Foraeg  (tons)         -                               2.70          8.86               6.00
Fertilizers
Urea (tons)          162.11            182.26         141.75        64.0              600.11
DAP (tons)            68.26             78.82         98.64         40.75             810.98
NPK (tons)           104.16             54.88         78.88         16.2              262.38
Herbicides (tons)                        -             9.88          2.4               12.26
Pesticides (tons)      8.73              2.68          8.67          2.92              17.76
No incremental inputs are planned for areas served from Qoryooley and Falkeerow Barrages



7 77_
Annex III
Table 6
Page 1 of 2
SOMALIA
FARAHAANE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Annual Labor Force Required and Available
A.       Labor force required for the prnposed cropping pattern for difficult
farm unit models.
Farm Unit Model
1         2       3       4       5       6       7    8
MD/HA
Maize            108      108       68      68     108     108    108   108
Sesame           92        92       58      58      92      92      92    92
Legumes           77       77       40      40       -        -      -     -
Vegetable       235       235      180    180      235     235    235   235
Watermelon       101      101       66      66     101     101    101   101
Rice               -      165        -       -       -       -       -     -
Cotton             -        -      160    160
Fodder             -        -      109    109
B.   Available Labor Force
Number of Farms                              5602
Average Household size                        7.3
Average Working persons/household              3
Average Working days (70Z)                   255
AvailabJe labor force (Mo: 'y)         4,285,530



- 78-
Annex III
Table 6
Page 2 of 2
SOMALIA
FARAEAANE IRRIGATION REEA ILITATION PROJECT
Annual Labor Force Reauired and Available
A.Labor force required for the proposed cropping pattern for difficult farm unit models.
Han Davs per Farm Unit Model
1         2        3      4        5       6       7      8
Maize             60      270      1870   4760       76      567   4990   18144
Sesame            65      276      1914   4640       46     340   3036   11040
Legumes           23       96       740   2000        -        -      -        -
Vegetable         12       59       495   1800       12       94    776    2820
Watermelon         5       25       182    660        5       40    333    1212
Rice               -      165         -       -       -        -      -        -
Cotton             -        -       480   8800        -        -      -        -
Fodder             -        -       327   5995        _       -       -        _
Man Days for All Farms in Models
1        2       3     4        5        6    7       8     Total
Man Days
Maize      117900  62100  56100    9520  231420  175760  74850  90720  818380
Sesame     127725  63480  57420    9280  140070  105400  45540  55200  604115
Legumes     45195  22080  22200    4000          -       -       -      -   93475
Vegetable   23580  13570  14850    3600   36540   29140  11640  14100  147020
Watermelon   9825   5750   5460    1320   15225   12400   4995   6060   61035
Rice             -  37950       -       -        -       -       -      -   37950
Cotton           -      -  14400   17600         -       -       -      -   32000
Fodder           -      -   9810   11990         -       -       -      -   21800
Total                                                                  1,815,775



- 79 -
Annex IV
Table 1
SOMALIA
FARAHAANE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Cost Recovery Analysis for Farahaane Area Only
SOURCE OF FUNDS:
-----------------  Annual                                  Annual
Water      Water      Cost      Average        Average      Scheme
Use       Charge   Recovery  Charge Per    Charge Per   Operating
Per Ha    Per m3   Fuil Dev Ha Cultivated Ha Cuiltivated   Costs
(m3)    (SoSh)  (SoSh'000)   (SoSh)          (US $1     (SoSh'000)
3.00
Maize         2876               22612
Sesame        2885               27830
Legumes       2035                9353
Vegetables    4514                3497
Watermelon    4248                3291
Rice          5318                3669
Cotton        5300                3180
Fodder        3000                1800
Total                            7523S          8836              35
USE OF FUNDS:
Irrigation Equipment 0 & M Full Dev    (SoSh'000)                        47625
MOA Staff Salaries/Allowances Full Dev (SoSh'000)              28425
Applicable to Irrigation Activities (SoSh'000)                        14213
MOA Vehicle Operating C.osts Full Dev   (SoSh'000)             28450
Applicable to Irrigation Activities (SoSh'000)                        14225
Annual Irrigation Operating Costs at Full Dev          (SoSh'000)        76063
Water Charge Cost Recovery as Percent of Operating Costs                    99%
04-Nov-88



- 80 -                             Annex IV
Table 2
Page 1 of 10
SOMALIA
FARAHAANE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJEC
1/
Farm Model 1: Total Area: 1 he.
________________________________
Financial Analysis - Consolidated Farm Budget
W/O     Yr I   Yr 2    Yr 3    Yr 4    Yr S
Gross Value of Production BoSh   75,175 119,848 168,597 221,422 278,323 339,300
4/5/
Losses  BoSh    3,759   5,992   8,430  11,071  13,916  16,965
Consumption  SoSh   21,791  27,047  32,303  37,559  42,815  48,071
Cash Sales  SoSh   49,626  86,809 127,865 172,792 221,592 274,265
Chemical Inputs  BoSh       125   3,176   6,263   9,386  12,544  15,738
Seeds  SoSh    1,771   2,116   2,516   2,971   3,481   4,047
Tools  BoSh                     3,000           6,000
Tractor Hire  BoSh    5,400   6,894   8,496  10,206  12,024  13,950
Hired Labour  SoSh
Water Charges  BoSh       311   5,537   8,845  12,512  13,231  13,950
3/                                      ___________________
Net Cash Income       BoSh   42,020  69,086  98,745 137,718 174,312 226,S81
Value of Consumption    BoSh   21,791  27,047  32,303  37,559  42,815  48,071
Return to Family Labour  SoSh   63,810  96,133 131,047 175,276 217,127 274,651
2/
Labour (Imputed Cost)   BoSh   37,579  42,320  47,469  53,026  58,991  65,364
Net Benefit Including          ------------------------------------------------
Value of Consumption    SoSh   26,231  53,812  83,578 122,250 158,135 209,287
Incremental Ne. Benefit   SoSh            27,581  57,347  96,01S 131,904 183,056
Cash Income/Labour Day   BoSh       447     653      832   1,039   1,182   1,387
Total Returns/Labour Day  SoSh       679     909   1,104   1,322   1,472   1,681
NOTES:
1/ Model represents 1965 small farmers in Farhasne.
2/ Labour valued at SoSh    400 /day
3/ Water charges fixed at 3000 BoSh per 1,000 i3. Full rate applied in Yr 3.
4/ Losses at 5% of gross production.
5/ Family size of 7.3, and grain consumption going from        58    to        130
kg per capita per annum.
31-Oct-88



-81 -                                  Annex IV
Table 2
Page 2 of 10
SOMALIA
FARAHAANE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
1/
Farm Model 2:  Area:   S he         (8oSh)
Financial Analysis - Consolidated Farm Budget
------------------_---------------------_________
W/O     Yr I       Yr 2      Yr 3       Yr 4      Yr 5
Gross Value of Production  438,02S  681,946   939,684 1,211,239 1,496,611 1,795,800
4/5/
Losses    21,901   34,097    46,984    60,562    74,831    89,790
Consumption    47,450   48,910    50,370    51,830    53,290    54,750
Cash Sales   368,674  598,939   842,330 1,098,847 1,368,490 1,651,260
Chemical Inputs      1,250   16,598    33,506    51,972    71,997    93,581
Seeds     7,508    9,299    11,438    13,926    16,762    19,947
Tools                        15,000                30,000
Tractor Hire    20,250   28,500    37,650    47,700    58,650    70,500
Hired Labour                         16,500    SS,635    98,385   144,750
Wat.er Charges     1,239   24,292    41,896    63.138    70,415    77,692
3/                          -____________
Net Cash Income        338,427  $20,249   686,340   866,476 1,022,281 1,244,790
Value of Consumption       47,450   48,910    50,370    ,1,830    53,290    54,750
Return to Family Labour   385,877  569,159   736,71"   918,306 1,075,571 1,299,540
2/
Labour (Imputed Cost)    160,323  192,229   211,250   211,250   211,250   211,250
Net Benefit Including    ---------------------------------------------------------
Value of Consumption      225,554  376,930   525,460   707,056   864,321 1,088,290
Increment-al Net Benefit              151,377   299,906   481,502   638,767   862,736
Cash Income/Labour Day 6/        844    1,083      1,234     1,382      1,448     1,561
Total Returns/Labour Day        963    1,184       1,323     1,460      1,517     1,623
NOTES:
1/ Model represents 230 small farmers in Farhaane.
2/ Labour valued at SoSh        400 /day
3/ Water charges fixed at      3000  SoSh per 1,000 m3. Full rate applied in Yr 3.
4/ Lnsses at 5% of gross production.
5/ F,mily size of 7.3, and grain consumption going fro         130      to          150
kg per capita per ennum.
6/ Cash costs excludLng hired labour costs.
31 -Oct-88



82                                 Annex IV
Table 2
Page 3 of 10
SOMALIA
FARAHAANE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
1/
Farm Model 3:  Area:    55 ha        (SoSh '000)
_____________________________
Financial Analysis - Consolidated Farm Budget
W/O     Yr I      Yr 2    Yr 3    Yr 4    Yr 5
Cross Value of Production         2403     4531    7202   10415   14170   18469
4/5/
Losses          120      227     360      521     708      923
Consumption           47       49       50      52       53      55
Cash Sales         2236     4256    6791    9842   13408   17489
Chemical Inputs            5       252     595    1033    1566    2194
Seeds          57       119     18S      256     332      413
Tools                            30               60
Tractor Hire          150      281      446     647      884    1156
Hired Labour          834     1136    1422    1693    '948    2187
Water Charges            9      195      C67     587      685     783
3/       _--____________
Net Cash Income             1181      2273    3746    5626    7933   10757
Value o-,f Consumpt,ion          47        49       50      52      53       55
-------------------------------------------------
Return to Family Labour          1229     2322    3796    5678    7987   10811
Labour (Imputed Cost)           216       216     216     216     216      216
Net Ben_fit Including       ------------------------------------------------
Value of Consumption            !013     2106    3580    5462    7771   10595
Incremental Net Benefit                    1093    2568    4449    6758    9583
Cash Income/Labour Day 6/          768     1009    1262    1S34    1827    2154
Total Returns/Labour Day           786     1023    1274    1544    1836    2163
NOTES:
1/ Model represents 30 farmers in Farhsane.
2/ Labour valued at SoSh 400 /day
3/ Water charges fixed at        3000 SoSh per 1,000 m3. Fvll rate appiied Yr 3
4/ Losses at 5% of gross production.
5/ Family size of 7.3, and grain consumption going fro    130    to           150
kg per capita per annum.
6/ Cash costs excluding hired labour.
30-Oct-88



Annex IV
-83                                    Table 2
Page 4 of 10
SOMALIA
FARAHAANE IRRIGATION REHABILITAT ION PROJECT
1/
Farm Model 4:  Area:   200 ha       (SoSh'000)
Financial Analysis - Consolidated Farm 8udget
--------------------------------------________
W/o    Yr       Yr n     Yr 3      Yr 4     YrS
Gross Valle of Production        3769   17875    28412    40378    53774    68600
4/5/
Losses        438      894      1421     019      2689     3430
Consumption          &7      49        so        52       53        Ss
---------------___--------------------_____-____-__
Cash Sales        8283   16932    26941    38307    51032    65115
Chemrical Inputs         17    1136      2519      4166     6076      8249
Seeds          0        1         2        2         3        4
Tools                            30                 60
Tractor Hire         547    1081      17(18    2426      3235      4136
Hired LaboLr        3602    5279      6881     8408      9859    11235
Water Charges          32     749      1450      2368     2802      3237
3 /    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Net Cash Income            4086    8686    143S1    20938    28997    38254
Valuje of Consumption            47      49        SO       52        53       55
Return to Family Labour        4133    8735    14401    20990    290s0    38309
Labou.r (Imputed Cost)          216     216       216      216       216      216
Net Beenefit Including      ---------------------------------------------------
Value of Consumption           3917    8519    14185    20774    28834    38093
Incremental Ne-t Benefit                 4601    10268    16856    24917    34176
Cash Income/Labour Day 6/         805    1017      1197     1361      1543      1729
Total Returns/Labour Day          910    1020      1199      1364     1545      1731
---------------------------------------------------
NOTES:
1/ Model represents 2 farmers in Farhasne.
2/ Labcour velued at SoSh 40(0 /day
3/ Water rzharges fixed at       3000  SoSh per 1,000 m3. Full rate applied Yr 3.
4/ Losses st 5% of gross production.
5/ Famiiiy size of 7.3, and grain consumption going fr        130    to          150
I:9 per capita per annum.
6/ Cash costs exrludlin hired labour.
30-Oct-88



84                                   Annex IV
Table 2
Page 5 of 10
SOMALIA
FAEAHAANE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
1/
Farm Model 5: Total Area I ha
____________________________
Financial Analysis - Consolidated Farm Budget
W/O     Yr I      Yr 2      Yr 3       Yr 4      Yr 5
Gross Value of Production    61,940   741791    88,853   104,125   120,607   138,300
4/S/
Losses      3,097    3,740     4,443      5,206     6,030     6,915
Consumption     47,450   48,910    50,370    51,830    53,290    54,750
Cash Sales     11,393   22,141    34,040    47,088    61,287    76,635
Chemical Inputs         75       85         95       105       115        125
Seeds      1,578    1,737     1,904     2,079      2,263     2,456
Tools                         3,000                6,000
Tractor Hire      4,545    4,821      5,097     5,373     5,649     5,925
Hilred Labour
Water Charges
Net Cash Income          5,195   IS,499    23,944    39,531    47,259    68,130
Value of Consumption       47,450   48,910    50,370    51,830    53,290    54,750
---------------___---------------------------------------
Return to Family Labour     52,645   64,409    74,314    91,361   100,549   122,880
Labour (Imputed Cost) 2/     31,304   35,554    40,074    44,864    49,925    55,256
Net Benefit Including     ---------------------------------------------------------
Value of Consumption       21,342   28,855    34,240    46,497    50,625    67,624
Incremental Net Benefit                7,514    12,899    25,155    29,283    46,282
Cash Income/Labour Day          66       174       239       352       379       493
Total Returns/Labour Day        673       725       742       815       806        890
NOTES:
1/ Model represents 3045 small farmers in Falkeerow.
2/ Labour valued at BoSh        400 /day
3/ Water charges fixed at            BoSh per 1,000 m3. Full rate applied in Yr 3.
4/ Losses at 5% of gross production.
S/ Family size of 7.3, and grain consumption going from       130     to           150
kg per capita per annum.
31-Oct-88



85                               Annex IV
Table 2
Page 6 of 10
eOMAL iA
FARAHAANE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
1/
Farm Model 6: Area:    7.5 he      (8o0h)
_____________________________
Financial Analysis - Consolidated Form Budget
W/O    Yr I    Yr 2    Yr 3        Yr 4      Yr S
Gross Value of Production   526,300  620,230  720,846  828,150  942,142 1,062,820
4/S/
Losses     26,315  31,011   36,042  41,408    47,107   53,141
Consumption     47,4S0  48,910   50,370  51,830    53,290   S4,750
-------------------------------------------------------
Cash Bales    452,535  540,308  634,434  734,913   841,745  954,928
Chemical Inputs        750      800      850      900      950    1,000
Seeds      12,947   14,035   15,154  16,303    17,481    18,690
Tools                       15,000             30,000
Tractor Hire     34,350   36,375   38,400  40,425   42,450   44,475
Hired Labour     27,478  58,872  92,192  127,439  164,f12  203,712
Water Charges
3 /    ----- ---- -------- -------- -------- -------- --------
Net Cash Income        37-  ,0 430,226  484,838  549,847   610,251   687,0S2
Value of Consumption       47,450   48,910  50,370  51,830    53,290   54,750
-------------------------------------------------------
Return to Family Labour    424,460  479,136  53S,208 601,677   663,541   741,802
Labour (Imputed Cost)     212,240  212,240  212,240  212,240   212,240  212,240
Net Benefit Including     -------------------------------------------------------
Value of Consumption      212,220  266,896  322,968  389,437   451,301   529,562
Incremental Net Benefit               54,676  110,748  177,216  239,081   317,342
Cash Income/Labour Day 6/       675      722      758     798       822       857
Total Returns/Labour Day        754      794      824     859       879       909
NOTES:
1/ Model represents 310 small farmers in Falkeerow.
2/ Labour valued at So8h        400 /day
3/ Water charges fixed at            So8h per 1,000 m3. Full rate applied in Yr 3.
4/ Losses at 5% of gross prcduction.
5/ Family size of 7.3, and grm.n consumption going from    130    4.o         150
kg per capita per annum.
6/ Cash expenses exclude hired lat vir costs.
31-Oct-88



-86                                  Annex IV
Table 2
Page 7 of 10
SOMALIA
FARAHAANE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
1/
Farm Model 7: Total Area:  66 he      (BoSh '000)
______________________________
Financial Analysis - Consolidated Farm Budget
W/O    Yr I     Yr 2      Yr 3       Yr 4      Yr 5
Gross Value of Production        4765     5172     S604       6061      6543      7049
4/5/
Losses         238      259       280       303        327       352
Consumption          47        49       50        52         53        55
Cash Sales        4479      4865     5274      5706       6162      6642
Chemical Inputs           8         8        8          8         8         8
Seeds         111       122      134       145        157       169
Tools                             30                   G0
Tractor Hire         302       319      337       355        373       391
Hired Labour        1963      2013     2OSS      2090       2117      2137
Water Charges
3/   _    -  -  _ -  - _  -  - -  - _  -_________
Net Cash Income             2096     2403     2710       3108      3447      3936
Value of Consumption             47       49       so         52        53        55
Return to Family Labour         2144     2451     2760       3160      3500      3991
Labour (Imputet4 Cost)          216      216      216        216       216       216
Net Benefit Including        -------------------------------------------------------
Value of Consumption           1928     2235     2544       2944      3284      3775
Incremental Net Benefit                    308      616       1016      1356      1848
Cash Income/Labour Day 6/So8h    745       792      839        902       954      1033
Total Returns/Labour Day BoSh    754       801      848        911       963      1042
NOTES:
1/ Model represents 15 farmers in Falkeerow.
2/ Labour valued at SoSh 400 /day
3/ Water charges fixed at       SoSh per 1,000 m3. Full rate applied in Yr 3.
4/ Losses et 5% of gross prodvction.
5/ Family size of 7.3, and grain consumption going from        130     to          150
kg per capits per annum.
6/ Cash costs excluding hired labour
31-Oct-89



87  -                               Annex IV
Table 2
Page 8 of 10
SOMAL IA
FARAHAANi IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
1/
Farm Model 8: Total Area:240 ha      (in BoSh '000)
_____________________________
Financial Analysis - Consolidated Form Budget
-------------------------------------________----
W/O    Yr I    Yr 2       Yr 3      Yr 4       Yr 5
Gross Value of Production      16761    19646    22731     26017     29504      33192
4/5/
Losses        838      982     117       1301      1475      1660
Consumption         47       49        _j        52        53        55
Cash Sales      15876    18615    21544      24665     27976     31478
Chemical Inputs         25       26        27        28        29        30
Seeds        398      439      481       52S        570       616
Tools                           30                   60
Tractor Hire       109S      1160     1226      1291      1357      1422
Hired Labour       7656     7848     8012       8149      8257      8339
Water Charges
3/                                              _______________
Net Cash Income           6702      9142    11768     14672     17703     21071
Value of Consumption           47       49        50        52        53        55
-----------__-___-______________-----------------------
Return to Family Labour       6750     9191    11819      14724     17757     21126
Family Labour (Imputed)        216       216      216       216       216       216
Net Benefit Including      -------------------------------------------------------
Value of Consumption         6534      8975    11603     14508     17541     20910
Incremental Net Benefit                 2441      5069      7975     11007     14377
Cash Income/Labour Day 6/SoSh   730       842      962      1091      1226       1375
Total Returns/Labour Day SoSh   732       84S      964      1094       1228      1378
NOTES:
1/ Model represents S farmers in Falkeerow.
2/ Labour valued et SoSh 400 /day
3/ Water charges fixed at     SoSh per 1,000 m3. Full rate applied in Yr 3.
4/ Losses at 5% of gross production.
S/ Family size of 7.3, and grain consumption going fro       130     to           150
kg per capita per annum.
6/ Cash costs excluding hired labour.
31-Oct-88



88                                  Annex IV
-~~~~~~ ~~Table  2
Page 9 of 10
SOMALIA
FARAHAANE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Farmgate Prices
Financial
Farmgate Prices     Unit.        Prices
CROPS:                                 SoSh
Maize          q              5,000
Sesame          q             15,900
Legumes         q              8,500
Vegetables        q              8,500
Watermelon        a              3,000
Paddy R.ice       q              6,930
Seed Cotton       q             12,800
Forage          t/dm           6,700
Maize Stover       stalk           1.00
INPUTS:
DAP           q               6700
Urea           q               5500
NPK           q               5000
Improved Seed:
Maize           kg               75
Sesame           kg              239
Legumes          kg              128
Veget,ables        kg             5000
Watermelon         kg             4400
Cotton           kg              150
Forage           kg             2000
Rice            kg              104
Insecticide        kg             2600
Herbicide         kg             3750
Water           m3                3        3%
Labour:
Financial        day              400
Shadow          day              400
Tractor (75 HP)     hour            1500
30-Oct-88



-89.
Table 2
Page 1O of 1O
SOMALIA
FARAHAANE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Farmgate Prices
Economic
Farmyate Prices      Unit         Prices
CROPS:                                  8oSh
Maize           q              4,900
Sesame           q             17,500
Legumes          q              7,700
Vegetables         q              8,500
Watermelon         q              S,300
Paddy Rice         q              5,100
Seed Cotton        q             24X,600
Forage           t/dm           3,000
Maize Stover        stalk           1.00
INPUTS:
DAP           q               10700
Urea            q               8800
NPK           q                7700
Improved Seed:
Maize            kg               74
Sesame            kg              263
Legumes           kg              116
Vegetables          kg             s0oo
Watermelon          kg             4400
Cotton            kg              150
Forage            kg             2000
Rice             kg              121
Insecticide         kg           & 264
Herbicide          kg             3750
Water            m3                0
Labour:
Financial         day              400
Shadoi.          day              400
Tractor (7S HP)      hojr            1950
07-Dec-88



in90-                                                   ANNEX  IV
Table 3
Page 1 of 5
SOMALIA
FARAHAANE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Aggregation of Economic Benefit and Cost Streams
OFF FARM COSTS (BoSh '000)
PH S   FE S     1989     1990     1991      1992     1993    1994     1995      1996       1997      1998
Investient
Civil Uorks                  102    86S           339594  1202436  1258490   558884   69125
Adjusted                          468221  1657981  1735166   770571   95307
Equipsent and Uehicles      4.8t   100I     3750   115910   122000   210750    78750
Adjusted                   S109   157916   166213   287126   107289
Implementatian Assistanf    6.72    95   289308   241900   281450   388025   135275   16900    26250
and Training     Adjusted                396669   331668   385895   532019   185475   23172    35991
Recurrent  1/
Incremental NRU Staff       0.22    272    9175    29275    33650    31025    30700   24750    28425
Adjusted                   9938    31710    36448    33605    33253   31141    30789      15394      15394     15394
O & N Equipment Operation          1OOt                       7375    24315    35625   47625    47625
Adjusted                                     9588    31688    46313   61913    61913      61913     61913      61913
Agr. Equip. Operation         32    902    1750     2250      2750     2750     2750    2750     2750
Adjusted                            2943      3597     3597     3597    3597     3597      3597       3597      3597
'ehicle Operation           0.42    98S     875     7400    18850    2840      28450   28450    28450
Adjusted                            9614    2448g    36962    36962   36962    36962      36962     36962      36962
Other Factlities            7.12    81S                      2000      2500     6500   10750    13250
Adjusted                                     2663      3328     8653   14311    17639      8820       8820     6820
TOTAL ADJUSTED OFF FARM COSTS            411715  1002071  2286773  2663490  1192113  266402   186891    126685    126685    126685
NOTES:
Shadau Rate:                325
Official Rate:              250
Shadow Rate/Official Rate 1.300
I/Recurrent Costs adjusted as follows:
NOA staff reduced to     50S   of Year 6 levels.
O&N costs remain at     100l    of Year 6 levels.
Other Facility Costs reduced    502   of Year 6 levels,                     0*
Agr. Equipment Operation remins at      1002   of Year 6 levels.
Uehicle Operation remains at   1002   of Year 6 levels.
2/ PPF costs of USt 0.5 million for preparation of Shalambood not included (Year 1).
3/ Drainage study costs of USS 0.7 million in consultants, and USf 0.2 million in mapping excluded
from off fare costs (Years 2 and 3).
07-Dec-88



ANNEX IV
~ 91 _                                            Table 3
Page 2 of 5
SONALI
FARANAANE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Aggregation of Econosic Benefit and Cost Streus
NET ON FARN BENEFITS
Farahaane Benefits Fare Model I
Incraemntl Net Benefit  SaSh             33,556   68,531  113 c13  154,734  211,963
Model I Inclusion Rate (BoSh '000)          1989     1990     1991     1992     1993    1994      1995      1996      1997      1998
Year I
Year 2
Year 3                       202   393                       13188    26933    44772   60910    82201      83301     83301     83301
Year 4                       30S   590                                19781    40399   67158    91216    124952    124952    124952
Year 5                       302   590                                         19781   40399    67158      91216    124952    124952
Year 6                       10S   197                                                  6594    13466      22386     30405     41651
Year 7                       lO   197                                                           6594      13466     22306     30405
Total hodel I Farers        loOt  1965                       13188    46714   104952  174961   261735   325321    38S996    405261
Farahaane Benefits Farm Model 2
Increental Net Benefit   SaSh           170,500  334,834  539,000  705,000  940,832
Model 2 Inclusion Rate (SoSh '000)         1989      1990     1991     1992     1993    1994     1995       1996      1997      1998
Year I
Year 2
Year 3                       20S    46                        7843    15402    24749   32430   43278      43278      43278     43278
Year 4                       302    69                                1176S    23104   37122    48645      64917     64917     64917
Year 5                       302    69                                         11765   23104    37122     48645      64917     64917
Year 6                       10    23                                                  3922     7701      12374     16215     21639
Year 7                       102    23                                                           3922      7701      12374     16215
Total Nodel 2 Farmers       1002   230                        7843    27167    59616   96577   140669    176916    201702    210967
- --     ----   --          -----       -     ---- ------    -----    ---------------- ------
Farahaane Benefits Farm Nadel 3
Incresental  et; Benefit                1369859  313124S  5374157  7949597 11064563 csi
Model 3 Inclusion Rate (QoSh '000)         1989      1990     1991     1992     1993    1994     1995       1996      1997      1998
Year I
Year 2
Year 3                       20     6                        8212    18787    32245   47692    66387     66387      66387     66387
Year 4                       302     9                                12329    28181   48367    71537     99501      99581     99581
Year 5                       302     9                                         12329   28181    48367     71S37      99581     99581
Year 6                       10     3                                                  4!10     9394      16122     23846     33194
Year 7                       10     3                                                           4110      9394      16122     23846
. ~ ~ ~ ~ - - -     -- --    -- - -   - - -    . ..    -- --      -----
Total fNodel 3 Farmers      1OO2    30                        9219    31116    72755  129350   199795    263022    105518    322589
-   -----7--------    ---    --------     -------       ------   -------------- ----------- -  ----



92                                                        ANNEX IV
Table3
Page 3 of 5
SOMALIA
FARAHAANE IRRIbATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Aggregation of Economic Benefit and Cost Streams
NET ON FARM BENEFITS
Farahaane Benefits Fars Nodel 4
Incruwntal Net Benefit                   6019717 13372053 22'47007 32194580 43724772
Model 4 Inclusion Rate (SoSh '000)           1989     1990      1991      1992     1993    1994      1995       1996      1997      1998
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3                        20t
Year 4                        30t     1                                  6020    13372   2217    32195        43725      43725     43725
Year 5                        30S      1                                           6020   13372    22147      32195      43725     43725
Year 6                        10?
Year 7                        10?
Total Model 4 Farmers        100?     2                                  6020    19392   35519    54342       75919      874S0     87450
Falkeeroi Benefits Fars Model 5
Increental Net Benefit 7 SoSh               0,742   15,502   29,280   47,645   6S,460
Model 5 Inclusion Rate (BoSh '000)           1989     1990      1991      i992     1993    1994      1995      1996       1997      1999
Year I
Year 2
Year 3                        20?   609                         5324     9441    17032   29016    4474        40474      40474     40474
Year 4                        30?   914                                  7986    14161   26748    43524       60711      60711     60711
Year 5                        30?   914                                            7986   14161    26748      43524      60711     60711
Year 6                        10?   305                                                    2662      4720      8916      14508     20237
Year 7                        10?   305                                                              2662      47Th       0916     14508
Total Model 5 Farmers        100?  3045                         5324    17426    39970   72586   110128    158345    15320    196642
-- --   -   -- --   -   --- -- --   __ -- __ __



93-AM  IV
Page 4 of 5
FARANAANE IRRI6ATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Aggregation of Economic Beneit and Cost Stream
NET ON FARM BENEFITS
Falkecrow Benefits Fare Nodel 6
Incresental Net Benefit  BoSh              62,681  114,900  201,656  378,666  489,497
Nodel 6 Inclusion Rate (SoSh '000)           1989      1990     1591      1992     1993    1994      1995       1996      1997      1998
Year I
Year 2
Year 3                        20t   62                          3886     7124    12503   23477    30349       30349      30349     5349
Year 4                        30S    93                                  5829    10686   18754    35216       45S23      45523     45523
Year 5                        30?    93                                            5829   10686    18754      35216      45523     45523
Year 6                        10    31                                                    1943      3562      6251      11739     15174
Year 7                        102    31                                                              1943      3562       6251      11739
Total Nodel 6 Farers         100?   310                         3886    12953    29018   54860    89824    120901    139385    148308
Falkleerou enefits Far Ilodel 7
Incremental Net Benefit 7 SdSh             307800   616463  0l15987  2220179  X81l428
Nodel 7 Inclusion Rate (BoSh '000)           1989      1990     1991      1992     1993    1994      1995       1996      1997      1998
Year I
Year 2
Year 3                        20t      3                         923     1849      3048    6961      8434      8434       8434      8434
Year 4                        30%      5                                  1385     2774    4572    10441      12651      12651     12651
Year 5                        30t      5                                           1385    2774      4572     10441      12651     12651
Year 6                        10?     2                                                     462       925      1524       3480      4217
Year 7                        10?      2                                                              462       925       1524      3480
Total Nodel 7 Farmers        lOOt    15                          923     3234      7207   14768    24833      33975      38741     41435
...--------        ----        --------------------------- - ------- ---- ------------------------ .
Falkecrom Benefits Farm Nodel 8
Incremental Net Benefit  SoSh            2715808  5640296  8863465 16075932 1806463 o.
Nodel 8 Inclusion Rate (BoSh '000)           1989     1990      1991     1992      1993    1994      1995      1996       1997      1998
Year I
Year 2
Year 3                        20?      1                        2716     5640      8863   16076    19806      19806      19806     19806
Year 4                        30?      1                                 2716      5640    8863    1607C      19806      19806     19806
Year 5                        30t      2                                           5432   11281    17727      32152      39613     39613
Year 6                        10      1                                                   2716      5640      8863      16076     19806
Year 7                        lOt      1                                                             1358      2820       4432      8038
Total Nodal 8 Farmers        100?      5                        2716     8356    19935   38936    60608       83448      99734    107070
-                                                                                                                                  _---------------



_ 94 -
Page 5 of 5
SOMALIA
FARAHAANE IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Aggregation of Economic Benefit and Cost Streams
SUMMARY OF BENEFIT AND COST STREAMS:
BENEFIT STREAM FROM ON FARM ACTIVITIES                           42099   152987   352854  616557   949932   1247849   1443846   1519721
(SBSh '000)
NET BENEFIT STREAM (SoSh '000)             -411715 -1002071 -2244674 -2510503  -839259  350155   763042   1121163   1317161   1393036
Economic Rate of Return:       13?



- 95 -
ANNEX V
SOMALIA
FARAHAANE IRRIGATION REHABILi.TATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data in the Proiect File
Background Reports
1.       Genale Irrigation Rehabilitation project - Feasibility Study in
eight volumes prepared by Tippets-ALbett-McCarthy-Stratton of USA,
September 1986.
2.       Shebelli Water Strategy Study in three volumes prepared by
Lahmeyer International of West Germany, September 1987.
3.       Shebelli River Water Balance Study prepared by Lahmeyer
International of West Geroiany, December 1987.
4.       Farahaane Irrigation Rehabilitation Project, Instructions for
tendering conditions of contract, specification, detail drawings,
bill of quantities, tender form, album of drawings prepared by Sir
M. MacDonald and Partners Ltd., of England, March 1988.
a.       Farahaane Irrigation Rehabilitation Project - Pre-qualification
Document-Revised Draft prepared by Sir M. MacDonald and Partners
Ltd., of England, August 1988.
Staff Working Papers
1.       Cost tables
2.       Agricultural aspects
3.       Land tenure, title registration and Water Users Associations
4.       Malaria and schistosomiasis control
S.       Drainage aspects
6.       Farm models and economic analysis



FARAHAAWE IRRII' TIMIMMH-IXTATION PROJECT
Ministry of Agriculture grganization
M  0 A      |
MINISTER
Parastatals and             Vice Minister                                    Vice Minister          Parastatals and
Autonomous Projects            Production                                         Serv ces            Autonomous Proj-et
1. Form Mach A Agricult.                                                                              1  Settlement DSY
Services Organization                                Direcor                                          Ageney (SOA)
(ONAT)                  Seed  2ultp. General D.G                                                   2  Agr. Devlopmant
2. Fanoole Irrigation        Form Man.                                             Plant Protect         Corp. (ADC)
Project (Juba River)         (SM)                                                 Dir[    DP)       3. Agr. Farm Mgt
3. Mugamboo Irrigation                                                                                   Ext., Training
Project (Juba River)                                                                                   (AFTET)
4. Grapefruit Production                                                                              4. Bay Region Proj.
Project (Shobelli         Date projct                                            Research Dir.      S. Northwest Projeet
River)                     Program                                                    (DR)          6. Genale-Bulo
S. Libyan/Somali Project    Man. (DO)                                                                    Mareta Project
(Afgoi-Mordinale)
8. Somaifruit
7. Jowhar Rice farm                                                                 Planning                                                           S
8. Production strengthen    Refugee                                                 Dir. (DP)
9. Crash program            Agrie  Dir_
(DRA)
iFinnnce A Ad
|Production                                          -DAir  (DFA)
IDirector_
|(DPR)
Irrig A Land
l                                  _ ~~~~~~~~~~~Uso Di r.(DILU , 
HRegional   |                                                             F rehasne Proj ctl
| Agr. S*rv. |                                                            Advisory Unit 
Coordinatorl                                    Sh-b ill               
'   '                              | ~~~~~~~~~River     ' 
I  .                           gib~~~~~~~~MnagoisntI I 
I                        '                  I      I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Farahsafs, Prm oetI
,  '  -,                                        |      | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Field Office;
DIstAriCt S r.                                 ?I egonal            
|Coordinator  1        -e    
annd Use
|Finance A    



so6
P,2e  O..,i ie
I   m let         I
Vice fmi&eieter
Pblicy  Ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~Piojeat Coarin"eftI  Commiteme 
o^                                        t,                           j |*               Xlf tV          F     _rj           W        |tH   rot   i   a"1 Coardt"      I ,
"embre - a;     OM    - 0.0. 0   M.   . f.
Need-Qeerter                         DMr of          Ferebmee  Specialized Co.mult  FDi  OF MM           Fe         Itq                  l  tb 14 "M     .A                            IS
l.ementation                                            U)se)V    ers 3)*m. Ev                 IU.Re.10cCme.                                 O                                            It
T T. I_e ry. 4)W.owft.5)za                        2e .l I -                1                    1       _  _ _            _        r_
PAWN% 6)"id-tem  f  _       Srcn    _      le R.. Snc                 Qeo., I.i   3
Diet@S;e.6 letX-.                                          r f- ice r(
id c e   )  DIet. Ads  =ff'D ir b ge       I tr jer Et                                         1 l
vrlE'm'l                                  I~S;''"                        unit
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Qwcoiw w 1
I"L-IX Dis.ot  t-4hlolo                                                         Wot,&  ciOA                                                    A
DS AC F-1                                                                            oto  ki



SOMALIA
FARAHAANE IrRIGTxI-WBiLrTATzoN PRojECT
Ministry of Health and Credit institutiOns
Organization
MOH                                                                MOP            Central Bank
Minister
Comercial & Savings Bakn
of Soesla
DTrector Genral
Board of Directors
A4linietr.     Preventive Medicine         rati 
Dliretor                                                                                   VICE PRESIDENT
Director               Director
Laboratry     Pub. Heth    Pri.Health         r M                          Drector Gerl                 Directour GearI
care                                      Domstic Affairs               International
Chief           Chie           Cbief        Che t      Cie tAf;tae Ir
Loan                Personnel
Dept.                  Dept.
Regional PHC  I                                                                I Intertonal
Oeneral              Techrnical                Diiso
Coordinator                           Accounting                 Dept.
Nurse, Lab                               Dept.
TehI. bldwife                                                                          Statistics
e111    tc. I                                   I   I Secretariate                     a
Lll         lLegal                                                                     Research
Dept.
abchinery
r   , i  I    &  H   I   I Interaionaln,
SeIasonal |      I Stationary                   Branches
District                                    Dept.
Medical Officer
l l '   '                          | ~~~~~~~Brunches
Out. patient  Sanitarian   Schisto A        Prir
Malaria Control   Health Care
lth Posts



SOpMTA
FARAHAANE MICATIN REHABXUATIIN PROJECT
Implemsntation Schedule
1989           1990           1991           1992            1993            1994           1996           1996
1234           12       4    1      3  3 4   1  2      4     1 2 34          1  2  3  4     1  213  4    1  2  3  4
A. Irriqation Development
1. Civil Works Contracts
a) Main ICS Contract           'mmmm8
Rehab. two barrages           _ 
New Me n Canal                                                 _______
(Gaywerow)                                 _
Rehab. exist main                                           _
canal (Farah)
New second canals                            _
Existing second canals                                      _ B
Pilot tert. laterals
(800 ha)
Drainage p.station                                          _
Main drain                                   _
Secondary drains                             _                                 *S
Tertiary Drains                                              ______r
(260 ha)
b) LCB Contracts
Buildings - Contr #2      H       l _       -                 tm_
Tert. laterals -                                                                _ _
Contr. #3
Buildings - Contr.t4                   iUMDIlM    I 
Tert. laterals -
Contr. #6                      1                                                                              _
Roads - Ccntr. #p               1                                          _
Dir. Riv. Div. Str -
Coa,tr. t7
Tert. L.terals -                j                                                                   U   L
Contr. p                                                                                             r 
2. Equie. Vehels A Materials             VE4;6,15 ,                                 ,i-.sugp . wIa
Equip.  vehicles                 c IHi _    -                                                                                                              lbto. mim_
Survey A office Equip.          II
Furniture A Misc. Procur.       I              l lf          -|- E
3. Surveys A Investi8ations
Aerial photography and          !                       n mr                                                                                I
1/10,000 scale topog. maps
Misc. topog.qstrip surveys
Misc. invest.4install piezom



SOMALIA
FARAHAANE MIRRATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Implownttion Schedule
1989            1990            1991            1992             1993            1994             1995           1996
1  2  34        1   2   34         234             2      4         234             234              2a4         1234
4. Technical Assistance
a) CosiigServices                                                     1    3           ~       ,       2      41            3             2     3    -     2    4
Revision  T.7oceFaroactivye)   IIflgII
Construction Supervision           inmmmm
Drainage M. plan and
detailed design                                            im mnrlINh IIRI111- --411     "
Design T. Doc. tertiaries                                         mmUIll-               inumi- -   --1-
6) Specialized ServicesAStudie                                 m     m iui---111m                                     
Water Mgmt. (pilot)
W. Users Assoc. Organ.                               m     m i--mri--                -1101---111                      'UU
W. Charges Assessment                                                                          ME lmulio
Mid-term reviewr/comnpl .rprt                                                                       inuHH                                   m9
C) Advisory StaffI
Engineering A Fin. Advisor              miniiinii llnlnlrnH-N  -    - .101111- - -      11111.--lfh1I
Local contract prof. staff             mmI 11111111   ilmihfhifiHNII lIUUIUlNllIlNHIIIII tIlfIlitIflfIIlltlIttfffhI
d) TrainingI 
Short-term overseas visits                           1iHHl11S                              11011 nt
Graduate fellowship                                 Uimninllllllll  ttIItlllHIflhilNItIfH I HllIItIfHIfl
B. Agricultural Development
1. LCB Contracts
Land le-velliTng~-contr.# 1O-12                                   laiiin  nnn
Buildings - contr. #4                 'lHmRlllllin goC
2. Vehicles a E? ui,:ntm UE                                         IIm                           m     u m       r
E q ui p me Ye  ic V ag         HilIliIIII   M m a N IIIIIIl
3. Input Supplies                 iiniNMMA
4. Technical Assistance 
a) Spcialized S-ervices                                                                                    IC                                                     D
Integrated Pest Mangemt.                                            Unif 
Cadastral Surveys                 im m a~'llllIIllfU                                                         C_
Registration Issue of titles   llllllIl1lll        IlHDIllllHlllllllfl
Mid-term Review/compl .report11711
Monitoring A Evaluation                            IIH         Iltm11                                                                                B.nIII



SOMALIA
FARAhAANE IRRIOATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1989           1990           1991            1992            1993            1994           1995           1996
1  2  3  4     1  2  3  4    1  ri3  4        1  2  3  4      1 Y'23  4      1  2  3  4      1  213  4    1  2  3  4
b) Advisory Staff
Irrigated crops Adviser                         iminu                         I uilNUM IHINII  li
Local contr. prof. s*taff                       *RWHHHIHtfbW uaumUmHwul I            m         nmmimm fR
c) Training
Short-term overseas trips                                             'HH              HMUO'
Graduate Fellowship                                 ' *       nnninuuuuwnnnl mum..
On-the-job training                                                          liim nnUUmnnm
C. Health  Social Aspects
1. LCB Contracts
Filling D-pr. around
viIIages Contr. t1
Su ilId ings - Contr. #4           'IIAINUUIE   *i~
Water supply for Madhlow                        lIu        -
Contract #9
2. Vehicles, EauipmentADrugs
Vehicles & Equipment           lUIUlii--mmm
Annual Drugs A Chemicals
3. Annual Screening Surveys              nHmi            u              'lIlmll        ilImD                           IIuUUII
4. Technical Assistance
Specialists during surveys
Mid-term Review/Compl .rprt
S. Training                                                                                   I                                                               C
0 4-
Mid-term Review      _                        Consultants Engageent, Procurement A Tender Processing  *HmU
Rainy Season                  Studios, Planning, Design A preparation of Tender Docunents                 iummu..u
Construction and/or manufacture including installation of equipment



ARAB           ~~PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC
YEMEN ARAB                    REPUBLIC OF
SOMALIA                                        REPUBLIC                        YEMEN
FARAHAANE IRRIGATION
REHABILITATION PROJECT
SHEBELLI RIVER BASIN
P,pS PjS,e                                      OJDJIBOUTI
u   ShbhI CM-- A-
C-h-,or Area tf Mlko VJ D..                  DjIBOUT0
I~~~~~~~~ ~~ CO                                                                                                   .% .. - :
_ Gllmo usux;us                  / EOIA 5o'~ lof.'  f
MNAAG~~~
b. Rh.W-d               7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P .O
-  Cratel I EADDISurYme Yo ds   ~      '      |         /        o      Mif)CADlSHU                     J       XSAUDI AgABIA YE
0    SeI.Cted T~own                                                                                         Ub SfT OSJUDA        Yr-
69Ngdonal Cap.tals %IWtS/Ei!/CDdG
-                                                                                                            N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r4
-   nIataona &ounda,rtesj,*Ksao  -c
_  4  n  \ , ; L ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1CA MD                                                     KEN YA      5 9=|T1 
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Ze
Qoryooley                                                                     c                                           WIBOUTI
rh, nWee hanor. pfT er/a/er bYLJ                                                                                               _I 
tnternat ,.,e n/ The Worfd fSnk~/\~\Q    
teaSee. aeS t. eneta.hn~~~~~~~~y ha, the ~~jasira 
.nd the tntrn.aflo.,t fJ,.n.-                                                      alr                                                 L7_ 
C07,rpotthoo orAednnn/naton.                                         otrr
u.ecS ,,d the b.,,nd.t/e. then-n                                             Sh O r3                                                                          rIO} 
-UAteIt0ETHIOPI
P-n of Ihe Wdd fink .nd the                                                                                                                  MOGADISKU
,nflnr.on tgnnc C.0,.tn,orioleyt^ 
any /uoSnre on the taS st.fth .                               /3 N)                                                     fO i ..t,,O                                     2
_t Sy 'e.dg-atan
nr bOn  been                                                                         (* . o]  {fiT   .     
Gaywarow                                           KNAMOCkOISJIU
sush~~a /on'f                             ^                                                                      /~7                                          8
-       /                                                                _    _   _   _    _   _    _   _o; , ;o
Falkeerow                                                                                                                                                                             sor  0  50*
Q~~~
)~~     ~~~                                      NAN       I f                    Shelk         / - - R s1 
Cabdi           I                  r
C-Li--W--\/--   Wt ---- 
Au                                                 II /7  f  //   /      l          //gPROPOSED
OJ                                   rj             //Il    '3                                                                     Pr to be rehabilidated
Meonarn canals
Main drain
co  |             /     ISAB CANAt              7        -       _        5W/St                                                   Secondary drains
_|  /  ~Jl_  _ Gravel roads
|   fJf  /  Madjul4w                                             Drainage pumping station
- t  /  --  Existing canals for rehabilitation
S   D M  A L I A                                                             Barrages to be rehabilitated
Jeerow                                                                                                                                EXISTING:
FARAHAANE IRRIGATION                                                                 -   Metaled roads
1 REHABILITATION PROJECT                                                              -    Earth roads
I  IRRIGATION SCHEME                                                      A , '  Main canals
Towns;
0         1         2          3                                                     Rivers
D                                                                     I         I          I         I                                                                                              S
KILOMETERS                                                                 Intemational boundaries



