Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2063 SO
           (Farahaane Irrigation Rehabilitation Project)
                              between
                    SOMALIA DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                     Dated September 28, 1989
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2063 SO
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated   September   28,   1989,   between  SOMALI
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (the  Borrower)  and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
Page  2
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the  last  sentence  of  Section  3.02  deleted (the "General
Conditions") constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "CSBS" means the Commercial and Savings Bank of Somalia;
     (b)  "Der Season" means  the  minor  rain  season (October to
December) in the Borrower's territory;
     (c)  "DILU" means the Directorate  of Irrigation and Land Use
of MOA;
     (d)  "Farahaane  Irrigation  Scheme"  means  an  area  in the
Borrower's territory bounded by  the  Shebelli river to the north,
the Wadajir canal to  the  east,  the  village of Mudhulow and the
Sisab canal to the south and the Bakore canal to the west;
     (e)  "Gu Season" means the  main  rain season (April to June)
in the Borrower's territory;
     (f)  "MOA" means the Ministry of Agriculture of the Borrower;
     (g)  "MOH" means the Ministry of Health of the Borrower;
     (h)  "Project Area"  means  the  Farahaane  Irrigation Scheme
area and areas in the Borrower's territory served by the Qoryooley
and Falkeerow barrages;
     (i)  "Project  Preparation   Advances"   means   the  project
preparation advances granted  by  the  Association to the Borrower
pursuant to exchanges  of  letters  dated  September  4, 1984, and
November 18, 1987, between the Borrower and the Association;
     (j)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (k)  "USAID" means the United States Agency for International
Development.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent to  twenty  one  million  two  hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 21,200,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement  and  to  be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in  dollars  a  special  account in a commercial
bank on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  5 to this
Agreement.
Page  3
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount  of  the   Project   Preparation   Advances  withdrawn  and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of  the  authorized  amount of the Project
Preparation Advances shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing  Date  shall  be  June 30, 1996, or
such  later  date   as   the   Association  shall  establish.  The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June  30 immediately preceding the accrual date
or at such other rates as may  be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06  of this Agreement, except that the
rate set as of June 30, 1988, shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of  any  kind  imposed  by,  or  in  the  territory  of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate  of  three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on  the  principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower  shall  repay  the  principal  amount  of  the Credit
in  semi-annual  installments  payable  on  each  February  15 and
August 15 commencing  February  15,  2000,  and  ending August 15,
2029. Each installment  to  and  including the installment payable
on August 15, 2009, shall  be  one  percent (1%) of such principal
amount, and  each  installment  thereafter  shall  be  two percent
(2%) of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consi-
deration by them  of  the  development  of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of  the  increase  in  the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest  at  an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
Page  4
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this  end,  shall  carry out the Project through
DILU with due  diligence  and  efficiency  and  in conformity with
appropriate agricultural, engineering and financial practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
     Section  3.03.  The  Borrower  shall:  (a)  for  purposes  of
assisting  farmers  to  purchase  agricultural  inputs  under  the
Project establish and thereafter  maintain  in  CSBS a Fund, to be
known as the Revolving  Inputs  Fund;  an  (b)  cause CSBS to sell
agricultural inputs using  the  Revolving  Inputs  Fund, at market
prices.
     Section  3.04.  The  Borrower   shall:  (a)  not  later  than
December 31,  1992,  submit  to  the  Association  for  review the
recommendations  of  a  study  assessing  the  functioning  of the
agricultural  input  supply  mechanism;  and  (b)  not  later than
June 30, 1993: (i) agree to an action plan relating to such study;
and (ii) start implementing such action plan.
     Section 3.05. The  Borrower  shall:  (a)  open and maintain a
Project Account in the Central Bank of Somalia and deposit therein
a  sum  of  Somali  shillings  fifty  million;  and  (b) quarterly
replenish the said account  with  amounts  necessary to meet local
costs not eligible for financing under the Credit.
     Section  3.06.  The  Borrower   shall:  (a)  not  later  than
September 30, 1989,  complete  formalities  for  the employment of
consultants to  supervise  civil  works;  and  (b)  not later than
December 31, 1989, submit to  the Association for review the terms
of reference for consultants required for the Project.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
Page  5
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section  including those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than nine months after
               the end of each such  year, a certified copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested;
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than four months after
               the end of each such year,  a copy of the report of
               unaudited accounts for the preceding year; and
         (iv)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  5.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional  conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  this Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  that  the  Borrower  has  submitted  to  the Association
documentary evidence satisfactory to  the Association showing that
the Project Account has been opened  and a sum of Somali shillings
fifty million deposited therein  pursuant  to Section 3.05 of this
Agreement; and
     (b)  that  the  Borrower  has  submitted  to  the Association
Page  6
documentary evidence satisfactory to  the Association showing that
a Project Manager with qualifications and experience acceptable to
the Association has been appointed and has taken up his post.
     Section 5.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement  is  hereby  specified  for  the  purposes  of Sec-
tion 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01.  The  Minister  of  the  Borrower  at  the time
responsible for Finance  is  designated  as  representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of  Section  11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          Government of the Somali Democratic Republic
          Mogadishu, Somalia
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                MINFIN                          3612 MINFIN-MOG
                Mogadishu                       Mogadishu
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
                          By /s/ Mohamed S. Osman
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Callisto Madavo
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
Page  7
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                            Credit Allocated          % of
                              (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category                SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works:
     (a)  under Parts A.1,       8,700,000       100%
          A.2 and A.3
          of the
          Project
     (b)  Other                  1,560,000       50%
(2)  Vehicles,                   1,980,000  )    100% of foreign
     equipment and                          )    expenditures,
     materials                              )    100% of local
                                            )    expenditures
(3)  Agricultural                  630,000  )    (ex-factory)
     inputs                                 )    and 65% of
                                            )    other local
                                            )    expenditures
(4)  Consultants'                4,760,000       100%
     services and
     training
(5)  Operating costs             1,150,000       60% through
                                                 June 30, 1992,
                                                 and 40%
                                                 thereafter
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(6)  Refunding of                1,120,000       Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
     tion Advances                               2.02 (c) of this
                                                 Agreement
(7)  Unallocated                 1,300,000
                                __________
         TOTAL                  21,200,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
     (c)  the  term  "operating  costs"  means  salaries  of staff
recruited for Project  implementation,  allowances,  per diems and
vehicle operation costs.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
Page  8
drawals shall be made in respect  of: (a) payments made for expen-
ditures prior to  the  date  of  this  Agreement except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate  amount  not  exceeding the equivalent of
SDR 60,000, may be made  in  respect  of Categories (4) and (5) on
account of payments  made  for  expenditures  before that date but
after October 15,  1988;  and  (b)  payments made for expenditures
under  Category  (3)  unless  the  Borrower  has  entered  into an
agreement, satisfactory  to  the  Association,  with  CSBS for the
operation of the  Revolving  Inputs  Fund  established pursuant to
Section 3.03 of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objective of the Project is to improve food production by
improving the productivity  of  smallholders  in  the Project Area
through better  irrigation  management,  higher cropping intensity
and provision of agricultural facilities.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Irrigation Development
1.   Rehabilitation of barrages at Qoryooley and Falkeerow and the
repair  of  direct  diversion   structures  on  both  river  banks
controlled by these barrages.
2.   Rehabilitation of  primary  and  secondary irrigation canals,
including replacement of water control and distribution structures
in the Project Area.
3.   Construction of new primary  and secondary canals and drains,
including  a  drainage  pumping   station   with  the  supply  and
installation of pumps and diesel engines in the Project Area.
4.   Rehabilitation  and/or   construction   of  tertiary  canals,
tertiary drainage for the  pilot  demonstration area and two pilot
water management demonstration tertiary units.
5.   Construction  of  field  offices,  workshops,  stores,  staff
houses and other civil works  at  various locations in the Project
Area,  including  coral-surfacing  of  roads  connecting  villages
within the Project Area.
6.   Carrying out aerial  photography,  preparation of topographic
maps for drainage  master  plan  of  the  lower  Shebelli area and
tertiary system in the Project Area.
Part B:   Agriculture Development
1.   Construction of an  extension/training facility at Farahaane,
extension-staff houses and the  rehabilitation of stores and other
buildings in the Project Area.
2.   Levelling of land and construction of concrete drying floors.
3.   Carrying out cadastral surveys  and  preparation of maps, and
land  registration  in  the  Farahaane  Irrigation  Scheme  of the
Project Area.
4.   Carrying out  base-line  surveys  covering agriculture, water
management and social aspects of the Project.
5.   Provision of agricultural inputs and implements.
6.   Promotion of agroforestry in the Project Area.
Part C:   Health and Social Aspects
Page  9
1.   Construction of a field laboratory at Qoryooley, health posts
and earth-filling of  depressions  around  villages in the Project
Area.
2.   Installation of drinking water supply systems and acquisition
of drugs and chemicals for spraying and treatment of diseases.
3.   Acquisition of laboratory  equipment  and supplies for annual
screening surveys.
4.   Provision of tools and materials related to women development
activities in three selected villages in the Project Area.
Part D:   Equipment, Vehicles and Materials
     Acquisition of operation and maintenance equipment, vehicles,
and office equipment.
Part E:   Institutional Support and Training
1.   Carrying out  specialized  services  and  studies  related to
water management, drainage  effectiveness, drainage master-plan of
the lower  Shebelli,  organization  of  water user's associations,
assessment of water charges, assessment  of future role of various
agencies dealing with  operation  and maintenance activities, land
tenure,  input  supplies,  agronomical   and  on-farm  trials  and
integrated pest management.
2.   Training of staff in irrigation engineering, water management
and health.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the extent practicable,  contracts for equipment, vehicles
and agricultural inputs shall be grouped in bid packages estimated
to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more each.
Part B:  Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof,  the  Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for coral stone  surfacing of roads, building faci-
lities, drinking water supply,  land  levelling, earthwork to fill
depressions, repair of direct  river  diversion structures and the
construction of tertiary laterals  may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis  of  competitive bidding, advertised locally,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Contracts for  equipment  estimated  to  cost  less  than the
Page  10
equivalent of $50,000 per contract  up  to an aggregate amount not
to  exceed  the  equivalent  of  $150,000  may  be  procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally,  in  accordance  with   procedures  satisfactory  to  the
Association.
3.   Contracts for equipment estimated to cost less than the equi-
valent of $20,000 per contract  up  to  an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $100,000  may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis  of  comparison  of price quotation solicited
from a list of at least  three suppliers eligible under the Guide-
lines, in accordance  with  procedures  acceptable to the Associa-
tion.
4.   Medical   supplies    and    chemicals    for   malaria   and
schistosomiasis  control  may  be   procured  through  the  UNICEF
emergency  drugs  import  program  in  accordance  with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of $250,000 or more,  the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix  1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such  contract  are  to  be  made  out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3 shall  be  furnished  to  the  Association  as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained in accordance with Section  4.01  (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ engineering and agricultural consultants
whose  qualifications,  experience  and  terms  and  conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory  to the Association. Such consul-
tants shall be selected  in  accordance with principles and proce-
dures satisfactory to the Association  on the basis of the "Guide-
lines for the Use of  Consultants  by  World Bank Borrowers and by
the World Bank  as  Executing  Agency"  published  by  the Bank in
August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
1.   In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall:
Page  11
     (a)  take appropriate  measures  to  ensure  that daily water
samples are taken in  the  primary  drain  upstream of the pumping
station and in the Bokore canal downstream to check water salinity
during the pumping period and a record is kept of the salinity and
dilution of water from the  Shebelli  river. Such records shall be
submitted  to  the   Association   for   review   not  later  than
September 30 and March 31 of each year;
     (b)  contain, through  licensing  of  pumps, future expansion
of the irrigated  areas  upstream  of  the  Genale  barrage not to
exceed 1,500 ha;
     (c)  ensure that  existing  as  well  as  planned cultivation
downstream of Genale and  upstream  of  the Gayweerow barrage will
not exceed 15,000 ha of annual  crops  during either the Gu or the
Der Seasons and perennial crops area under banana plantations will
not exceed 4,500 ha;
     (d)  restrict expansion of  sugar  cultivation for the Jowhar
sugar factory to maximum cultivated area of 2,000 ha;
     (e)  supplement run-of-the-river supplies  during dry periods
of  December  to  end-January  from  the  Jowhar  reservoir  after
establishing  reservoir  operations   rules   through  a  detailed
simulation hydraulic  model  expected  to  be  developed under the
USAID assisted project.  The  study  is  expected to have adequate
information  to  establish  Jowhar  reservoir  operation  rules by
June 30, 1991. These will  be  reviewed  by the Association and an
understanding established between the Borrower and the Association
by December 31, 1991,  which  would  then  be enforced by June 30,
1992;
     (f)  submit an annual report to the Association for review of
items covered under  (b)  to  (d)  above  on  a format and details
agreed with the Association by June 30, 1991; and
     (g)  carry out a  mid-term  review  of all Project activities
under terms of reference and  in  a format acceptable to the Asso-
ciation; not later than June  30,  1993, submit to the Association
for comments the report  of  such  mid-term  review; and not later
than  December  31,  1993:  (i)  agree  to  an  action  plan;  and
(ii) start implementing such action plan.
2.   In carrying out the Project the Borrower shall cause MOA to:
     (a)  submit to the Association for  review prior to their use
the types of pesticides to be procured;
     (b)  provide training to  the  plant  protection staff in the
use  and  safety  of  pesticides  in  accordance  with  a  program
satisfactory to the Association; and
     (c)  use only those drugs  and  chemicals for the malaria and
schistosomiasis   disease   control   program   approved   by  the
Association.
3.   In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  cause MOA to  establish  an  inter-village committee for
the Gayweerow primary canal system not later than June 30, 1990;
     (b)  not later than June 30,  1993, submit to the Association
for review: (i)  a  study  with  recommendations  on  the role and
responsibilities of  the  Water  Users  Associations,  the Village
Committees; and  MOA  in  the  operation  and  maintenance  of the
Farahaane Scheme; and (ii)  an  assessment  of the capacity of the
Village  Committees  to  assume  management  of  the  primary  and
secondary canals;
     (c)  cause MOA, not later  than  December  31, 1993, to enter
into an  agreement,  satisfactory  to  the  Association  with each
Page  12
Village Committee  specifying  their  responsibilities and funding
mechanism; and
     (d)  cause MOA to implement  the  study referred in (b) above
not  later  than  March   31,   1994,   taking  into  account  the
Association's views.
4.   In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  implement  procedures  under  which  Village  Committees
shall be: (i) responsible  for  the construction of the quaternary
canals and  the  operation  and  maintenance  of  the tertiary and
quaternary canals; (ii) involved  in  the planning of the tertiary
and quaternary canals, foot bridges and watering points.
5.   In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall not
later than:
     (a)  December  31,  1989,   complete  registration  of  three
hundred hectares of land in  the  Project Area for which cadastral
surveys have been completed;
     (b)  March  31,  1991,  complete  cadastral  surveys  for the
remaining area; and
     (c)  March 31, 1992,  complete  registration  of all plots of
land in the Farahaane Irrigation Scheme of the Project Area.
6.   In carrying out Part  B  of  the  Project, the Borrower shall
submit to the Association  for  review  and comments proposals for
amending the land registration procedures and laws currently being
drafted under the on-going Shebelli Water Management Project.
7.   The Borrower shall:
     (a)  prior to the  levying  of  water  charges, submit to the
Association for review and comments, proposals for assessing water
charges currently being prepared  under the ongoing Shebelli Water
Management Project; and
     (b)  thereafter implement  a  system  of  water charges which
shall cover at least the costs of the operation and maintenance of
the Farahanne scheme.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "eligible   Categories"  means  Categories  1
through 5 set forth in the  table  in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time  to  the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $500,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the  Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
Page  13
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on  behalf of the Borrower, with-
draw from the Credit Account  and deposit into the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                for deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at such
                intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association the
                documents and other  evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for the payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit  Account and deposit into
                the Special Account  such  amount  as the Borrower
                shall have requested and  as shall have been shown
                by said documents and  other evidence to have been
                made  out  of  the  Special  Account  for eligible
                expenditures.
All such deposits shall be  withdrawn  by the Association from the
Credit Account under  the  respective  eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such  payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount  of  the  Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories  less  the amount of any out-
standing special commitment entered  into  by the Association pur-
suant to Section 5.02  of  the  General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to  the  eligible
Categories shall follow such  procedures  as the Association shall
specify by notice to the  Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and  to  the  extent that the Association shall
have been satisfied that all  such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the  Association,  the  Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association:  (A) provide such additional evidence
Page  14
as the Association may  request;  or  (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the  Association  shall  so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the  amount of such payment or the
portion  thereof  not  so   eligible   or  justified.  Unless  the
Association shall  otherwise  agree,  no  further  deposit  by the
Association into  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made until the
Borrower has  provided  such  evidence  or  made  such  deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any  portion  of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association  made pursuant to paragraph 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this  Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent  withdrawal  or  for cancellation in accor-
dance with the  relevant  provisions  of this Agreement, including
the General Conditions.
