OFFICIAL
CREDIT NUMBER 2063 SO
Development Credit Agreement
(Farahaane Irrigation Rehabilitation Project)
between
SOMALIA DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                , 1989


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2063 SO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    (Yoz w4eA      o!#       , 1989, between
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the "General
Conditions") constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "CSBS" means the Commercial and Savings Bank of Somalia;
(b) "Der Season" means the minor rain season (October to
December) in the Borrower's territory;
(c) "DILU" means the Directorate of Irrigation and Land Use
af MOA;
(d) "Farahaane Irrigation Scheme" means an area in the
Borrower's territory bounded by the Shebelli river to the north,
the Wadajir canal to the east, the village of Mudhulow and the
Sisab canal to the south and the Bakore canal to the west;


﻿- 2 -
(e) "Gu Season" means the main rain season (April to June)
in the Borrower's territory;
(f) "MOA" means the Ministry of Agriculture of the Borrower;
(g) "MOH" means the Ministry of Health of the Borrower;
(h) "Project Area" means the Farahaane Irrigation Scheme
area and areas in the Borrower's territory served by the Qoryooley
and Falkeerow barrages;
(i) "Project Preparation Advances" means the project
preparation advances granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to exchanges of letters dated September 4, 1984, and
November 18, 1987, between the Borrower and the Association;
(j) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(k) "USAID" means the United States Agency for International
Development.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty one million two hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 21,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reason-
abl. cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.


﻿- 3 -
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal
amount of the Project Preparation Advances withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advances shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b) The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from a date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date
or at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied as of the next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, except that the
rate set as of June 30, 1988, shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
(c) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.


﻿-4-
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each February 15 and
August 15 commencing February 15, 2000, and ending August 15,
2029. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on August 15, 2009, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent
(2%) of such principal amount.
(b) Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consi-
deration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, fuzrher modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through


﻿-5-
DILU with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate agricultural, engineering and financial practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (a) for purposes of
assisting farmers to purchase agricultural inputs under the
Project establish and thereafter maintain in CSBS a Fund, to be
known as the Revolving Inputs Fund; an (b) cause CSBS to sell
agricultural inputs using the Revolving Inputs Fund, at market
prices.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than
December 31, 1992, submit to the Association for review the
recommendations of a study as,..essing the functioning of the
agricultural input supply mechanism; and (b) not later than
June 30, 1993: (i) agree to an action plan relating to such study;
and (ii) start implementing such action plan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (a) open and maintain a
Project Account in the Central Bank of Somalia and deposit therein
a sum of Somali shillings fifty million; and (b) quarterly
replenish the said account with amounts necessary to meet local
costs not eligible for financing under the Credit.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than
September 30, 1989, complete formalities for the employment of
consultants to supervise civil works; and (b) not later than
December 31, 1989, submit to the Association for review the terms
of reference for consultants required for the Project.


﻿-6
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to b.
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in para-
graph (a) of this Section including those for the
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested;
(iii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, a copy of the report of
unaudited accounts for the preceding year; and
(iv) furnish to the Association such other information
ccncerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;


﻿-7-
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Associa-
tion has received the audit for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
such expenditures;
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine
such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the proce-
dures and internal controls involved in their pre-
paration, can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a) that the Borrower has submitted to the Association
documentary evidence satisfactory to the Association showing that
the Project Account has been opened and a sum of Somali shillings
fifty million deposited therein pursuant to Section 3.05 of this
Agreement; and
(b) that the Borrower has submitted to the Association
documentary evidence satisfactory to the Association showing that
a Project Manager with qualifications and experience acceptable to
the Association has been appointed and has taken up his post.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Sec-
tion 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for Finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Government of the Somali Democratic Republic
Mogadishu, Somalia
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINFIN                          3612 MINFIN-MOG
Mogadishu                       Mogadishu
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
By //
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By 4
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works:
(a) under Parts A.1,      8,700,000        100%
A.2 and A.3
of the
Project
(b) Other                 1,560,000        50%
(2) Vehicles,                  1,980,000   )    100% of foreign
equipment and                         )    expenditures,
materials                             )    100% of local
)    expenditures
(3) Agricultural                 630,000   )    (ex-factory)
inputs                                )    and 65% of
)    other local
)    expenditures
(4) Consultants'               4,760,000        100%
services and
training
(5) Operating costs            1,150,000        60% through
June 30, 1992,
and 40%
thereafter


﻿- 11 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category             SDR .Euivalent)       to be Financed
(6) Refunding of               1,120,000        Amount due pur-
Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
tion Advances                              2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(7) Unallocated                1,300,000
TOTAL                21,200,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
(c) the term "operating costs" means salaries of staff
recruited for Project implementation, allowances, per diems and
vehicle operation costs.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
SDR 60,000, may be made in respect of Categories (4) and (5) on
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but
after October 15, 1988; .and (b) payments made for expenditures
under Category (3) unless the Borrower has entered into an
agreement, satisfactory to the Association, with CSBS for the
operation of the Revolving Inputs Fund established pursuant to
Section 3.03 of this Agreement.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to improve food production by
improving the productivity of smallholders in the Project Area
through better irrigation management, higher cropping intensity
and provision of agricultural facilities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Irrigation Development
1.   Rehabilitation of barrages at Qoryooley and Falkeerow and the
repair of direct diversion structures on both river banks
controlled by these barrages.
2.   Rehabilitation of primary and secondary irrigation canals,
including replacement of water control and distribution structures
in the Project Area.
3.   Construction of new primary and secondary canals and drains,
including a drainage pumping station with the supply and
installation of pumps and diesel engines in the Project Area.
4.   Rehabilitation and/or construction of tertiary canals,
tertiary drainage for the pilot demonstration area and two pilot
water management demonstration tertiary units.
5.   Construction of field offices, workshops, stores, staff
houses and other civil works at various locations in the Project
Area, including coral-surfacing of roads connecting villages
within the Project Area.
6.   Carrying out aerial photography, preparation of topographic
maps for drainage master plan of the lower Shebelli area and
tertiary system in the Project Area.
Part B:   Agriculture Development
1.   Construction of an extension/training facility at Farahaane,
extension-staff houses and the rehabilitation of stores and other
buildings in the Project Area.


﻿- 13 -
2.   Levelling of land and construction of concrete drying floors.
3.   Carrying out cadastral surveys and preparation of maps, and
land registration in the Farahaane Irrigation Scheme of the
Project Area.
4.   Carrying out base-line surveys covering agriculture, water
management and social aspects of the Project.
5.   Provision of agricultural inputs and implements.
6.   Promotion of agroforestry in the Project Area.
Part C:   Health and Social Aspects
1.   Construction of a field laboratory at Qoryooley, health posts
and earth-filling of depressions around villages in the Project
Area.
2.   Installation of drinking water supply systems and acquisition
of drugs and chemicals for spraying and treatment of diseases.
3.   Acquisition of laboratory equipment and supplies for annual
screening surveys.
4.   Provision of tools and materials related to women development
activities in three selected villages in the Project Area.
Part D:   Equipment, Vehicles and Materials
Acquisition of operation and maintenance equipment, vehicles,
and office equipment.
Part E:   Institutional Support and Training
1.   Carrying out specialized services and studies related to
water management, drainage effectiveness, drainage master-plan of
the lower Shebelli, organization of water user's associations,
assessment of water charges, assessment of future role of various
agencies dealing with operation and maintenance activities, land
tenure, input supplies, agronomical and on-farm trials and
integrated pest management.


﻿- 14 -
2.   Training of staff in irrigation engineering, water management
and health.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.


-   1 5   - 
S C H E D U L E   3 
P r o c u r e m e n t   a n d   C o n s u l t a n t s '   S e r v i c e s 
S e c t i o n   i .   P r o c u r e m e n t   o f   G o o d s   a n d   W o r k s 
P a r t   A :       I n t e r n a t i o n a l   C o m 2 e t i t i v e   B i d d i n g 
1 .       E x c e p t   a s   p r o v i d e d   i n   P a r t   C   h e r e o f ,   g o o d s   a n d   w o r k s   s h a l l   b e 
p r o c u r e d   u n d e r   c o n t r a c t s   a w a r d e d   i n   a c c o r d a n c e   w i t h   p r o c e d u r e s 
c o n s i s t e n t   w i t h   t h o s e   s e t   f o r t h   i n   S e c t i o n s   I   a n d   I I   o f   t h e 
" G u i d e l i n e s   f o r   P r o c u r e m e n t   u n d e r   I B R D   L o a n s   a n d   I D A   C r e d i t s " 
p u b l i s h e d   b y   t h e   B a n k   i n   M a y   1 9 8 5   ( t h e   G u i d e l i n e s ) . 
2 .       T o   t h e   e x t e n t   p r a c t i c a b l e ,   c o n t r a c t s   f o r   e q u i p m e n t ,   v e h i c l e s 
a n d   a g r i c u l t u r a l   i n p u t s   s h a l l   b e   g r o u p e d   i n   b i d   p a c k a g e s   e s t i m a t e d 
t o   c o s t   t h e   e q u i v a l e n t   o f   $ 2 5 0 , 0 0 0   o r   m o r e   e a c h . 
P a r t   B :   P r e f e r e n c e   f o r   D o m e s t i c   C o n t r a c t o r s 
I n   t h e   p r o c u r e m e n t   o f   w o r k s   i n   a c c o r d a n c e   w i t h   t h e   p r o c e d u r e s 
d e s c r i b e d   i n   P a r t   A . l   h e r e o f ,   t h e   B o r r o w e r   m a y   g r a n t   a   m a r g i n   o f 
p r e f e r e n c e   t o   d o m e s t i c   c o n t r a c t o r s   i n   a c c o r d a n c e   w i t h ,   a n d   s u b j e c t 
t o ,   t h e   p r o v i s i o n s   o f   p a r a g r a p h s   2 . 5 5   a n d   2 . 5 6   o f   t h e   G u i d e l i n e s 
a n d   p a r a g r a p h   5   o f   A p p e n d i x   2   t h e r e t o . 
P a r t   C :       O t h e r   P r o c u r e m e n t   P r o c e d u r e s 
1 .       C o n t r a c t s   f o r   c o r a l   s t o n e   s u r f a c i n g   o f   r o a d s ,   b u i l d i n g   f a c i - 
l i t i e s ,   d r i n k i n g   w a t e r   s u p p l y ,   l a n d   l e v e l l i n g ,   e a r t h w o r k   t o   f i l l 
d e p r e s s i o n s ,   r e p a i r   o f   d i r e c t   r i v e r   d i v e r s i o n   s t r u c t u r e s   a n d   t h e 
c o n s t r u c t i o n   o f   t e r t i a r y   l a t e r a l s   m a y   b e   p r o c u r e d   u n d e r   c o n t r a c t s 
a w a r d e d   o n   t h e   b a s i s   o f   c o m p e t i t i v e   b i d d i n g ,   a d v e r t i s e d   l o c a l l y , 
i n   a c c o r d a n c e   w i t h   p r o c e d u r e s   s a t i s f a c t o r y   t o   t h e   A s s o c i a t i o n . 
2 .       C o n t r a c t s   f o r   e q u i p m e n t   e s t i m a t e d   t o   c o s t   l e s s   t h a n   t h e 
e q u i v a l e n t   o f   $ 5 0 , 0 0 0   p e r   c o n t r a c t   u p   t o   a n   a g g r e g a t e   a m o u n t   n o t 
t o   e x c e e d   t h e   e q u i v a l e n t   o f   $ 1 5 0 , 0 0 0   m a y   b e   p r o c u r e d   u n d e r 
c o n t r a c t s   a w a r d e d   o n   t h e   b a s i s   o f   c o m p e t i t i v e   b i d d i n g ,   a d v e r t i s e d 
l o c a l l y ,   i n   a c c o r d a n c e   w i t h   p r o c e d u r e s   s a t i s f a c t o r y   t o   t h e 
A s s o c i a t i o n . 
3 .       C o n t r a c t s   f o r   e q u i p m e n t   e s t i m a t e d   t o   c o s t   l e s s   t h a n   t h e   e q u i - 
v a l e n t   o f   $ 2 0 , 0 0 0   p e r   c o n t r a c t   u p   t o   a n   a g g r e g a t e   a m o u n t   n o t   t o 
e x c e e d   t h e   e q u i v a l e n t   o f   $ 1 0 0 , 0 0 0   m a y   b e   p r o c u r e d   u n d e r   c o n t r a c t s 


﻿- 16 -
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotation solicited
from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guide-
lines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Associa-
tion.
4.   Medical    supplies and chemicals        for malaria and
schistosomiasis control may be procured through the UNICEF
emergency drugs import program in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.


﻿- 17 -
Section II. Employment uZ Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ engineering and agricultural consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consul-
tants shall be selected in accordance with principles and proce-
dures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guide-
lines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by
the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.   In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a) take appropriate measures to ensure that daily water
samples are taken in the primary drain upstream of the pumping
station and in the Bokore canal downstream to check water salinity
during the pumping period and a record is kept of the salinity and
dilution of water from the Shebelli river. Such records shall be
submitted to the Association fo'r review not later than
September 30 and March 31 of each year;
(b) contain, through licensing of pumps, future expansion
of the irrigated areas upstream of the Genale barrage not to
exceed 1,500 ha;
(c) ensure that existing as well as planned cultivation
downstream of Genale and upstream of the Gayweerow barrage will
not exceed 15,000 ha of annual crops during either the Gu or the
Der Seasons and perennial crops area under banana plantations will
not exceed 4,500 ha;
(d) restrict expansion of sugar cultivation for the Jowhar
sugar factory to maximum cultivated area of 2,000 ha;
(e) supplement run-of-the-river supplies during dry periods
of December to end-January from the Jowhar reservoir after
establishing reservoir operations rules through a detailed
simulation hydraulic model expected to be developed under the
USAID assisted project. The study is expected to have adequate
information to establish Jowhar reservoir operation rules by
June 30, 1991. These will be reviewed by the Association and an
understanding established between the Borrower and the Association
by December 31, 1991, which would then be enforced by June 30,
1992;
(f) submit an annual report to the Association for review of
items covered under (b) to (d) above on a format and details
agreed with the Association by June 30, 1991; and
(g) carry out a mid-term review of all Project activities
under terms of reference and in a format acceptable to the Asso-
ciation; not later than June 30, 1993, submit to the Association


﻿- 19 -
for comments the report of such mid-term review; and not later
than December 31, 1993: (i) agree to an action plan; and
(ii) start implementing such action plan.
2.   In carrying out the Project the Borrower shall cause MOA to:
(a) submit to the Association for review prior to their use
the types of pesticides to be procured;
(b) provide training to the plant protection staff in the
use and safety of pesticides in accordance with a program
satisfactory to the Association; and
(c) use only those drugs and chemicals for the malaria and
schistosomiasis disease control program approved by the
Association.
3.   In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a) cause MOA to establish an inter-village committee for
the Gayweerow primary canal system not later than June 30, 1990;
(b) not later than June 30, 1993, submit to the Association
for review: (i) a study with recommendations on the role and
responsibilities of the Water Users Associations, the Village
Committees; and MOA in the operation and maintenance of the
Farahaane Scheme; and (ii) an assessment of the capacity of the
Village Committees to assume management of the primary and
secondary canals;
(c) cause MOA, not later than December 31, 1993, to enter
into an agreement, satisfactory to the Association with each
Village Committee specifying their responsibilities and funding
mechanism; and
(d) cause MOA to implement the study referred in (b) above
not later than March 31, 1994, taking into account the
Association's views.
4.   In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a) implement procedures under which Village Committees
shall be: (i) responsible for the construction of the quaternary
canals and the operation and maintenance of the tertiary and
quaternary canals; (ii) involved in the planning of the tertiary
and quaternary canals, foot bridges and watering points.


﻿- 20 -
5.   In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall not
later than:
(a) December 31, 1989, complete registration of three
hundred hectares of land in the Project Area for which cadastral
surveys have been completed;
(b) March 31, 1991, complete cadastral surveys for the
remaining area; and
(c) March 31, 1992, complete registration of all plots of
land in the Farahaane Irrigation Scheme of the Project Area.
6.   In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall
submit to the Association for review and comments pr,posals for
amending the land registration procedures and laws currently being
drafted under the on-going Shebelli Water Management Project.
7.   The Borrower shall:
(a) prior to the levying of water charges, submit to the
Association for review and comments, proposals for assessing water
charges currently being prepared under the ongoing Shebelli Water
Management Project; and
(b) thereafter implement a system of water charges which
shall cover at least the costs of the operation and maintenance of
the Farahanne scheme.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1
through 5 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, with-
draw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i) For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for deposits into the Special Account at such
intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
documents and other evidence required pursuant to


﻿- 22 -
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
made out of the Special Account- for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a) if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories less the amount of any out-
standing special commitment entered into by the Association pur-
suant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall


﻿- 23 -
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
(d) Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accor-
dance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including
the General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


