Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4467-SN 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Energy Sector Recovery Development Policy Financing) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 30, 2008 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4467-SN 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated June 30, 2008, entered into between REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL 
(
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for 
the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this 
Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of (a) 
the actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and which are described in 
Section I A of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an 
appropriate macro-economic policy framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore 
hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to forty nine million 
one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 49,100,000) (variously,
 “Credit” 
and “Financing”).  
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Unwithdrawn 
Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance shall be 
equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Euro. 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end: 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either 
party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and 
the actions specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request; and 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action 
to be taken after the disbursement of the Financing which would have the effect 
of materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under 
the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following:  a situation has arisen 
which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be carried 
out. 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement. 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is its minister responsible for economy and finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Economy and Finance  
Rue René N’diaye 
B.P. 4017 
Dakar, Senegal 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
MINIFINANCES 
3203 
G 
  221-821-1630 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
Page  5
4
AGREED at Dakar, Senegal, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL 
 
By /s/ Abdoulaye Diop 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By /s/ Madani M. Tall 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
A. 
Actions Taken Under the Program.
 
The actions taken by the Recipient under the 
Program include the following actions taken in accordance with terms of reference and in a 
manner acceptable to the Association:
 
1. 
Financial Sustainability of the Recipient’s Electricity and Hydrocarbon Sub-
sectors
 
(a) 
Partial recapitalization of SENELEC through the transfer by the 
Recipient to SENELEC of an amount equal to 65 billion FCFA
 (“2007 
Recapitalization Amount”). 
 
(b) 
Commitment by the Recipient to:   
(i)  
further recapitalize SENELEC through additional transfers to 
SENELEC of an amount equal to 37 billion FCFA in Fiscal 
Year 2008 (“2008 Recapitalization Amount”) and of an amount 
equal to 7 billion FCFA in Fiscal Year 2009 (“2009 
Recapitalization Amount”) so as to enable SENELEC to:  
(A) achieve a debt-service coverage ratio of at least 1.2 in Fiscal 
Year 2009, 1.3 in Fiscal Year 2010 and 1.4 in each Fiscal Year 
thereafter; (B) reduce its accounts receivable so that in Fiscal 
Year 2008 and at all times thereafter, they do not exceed 
95 days; (C) reduce its arrears to its suppliers so that they do not 
exceed 100 days in Fiscal Year 2008, 95 days in Fiscal 
Year 2009 and 90 days at all times thereafter; 
(ii) 
make further transfers to SENELEC in Fiscal Year 2008 (in 
addition to the 2008 Recapitalization Amount) in amounts 
sufficient to enable SENELEC to earn an amount equal to its 
Maximum Authorized Revenue, as decided by CRSE during its 
Extraordinary Revision in Fiscal Year 2008 (“2008 Maximum 
Authorized Revenue Amount”);  
(iii) 
adjust SENELEC’s electricity tariffs so that its average 
electricity tariff is sufficient to enable it in Fiscal Year 2009 to 
produce revenues, without budgetary transfers from the 
Recipient, equal to its Maximum Authorized Revenue, as 
decided by CRSE during its Extraordinary Revision in Fiscal 
Year 2008 (“2009 Maximum Authorized Revenue Amount”);  
Page  7
6
(iv) 
reschedule the existing arrears on 
SENELEC’s debt to the 
Recipient over 5 years, with no penalty interest; and 
(v) 
make a further transfer to SENELEC in Fiscal Year 2009 (in 
addition to the 2009 Recapitalization Amount), of an amount 
equal to 9 billion FCFA in the form of a subordinated 
shareholder loan, repayable commencing in Fiscal Year 2011. 
(c) 
Decision by the Recipient, following the decision by the Board of 
Directors of SAR, to recapitalize SAR by the end of Fiscal Year 2009 in 
accordance with the requirements of the OHADA Legislation. 
2. 
Governance of the Recipient’s Electricity and Hydrocarbon Sub-sectors 
(a) 
Establishment within SENELEC of the following two committees to 
assist its Board of Directors, adoption of their respective mandates and 
appointment of their respective presidents:  (i) a Finance and Internal 
Audit Committee comprised, 
inter alia
,
of accounting and auditing 
professionals from the private sector, and (ii) an Investment Committee. 
(b) 
Preparation of a decree for the establishment of an agency to be 
responsible for regulating the import, refinery, storage, and distribution 
of petroleum products in the Recipient’s territory. 
B. 
Actions to be Taken under the Program.
 
The actions to be taken by the Recipient 
under the Program include those set forth below, carried out in accordance with terms of 
reference and in a manner acceptable to the Association: 
1. 
Financial Sustainability of the Recipient’s Electricity and Hydrocarbon Sub-
sectors 
(a) 
Further partial recapitalization of SENELEC through the transfer by the 
Recipient to SENELEC of the 2008 Recapitalization Amount. 
(b) 
Adjustment of SENELEC’s electricity tariffs and/or transfer by the 
Recipient of budgetary resources adequate to have enabled SENELEC to 
generate revenues in Fiscal Year 2008 equal to the 2008 Maximum 
Authorized Revenue Amount. 
(c) 
 
Adjustment of SENELEC’s electricity tariffs so that its average 
electricity tariff is expected to be sufficient to enable it to:  (i) achieve a 
debt-service coverage ratio of at least 1.2 in Fiscal Year 2009; and 
(ii) produce revenues equal to its 2009 Maximum Authorized Revenue 
without budgetary allocations from the Recipient. 
Page  8
7
(d) 
(i) Completion of a study to:  (A) simulate the impacts of the planned 
new electricity tariff structure for SENELEC, together with 
recommended proposed tariff levels; and (B) assess the environmental 
and social impacts of the reduction of butane subsidies, together with 
recommended measures to mitigate any such adverse impacts; and 
(ii) development of an action plan for the implementation of these 
recommendations. 
2. 
Governance of the Recipient’s Electricity and Hydrocarbon Sub-sectors 
(a) 
Adoption by SENELEC and SAR of procurement procedures designed to 
ensure the economic, efficient and transparent procurement of goods and 
services by each
,
consistent with the Recipient’s Public Procurement 
Code. 
(b) 
(i) Separation of SENELEC’s activities into the following three distinct 
business lines each with separate accounting:  (A) electricity generation; 
(B) electricity transmission and systems planning, and operations; and 
(C) electricity distribution; and (ii) adoption by the Recipient of a 
strategy, consistent with the Program, to facilitate participation by the 
private sector in the energy sector. 
(c) 
Completion of an audit by independent auditors of the internal audit 
functions of SENELEC and SAR, together with recommendations by the 
auditors for the strengthening of these functions, and development of an 
action plan for the implementation of such recommendations. 
(d) 
Creation of an agency to be responsible for regulating the import, 
refinery, storage, and distribution of petroleum products in the 
Recipient’s territory, and staffing and provision of financial and other 
resources required for it to carry out its regulatory functions. 
3. 
Long-term Development of the Energy Sector 
(a) 
Adoption by the Board of Directors of:   
(i) 
 
SENELEC of master plans for electricity generation, 
transmission and distribution, based on the recommendations of 
independent consultants; and  
(ii)  
SAR of an investment program, based on an updated technical, 
economic, financial and environmental feasibility study of 
SAR’s investment program, prepared by SAR in conjunction 
with its technical assistant, supported by qualified consultants. 
Page  9
8
(b) (i) 
Submission to the Recipient’s Parliament of a regulatory framework 
designed to facilitate and promote the development of new and 
renewable energy sources; and (ii) adoption by the Recipient of an action 
plan acceptable to the Association designed to increase energy efficiency 
and improve demand-side management of energy resources. 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may 
specify by notice to the Recipient. 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in two tranches.  
The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the table below: 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR)
 
First Tranche 
34,400,000 
Second Tranche 
14,700,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
49,100,000 
C. Tranche 
Release 
Conditions.
 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Second Tranche 
unless the Association is satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in 
Sections 3.01 (a) and (b) of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the 
Association:
 
1. 
with the progress achieved by the Recipient in carrying out the Program;  
2.  
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Recipient is appropriate; and  
3.  
that the actions described in Part B of Section I of this Schedule have been taken.  
 
If, after this exchange of views, the Association is not so satisfied, it may give notice to 
the Recipient to that effect and, if within ninety (90) days after the notice, the Recipient 
has not taken steps satisfactory to the Association with respect to paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 
above, then the Association may, by notice to the Recipient, cancel all or any part of the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance. 
Page  10
9
D. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:   
1. 
The Recipient shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request for 
withdrawal from the Financing Account, and thereafter maintain, a separate deposit 
account in FCFA 
on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association (“Deposit 
Account”). 
2. 
All withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the Association into 
the Deposit Account.  
3.  
The Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing into the 
Deposit Account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association. 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing 
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association determines at any 
time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded 
Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the 
Association upon such request shall be cancelled. 
F. Audit.
 
Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
1. 
have the Deposit Account audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, 
in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association; 
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months 
after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of 
such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request; 
and  
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit Account and its 
audit as the Association shall reasonably request. 
G. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is June 30, 2010. 
Page  11
10
SCHEDULE 2
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each April 15 and October 15: 
 
commencing October 15, 2018 to and including 
April 15, 2028 
1% 
commencing October 15, 2028 to and including 
April 15, 2048. 
2% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be repaid, 
except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  12
11
APPENDIX 
Section I.  
Definitions 
1. 
“CRSE” means the “
Commission de Régulation du Secteur de l’Electricité
”, the 
Recipient’s Electricity Sector Regulatory Commission established pursuant to the 
Electricity Legislation and operating under the laws of the Recipient. 
2. 
“Electricity Legislation” means the Recipient’s:  Law No. 98-29 of April 14, 1998 
relating to the electricity sector, as amended by Law No. 2002-01 of December 26, 2001; 
Decree No. 98-333 dated April 21, 1998 establishing CRSE; Decree No. 98-334 dated 
April 24, 1998 relating to electricity concessions; and Decree No. 98-335 dated 
April 21, 1998 relating to the principles and procedures for determining and revising 
tariff conditions.
 
3. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the 
Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank has 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or loan; 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient: 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
Page  13
12
 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which 
the Recipient is a party; 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the Recipient (or 
other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to 
the Association to address such practices when they occur. 
4. 
“Extraordinary Revision” means an interim revision, made by CRSE of the formula for 
determining the Maximum Authorized Revenue, on the basis of inflation, pursuant to 
CRSE’s Regulation No. 10-2008 of February 29, 2008. 
5. 
“Fiscal Year” means a calendar year, commencing on January 1 and ending on 
December 31. 
6. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
Page  14
13
7. 
“FCFA” means the 
Franc de la 
Communauté Financière d’Afrique
,
the Currency of the 
Recipient. 
8. 
“Maximum Authorized Revenue” means “
Revenu Maximum de Référence
”, the 
maximum revenue, determined by CRSE, which SENELEC is authorized to earn, as 
determined from time to time by CRSE pursuant to the Electricity Legislation. 
9. 
“OHADA Legislation” means the Uniform Act relating to Commercial Businesses and 
Economic Entities (
Acte Uniforme relative au Droit des Sociétés Commerciales et du 
Groupement d’Intérêt Economique
)
adopted by the Council of Ministers of the 
Organisation pour l’Harmonisation en Afrique du Droit des Affaires
 (OHADA) on 
April 17, 1997. 
10. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the 
letters dated February 11, 2008 and May 19, 2008 from the Recipient to the Association 
declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting 
assistance from the Association in support of the Program during its execution. 
11. 
“Public Procurement Code” means the Recipient’s Decree No. 2007-545 of 
April 25, 2007 governing public procurement. 
12. 
“Second Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category entitled 
“Second Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
13. “SAR” 
means 
“Société Africaine de Raffinage”
,
a
petroleum refining company, 
established as a corporation (
société anonyme
)
and operating under the laws of the 
Recipient. 
14. 
“SENELEC” means 
“Société de l’Electricité du Sénégal”, 
the Recipient’s national power 
utility, established as a corporation (
société anonyme
)
pursuant to 
the Recipient’s Law 
No. 98-06 of January 28, 1998 authorizing SENELEC’s transformation into a 
corporation.   
Page  15
14
Section II.   
Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the 
“International Development Association General Conditions for Credits 
and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing 
until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the 
Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the Association 
of their respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing.” 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
Page  16
15
(a) 
The definition of the term 
“Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in support 
of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the 
Financing Agreement.” 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix 
are deleted in their entirety. 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in support 
of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” throughout these 
General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program.”
 
