Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2942 
Operation Name 
SN -Energy Sector Recovery DPL (FY07) 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General energy sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P105279 
Borrower(s) 
THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finances, Ministry of Energy 
Date PID Prepared 
April 11, 2007, 2007 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
September 10, 2007 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
December 13, 2007 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Electricity Sub-Sector
1.1. 
Senegal is overwhelmingly reliant on oil for power generation. Hydroelectricity accounts for only about 
10% of production and there are no coal-fired plants. Senelec
’s generators are predominantly old, inefficient and 
costly to run.  An overly large proportion of plants rely on diesel rather than cheaper heavy fuel oil (HFO). 
Although world oil prices have fallen somewhat in the last few months, they still remain at a level which is 
damagingly high to the electricity sector, given its heavy reliance on diesel fuel for power generation.   
 
1.2. 
Due to the lengthy delays in adding new generation capacity, combined with vigorous demand growth of 
7-8%/year, Senelec has been unable to meet peak electricity demand since 2004.  In 2006, in order to cover the 
supply shortfall, Senelec was forced to use old, inefficient plants for extended periods and resort to expensive, and 
leased emergency diesel-fired power generators; these obviously aggravated its financial problems.  Rapidly 
rising generation costs (partly due to poor management and inefficient fuel procurement), combined with a lag in 
adjusting tariffs pushed Senelec into a severe cashflow crisis.  The growth in demand, delays in commissioning 
new plants and fuel procurement problems aggravated the electricity shortages and the resulting load shedding 
caused serious damage across all sectors of the economy.  Electricity tariffs to consumers were raised in both 
2005 and 2006, but could not cover the full additional cost of fuel purchases.  Average tariffs are now about 
CFAF 100/kWh – USc 20/kWh, which is high by OECD standards, but still below the cost of diesel-based power 
generation at current crude oil prices. In 2006, about 90% of Senelec’s revenues from sales (CFAF 160 bn) were 
required just to cover the cost of fuel and energy purchases, leaving very little for other operating expenses. 
 
1.3. 
In order to mitigate the damaging effects of power shortages, GoS was obliged to step in and bail out 
Senelec in 2006, as it could no longer obtain additional credit from its banks or fuel suppliers. Despite a cash 
injection from the budget in 2006 of CFAF 35 bn (US$ 70m) and a credit facility
1
of CFAF 50 bn (US$ 100m) 
with local banks, at end-December 2006, Senelec still had payment arrears to its suppliers of about CFAF 40 bn 
(US$80 m). 
 
Downstream Petroleum Sub-Sector
1.4. 
The downstream petroleum sub-sector, especially oil refining is also in a deep financial crisis, due in part 
to its illiquidity (in part the result of delayed payments by Senelec), and the burden of distorted retail product 
pricing, especially the hitherto very high subsidies on LPG.  As a result, the minority state-owned oil refinery, 
SAR, halted all its crude oil processing activities in April 2006 due to lack of funds to purchase crude oil.  It is 
1
To be repaid during 2007, out of sales revenues that have been set aside for this purpose. 
Page  2
now reduced to the role of a small storage depot dealing only in HFO and LPG. It is still owed CFAF 21 bn (US$ 
40m) by GoS and in turn owes CFAF 101 bn (US$ 200m) to overseas banks for crude purchased in the past.  
 
1.5. However 
SAR’s major private shareholders (Total and Shell) are decreasing their stake in it. This, 
combined with the refinery’s virtual inactivity is sending a strong message that it is earmarked for closure and 
perhaps even decommissioning.  This could be a regrettable outcome because it is a strategically located refinery 
with a solid domestic and regional market.  Some debottlenecking and upgrading to produce less polluting fuels 
should however be considered to extend the economic life of this important infrastructural asset.  
 
1.6. 
A debt rescheduling exercise is currently under way to address the debt overhang, but SAR will only be 
able to honor these obligations if it restarts crude processing operations, which in turn depends upon financial 
support from GoS since it has no access to fresh credit from the banking system. 
 
1.7. 
Rationale for Bank’s involvement
:
The financial crisis of the electricity sub-sector has spilled over to 
the operations of the SAR refinery and these two state enterprises together constitute now a significant and 
unsustainable drain on public resources.  The magnitudes involved in restoring financial viability to these sectors 
are too big to be dealt with on a narrow sectoral basis and are a macroeconomic problem.  Sector finances have to 
be put back onto a sustainable footing as rapidly as possible.  This situation is also impacting on economic and 
social growth and deters private investment.  
 
1.8. 
The Bank is already 
heavily involved in Senegal’s electricity sub-sector, by means of two ongoing 
operations and a Partial Risk Guarantee (PRG).  The Kounoune I power plant, supported by the IDA PRG (and by 
IFC), is crucial to the financial recovery of Senelec in 2007.  The Electricity Sector Efficiency Enhancement 
Project is the first phase of an APL (2005-08) and is helping to eliminate power shortages.  On the other hand, 
achievement of the PDO of the Electricity Services for Rural Areas project is at risk if there is insufficient 
electricity supply.  The Bank is also the lead Donor in Senegal’s energy sector.  
 
2. Proposed objectives 
 
3.1. 
The principal objectives of the proposed program are therefore to support GoS in: 
 
a.  a rapid restoration of the financial viability of Senegal’s energy sector.  This is essential for a 
resumption of ‘normal’ service to consumers, to put an end to the current burden imposed by the 
sector on the national budget that in turn led to reductions in funding to other vital sectors of the 
economy, and to finance the investment program.  
 
b. 
putting in place the conditions necessary to prevent a recurrence of the current crisis and allow the 
energy sector to support the Government’s economic and social growth plans (including the 
Accelerated Growth Strategy). 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
3.2. 
The proposed operation consists of a Development Policy Lending (DPL) of US$50 million to the 
Republic of Senegal proposed by the team to be disbursed in two tranches.  It would underpin the Government’s 
goal of accelerating economic growth by supporting policy changes and financial restructuring of Senegal’s main 
public energy companies. This should improve energy sector performance and restore its financial viability, help 
mobilize private and public capital critical for modernizing the sector, and set the stage for a sustained and least 
cost expansion of the energy sector. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
4.1. 
The proposed operation does not support the financing of physical infrastructure.  It should have positive 
environmental impacts as it addresses policy areas such as the regulatory framework for renewable energies, 
Page  3
access to financing from the Clean Development Mechanism, further progress on sustainable management of 
forestry resources and demand-side management. 
Page  4
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
50 
 Total 
50 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Michel E. Layec 
Title: Lead Energy Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-3231 
Fax: (202) 473-5123 
Email: Mlayec@worldbank.org
 
