                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                    Report No.: 81243




             PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                                  SENEGAL

   ELECTRICITY SECTOR EFFICIENCY ENHANCEMENT ADAPTABLE
                   PROGRAM CREDIT (APC)
                     (CREDIT NO. 4060-SE)

  ENERGY SECTOR RECOVERY DEVELOPMENT POLICY CREDIT (DPC)
                    (CREDIT NO. 4467-SE)


                               September 26, 2013




IEG Public Sector Evaluation
Independent Evaluation Group
                                            ii


Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Currency Unit = C.F.A. Francs BCEAO (XOF)

2003                     US$1.00            XOF 539.671
2004                     US$1.00            XOF 528.529
2005                     US$1.00            XOF 527.145
2006                     US$1.00            XOF 523.197
2007                     US$1.00            XOF 479.885
2008                     US$1.00            XOF 447.965
2009                     US$1.00            XOF 471.726
2010                     US$1.00            XOF 495.262


Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFD              Agence Française de Dévéloppement
APL              Adaptable Program Loan
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
DPC              Development Policy Credit
DSM              Demand-side management
EDF              Electricité de France
GDP              Gross Domestic Product
GWh              Gigawatt-hour
ICR              Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA              International Development Association
IEG              Independent Evaluation Group
IFC              International Finance Corporation
IPP              Independent Power Producer
LNG              Liquefied Natural Gas
M&E              Monitoring and Evaluation
MEM              Ministère de l’Energie et des Mines
MW               Megawatt
PIU              Project Implementation Unit
PPAR             Project Performance Assessment Report
PRG              Partial Risk Guarantee
SAR              Société Africaine de Raffinage
SENELEC          Société Nationale d’Electricité


Fiscal Year

Government:              January – December 31

Director-General, Independent Evaluation           :   Ms. Caroline Heider
Director, IEG Public Sector Evaluation             :   Mr. Emmanuel Jimenez
Manager, IEG Public Sector Evaluation              :   Ms. Marie Gaarder
Task Manager                                       :   Ms. Midori Makino
                                                                   iii



Contents
Principal Ratings ................................................................................................................. v
Key Staff Responsible......................................................................................................... v
Preface............................................................................................................................... vii
Summary ............................................................................................................................ ix
1. Background and Context................................................................................................. 1
   Sector Background and Developments in the Last Decade ............................................ 1
2. The Bank’s Overall Strategy and Assistance for the Energy Sector .............................. 5
3. Electricity Sector Efficiency Enhancement Project – Detailed Assessment ................ 10
   Objectives, Design, and Relevance ............................................................................... 10
   Implementation ............................................................................................................. 11
   Achievement of the Objectives ..................................................................................... 13
   Efficiency ...................................................................................................................... 14
   Ratings .......................................................................................................................... 15
4. Energy Sector Recovery Development Policy Credit –Detailed Assessment .............. 17
   Objectives, Design, and Relevance ............................................................................... 17
   Implementation ............................................................................................................. 18
   Achievement of the Objectives ..................................................................................... 18
   Ratings .......................................................................................................................... 20
5. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 22
References ......................................................................................................................... 25
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet ............................................................................................... 27
Annex B. Other Data........................................................................................................ 33
Annex C. List of Persons Met ........................................................................................... 37

Figures
Figure 1. Un-served Electricity Demand 1999-2011 ........................................................ 33

Tables
Table 1. SENELEC's Historical Results (FCFA billion) .................................................. 34
Table 2. Economic and Financial Analysis – Kounoune Power Plant ............................. 35
Table 3. Ex-post Economic Rate of Return Calculation ................................................... 36

This report was prepared by Midori Makino, Task Manager, and Alain Barbu, Consultant, who assessed the
project in November 2012. The report was peer reviewed by Varadarajan Atur and panel reviewed by
Fernando Manibog. Romayne Pereira provided administrative support.
                                                               v


Principal Ratings
Senegal-Electricity Sector Efficiency Enhancement Project
                                     ICR*                           ICR Review*                          PPAR
Outcome                           Unsatisfactory                    Unsatisfactory                    Unsatisfactory
Risk to                                 High                              High                               High
Development
Outcome
Bank Performance                  Unsatisfactory                    Unsatisfactory                    Unsatisfactory
Borrower                          Unsatisfactory                    Unsatisfactory                    Unsatisfactory
Performance
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department. The ICR Review is an
intermediate IEGWB product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.


Senegal- Energy Sector Recovery Development Policy Credit
                                                            ICR*                      ICR Review*                 PPAR
Outcome                                               Unsatisfactory                  Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome                                  High                           High                   High
Bank Performance                              Moderately Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance                                  Unsatisfactory                  Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory
* The Implementation Completion and Results (ICR) report is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department. The ICR
Review is an intermediate IEG product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.



Key Staff Responsible
Senegal Electricity Sector Efficiency Enhancement Project
                                                               Division Chief/
    Project           Task Manager/Leader                                                         Country Director
                                                               Sector Director
Appraisal                    Michel Layec                     Yusupha Crookes                         Madani Tall
Completion                 Stephan Garnier                         Lucio Monari                 McDonald Benjamin

Senegal Energy Sector Recovery Development Policy Credit
                                                               Division Chief/
    Project           Task Manager/Leader                                                         Country Director
                                                               Sector Director
Appraisal                    Michel Layec                     Subramanian Iyer                        Madani Tall
Completion                 Stephan Garnier                         Anna Bjerde                  McDonald Benjamin
                                                           vi


      IEG Mission: Improving World Bank Group development results through excellence in evaluation.


About this Report
       The Independent Evaluation Group assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank’s self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank’s work is producing the
expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the
dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, IEG annually assesses 20-25 percent of the
Bank’s lending operations through field work. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that
are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which
Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons.
      To prepare a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEG staff examine project files and other
documents, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government, and other in-country
stakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and in local offices as
appropriate.
      Each PPAR is subject to internal IEG peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. The PPAR is also sent to the borrower
for review. IEG incorporates both Bank and borrower comments as appropriate, and the borrowers' comments are
attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has
been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

About the IEG Rating System for Public Sector Evaluations
     IEG’s use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to
lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEG evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive
at their project ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (additional
information is available on the IEG website: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
     Outcome: The extent to which the operation’s major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to
be achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
relevance of objectives and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project’s
objectives are consistent with the country’s current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies). Relevance of design is the extent to which
the project’s design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project’s objectives
were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance. Efficiency is the
extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of capital
and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to adjustment
operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or
expected outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High,
Significant, Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operation and supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate
transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after loan/credit closing, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing
agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and
agreements, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
performance and implementing agency(ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
                                           vii


Preface
This report includes a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) of two projects
funded by the Bank Group in Senegal: (i) the Electricity Sector Efficiency Enhancement
Project approved in April 2005 and closed in December 2010; and (ii) the Energy Sector
Recovery Development Policy Credit (DPC), approved in June 2008 and closed in
December 2010. The former was supported by an International Development
Association (IDA) credit of US$15.7 million equivalent, an International Finance
Corporation (IFC) “A” loan of Euros 17 million, and a Partial Risk Guarantee of up to
US$7.2 million. The latter was a two-tranche DPC of US$80 million equivalent, with
parallel budget support provided by Agence Française de Développement (AFD).

The assessment is based on a review of all relevant documentation, interviews of Bank
staff at headquarters and the findings of an Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) mission
which visited Senegal from November 25 to December 6, 2012 (a list of persons met
during the mission is attached in Annex C).

In addition to detailed assessments of the two subject operations using standard IEG
methodology, the report includes a review of the Bank’s assistance and strategy in
Senegal’s energy sector since 2000, as well as corresponding lessons, with a view to
serve as input into IEG’s forthcoming review of the Bank Group’s assistance to the
energy sector.

Copies of the draft PPAR were sent to government officials and implementing agencies
for their review but no comments were received.
                                               ix


Summary
Whereas by the mid-2000’s Senegal was still viewed as one of the best performers in Sub-
Saharan Africa, the country’s economic growth has lagged since 2006, largely as a result of
the 2008 crisis, but also of the electricity sector’s increasing drain on public finances. The
electricity sector in Senegal is characterized by its small size (584 MW of installed capacity
in 2012) and its high dependence on expensive imported fuel in the absence of significant
local modern energy resources. Such high costs, compounded by poor management of the
sector, have led the sector in a continuous downward spiral. Société Nationale d’Electricité
(SENELEC), the public electric utility’s under-capitalization and structural operating deficit
(caused by insufficient tariffs and lagging budget transfers) perpetuates inefficiency by
preventing it from investing in required maintenance of aging assets and in less fuel-intensive
generating plants that could improve its cost structure in the long-run. And the dire state of
sector finances is a disincentive to foreign companies investing in future Independent Power
Producer (IPP) projects on a large scale. The deepening sector crisis was marked by record
power shortages in 2008 and 2011, with as many as 270 days of load shedding registered in
the latter year, which could only be alleviated in 2012 by resorting to the very expensive
rental of short-term generation capacity.

The Bank Group has provided considerable financial assistance to the sector (US$324
million since 1980), including for the two projects in this PPAR: (i) the Electricity Sector
Efficiency Enhancement Project, approved in April 2005 and closed in December 2010; and
(ii) the Energy Sector Recovery Development Policy Credit, approved in June 2008 and
closed in December 2010. The former was supported by an IDA credit of US$15.7 million
equivalent, an IFC “A” loan of Euros 17 million, and a Partial Risk Guarantee of up to
US$7.2 million. The latter was a two-tranche DPC of US$80 million equivalent, with parallel
budget support provided by Agence Française de Développement (AFD). This assessment
concludes that while both projects’ overarching objective, to restore the financial and
institutional viability and sustainability of the energy sector as a whole – but most urgently of
the electricity sub-sector-- was highly relevant, their design and implementation were flawed,
leading in both cases to partial credit cancellations (60 percent and 30 percent respectively).
None of the physical investments to be funded by IDA under the first project were carried
out. And while the Kounoune power plant supported by IFC was satisfactorily completed in
2008, albeit with a 2-year delay and technical problems in the first years of operation, its
completion did little to alleviate the sector’s deepening crisis in the absence of Government
actions on key policy issues (including tariffs and generation planning) – which the second
Bank project, a policy-based operation, was unable to promote (resulting in its second
tranche being cancelled). Overall, both projects’ most critical objectives were either
negligibly or modestly achieved, with the electricity sector failing to achieve most of its
targets related to SENELEC’s finances, technical efficiency, and improvements in sector
governance.
                                               x


In spite of their high relevance, and given their modestly relevant designs, negligible or
modest efficacy, and modest efficiency, the outcomes of both projects are rated
Unsatisfactory. Development Risk is rated High in both cases, as dependence of the
electricity sector on the budget has only gotten worse since 2005, with subsidies reaching an
unprecedented level of 1.8 percent of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in 2012, and depriving
other sectors of the economy of much-needed public resources. Furthermore, the sector is not
immune from the impact of another possible hike in international oil prices given its
continued short-term dependence on liquid fuel-based generation and the Government‘s
apparent lack of willingness to reflect such future cost increases in electricity prices. While
greater participation by the private sector in the sector could potentially help improve the
sector’s situation by easing its financing burden and improving its efficiency, such
participation on a large scale is unlikely to be forthcoming as long as the sector’s finances
remain so precarious.

Borrower performance is also rated Unsatisfactory overall in both cases. Unclear division of
responsibilities between the Ministry of Energy and SENELEC contributed to lack of
coordination during implementation of the first project. And Government commitment to
reform implementation was particularly weak with regards to tariff adjustments, as increases
during the project period were insufficient to eliminate budgetary transfers (which instead
reached peak levels).While the Government should be commended for undertaking the first
ever comprehensive and far-reaching diagnostic of the electricity sector, which led to the
formulation of the “Takkal Plan” in 2011, implementation of the plan has already badly
lagged, as key elements of the Plan were initially questioned by some in the newly-elected
administration.

Bank performance under both projects is rated Unsatisfactory, both at entry and during
supervision, on account, inter alia, of its overly accommodating stance on key project
conditions, relative neglect of the hydrocarbon sub-sector, and overly optimistic supervision
ratings. More broadly, the assessment concludes that the outcome of the Bank’s overall
assistance to Senegal’s energy sector over the last 15 to 20 years was poor, as the electricity
sector, which had been the primary focus of the Bank’s assistance and policy advice, is now
in worse shape than it was at the beginning of the 2000s. The assessment attributes this
outcome partly to an inconsistent and ambiguous Bank strategy, which fluctuated between an
excessively demanding agenda (as reflected in the sector privatization promoted by the 1998
Energy Structural Adjustment Credit or the unrealistic conditions of the 2008 Energy DPC)
and an overly accommodating stance when it came to the Government delivering on its key
policy commitments, particularly on sector governance and tariffs, or taking a more rational
and decisive approach to sector investment selection and implementation. Other factors
which accounted for this poor outcome were the sudden surge in oil prices in 2007-2008 as
well as weak Borrower performance.
                                              xi


The following lessons can be derived from the Bank’s experience in the power sector of
Senegal.

   a) Proper sequencing of sector policy dialogue and investment support is important
      for success when the two are closely connected. The viability and sustainability of
      the investment commitments for SENELEC strongly depended on the sector policy
      and strategy as well as the financial restructuring of the utility. The absence of a
      sound policy framework was a factor in the failure of the Electricity Sector Efficiency
      Enhancement project. When the Bank finally addressed key policy issues under a
      heavily front-loaded DPC in 2008, it was too accommodating and complacent in its
      implementation follow up. The most recent Sector Investment Loan, approved in
      2012, is similarly light on institutional and policy content while the energy policy
      content of the recently-approved Governance and Growth DPC appears to neglect
      certain urgently needed reforms, including on the tariff front.
   b) The Bank has an important role in ensuring that investment decisions are made
      based on technical, financial, and economic merits. This is particularly true for
      generation investments in a country like Senegal, which has limited options given its
      small system size and the absence of sizeable domestic energy resources. The Bank
      risks credibility if it takes, or is perceived to take, a dogmatic position against coal-
      based power where it is the least-cost option (after accounting for environmental
      externalities), at least in the medium-term, and a potentially critical way to
      significantly reduce generation costs and turn around sector finances.
   c) Realistic policy requirements and consistent messages are important to
      borrowers. Over the past decade, the Bank’s stance has fluctuated between a
      sometimes overly demanding agenda (like in the “letter” of the 2008 Energy DPC)
      and an excessively accommodating position when it came to the government
      delivering on its key commitments (such as on tariffs), all in the context of
      unwavering and growing financial support. As a consequence, it may have been seen
      by counterparts as sending mixed messages on the importance and urgency of actual
      sector reform.
   d) Where a country’s political timetable is liable to bring significant shifts in policy,
      a keen appreciation of political economy is necessary. Twice, the Bank did not
      sufficiently appreciate the likely implications of scheduled (democratic) changes in
      government, first in 2000 and more recently in 2012. In the first instance, the new
      government hardened its position on SENELEC’s privatization, possibly contributing
      to its failure; and in the second instance, the new government appears to have taken a
      different approach to investment planning and tariff policy, revisiting key tenets of
      the “Takkal Plan.”
   e) The Bank has much to gain from locating key operational staff in the field,
      particularly where a continuous and intense dialogue is required, such as
      Senegal’s energy sector. But field location will only yield benefits if human and
                                                xii


       budget resources are made available; otherwise the teams will become overloaded
       and key areas requiring specialized expertise (like the hydrocarbon subsector in
       Senegal) will end up unattended.

In addition, several lessons specific to the two projects assessed in this report arise.

   f) A comprehensive and realistic analysis of sector finances is the best foundation
      for financial covenants that will be met. The analysis should reflect realistic
      assumptions regarding the timing and scope of future reform steps regarding tariff
      changes, financial restructuring, as well as realistic scenarios for future increases in
      international oil prices, particularly for a system so dependent on liquid fuel imports
      like Senegal’s. Because it was not done in the first project, the financial covenants
      were essentially meaningless and bound not to be complied with.
   g) Project success is handicapped at the start if it is not ready for implementation
      by credit effectiveness. In the first project, the preparation of key components was
      not fully completed until much later in the project’s life, leading to delays in bidding
      and serious implementation delays, and resulting in the ultimate cancellation of a
      large part of the credit. In fact, the Project Implementation Manual was not even
      finalized until more than a year after the project was started. Compounding the
      problem was the fact that procurement training of key SENELEC staff was
      insufficient, leading to procurement inefficiencies.
   h) The outcome of IPP projects cannot be viewed in isolation of broader sector
      outcomes. While the generally satisfactory completion of the Kounoune project
      provided needed additional capacity to the system at least-cost and served as a
      demonstration of the feasibility and benefits of IPP arrangements in Senegal, its
      outcome is being jeopardized by the recurrent financial difficulties in the sector: the
      technical problems that marred the plant in the first two years were partly caused by
      poor fuel quality, itself the result of SENELEC’s strained cash situation. The latter
      also led to delays in energy payments to Kounoune. More broadly, the dire financial
      situation of the sector is a disincentive to private investors investing on a large scale
      in future IPP projects.
   i) Inattention to the good practice principles for the application of conditionality
      can result in policy-based operations that are unbalanced and lack focus. In the
      second project, most of the substantive conditions were back-loaded to the second
      tranche whereas the first tranche accounted for 70 percent of the credit. Furthermore,
      the credit included an excessive number of conditions, some of which were vague
      and/or largely formalistic, whereas others were disconnected from the core objectives
      of the project.
   j) In designing policy-based operations, a realistic sense of the pace of reform will
      take account of political economy considerations. The DPC was clearly too
      ambitious regarding the expected timeline for key reform steps, including the
                                      xiii


enactment of needed tariff increases and the elimination of budgetary transfers to the
sector. It attempted to achieve too many things at the same time instead of focusing
on key actions required to address the core roots of the sector crisis – and following
up on their actual implementation.




                                                               Caroline Heider
                                                              Director-General
                                                                    Evaluation
                                               1


1. Background and Context
Overall Country Context
1.1     In the years 1995 to 2005, Senegal enjoyed robust economic growth, averaging about
5 percent per annum, and low inflation (0.5 percent in 2004), following the 1994 FCFA
devaluation. By 2006, the country was viewed as one of the best performers in Sub-Saharan
Africa-- thanks to a stable political environment, sound fiscal and monetary policies, large
remittances, and the implementation of structural reforms in the productive sector. The
poverty rate was reduced by 10 points between 1994 and 2002. Nonetheless, income
inequality remained high and social indicators were still lagging. Following aborted attempts
at privatizing the electricity sector in the late 1990s and early 2000s, the latter’s financial
performance had been a continued concern due to high production costs, requiring large
budgetary transfers. The country’s economy took a turn for the worse in 2006, when GDP
growth decreased to 2.3 percent and the fiscal deficit rose to 5.8 percent of GDP (from 3.0
percent in 2005). This was in large part the result of the surge in international oil prices and
of a significant increase in public wages and investments. At the same time, the situation of
the electricity sector went from bad to worse, causing widespread power shortages with
ripple effects on the economy. Partly as a result, GDP growth only averaged 3.4 percent in
2006-2010 and decelerated further to 2.6 percent in 2011, while inflation increased to 3.4
percent and the deficit rose to 6.7 percent of GDP (in part due to surging budgetary transfers
to the electricity sector) in the same year. The latest figures show a GDP growth of 3.7
percent for 2012.

Sector Background and Developments in the Last Decade
1.2     Energy sector background. Energy consumption in Senegal is dominated by wood
fuels (53 percent of total) and less than 4 percent of villages are electrified. Electricity
services in urban areas are provided by SENELEC, the country’s public utility, which serves
870,000 customers (versus Senegal’s population of 12.8 million). Total capacity of the
interconnected system was 584 MW in 2012, 90 percent of which was provided by imported
liquid fuel-based thermal plants (of which 117.5MW were under IPP arrangements), with the
rest mostly imports of hydroelectric power from regional hydro plants (the most prominent
being Manantali). Electricity demand has been growing rapidly at a rate of about 6.2 percent
per annum over the last decade (although it has slowed down since 2005 as a result of lower
economic growth) and peak demand reached 449MW in 2011. Because of the system’s
reliance on liquid fuel-based generation (heavy fuel oil and diesel oil), costs of production in
Senegal, and tariffs, have remained among the highest in the region.

1.3     Early attempts at electricity privatization. In order to improve the sector’s low
efficiency and address its long-standing financial difficulties, the Government had embarked
in 1997, with the support of the Bank’s first Energy Sector Adjustment Credit, on an
ambitious reform program aimed at introducing competition by eliminating SENELEC’s
monopoly and attracting private investment, including through the opening of SENELEC’s
capital. The program also included far-reaching reforms of the hydrocarbons sector.
Government commitment to the reforms was strong initially, and the legal framework for the
                                               2


sector was correspondingly revised to allow for the gradual unbundling of the sector.
However, the first privatization attempt ultimately failed as the concession granted to a
private foreign consortium in 1999 was terminated after 18 months when disagreements
emerged between the private partners and the Government on investment plans and tariffs. A
second privatization attempt was launched in 2001 (after a new Government came into
power), but was unsuccessful as negotiations with the private bidders could not be
satisfactorily completed, in the midst of a deteriorating business environment for private
power developers around the world.

1.4       A new Government strategy. In early 2003, a new strategy reflecting the lessons
learned over the 1999-2002 period was adopted by the Government. It aimed at making up
for critical investments neglected during the privatization attempts, by improving the
reliability of, and expanding, SENELEC’s generation, transmission and distribution system
while mobilizing private resources for generation expansion under IPP arrangements. This
new strategy was supported by the Bank and IFC through the Electricity Sector Efficiency
Improvement project approved in 2005, originally designed as a two-phase Adaptable
Program Loan (APL) aimed at supporting the sector’s long-term (10-year) investment
program.

1.5     The 2007-2008 Crisis and its aftermath. For a number of reasons discussed in detail
elsewhere in this report, including poor design of the Bank’s operations, delays in projected
investments, significant increases in international oil prices, political interference in the
management of, and poor governance of, the sector, and the Government’s unwillingness to
address key policy issues (inter alia, tariffs and SENELEC’s worsening finances), the new
strategy did not yield the expected benefits, in spite of the sizeable assistance provided after
2008 by the Bank and bilateral donors in the form of budgetary support. Instead, the sector
ended up facing a deepening crisis from 2007 onwards, characterized by recurrent blackouts
(with un-served demand reaching 105GWh in 2008, see graph in Annex B) and
unprecedented and growing needs for budgetary transfers to the sector (60 billion FCFA, i.e.
about US$120 million, in 2008, or one percent of GDP).

1.6     In fact, the crisis only deepened in subsequent years as unmet demand reached a
record level of 250GWh in 2011 (with 270 days of load shedding registered in that year) and
the Government had to transfer US$215 and US$260 million equivalent in operating
subsidies to SENELEC in 2011 and 2012, respectively. The roots of this ongoing crisis were
highlighted in the very comprehensive diagnostic carried out by McKinsey, a consulting
firm, in 2011 as a prelude to the preparation of the 2011-2015 Emergency and Recovery Plan
(the so-called “Takkal Plan”). Essentially, Senegal’s electricity sector is caught in a
downward spiral caused by the interaction of SENELEC’s poor finances and the sector’s
under-investment, each one of which is discussed at more length in subsequent paragraphs.
It works like this: SENELEC’s under-capitalization and structural operating deficit (caused
by insufficient tariffs and lagging budgetary transfers) perpetuates inefficiency by preventing
it from investing in required maintenance of aging assets and non-liquid fuel-based
generating plants, which could improve its cost structure in the long-run while improving the
quality of service. And SENELEC’s difficult cash situation only makes matters worse by
causing problems with suppliers, leading to delays in supplies of critical inputs, including
fuel, and in payments to IPPs. The dire state of sector finances is also a disincentive to
                                                3


potential private partners in future IPP projects whose contribution is needed to invest in
more efficient, lower-cost (e.g. coal or gas-based) generating plants, without which the sector
will continue to generate electricity at prohibitively high costs. Inefficiencies in the
Government decision-making process for critically needed investments have only
compounded the problem.

1.7      SENELEC’s finances and electricity tariffs. SENELEC’s financial difficulties are
long-standing and predate the recent sector crisis: in none of the years between 2000 and
2004 did the company show a net profit and in two of these years (2001 and 2002) it received
a (small) operating subsidy from the Government. Yet by 2004 its balance-sheet structure
was still sound, with a debt-equity ratio of 40:60. As shown in Annex B (Table 2), the
situation worsened dramatically in 2006, when SENELEC lost 34 billion FCFA (close to
US$70 million), after an operating subsidy of 33 billion FCFA. Things got only worse in
subsequent years with the effect of higher oil prices and delayed investments, requiring
significant amounts of budgetary transfers from the Government, which reached 103 billion
FCFA in 2011 (130 billion FCFA expected in 2012). In parallel, SENELEC’s leverage has
risen to alarming levels, with a debt-equity ratio of 86:14 by the end of 2011, in spite of
substantial recapitalization and debt refinancing steps taken by the Government in 2007 as a
first tranche condition of the Bank’s Energy DPC (see para. 4.6). SENELEC’s strained cash
situation has also affected its ability to secure fuel and pay IPP charges in a timely manner,
which in turn has disrupted the functioning of generating plants.

1.8      Most recently, as part of the implementation of the above-mentioned “Takkal Plan”
and in connection with negotiations of the energy component of the Bank’s First Governance
and Growth Support Credit, the Government has agreed on a further restructuring and
recapitalization plan for SENELEC, including a cross-debts settlement. While these measures
will help strengthen the company’s balance-sheet, they will not directly address the issue of
its structural operating deficit in the absence of revenue-enhancing measures (i.e. tariff
increases). And while the proposed performance contract being negotiated between
SENELEC and the Government should ultimately lead to higher efficiency and lower
administrative costs, this will not be sufficient to make a significant dent in the company’s
operating deficit, at least in the short run, considering the overwhelming share of imported
fuel oil in total operating costs. On the other hand, implementation of the Takkal Plan did
include the set up by the Government in 2011 of a Special Energy Fund, which has
contributed to alleviate the most immediate impact of SENELEC’s continuing cash
constraints by helping secure and finance fuel supplies and co-finance critical investments,
including the emergency rental of generation facilities. However future funding of the
Special Energy Fund hinges on the continued steady collection of earmarked taxes.

1.9     The current tariff formula, based on the principle of a revenue cap, dates back to the
failed attempts in the late 1990s to set up a concession system with private participation. It is
supposed to enable SENELEC to recover costs (either through tariff hikes or “revenue
compensation” from the Government) while providing incentives for internal efficiency
improvements. However, its practical implementation has been based on outdated
assumptions regarding future capacity and fuel costs and its administration (by the
Commission de Régulation du Secteur de l’Electricité, Senegal’s Regulatory Commission for
Electricity Sector has proven to be overly complicated and burdensome. The ineffectiveness
                                               4


of the current system is highlighted by the fact that SENELEC has incurred substantial losses
in most recent years in spite of significant operating subsidies from the Government. It even
led to a tariff decrease of 8 percent in early 2009 at a time when SENELEC was in dire need
of financial resources. While recent changes to the system introduced in 2011 have
alleviated some of the most obvious flaws (by providing more frequent reviews and more
realistic assumptions of future costs), the bottom line is that the system does not work in its
current form. Furthermore, past studies on tariff structure, including one carried out in 2007
by the state-owned utility Office National de l'Electricité (Morocco) under Bank funding,
have shown it could be optimized through more progressivity. Yet these recommendations
were not implemented by the Government – another tariff study is being planned with
funding from the Electricity Sector Support project approved in 2012.

1.10      Electricity sector’s expansion plans. The upgrading of SENELEC’s transmission
and distribution network was originally to be supported by the Bank’s Electricity Sector
Efficiency Improvement Project approved in 2005 but it could not be completed, and the
more recent Bank investment credit approved in 2012 (US$ 85 million, Electricity Sector
Support Project) aims to remedy that earlier failure by funding urgently needed investments
in these two areas (also including the modernization of SENELEC’s metering system). But
the most critical investment needs in the sector have been in generation since, as explained
earlier, the sector desperately needs to diversify its generation mix and reduce its reliance on
liquid fuel-based generation if it is to break away from the above-mentioned downward spiral
(para. 1.6).
1.11     Because some generation investments (both rehabilitation of older units and the new
Kounoune IPP thermal plant) were delayed, and in order to alleviate the risk of recurring
power shortages, the Government had no option but to resort, starting in late 2011, to renting
150MW of short-term/emergency capacity, at a very high cost (about US32 cents per kwh, or
about 60 percent higher than the average cost of production of an efficient plant like
Kounoune). Whereas the rental contract was expected to lapse by October 2012, by the end
of 2012 it appeared it will need to be extended until mid-2013. The McKinsey diagnostic
carried out in 2011 included a very comprehensive assessment of the country’s generation
options, both short-term and long-term. Accordingly, the Takkal Plan recommended, among
others, the purchase of 60MW of additional short-term capacity in the form of containerized
units on barges (to replace the rented generators) and, most importantly, the acceleration of
the introduction of coal-based generation, to be followed by natural gas-based generation if
and when natural gas resources (both domestic and imported) could be secured. This would
complement the increased imports of hydroelectric power from regional projects, already
arranged. These latter recommendations essentially confirmed the main findings of the
generation master plan prepared in 2007 by SENELEC’s consultants (Lavalin of Canada)
with funding from the Bank (para.3.3).

1.12 Yet protracted Government decision-making processes, as well as apparent
disagreements within the Government, have contributed to the cancelling of plans for new
short-term capacity additions and significant delays in the negotiations of IPP arrangements
for future coal-based plants, in spite of the fact that firm offers from reliable sponsors have
been on the table for quite some time. As a result, the next 125MW coal-based IPP plant at
Sendou, which has been under negotiations with foreign developers since 2007 and was
                                               5


originally scheduled for commissioning by early 2014, is now unlikely to come on stream
before the end of 2015 at the earliest. Instead, the Government now appears to have shifted
the focus of much of its immediate attention to potential Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) -fired
generation deals and the purchase of gas and/or gas-based electricity from Mauritania, which,
while worth exploring, offer much longer-term prospects, assuming they can be
economically justified. Such delays will likely only result in further unsustainable rental and
fuel costs and the continuation of SENELEC’s losses – and dependence on the Government’s
budget-- for years to come.



2. The Bank’s Overall Strategy and Assistance for the
Energy Sector
2.1     Rationale for Bank Group involvement and lending program. Successive Bank
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) (the latest Country Partnership Strategy for 2011 was just
approved in January 2013) have emphasized the importance of supporting the energy sector,
consistent with the Bank’s goals to help improve and expand the country’s infrastructure
services, to lower service costs, particularly to the poorest segments of the population, and to
promote private sector development. Early Bank credits to the sector included the Power
Engineering and Technical Assistance project (US$ 3.3 million, approved in 1980 and closed
in 1986) and the Energy Sector Rehabilitation project (US$ 20 million, approved in 1986 and
closed in 1992). This was followed by an Energy Sector Adjustment Credit of US$100
million in 1998 to support the Government’s far-reaching efforts to restructure and privatize
the sector (see para. 1.3 above). The two projects in this assessment then followed: the
Electricity Sector Efficiency Improvement project in 2005 (IDA credit of US$ 15.7 million,
Partial Risk Guarantee (PRG) of US$ 7.2 million, and IFC “A” Loan of US$ 22 million); and
the Energy Sector Recovery DPC of US$ 80 million in 2008. More recently, in 2012, the
Bank approved the Electricity Sector Support project (US$85 million). In addition, a Rural
Energy project (US$19.9 million) was also approved in 2004. The First Governance and
Growth Support DPC recently approved in December 2012 includes a significant energy
policy component. All in all, the Bank Group has lent US$ 324 million to Senegal’s energy
sector over the last twenty years, representing about 17 percent of its total assistance.

2.2     Bank’s stance on key sector issues.

(a) Electricity sector governance: following the inability of its two earlier operations to
help resolve the power sector‘s structural problems, and to take advantage of a political
window of opportunity, the Bank had boldly engaged the Government on a radical reform of
the sector in the late 1990s and early 2000s in the context of the first Energy Sector
Adjustment Credit. Especially for the times, the proposed reforms were ambitious and far-
reaching but they failed due to a combination of external factors and a weakening of
Government commitment after a new Government took over. The Bank then reverted to a
“plain-vanilla” operation with its next investment credit of 2005. The project included a
number of conditions/indicators focused on improving sector governance but they were
overly vague and formalistic, while leaving key policy issues unaddressed. This policy gap
                                               6


was filled by the 2008 Energy Sector Recovery DPC which included a wide range of
ambitious policy conditions, most of which could not be met in the context of the deepening
sector crisis. The Bank then reverted again to an investment lending approach in 2012 with
its Electricity Sector Support Project, whose institutional and policy content is limited to the
funding of several studies and the imposition of (more lenient) financial ratios on SENELEC.
The Bank’s latest attempts at addressing governance issues focus, inter alia, on the
preparation and implementation of a performance contract between the Government and
SENELEC. While this endeavor is still in its early stages, as the performance contract was
just signed, its success will hinge on both the Government and SENELEC adhering to its
provisions. This may prove to be a challenge in light of the failure of similar “contrats-plans”
attempted in Senegal in the 1990s and the poor historical record of performance contracts
with state-owned utilities worldwide.

(b) Hydrocarbons sub-sector: the Bank’s interest in the hydrocarbons sub-sector appears to
have fluctuated over the years. Hydrocarbons reforms were an integral part of the program
supported by the 1998 Energy Sector Adjustment Credit and a number of them (including the
opening up of the sector and price reform) were actually implemented, in contrast with the
failure of the power sector component. The 2005 investment credit was originally expected to
include a hydrocarbons component but it was dropped when the scope of the operation had to
be curtailed (para. 3.1). But hydrocarbons were an integral part of the analysis supporting the
2008 Energy Sector Recovery DPC and the object of several of its conditions. Yet little
follow up was done by the Bank in this area after the credit’s approval as most of the Bank’s
energy dialogue had emphasized the power sector. In particular, issues related to petroleum
products pricing policy, possible changes in the sub-sector’s regulatory set up, Société
Africaine de Raffinage (SAR) financial situation (and persisting subsidization by the
Government), as well as the justification of future investments in domestic refining have
been primarily dealt with during the supervision of the two projects by following up on the
formalistic completion of related studies rather than engaging on a substantive policy
dialogue on these issues. This changed somewhat with the more recent discussions leading
to the preparation of the Letter of Policy Development underlying the First Governance and
Growth Support DPC which includes several commitments regarding hydrocarbon refining,
storage and distribution

(c) Electricity tariffs: The program of radical reforms supported by the Banks’s first Energy
Sector Adjustment Credit included the introduction of a new tariff setting mechanism based
on the principle of revenue cap. This made sense in the context of the proposed introduction
of competition and the concession structure envisaged at the time. But while the reforms
were subsequently reversed, with SENELEC regaining its monopoly, a particularly
cumbersome version of the revenue cap system was kept and has been one of the factors
behind the sector’s financial difficulties (paras. 1.7 to 1.9). Yet the Bank to this day has
refrained from encouraging the Government to fundamentally rethink its tariff setting system
and instead has argued for changes at the margin, e.g. changes in the frequency of the
reviews and the details of the assumptions underlying the application of the overly complex
formula. And while the Bank ended up funding a study of the tariff structure in 2007, it
showed little interest in discussing its findings or even, more broadly, engage the
Government on a comprehensive discussion of the benefits of introducing more progressivity
in the current structure. Relatedly, the Bank has too easily agreed to the Government’s
                                                    7


arguments that tariff changes would be detrimental to the country’s social and economic
development without insisting on detailed studies of the social impact of various forms of
tariff increases. It even acquiesced de facto to the 2009 tariff decrease (on account of a
temporary decline in oil prices), at a time when SENELEC was in dire financial straits and in
non-compliance with its financial covenants. Whereas tariff increases were discussed as a
possible condition of a Fifth Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit in 2011, the Government’s
unwillingness to consider such hikes led the Bank to drop the operation. Instead the Bank
went on to process an alternative DPC (the First Governance and Growth Support Credit)
which does not include any action on electricity tariffs. 1

(d) SENELEC’s finances: The Bank’s stance on SENELEC’s finances has been similarly
inconsistent and generally very accommodating. Key financial ratios (including return on
assets, debt-service coverage and debt-equity) were included in the 2005 investment credit
but were not complied with throughout the project’s implementation. Yet the Bank followed
up with its processing of the Energy Sector Recovery DPC in 2008, which included
essentially similar financial conditions on SENELEC -- which were similarly not met. The
Bank’s response was to make the financial ratios included in its 2012 investment credit more
limited and lenient. And yet even these more generous ratios have not been met in 2012, due
to the absence of any tariff increase and insufficient budgetary compensations – without the
Bank apparently considering any remedy.

(e) Private sector involvement and IPP’s: The Bank took a bold stance on promoting the
radical reform of the whole electricity sector in the late 1990s, and in providing related policy
advice at the time. The failures of these early reforms led both the Government and the Bank
to lower their expectations and focus instead on attracting private capital through IPP
investments in generation. To this end, the Bank Group wisely decided to approach the next
operation in a coordinated manner and to process a single package combining an IDA credit,
an IFC loan, and a PRG. As the detailed assessment of this project makes clear (see Chapter
3), the IDA credit did not meet its objectives but the IFC support of the construction of the
Kounoune plant under an IPP arrangement was generally successful, in spite of initial
operational problems and persisting contractual issues. Yet in spite of the positive
demonstration effect the completion of Kounoune provided, other potential IPP projects
(particularly the urgently-needed coal-based plants) have lingered on. This may be due in
part to SENELEC’s remaining ambivalence vis-à-vis, and lukewarm view of, IPP’s in
general. But it is also likely the result of the inherent complexity and difficulty of structuring
such deals and the lack of strong Government capacity in this very specialized area. In this
respect, the Bank may have been too timid in offering to fund specialized technical support
(including lawyers, investment advisers, etc.) for the negotiations of IPP contracts, due to an
excessive concern about potential conflicts of interest. The Bank is in fact probably better
placed than IFC to help Governments in this regard while retaining an arms-length
1
  In its comments on the report, the region states that IEG “presents an overarching position that an
increase in tariffs would be the solution to restoring sector finances” and that priority should instead
be given to reducing distribution losses and diversifying the generation mix away from expensive
emergency thermal capacity. IEG notes that while better technical efficiency and diversification are
indeed key to solving the sector’s financial woes in the long-term, these actions will take years to
have a financial impact in the best of circumstances.
                                               8


relationship to the outcome of the negotiations (both in appearance and in reality), and such
services have in fact been funded by the Bank in other African countries.

(f) Generation planning: Diversifying the generation mix and reducing reliance on liquid
fuel-based power is key to lowering the sector’s costs hence to resolving the sector’s
problems in the long run. Yet the Bank was not forceful enough in engaging the Government
on the issue of the planning of key generation investments, an area which is highly technical,
hence where the Bank should have a priori a comparative advantage. The Bank did include in
its 2005 project studies for the preparation of generation, transmission and distribution
master plans. These plans were satisfactorily completed with the help of consultants (Lavalin
of Canada) and should have provided a clear basis for planning the sector’s future expansion.
In fact, the fundamental priorities defined in these master plans (including the role of coal-
based power as the least-cost medium term option, after taking account of environmental
externalities), were reconfirmed in the “Takkal Plan” formulated by the Government in 2011.
Yet political interference in the decision-making process, a lack of realism in the timelines
for financing and implementing major generation investments, and the above-mentioned
lack of specialized Government capacity in negotiating IPP deals have resulted in delays in
the commissioning of urgently-needed coal-based plants and the attendant recourse to
prohibitively expensive rental of short-term capacity (para. 1.11). It appears that the Bank
could have been more forceful in advocating for the Government adhering to the least-cost
path defined in the technical studies and not being distracted into entertaining suboptimal
proposals from foreign investors (e.g. in the case of LNG-powered plants). In fact the Bank’s
agreement to fund studies on the long-term role of LNG or its recent advocating for a
bilateral agreement with Mauritania for the import of gas-based electricity, while justified on
their own merits, may have been misconstrued by the Government as an encouragement to
revisit the fundamental short and medium-term least-cost choices defined in all previous
technical studies and included in the Takkal Plan. The Bank’s well-publicized aversion to
coal-based power (and its outright refusal to entertain any related funding request) may have
only further contributed to that perception.

2.3      Coordination with other donors/partners. Throughout the years, the Bank has kept
coordinating very closely with other donors/partners in the sector, which include AFD,
Banque Africaine de Développement, Islamic Development Bank, the International
Monetary Fund and European Investment Bank (also China, which has recently increased its
assistance but with which relations have been more arms-length). Coordination with AFD,
the other major donor in the sector, has been particularly close, as AFD (through
PROPARCO, its private sector arm and the equivalent of IFC) co-financed the Kounoune
project, and the two institutions took a common approach to the preparation and
implementation of parallel budget support operations in the energy sector in 2008. To this
day, the Bank and AFD are conducting the sector policy dialogue with the Government
essentially in tandem.

2.4     Overall outcome of the Bank’s assistance. The outcome of the Bank’s overall
assistance to Senegal’s energy sector over the last fifteen-twenty years has been poor, even if
some success was achieved in specific areas (e.g. the promotion of regional hydro-power).
In fact each and every one of the projects implemented in the 1990s and 2000s has been rated
unsatisfactory by the Bank’s own self-evaluations, including the two projects assessed in this
                                               9


report. Most damningly, the electricity sector, which has been the primary focus of the
Bank’s assistance and policy advice, is now in worse shape than it was at the beginning of
the 2000s, and while in theory this could have been despite of the Bank’s best efforts, as we
will see in the next chapters, the Bank’s approach may have contributed to this. The
country’s circumstances, with its lack of domestic modern energy sources and the system’s
forced primary reliance on liquid fuel-based generation given its small size, are admittedly
not favorable. Furthermore, poor Borrower performance as well as external factors
(particularly the sudden increase in international fuel prices in the mid-2000’s) account, at
least in part, for the sector’s poor performance, as discussed in the detailed assessments of
the two projects. But poor design and implementation of the Bank’s assistance strategy is
also to blame. As highlighted in the above paragraphs, the Bank’s strategy has been both
inconsistent and ambiguous in a number of areas, fluctuating between an excessively
demanding agenda (e.g. the unrealistic conditions of the 2008 DPC) and an overly
accommodating stance when it came to the Government delivering on its key policy
commitments, particularly on sector governance and tariffs.

2.5     In the end, it is hard not to conclude that the mixed messages the Bank has been
sending throughout the 2000s until recently contributed to the Government’s reluctance to
address more forcefully the structural weaknesses of the sector, hence contributing to
perpetuating the sector’s drain on the broader economy. Witness the following sequence of
events: by 2008, the Electricity Sector Efficiency Enhancement project, approved in 2005,
was performing very poorly on all counts and it was clear to all parties that it was going to
have to be partially cancelled. Yet, in the face of such poor performance and instead of
restructuring the project proactively, the Bank gave the appearance of “rewarding” failure (at
least that is the way it was perceived by some counterparts, based on IEG interviews) by
agreeing to transfer another US$80 million to the sector in the guise of the 2008 DPC
(US$56 million of which were actually disbursed in spite of across-the-board non-
compliance with most policy conditions). The failure of the two projects was highlighted in
the self-evaluation reports respectively issued in June and October 2011 and should have
given the Bank some pause yet it proceeded in short order to approve another major
investment credit (US$85 million)to the sector in July 2012, with minimal institutional and
policy content. Under these circumstances, it would have been hard for the Government not
to conclude that the Bank would continue, come what may, to financially support the sector
even in the absence of Government implementation of major reforms(instead of mere
declarations of intention) -- including the much-needed changes to tariff structure and levels.
Indeed, this impression can only have been reinforced with the inclusion in the energy policy
component of the recently-approved First Governance and Growth Support DPC of
commitments which are either too vague/formalistic or not directly related to the core roots
of the sector’s crisis, in this way replicating the flaws of the 2008 Energy Sector Recovery
DPC.

2.6     This said, as reflected in the detailed discussion of Bank performance provided in the
detailed assessments of the two subject projects (Chapters 3 and 4), this negative assessment
of the Bank’s key strategic choices should not be seen as a criticism of the hard work and
dedication of the energy teams who conducted comprehensive technical analyses and carried
the working level dialogue with their Senegalese counterparts day in and day out.
                                               10


3. Electricity Sector Efficiency Enhancement Project –
Detailed Assessment
Objectives, Design, and Relevance
3.1     Project Genesis. In the aftermath of the failed attempts at privatizing SENELEC in
the late 1990s/early 2000s, the Government had refocused its efforts towards implementing
urgent investments and improving efficiency and reliability in the power sector to meet a
growing electricity demand, while improving sector governance. Consistent with this new
approach, the Bank Group agreed to support the power sector’s 10-year investment program
through a two-phase APL combined with PRGs and IFC loans. The IDA Credit, approved in
2005, was originally supposed to fund the full first phase of the APL but due to limitations in
IDA13 resources, ended up financing only a more modest portion of that first phase, for an
amount of US$15.7 million covering physical investments in transmission and distribution
and Technical Assistance activities. The remainder of Phase 1 activities (US$33.4 million)
was to be funded in a follow-up project to be approved the following fiscal year once
sufficient IDA 14 resources were to be available to Senegal, but this never materialized. The
PRG and the IFC loan (respectively US$7.2 million and Euros 17 million) were kept as part
of the original funding package, to support the construction of the Kounoune power plant
under IPP arrangements although in practice the IDA-funded activities and the IPP project
were really handled within the Bank Group as two distinct projects.

3.2      The project objectives, as stated in the Project Appraisal Document, were to (a)
maintain and increase the electricity supply and the reliability or the services; (b) reduce the
cost of the electricity services; and (c) enhance the performance of key energy sector
institutions. Considering the problems facing the sector, these objectives were highly
relevant and remained so throughout project implementation. The outcome indicators set
out for the project included: (a) the commissioning of the Kounoune thermal power plant
(67.5 MW); (b) a 22 percent increase in SENELEC’s overall electricity sales from 2004 to
2008; (c) a reduction in interruption of power deliveries; (c) a reduction in SENELEC’s
variable costs of generation; (d) a decrease in SENELEC’s transmission &distribution losses
(technical and non-technical); (e) the setup of a monitoring &evaluation (M&E) system for
the energy sector; (f) the set-up of a new electricity tariff mechanism; (g) design and
implementation of a training program for key sector entities; and (h) implementation of PPP
arrangements in the sector. In addition, financial covenants were included in the credit
agreement (debt service coverage of not less than 1.1; return on assets of not less than 3
percent in 2006-07 and 5 percent thereafter; financial leverage of no more than 65 percent;
accounts receivable of less than 105 days in 2006 and 90 days thereafter), purportedly to
promote a steady improvement in SENELEC’s finances.

3.3    Project design. Original project components were divided into support to SENELEC
(Part A) and Institutional development of the energy sector (Part B).
                                             11


Part A comprised the following components:

           -   Construction of the 67.5 MW heavy-fuel oil-fired power plant at Kounoune,
               near Dakar, under IPP arrangements with a private consortium consisting of
               Matelec (Lebanon) and Mitsubishi Equipment (Netherlands), with an
               estimated cost of US$80 million. The project was supported by an IFC “A”
               loan of Euros 17 million and a Bank RG of US$7.2 million to guarantee a
               long-term loan by a Senegalese private commercial bank.

           -   Rehabilitation/reinforcement of SENELEC’s transmission and distribution
               network, with an estimated cost of US$ 9.5 million.

           -   Capacity building and studies for an estimated cost of US$2.4 million,
               including preparation of generation, transmission and distribution master
               plans.

Part B comprised technical assistance, training and studies for both the Ministry of Energy
and Mines (MEM) and the Regulatory Commission for Electricity Sector for an estimated
cost of 2.3 million, including the set-up of a sector-wide M&E system and a study of options
for future public/private partnerships for SENELEC.

3.4      The design of the project was only modestly relevant for a number of reasons. First,
it only funded a truncated Phase 1 of SENELEC’s long-term investment program due to the
above-mentioned IDA13 resource restrictions, limiting the project’s ability to address the
sector’s urgent investment needs. Second, it overestimated SENELEC’s implementation
capacity, particularly in the area of procurement, and put in place a flawed division of
responsibility for project implementation between MEM and SENELEC. Most importantly it
did not address head-on the need for key policy actions required to strengthen the sector’s
finances, instead merely imposing arbitrary financial covenants on SENELEC and a vague
requirement to review the existing tariff mechanism. Furthermore, while supporting the
preparation of SENELEC’s long-term master plans and studies for future private options in
the sector made sense under the circumstances, no provisions were made to ensure that the
results of these studies were thoroughly discussed with the Bank and ultimately
implemented.

Implementation
3.5     Implementation of IDA-financed activities remained extremely slow until the credit
was closed in December 2010, after a two year extension. This was due to insufficient project
readiness, as SENELEC’s procurement capacity was weak to start with and inadequate
provisions were made under the project to strengthen it (in fact the Project Implementation
Manual was finalized only after the project was well advanced). Furthermore, the Bank
unwisely acceded to a Government request that the Project Coordination Unit be located only
in the MEM whereas most of the project activities concerned SENELEC, leading to poor
coordination between the PCU and SENELEC and attendant delays. The pace of
implementation was also affected by the difficult dialogue that prevailed between the Bank
and SENELEC’s management until the end of 2006. Midway through the implementation
                                                12


period, in 2007, and in light of the sector’s deepening crisis and extensive load shedding, the
Government and SENELEC requested, and the Bank agreed, that project funds originally
assigned to transmission and distribution works be transferred to the rehabilitation of unit
302 in the Cap des Biches steam power plant so as to alleviate generation capacity shortages.
In retrospect, it is not clear that such rehabilitation was technically justified as a subsequent
technical audit by Electricité de France (EDF) led to the de-rating of that unit, but in any case
the decision led to further delays in project implementation due to a protracted bidding
process for the group’s rehabilitation, including a need for re-bidding. In the end, by the time
the credit closed in 2010, no physical works had been funded by IDA and 61 percent of the
credit was cancelled, meaning that the IDA-funded project ended up being essentially a
US$6.2 million Technical Assistance operation.

3.6     The Power Purchase Agreement for the IFC-supported Kounoune power plant was
signed in 2005 and construction was satisfactorily completed in 2008, US$8 million under
budget, albeit with a 2-year delay. The first two years of operation, however, were marred by
technical problems with the turbines operation, which the company attributed to poor fuel
quality and which have led to contractual issues with the Government, not yet resolved.
These problems have led to lower-than–planned availability of the plant in its early years of
operation (as low as 79 percent in 2009). Following the resolution of the turbines technical
problems and the provision of higher quality fuel by SENELEC, the plant is now working at
about full capacity.

3.7      Safeguards. Two safeguard policies (OP 4.01 on the environment and OP 4.12 on
resettlement) were triggered by the project which was classified as category B. An
Environmental Impact assessment for the Kounoune plant was prepared and released to the
public, together with a detailed Environmental Policy Framework and Resettlement Policy
Framework for the rehabilitation and maintenance activities originally included in the
project. To mitigate the potential impact on air quality, the company has implemented
mitigation measures and undertaken continuous air quality monitoring which have shown
that air quality standards have been respected by the Kounoune plant. IFC indicated that
previous dumping of oily solutions on the plants ground was being addressed by the
installation of skimmers in the decantation system. The only significant issue that came up
during project implementation was related to the initial setting, under Government
regulations, of a 500 meter buffer zone around the Kounoune plant. A subsequent hazard
analysis by the Government recommended the reduction of this buffer zone to no more than
40 meter. The IEG mission was informed that a temporary 200 meter requirement granted by
the Government had now lapsed, but was able to ascertain during a visit to the plant that no
encroachment is currently taking place in the expected new 40 m perimeter. It should be
pointed out that, during its visit, the mission also witnessed significant air pollution currently
taking place in the immediate vicinity of the plant as a result of the contiguous installation by
SENELEC of its temporarily rented electrogen groups with a total capacity of 150 MW (see
para. 1.1), which clearly do not meet the same standards. Kounoune’s management has
repeatedly pointed out to SENELEC that significant gas emissions from the electrogen
groups has in fact caused problems for the operation of the Kounoune turbines.

3.8     FiduciaryAspects. Over the last two years of its implementation, the project’s
financial management was rated unsatisfactory on account of inadequate management
                                             13


systems in the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) at the MEM and the incurrence of
ineligible expenditures for about US$24,000. The latter was subsequently reimbursed by the
Ministry of Finance. Audited financial statements were issued every year (without
qualifications), although some reports were submitted with delay. As mentioned earlier,
SENELEC’s procurement capacity remained weak throughout project implementation, which
was a cause of significant delays. However, no major procurement issue and/or instances of
misprocurement was reported.

Achievement of the Objectives
3.9     First Objective: Maintain and increase electricity supply. Achievement of this
objective was modest overall. While the Kounoune power plant did ultimately add 67.5 MW
to the country’s generating capacity (Outcome indicator 1), its commissioning was two years
late and availability was lower-than-expected during the first two years of operation due to
technical problems (see above). Furthermore, the increase in overall energy sales in the
country (Outcome indicator 2) was somewhat less than anticipated – 1,868 GWh actual vs
1,875 GWh expected in 2008. But most importantly, supply did not keep up with demand
due to delays in the expansion of the country’s generating capacity (both in the form of
rehabilitation of existing plants and of new IPPs) and lower-than-forecast operating
efficiency of SENELEC’s existing assets, itself the result of insufficient maintenance. This
led to widespread power shortages in the last years of the project’s implementation (see
below). Whereas the project-funded expansion master plans (Intermediate Outcome Indicator
3) were completed satisfactorily, their impact has been limited as the Government’s decision-
making process for major investments in the sector has been extremely weak to this day, as
discussed earlier in this report (paras. 1.10 and 1.11).

3.10 Second Objective: Maintain and increase the reliability of electricity services.
Achievement of this objective was negligible. Whereas interruption in electricity deliveries
nationwide were expected to decrease from 14 GWh in 2004 to 8 GWh in 2007 (Outcome
Indicator 3), undelivered energy increased dramatically towards the end of the project
implementation period-- to 105 GWh in 2008, 88 GWh in 2009, 174 GWh in 2010, reaching
a peak of 250 GWh in 2011, at the height of the country’s energy crisis (see Annex B, Figure
1). These severe energy shortages can be traced to delays in needed generation investments
and poor operational efficiency, themselves the result of SENELEC’s financial deterioration
and poor investment planning and decision-making by the Government. Furthermore,
technical and non-technical losses, which were expected to decrease from 17.5 percent in
2004 to 15.5 percent in 2007 (Outcome Indicator 5), had instead risen to 21.4 percent by
2010.

3.11 Third Objective: Reduce the cost of electricity services. Achievement of this
objective was negligible. The expected 7 percent reduction in SENELEC’s variable costs of
generation (Outcome Indicator 4) did not materialize; instead, SENELEC’s costs increased
by 50 percent between 2004 and 2010, largely due to the sharp increase in the price of fuel
and the lack of maintenance of its aged facilities.

3.12 Fourth Objective: Enhance the performance of key energy sector institutions.
Achievement of this objective was modest overall. A number of actions/studies were
                                             14


included in the project to support institutional strengthening of the sector. These included:
(a) setting up of an M&E system for the energy sector (Outcome Indicator 6); (b) setting up
of a new electricity tariff mechanism (Outcome Indicator 7); (c) adoption of a training
program for staff of SENELEC, MEM and the Commission de Régulation du Secteur de
l’Electricité, Senegal’s Regulatory Commission for Electricity Sector (Outcome Indicator 8);
(d) implementation of PPP arrangements for SENELEC (Outcome Indicator 9); (e)
preparation of Master Plans for generation, transmission and distribution (Intermediate
Outcome Indicator 3); and (f) preparation of a communication plan for SENELEC
(Intermediate Outcome Indicator 4).

3.13 While most of these actions were at least partially completed, they carried more form
than substance and their actual impact was limited at best. In particular, the master plan for
generation was prepared but has been largely ignored in the Government’s actual investment
decision-making process. Training plans were prepared but actual training activities were
limited to a few courses and the purchase of IT equipment, none of which benefited the
Regulatory Commission for Electricity Sector. While the tariff setting mechanism was
reformed twice during project implementation, this was not sufficient to spare SENELEC
from severe financial difficulties (para. 1.7). A possible exception to this bleak picture are
the project-funded studies conducted, under action (d) above, by RTE, a consulting firm,
(France) on the unbundling of SENELEC. Very extensive work was carried out on that front,
between 2007 and 2009, with close involvement of SENELEC’s staff, and a plan for the
accounting separation of the company’s three main functions actually completed, with a view
to ultimately transform SENELEC into a holding company with three subsidiaries.
Implementation of this plan was however halted upon the arrival of the new Government in
the spring of 2012 and it remains to be seen whether it will ultimately be followed through.
The bottom line is that the project, overall, contributed only very modestly to enhancing the
performance of the sector’s institutions, particularly SENELEC, whose steadily deteriorating
finances have been at the root of the sector’s deepening crisis, as described earlier in this
report.

Efficiency
3.14     The ex-post ERR for the Kounoune plant was calculated at 14 percent in the ICR,
based on actual costs and the plant’s operation record to date, and generally conservative
assumptions regarding future operation, fuel costs and losses (see Annex B, Table 3). This
compares to the ex-ante ERR of 26 percent estimated at appraisal. But the ICR calculation is
based on estimating revenues at retail tariffs of about US$0.18cents per kWH, which is much
lower than current tariffs averaging about US$0.24 – and even this level may not truly reflect
true economic costs since SENELEC has been receiving significant budgetary transfers. In
any event, the ERR for an individual plant is not very meaningful as it primarily reflects the
adequacy of tariffs used as proxy for revenues in the calculation. More meaningful is the fact
that the Kounoune plant was undeniably part of the least-cost generation sequence, as
confirmed by planning studies carried out by specialized consultants and confirmed in the
more recent McKinsey analyses carried out in the context of the “Takkal Plan” (para. 1.11).
But efficiency of the project as a whole can only be rated as Modest, considering the non-
implementation of many IDA-funded activities, delays in commissioning the plant, and the
cancellation of 60 percent of the IDA Credit.
                                               15


Ratings
3.15 Outcome. Overall outcome of the project is rated Unsatisfactory. While its
objectives were highly relevant to the sector’s circumstances at the time of approval, the
project’s design was modest, the achievement of its objectives was modest or negligible, and
efficiency was modest, with 60 percent of the IDA credit ultimately cancelled at closing. The
Kounoune power plant component did reach completion, albeit with some delays, and is now
providing reliable energy to the grid, in spite of operational problems in the early years and
still pending contractual issues. While it can be argued that such completion contributed to
demonstrate the feasibility and benefits of IPP arrangements in the country, the fact of the
matter is that Kounoune’s completion, in and of itself, did not significantly help in resolving
the sector’s deep-seated structural problems, which only worsened during implementation of
the project and persist to this day.

3.16      Risk to Development Outcome. This risk is High as any institutional development
achieved under the project, and any possible future improvement in the supply and reliability
of electricity services in Senegal, will continue to be jeopardized until SENELEC’s finances
and sector governance issues are addressed effectively. As discussed earlier in this report,
this will require, inter alia, resolute Government actions both on the tariff front and in
reforming the investment planning process. Any hope of attracting further private investment
in the sector, whether through IPPs or otherwise (e.g., through private involvement in
SENELEC itself), will also be negated if SENELEC’s finances are not strengthened and if
pending contractual issues with the Kounoune Power Company are not resolved. Due to the
latter, IFC has in fact set loss reserves for its loan.

3.17 Bank performance. The overall effectiveness of the Bank’s strategy in the sector
over the last 10 years or so has been discussed in Chapter 2 of this report. Bank performance
under the Electricity Sector Efficiency Enhancement project specifically is rated as
Unsatisfactory, both at Entry and during Supervision. Quality at entry suffered from the fact
that the project actually approved was only a truncated part of a much larger project which
was supposed to cover the whole Phase 1 of the sector’s long-term investment program. The
Bank clearly misjudged the likelihood that the rest of the program could be financed in short
order by IDA 14 resources (see para. 3.1) and the approved project ended up fundamentally
unbalanced as a result, with policy objectives which were clearly too ambitious for the
relative small size of the project. Furthermore, the critical issue of sector finances was hardly
addressed in the project’s design, other than through a weak requirement that a new tariff
system be set up (with little details on its implications) and the imposition of financial
covenants based on overoptimistic financial forecasts. At a practical level, the Bank should
have never agreed to have the PIU located in the MEM whereas the bulk of the project’s
components was under SENELEC’s responsibility. This led to coordination problems
throughout implementation and weak ownership of the project by SENELEC. On the bright
side, quality at entry for the Kounoune plant was good, with one possible exception: IFC
agreed to have responsibility for fuel purchase transferred at the last minute from the
sponsors to SENELEC, as a result of a specific request by SENELEC’s manager. This
proved to be a mistake as it led to subsequent serious disagreements on the quality of the fuel
provided to the plant, which the private sponsors blamed for the technical problems which
affected the plant turbines in the first two years of operation.
                                               16


3.18     Government stakeholders indicated to the IEG mission that Bank supervision was
somewhat hands off and unresponsive in the first two years of the project. This changed with
the relocation of the task team to Dakar in 2007, which ensured a closer, practically day-to-
day, communications with Senegalese interlocutors. While the project was not formally
restructured, two major shifts took place: the lack of emphasis on critical policy issues was
addressed by the Bank’s approval in 2008 of a major policy-based operation; the Energy
Sector Recovery DPC (the object of a parallel assessment in this report). The latter provided
a more logical and potentially more effective channel for the Bank to pursue sector issues,
although the DPC had itself major flaws and did not prove effective in that regard (see
Chapter 4). The second major change was the substitution, late in the game, of original
transmission and distribution investments by generation rehabilitation investments (para.
3.5). In retrospect, there are questions as to whether such substitution was wise: the new
investment (in the rehabilitation of unit 302 in the Cap des Biches plant) was clearly not
ready for implementation and delays in bidding ultimately led to the cancellation of that
component. Furthermore, the technical justification for the rehabilitation itself is now in
doubt as SENELEC subsequently decided to re-rate unit 302, based on an operational audit
carried out by EDF. Finally, supervision ratings were clearly overoptimistic throughout
project implementation, with Development Objectives ratings staying in the satisfactory
range up to the very moment when 60 percent of the credit had to be cancelled in 2010.

3.19     Borrower performance. Borrower performance was Unsatisfactory overall, both
on the Government and the Implementing agency sides. As mentioned earlier, the
Government unwisely insisted on having the PIU located at MEM instead of SENELEC.
During the earlier part of the project, MEM (in fact the Minister himself) essentially micro-
managed SENELEC’s part of the project, leading to a lack of project ownership by the latter.
On the policy side, the Government lacked an overall strategy to address the sector’s deep-
seated structural problems. This was exacerbated by a lack of continuity in key policies (e.g.
on tariffs and budget transfers) and long-term investment decisions (particularly for
generation), with key orientations revisited, or even overturned, each time a new Energy
Minister came on board and after the most recent Government change in 2012.

3.20 The ownership of the project by the main implementing agency, SENELEC,
remained weak throughout the project, initially because of the poor dialogue between the
Bank and SENELEC’s management and later because both the Bank’s and SENELEC’s
focus turned to alleviating the sector’s short-term crisis and to meeting the conditions of the
Energy Sector Recovery DPC approved in 2008.

3.21 Monitoring & Evaluation. Notwithstanding the fact that the PIU was unwisely
located in MEM instead of SENELEC, baseline data for selected key technical indicators
were available and the monitoring system was simple and based on existing data routinely
compiled by SENELEC. But for non-technical/physical indicators, indicators/targets were
either too vaguely defined (e.g. review of existing tariff mechanism, adoption of a training
program, implementation of PPP arrangements) to promote real accountability, or
emphasized form rather than substance (completion of a communications plan, completion of
investment master plans) so that the real intent of the conditions was open for different
interpretations. Progress was discussed on a regular basis between the Bank team and
counterparts, which was made easier by the relocation of the task team to Dakar in 2007. In
                                               17


retrospect, one particular indicator, the increase in electricity sales, was ill-chosen and
essentially meaningless in and of itself since it did not encompass the sector’s ability to meet
a fast-growing energy demand. In the event, sales targets were almost met even as the
country faced growing power shortages and the sector was in the midst of a growing crisis.
All in all, M&E quality (including both design and implementation) is rated Modest.



4. Energy Sector Recovery Development Policy Credit –
Detailed Assessment
Objectives, Design, and Relevance
4.1     Project Genesis. As discussed earlier in this report, the improvement in the energy
sector’s situation which had been expected when the Bank approved the Electricity Sector
Efficiency Improvement project in 2005 did not materialize. Indeed, it only got worse as
SENELEC’s finances deteriorated in 2006 and 2007 to the point of becoming a huge drain on
the Government’s budget and weakening the country’s economic growth (down to 2.3
percent in 2006). Whereas the 2005 operation had very little policy content, the DPC
approved in 2008 was designed to fill that gap by addressing the key policy issues at the root
of the sector’s woes, primarily in the electricity sector but also in the petroleum sector, where
the state-controlled refinery, SAR, was also facing financial difficulties.

4.2      The project objectives, as stated in the Program Document, were to “ensure a
sustained and sound long-term development of electricity services and supply of petroleum
products in Senegal”. More specifically the operation covered three policy areas: (a)
restoring the financial viability and sustainability of the electricity and hydrocarbon sub-
sectors; (b) improving the governance of the electricity and hydrocarbon subsectors; and (c)
ensure the sustainable long-term development of Senegal’s energy sector. These broad
objectives and policy areas of focus were, and remained throughout project implementation,
highly relevant and consistent with the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for 2007-
2010, which emphasized the promotion of a competitive investment climate, the maintenance
and building of basic infrastructure, good governance, and the financial viability of public
institutions.

4.3     Project design. The DPC was designed as a two-tranche operation (US$56 million
and US$26 million respectively) encompassing a large number of policy actions in each of
the three policy areas: 7 in policy area 1 (4 of which in tranche 2); 7 in policy area 2 (5 of
which in tranche 2); and 4 in policy area 3 (all of which in tranche 2). Some of these actions
were appropriately specific and focused on the fundamental issues of the sector, such as the
recapitalization of SENELEC, adjustments to electricity tariffs and the elimination of
budgetary transfers to SENELEC. Some others addressed key issues such as the country’s
long-term generation expansion choices, the reform of the tariff setting mechanism, and the
preparation of a long-term investment plan for SAR, but only through formalistic
requirements (mere completion of studies). Others, such as the studies on the unbundling of
SENELEC and on the private sector’s participation in the energy sector, while substantive in
                                              18


principle, were premature in the context of the sector’s immediate crisis. And others were
either of lower priority, like the creation of specific committees within SENELEC, the
completion of an audit of SENELEC’s internal audit function (sic), or somewhat
disconnected from the operation’s main focus (to resolve the sector’s crisis), like the
preparation of action plans for renewable energies and demand-side management. In the end,
the number of actions was clearly excessive, and some of them had no immediate connection
to the fundamental issues the sector was facing in 2008. Most importantly, the expected
speed of improvement in SENELEC’s finances was probably unrealistic for a two-year
operation and the much more ambitious scope of the second-tranche conditions was out of
balance with its financial weight (30 percent).

4.4     All in all, the design of the project was only modestly relevant since the project, as
the ICR appropriately states, “failed to take into account the Bank’s recommendations
regarding good practice for the application of conditionality in DPCs such as: (i) reinforcing
ownership of the MEM and SENELEC; (ii) customizing the accountability framework and
modalities of Bank support to country circumstances and in particular the balancing of
conditionalities and financing between tranches; (iii) choosing only actions critical for
achieving results as conditions for disbursements; and (v) choosing the right instruments to
effect the changes in the financial situation of SENELEC”.

Implementation
4.5     The overambitious timeline of key actions required under the DPC, particularly
regarding the improvement in the electricity sector’s finances, would have made meeting the
project objectives difficult under any circumstance. But the energy crisis of 2008, with oil
prices spiking at US$147 per barrel in July 2008, hit SENELEC particularly hard given its
primarily liquid fuel-based generation mix (fuel costs increased by as much as 26 percent
between 2007 and 2008). Further the 2008 crisis affected Senegal’s economy and resulted in
a significant deterioration of the country’s fiscal situation. These in turn weakened the
Government’s commitment to implement the required actions, including tariff increases,
required to turn around the sector’s finances. The second tranche was not disbursed and the
corresponding funds (US$24 million) were cancelled because, as detailed below, most of the
second tranche conditions were not, or only partially, met by the original closing date of
December 31, 2010 (nor were they likely to be met had the closing date been extended by
even a year).

Achievement of the Objectives
4.6     First Policy Area: restore the financial viability and sustainability of the
electricity and hydrocarbon sub-sectors. Achievements in this policy area were negligible
overall. SENELEC’s financial situation has grown steadily worse since 2008 and the
company has required ever-larger budgetary transfers to stay financially afloat, in the
absence of sufficient tariff increases (the last tariff increase dates back to 2009, after the
Government had even implemented a tariff decrease, of 8 percent earlier in January2009, at a
time when SENELEC was still in dire financial straits). More recently, in the context of the
negotiation of the First Growth and Governance DPC, the Government has carried out
several positive steps to strengthen SENELEC’s finances, including partial re-capitalization
                                              19


through debt restructuring and a cross-settlement of debts and arrears between the
Government public agencies and SENELEC, but their effect will remain limited short of
more radical actions to increase revenues through tariff hikes and to decrease operating costs
through improvements in operating efficiency and lower fuel costs. Estimated financial
results for 2012 show that the company will incur a loss of 2 billion FCFA (US$4 million)
after a budgetary transfer of 130 billion FCFA (US$260 million). Related second tranche
specific conditions (minimum debt-service coverage ratio of 1.2, timely Government
transfers to allow SENELEC to achieve its Maximum Authorized Revenue under the tariff
formula set by the Regulatory Commission for the Electricity Sector and elimination of all
budgetary transfers by 2009) were not met. And while a tariff study was completed with the
help of Office National de l'Electricité (Morocco) as another second tranche condition, its
recommendations were never implemented.

4.7     On the hydrocarbon side, whereas SAR was recapitalized though the transfer of 34
percent of its capital from the Government to private investors (the Bin Laden group of Saudi
Arabia), making it a majority privately-held company, very limited information has been
made available to the Bank on the evolution of SAR’s finances, including the level of
remaining Government subsidies. Indeed the question of the refinery’s long-term economic
and financial viability remains open. A study on the subject is planned under the
Government’s Letter of Development Policy prepared in connection with the just-approved
First Governance and Growth Support DPC. Furthermore the IEG mission was informed that
Total (France), the other private investor, may have rescinded its management contract for
the refinery.

4.8     Second Policy Area: improve the governance of the electricity and hydrocarbon
sub-sectors. Achievements under this policy area were modest. While some of the
conditions listed under this policy area were met or partially met, such as the adoption by
SENELEC of new procurement procedures, the study of SENELEC’s unbundling, or the
preparation of a draft law to create a Hydrocarbon Regulatory Agency, they either carried
more form than substance or were not directly connected to the priority reforms needed to
resolve the sector’s crisis, as highlighted earlier (para. 4.3). As such, they made only a
modest contribution to the attainment of the project’s objectives. Since 2008, sector
governance has been characterized by a weak delineation of the respective roles of MEM and
SENELEC, and constant political interference in the management of SENELEC. In fact, the
issue of the sector’s governance remains very much alive to this day, and was a focus of the
dialogue carried out during the negotiation of the just-approved First Governance and
Growth Support DPC, including through the preparation and implementation of a
performance contract for SENELEC.

4.9     Third Objective: ensure the long term development of the energy sector.
Achievements under this policy area were also modest. The second tranche conditions
related to renewables and demand-side management (DSM) were partially met with the
presentation to Parliament of a regulatory framework to facilitate the development of new
and renewable energy sources and the completion of a consultant study on DSM; but as
mentioned earlier, their relevance to the core objectives of the project was limited. On the
more critical issue of long-term investment choices in the sector, the completion of the
master plans for electricity generation, transmission and distribution were formalistically
                                               20


met, but did little to help streamline the investment decision-making process in the sector,
which remains fundamentally flawed (see para. 1.12), while the very viability of SAR over
the long-run is still open to question (see above).

Ratings
4.10 Outcome. The overall outcome of the project is rated Unsatisfactory. While its
objectives were, and remain, highly relevant to the sector’s on-going crisis, the DPC was
poorly designed and its objectives were modestly or negligibly achieved, forcing the
cancellation of the operation’s second tranche. The sector’s situation not only did not
improve with the project but in fact has kept worsening to this day. As discussed earlier in
this report, any improvement in future years will require forceful actions by the Government,
be it on the tariff front or on the investment front, beyond mere declarations of intention.

4.11     Risk to Development Outcome. This risk is assessed as High, as the dependence of
the electricity sector on the budget has only gotten worse over recent years, reaching an
unprecedented level of 1.8 percent of GDP in 2012 and depriving other sectors of the
economy of desperately needed public resources. Furthermore, the sector is not immune
from the impact of another possible hike in international oil prices given its continued
dependence on liquid fuel-based generation, at least in the short-term, and the Government‘s
apparent lack of inclination to reflect such future cost increases in electricity prices. While
greater participation by the private sector in the sector could potentially mitigate these risks,
such participation on a large scale is unlikely to be forthcoming as long as the sector’s
finances remain so precarious.

4.12      Bank performance. The overall effectiveness of the Bank’s strategy in the sector
over the last fifteen-twenty years has been discussed in Chapter 2 of this report. Bank
performance under the Energy Sector Recovery DPC specifically is rated as Unsatisfactory
overall. Quality at Entry was Unsatisfactory: the design of the operation was flawed, as
discussed earlier (para.4.3), and the Bank clearly misjudged the Government’s willingness to
take the necessary tariff actions in the face of a difficult international environment. Actually,
based on the experience of the earlier Energy Sector Adjustment Credit approved in 1998
(which also ended in failure), the Bank should have been more skeptical of formalistic
commitments included in the Credit Agreement and Letter of Development Policy, in the
face of a relative lack of substantive, concrete upfront actions before the disbursement of the
first tranche.

4.13     Bank Supervision was Moderately Unsatisfactory. Supervision was close on the
electricity side, thanks to the location of the task team in Dakar, and the policy dialogue was
supported by comprehensive and frequent aide-memoires, management letters and meetings
at the highest level. In particular, the team provided critical inputs into the preparation (by
Government consultants McKinsey) of the thorough diagnostic that led to the ground-
breaking “Plan Takkal”. Yet there was some ambiguity in the Bank’s stance, as discussed
earlier in this report (para.2.4). In retrospect, a stronger message, particularly on issues of
tariffs and investment choices, may have better sensitized the Government to the urgency of
accelerating reforms. In particular, it is difficult to understand how the Bank did not react
more strongly to the tariff decrease implemented by the Government in 2009. Further, Bank
                                              21


supervision of the hydrocarbons component of the operation was much less intense and
consistent than for the power component. In particular, the situation in SAR appears to have
been neglected by the Bank, on the grounds that SAR had now become a majority private
company (even though Government subsidies are reported to continue to this day), and the
dialogue on the merits of creating a regulatory commission covering the whole energy sector
(versus the hydrocarbons sub-sector only as planned under the DPC) was never very
substantive. Finally, project supervision ratings were neither consistent nor realistic: IP was
rated Moderately Satisfactory (but DO Moderately Unsatisfactory) until very late in the
project’s life – when most of the second tranche conditions were clearly not being met.

4.14     Borrower performance. Borrower performance was Unsatisfactory overall (for a
DPC, Borrower performance conflates Government and Implementing Agency performance).
Whereas the Government (primarily MEM and the Ministry of Finance) were closely
involved in the preparation and implementation of the operation, commitment fluctuated,
particularly with successive changes in Energy Ministers and government. Government
commitment was weakest with regards to tariff adjustments, as increases during the project
period were insufficient to eliminate budgetary transfers (which instead reached peak levels)
and tariffs were even unwisely decreased on one occasion (in 2009). Lack of continuity in
Government policies also affected key investment decisions, particularly regarding the
generation mix, a critical factor in SENELEC’s ability to reduce its operating (fuel) costs.
The Government can be commended for undertaking the first ever comprehensive and far-
reaching diagnostic of the electricity sector, which led to the formulation of the “Takkal
Plan” in 2011. Yet implementation of this plan has already lagged, and key elements of the
Plan have been questioned by the new Government, without clear, practical, alternatives,
being put forward.

4.15 Monitoring & Evaluation. Notwithstanding the fact that there were too many
conditions and that some of them were either premature or somewhat peripheral to the core
objectives of the project (see para. 4.3), related key indicators were generally relevant to the
conditions and measurable, with some caveats: e.g. the requirement to prepare a
diversification strategy from oil to coal and new and renewable energies was too broadly
worded to be meaningful. And the requirement for the preparation of master plans for
generation, transmission and distribution was too focused on form versus substance. In both
cases, these requirements were legally met with the mere completion of documents, but no
provision was made for their implementation and/or Bank input into the actual
recommendations of the studies. The conditions related to the strengthening of SENELEC’s
finances were appropriately specific – albeit unrealistic in retrospect—but those related to
SAR (recapitalization and preparation of an investment plan) were too vaguely worded to be
meaningful and no provision was made as to their follow up in the event of a major change in
ownership. All in all, M&E quality (including both design and Implementation) is rated
Modest.
                                              22


5. Lessons Learned
5.1    The following lessons can be derived from the Bank’s experience in the power sector
of Senegal.

5.2     Proper sequencing of sector policy dialogue and investment support is important
for success when the two are closely connected. The viability and sustainability of the
investment commitments for SENELEC strongly depended on the sector policy and strategy
as well as the financial restructuring of the utility. The absence of a sound policy framework
was a factor in the failure of the Electricity Sector Efficiency Enhancement project. When the
Bank finally addressed key policy issues under a heavily front-loaded DPC in 2008, it was
too accommodating and complacent in its implementation follow up. The most recent Sector
Investment Loan, approved in 2012, is similarly light on institutional and policy content
while the energy policy content of the recently-approved Governance and Growth DPC
appears to neglect certain urgently needed reforms, including on the tariff front.

5.3     The Bank has an important role in ensuring that investment decisions are made
based on technical, financial, and economic merits. This is particularly true for generation
investments in a country like Senegal, which has limited options given its small system size
and the absence of sizeable domestic energy resources. The Bank risks credibility if it takes,
or is perceived to take, a dogmatic position against coal-based power where it is the least-cost
option (after accounting for environmental externalities), at least in the medium-term, and a
potentially critical way to significantly reduce generation costs and turn around sector
finances.

5.4    Realistic policy requirements and consistent messages are important to
borrowers. Over the past decade, the Bank’s stance has fluctuated between a sometimes
overly demanding agenda (like in the “letter” of the 2008 Energy DPC) and an excessively
accommodating position when it came to the government delivering on its key commitments
(such as on tariffs), all in the context of unwavering and growing financial support. As a
consequence, it may have been seen by counterparts as sending mixed messages on the
importance and urgency of actual sector reform.

5.5     Where a country’s political timetable is liable to bring significant shifts in policy,
a keen appreciation of political economy is necessary. Twice, the Bank did not sufficiently
appreciate the likely implications of scheduled (democratic) changes in government, first in
2000 and more recently in 2012. In the first instance, the new government hardened its
position on SENELEC’s privatization, possibly contributing to its failure; and in the second
instance, the new government appears to have taken a different approach to investment
planning and tariff policy, revisiting key tenets of the “Takkal Plan.”

5.6     The Bank has much to gain from locating key operational staff in the field,
particularly where a continuous and intense dialogue is required, such as Senegal’s
energy sector. But field location will only yield benefits if human and budget resources are
made available; otherwise the teams will become overloaded and key areas requiring
specialized expertise (like the hydrocarbon subsector in Senegal) will end up unattended.
                                               23


5.7    In addition, several lessons specific to the two projects assessed in this report arise.

5.8     Project implementation requires suitable institutional arrangements. In the first
project, the institutional arrangements and the location of the PIU were not designed in
accordance with the roles and responsibilities of the respective entities: MEM should have
played the role of coordinating entity (except for the few activities directly pertaining to it)
and not that of an implementing unit, when most of the project activities required the
involvement of SENELEC for their execution. This lesson has been reflected in the design of
the latest Sector Investment Loan to Senegal (the Electricity Sector Support project approved
in 2012).

5.9     A comprehensive and realistic analysis of sector finances is the best foundation
for financial covenants that will be met. The analysis should reflect realistic assumptions
regarding the timing and scope of future reform steps regarding tariff changes, financial
restructuring, as well as realistic scenarios for future increases in international oil prices,
particularly for a system so dependent on liquid fuel imports like Senegal’s. Because it was
not done in the first project, the financial covenants were essentially meaningless and bound
not to be complied with.

5.10 Project success is handicapped at the start if it is not ready for implementation
by credit effectiveness. In the first project, the preparation of key components was not fully
completed until much later in the project’s life, leading to delays in bidding and serious
implementation delays, and resulting in the ultimate cancellation of a large part of the credit.
In fact, the Project Implementation Manual was not even finalized until more than a year
after the project was started. Compounding the problem was the fact that procurement
training of key SENELEC staff was insufficient, leading to procurement inefficiencies.

5.11 The outcome of IPP projects cannot be viewed in isolation of broader sector
outcomes. While the generally satisfactory completion of the Kounoune project provided
needed additional capacity to the system at least-cost and served as a demonstration of the
feasibility and benefits of IPP arrangements in Senegal, its outcome is being jeopardized by
the recurrent financial difficulties in the sector: the technical problems that marred the plant
in the first two years were partly caused by poor fuel quality, itself the result of SENELEC’s
strained cash situation. The latter also led to delays in energy payments to Kounoune. More
broadly, the dire financial situation of the sector is a disincentive to private investors
investing on a large scale in future IPP projects.

5.12 Inattention to the good practice principles for the application of conditionality
can result in policy-based operations that are unbalanced and lack focus. In the second
project, most of the substantive conditions were back-loaded to the second tranche whereas
the first tranche accounted for 70 percent of the credit. Furthermore, the credit included an
excessive number of conditions, some of which were vague and/or largely formalistic,
whereas others were disconnected from the core objectives of the project.

5.13 In designing policy-based operations, a realistic sense of the pace of reform will
take account of political economy considerations. The DPC was clearly too ambitious
regarding the expected timeline for key reform steps, including the enactment of needed tariff
                                               24


increases and the elimination of budgetary transfers to the sector. It attempted to achieve too
many things at the same time instead of focusing on key actions required to address the core
roots of the sector crisis – and following up on their actual implementation.
                                                  25


References
Besant-Jones, John. 2006. “Reforming Power Markets in Developing Countries: What Have We Learned?”
        Energy and Mining Sector Board Discussion Paper No. 19, World Bank, Washington, DC.
IEG. 2003. Power for Development. A Review of the World Bank Group’s Experience with Private
        Participation in the Electricity Sector. Washington, DC: World Bank.
SENELEC. 2012. “Resultats Estimes 2012.” Dakar, Senegal.
World Bank. 2003. “Implementation Completion Report (IDA-30690) on a Credit in the Amount of US$
       100 million Equivalent to the Republic of Senegal for an Energy Sector Adjustment Operation.”
       Report no. 26077. Washington, DC.
World Bank. 2005. “Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed International Development Association
       Credit in the Amount of SDR 10.5 million (US$ 15.7 million Equivalent) to the Republic of
       Senegal; on a Proposed International Development Association Partial Risk Guarantee in the
       Amount of up to SDR 7.2 million to Compagnie Bancaire de l’Afrique Occidentale; on a Proposed
       International Finance Corporation “A” Loan in the Amount of up to Euros 17 million (US$ 22
       million Equivalent) to Kounoune Power S.A. for an Electricity Sector Efficiency Enhancement
       Program.” Report no. 30320-SN. Washington, DC.
_______. 2007. “International Development Association and International Finance Corporation Country
       Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Senegal for the Period FY07-FY10.” Report no. 36608-
       SN. Washington, DC.
_______. 2008. “Program Document for a Proposed Energy Sector Recovery Development Policy Credit to
       the Republic of Senegal in the Amount of SDR 49.1 million (US$ 80 million Equivalent).” Report
       no. 42952-SN. Washington, DC.
_______. 2009. “International Development Association and International Finance Corporation Country
       Assistance Strategy Progress Report for the Republic of Senegal.” Report no. 48600-SN.
       Washington, DC.
_______. 2011a. “Implementation Completion and Results Report (IDA-40600) on a Credit in the Amount
       of SDR 10.5 million (US$ 15.7 million Equivalent) to the Republic of Senegal for an Electricity
       Sector Efficiency Enhancement Project Phase 1, APL-1.” Report no. ICR-00001832. Washington,
       DC.
_______. 2011b. “Implementation Completion and Results Report (IDA-44670) on a Credit in the Amount
       of SDR 49.1 million (US$ 80 million Equivalent) to the Republic of Senegal for an Energy Sector
       Recovery Development Policy Credit.” Report no. ICR-00001833. Washington, DC.
_______. 2012a. “Program Document for the First Governance and Growth Support Credit in the Amount
       of SDR 35.8 million (US$ 55 million Equivalent)to the Republic of Senegal.” Report no. 73487-
       SN. Washington, DC.
_______. 2012a. “Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Credit in the Amount of SDR 56.3 million
       (US$ 85 million Equivalent) for an Electricity Sector Support Project (ESSP).”Report no. 65901-
       SN. Washington, DC.
                                                   27                                          ANNEX A


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet
ELECTRICITY SECTOR EFFICIENCY ENHANCEMENT (APL)
(CREDIT 4060-SE)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)2
                                              Appraisal             Actual or          Actual as % of
                                              estimate           current estimate     appraisal estimate
Total project costs                             16.6                   6.9                  42%
Credit amount                                      15.7                6.2                     39%
Co-financing                                        0                     0                    0%
Cancellation                                       n/a                 9.5                     61%


Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
                                           FY06          FY07     FY08        FY09     FY10          FY11
Appraisal estimate (US$M)                   4.00         11.00    15.70       15.70    15.70         15.70
Actual (US$M)                               3.31          3.31     3.31       3.61      4.50         5.49
Actual as % of appraisal                   82.75         30.09    21.00       21.00    28.66         34.96
Date of final disbursement:               May 13, 2011


Project Dates
                                                      Original                          Actual
Concept Review                                       10/21/2003                       10/21/2003
Negotiations                                         03/21/2005                       03/21/2005
Board approval                                       05/17/2005                       05/17/2005
Signing                                              06/28/2005                       06/28/2005
Effectiveness                                        12/09/2005                       12/09/2005
Closing date                                         01/31/2009                       12/31/2010




2
    The data only includes IDA supported part of the project.
ANNEX A                                  28


Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Stage of Project Cycle               Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                                US$ Thousands (including
                                  No. of staff weeks
Lending                                                        travel and consultants costs)
           FY01                                                            0.34
           FY02                           1                                2.94
           FY03                          16                              110.71
           FY04                          20                              155.07
           FY05                          58                              345.06
                         Total:          95                              614.12
Supervision/ICR
           FY06                          38                              131.74
           FY07                          38                              181.29
           FY08                          28                               90.07
           FY09                           6
                         Total:          110                             403.10


Task Team Members

               Names                                   Title                         Unit

Lending
Thanh Lu Ha                         Senior Program Assistant                       AFTEG
Ignatius A. Menezes                 Consultant                                     AFRVP

Supervision/ICR
Fabrice Karl Bertholet              Sr. Financial Analyst                          AFTEG
Moez Cherif                         Sr. Energy Econ.                               AFTPC
Bourama Diaite                      Senior Procurement Specialist                  AFTPC
Anta Tall Diallo                    Program Assistant                              AFCF1
Saidou Diop                         Sr. Financial Management Spec.                 AFTFM
Philippe J-P. Durand                Program Coordinator                            AFTEG
Alain Ebobisse                      Chief Investment Officer                       CNGIV
Maimouna Mbow Fam                   Sr. Financial Management Spec.                 AFTFM
Kwawu Mensan Gaba                   Lead Energy Specialist                         SASDE
Stephan C. Frederic Garnier         Senior energy Specialist                       AFTEG
Yhanh Lu Ha                         Senior Program Assistant                       AFTEG
Fatouma Toure Ibrahima Wane         Senior Financial Specialist                    AFTEG
Amadou Konare                       Sr. Environmental Spec.                        AFTEN
Michel E. Layec                     Lead Energy Economist                          LCSEG
Sunil W. Mathrani                   Senior Energy Specialist                       AFTEG
Cheikh A.T. Sagna                   Consultant                                     AFTCS
Ibrah Rahamane Sanoussi             Procurement Specialist                         AFTPC
Awa Seck                            Senior Economist                               AFTEG
Seynabou Thiaw Seye                 Program Assistant                              AFCF1
                                            29                                      ANNEX A


                 Names                                    Title                        Unit
Fily Sissoko                          Lead Financial Mgment Spec.                   AFTFM
Pierre C. Viellescazes                Consultant                                    MNSED
Eric Jean Yoboue                      Senior Procurement Spec.                      AFTPC
Noureddine Bouzaher                   ICR Primary Author/Consultant                 AFTEG




Other Project Data
Senegal:
Follow-on Operations
Operation                                    Credit no.       Amount            Board date
                                                            (US$ million)

Energy Sector Recovery Development Policy     4467-SE             80.0         05/21/2008
Credit




ENERGY SECTOR RECOVERY DEVELOPMENT POLICY (CREDIT 4467)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                        Appraisal          Actual or         Actual as % of
                                        estimate        current estimate    appraisal estimate
Total project costs                       80.0               56.07                70%
Loan amount                                 80.0             56.07                70%
Cancellation                                 -               23.9                 30%


Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
                                                     FY09                      FY10
Appraisal estimate (US$M)                            56.0                       80.0
Actual (US$M)                                        56.1                       56.1
Actual as % of appraisal                             70%                        70%
Date of final disbursement: September 25, 2008
ANNEX A                                   30


Project Dates
                                             Original                        Actual
Concept Review                              03/07/2007                     03/07/2007
Negotiations                                05/16/2008                     05/16/2008
Board approval                              06/19/2008                     06/19/2008
Signing                                     06/30/2008                     06/30/2008
Effectiveness                               09/05/2008                     09/05/2008
Closing date                                03/30/2010                     12/31/2010




Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Stage of Project Cycle                Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                                 US$ Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
Lending                                                         travel and consultants costs)
               FY07                                                        23.95
               FY08                                                       337.58
                          Total:                                          361.53


Task Team Members
                  Names                                 Title                         Unit

Lending
Michel Layec                               Lead Energy Specialist (TTL)             AFTEG
Stephan Garnier                                    Power Engineer                   AFTEG
Iradj A. Alikhani                                    Consultant                     AFCTZ
Mourad Belguedj                                      Consultant                     SEGOM
Fabrice Karl Bertholet                          Sr. Financial Analyst               AFTEG
Sidi Mohammed Boubacar                         Lead Operations Officer              MNC03
Renee M. Desclaux                              Senior Finance Officer               CTRFC
Kwawu Mensan Gaba                              Lead Energy Specialist               SASDE
Bertrand Loiseau                                  Senior Economist                  ENVCF
Sunil W. Mathrani                              Senior Energy Specialist             AFTEG
Awa Seck                                          Senior Economist                  AFTEG
Seynabou Thiaw Seye                               Program Assistant                 AFCF1
Boris Enrique Utria                         Country Operations Adviser              LCC5C
                                     31                                  ANNEX A


Supervision
Stephen Garnier                           Sr. Power engineer (TTL)        AFTEG
Fabrice Karl Bertholet                      Sr. Financial Analyst         AFTEG
Moez Cherif                                   Sr. Energy Econ             AFTEG
Saodpi Diop                          Sr. Financial Management Spec        AFTFM
Philippe J-P. Durand                        Program Coordinator           AFTEG
Thanh Lu Ha                               Senior Program Assistant        AFTEG
Fatouma Toure I. Wane                   Senior Financial Specialist       AFTEG
Michel E. Layec                           Lead Energy Economist           LCSEG
Seynabou Thiaw Seye                          Program Assistant            AFCF1
Fily Sissoko                         Lead Financial Management Spec       AFTFM
Pierre C. Vieillescazes                          Consultant               MNSED
Eric Jean Yoboue                      Senior Procurement Specialist       AFTPC
Noureddine Bouzaher                  ICR Primary Author/Consultant        AFTEG


Other Project Data
Senegal:
Follow-on Operations
                                                       Amount
Operation                              Credit no.                     Board date
                                                     (US$ million)

Electricity Sector Support Project    IDA-51450           85.0        07/01/2012
                                                                                            33          ANNEX B



Annex B. Other Data
Figure 1. Un-served Electricity Demand 1999-2011

                    Unserved Electricity Demand 1999 - 2011
     MWh
     300000

      250000

      200000

      150000

      100000

       50000

            0
                 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011



Source: World Bank (2012). Project Appraisal Document for Senegal Electricity Sector Support Project.
ANNEX B                                                         34




Table 1. SENELEC's Historical Results (FCFA billion)

                                    2000   2001   2002   2003    2004     2005   2006   2007   2008   2009   2010   2011   2012 *

Sales revenues                       85     95    109    118     127       135    157    181    210    221    243    242    272
Other sales and services rendered     -      -      -      -       -         5      5      5      6      7      8      8      7
Energy/fuel related expenses        -51    -67    -66    -64     -70      -113   -160   -170   -215   -164   -228   -237   -288
Gross margin                         34     28     43     54      57        44     53     36      8     71     20     13     -9
Other revenues                        4      4      4     7        5        13      2      6      5      7      8     12     10
Operating subsidy                     0      6      8     0        0        26     33     37     60     40     28    103    130
General charges/external services   -24    -20    -20    -20     -20       -55    -73    -41    -36    -58    -52    -75    -98

Personnel charges                   -13    -13    -14    -16     -18      -19    -21    -22    -23    -27    -28    -28     -26
Earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation, and amortization        1      5     21     25      24        9     -6     15     14     34    -20     25       7
Depreciation/amortization           -10    -10    -15    -16     -16      -20    -18    -20    -18    -23    -31    -21     -10
Operating results                    -9     -5      6     9        8       -7    -23     -3     -1     13    -52      4      -3
Financial charges                    -7    -11     -8    -11     -12       -8    -12     -7     -7     -6     -7     -9      -1
Ordinary results                      -      -      -      -       -      -15    -36     -9     -9      6    -59     -6      -4
HAO results                           -      -      -      -       -       11      3      3      2      0      4      0       2

Net results                         -16    -17     -4     -2         -4    -4    -34     -6     -7     6     -55     -6      -2
* preliminary
                                                           35        ANNEX B



Table 2. Economic and Financial Analysis – Kounoune Power Plant

  Plant nominal capacity                    67.5   MW
  Plant capacity factor                     70%
  Generation                                414    GWh
  Use                        1st year       70%
                             2nd year       80%
                             3rd year 
                                      -20th 100%
                                            18%
  Station use & T&D losses
  Average tariff                           18      Uscents/kWh
  Estimated cost                           80      US$ Million
  O&M                                      3%      of invest costs
  Heavy Fuel Oil price                     70      US$/bbl
  bbl                                      159     liters
  Fuel use                                 250     gr/kWh
ANNEX B                                                 36




      Table 3. Ex-post Economic Rate of Return Calculation
                                                                                      Net Sales   Net Sales NetBenefits
                                                                    Station use T&D
                      O&M Costs Fuel Costs Total Costs Generation
          Invest. Costs                                                  Losses        (GWh)      (US$ M)    (US$ M)
            (US$ M)    (US$ M)   (US$ M)    (US$ M)     (GWh)            (GWh)
2006           16         0         0          16          0                0             0          0         -16
2007           40         0         0          40          0                0             0          0         -40
2008           24        2.4       32          58         290              52            238        43         -16
2009                     2.4       36          39         331              60            272        49          10
2010                     2.4       46          48         414              75            339        61          13
2011                     2.4       46          48         414              75            339        61          13
2012                     2.4       46          48         414              75            339        61          13
2013                     2.4       46          48         414              75            339        61          13
2014                     2.4       46          48         414              75            339        61          13
2015                     2.4       46          48         414              75            339        61          13
2016                     2.4       46          48         414              75            339        61          13
2017                     2.4       46          48         414              75            339        61          13
2018                     2.4       46          48         414              75            339        61          13
2019                     2.4       46          48         414              75            339        61          13
2020                     2.4       46          48         414              75            339        61          13
2021                     2.4       46          48         414              75            339        61          13
2022                     2.4       46          48         414              75            339        61          13
2023                     2.4       46          48         414              75            339        61          13
2024                     2.4       46          48         414              75            339        61          13
2025                     2.4       46          48         414              75            339        61          13
2026                     2.4       46          48         414              75            339        61          13
2027                     2.4       46          48         414              75            339        61          13
2028                     2.4       46          48         414              75            339        61          13
PV, NPV (US$ Million)                        $391.92                                  $2,303.10   $414.56     $22.64
IRR                                                                                                            14%
                                          37                  ANNEX C


Annex C. List of Persons Met
SENELEC:
Mr. Papa Dieng, General Manager
Mr. Bakary Diop, Director of Studies
Mr. Mustapha Ba, Head of Planning Dept.

Ministry of Energy and Mines:
Mr. Boudiene Diffe, Director of Cabinet
Ms. Oumy Diop, Technical Advisor
Mr. Daniel Sarr, Technical Advisor

Ministry of Economy and Finance:
Mr. Alhousseynou Diallo, Director of Cabinet
Mr. Aliounae Ndong, Technical Advisor
Ms. Wade Drame, Technical Advisor

Regulatory Commission for Electricity Sector:
Ms. Maimouna Seck, President
Mr. Aloune Fall, former President, Consultant

National Committee for Hydrocarbons:
Mr. Abdoulaye Gueye, Permanent Secretary

Permanent Secretariat for Electricity:
Mr. Assane Diouf, Permanent Secretary

Kounoune Power Company/Mitsubishi
Mr. Claude-Pierre Lhoste, General Project Manager, Kounoune
Mr. Michel Vincent, Plant manager, Kounoune

Agence Francaise de Developpement:
Mr. Anthony Dupont, Energy specialist

International Monetary Fund:
Ms. Valeria Fichera, Resident Representative in Senegal

International Finance Corporation:
Mr. Bertrand De La Borde, Infrastructure Manager, Africa
Ms. Benadette Tabeko, Investment Officer
ANNEX C                                   38


World Bank:
Ms. Vera Songwe, Senegal Country Director
Mr. Philippe Durand, Program Coordinator
Mr. Demetrios Papathanasiou, Lead Energy Specialist
Ms. Fatouma, Ibrahima, Financial Analyst
Mr. Stephan Garnier, Senior Energy Specialist (at HQ)
