                                              Document of
                                            The World Bank


                                      FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                                  ReportNo. 42952-SN



                      INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION



                                       PROGRAMDOCUMENT


                                           FOR A PROPOSED


            ENERGY SECTOR RECOVERY DEVELOPMENT POLICY CREDIT

                                                     TO

                                   THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL


                              INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR 49.1 MILLION

                                  (US%SOMILLIONEQUIVALENT)


                                              MAY 21,2008




Energy Group
Sustainable Development Department
Africa Region




This document has a restricteddistribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanceof their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                              (As of May 10,2008)


                         CurrencyUnit = FCFA
                            FCFA405 = US$1
                           EUR00.69 = US$1
                        SDR0.613587 = US$1

                                FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1    - December31


                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAP     Africa Action Plan
AfDB    African DevelopmentBank
AfDF    African DevelopmentFund
AFD     Agence Franqaise de De'veloppement (French Development Agency)
AGS     Accelerated Growth Strategy
APL     Adaptable ProgramLoan
ASER    Agence Se'ne'galaised'Electrification Rurale (Rural ElectrificationAgency in
        Senegal)
BCEAO   Banque Centrale des Etats de I 'Afiique de I 'Ouest (Central Bank of West African
        States)
BOAD    Banque OuestAfiicaine de De'veloppement(West African DevelopmentBank)
BOO     Build, Own, Operate
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA    Country FinancialAssessment
CFL     Compact Fluorescent Lamps
CIF     Cost Insurance Fret
CNH     Comite'National des Hydrocarbures (National HydrocarbonCommittee)
CPAR    Country ProcurementAssessment Review
CRSE    Commission de Rdgulation du Secteur de 1'Electricitd (Electricity Sector
        RegulatoryCommission)
CY      Calendar Year
DO      DieselOil
DPC     DevelopmentPolicyCredit
DPL     Development Policy Lending
DSCR    Debt Service CoverageRatio
DSM     DemandSide Management
FCFA    Franc CFA
FOB     Free on Board
FSIPP   Fonds de Se'curisation des Importations de Produits Pe'troliers (Petroleum
        Products Import Securisation Fund)
GEF     Global EnvironmentFacility
GPOBA   Global Partnership on Output-BasedAid
GDP     Gross DomesticProduct
GESTOCI Socie'te'de Gestion des De'pdts de Cdte d'lvoire (Ivory Coast PetroleumProducts
        Storage Company)

                                                                        FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY


      GTZ             Gesellschaft&r TechnischeZusammenarbeit (German Technical Cooperation)
      HIPC            Heavily IndebtedPoor Countries Initiative
      HFO             Heavy FuelOil
      Hv              High Voltage
      ICs             Industries Chimiques du Se'ne'gal(Senegal ChemicalIndustries)
      IDA             InternationalDevelopmentAssociation
      IDB             Islamic DevelopmentBank
      IFC             InternationalFinance Corporation
      IMF             InternationalMonetaryFund
      IPP             IndependentPower Producer
      KFW             Kreditanstaltfur Wiederaujban (GermanReconstructionCredit Institute)
      LPG             Liquified Petroleum Gas
      LV              Low Voltage
      MAR             MaximumAllowed Revenues
      MDG             Millenium DevelopmentGoals
      MDRI            Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative
      ME              Ministry of Energy (Ministere de 1'Energie)
      MEF             Ministry of Economy and Finance
      MOU             Memorandum of Understanding
      MV              MediumVoltage
      MW              Megawatt
      OHADA           Organisationfor the Harmonizationof BusinessLawsin Africa
      O&M             Operations and Maintenance
      OMVG            Organisationpour la Mise en Valeur du Fleuve Gambie (GambiaRiver Basin
                      Organization)
      OMVS            Organisationpour la Mise en Valeur du Fleuve Se'ne'gal(Senegal River Basin
                      Organization)
      PEFA            Public ExpenditureandFinancialAccountability
      PETROSEN Socie'te'des Pe'troles du Se'ne'gal(Senegal NationalPetroleum Company)
      PFM             Public Finance Management
      PHRD            Japan Policy and HumanResourcesDevelopment Trust Fund
      PPIAF           Public PrivateInfrastructureAdvisory Facility
      PPP             Public-PrivatePartnership
      PRG             PartialRisk Guarantee
      PRGF            PovertyReductionGrowth Facility
      PROGEDE         Sustainable and Participatory Energy Management Project
      PROPARCO Socie'te' de Promotion et de Participation pour la Coope'ration Economique
                      (Corporationfor Economic Promotionand Participation)
      PRSC            PovertyReductionStrategy Credit
      PRSP            PovertyReductionStrategy Paper
      PSI             Policy Support Investment
      RE              Rural Electrification
      ROA             ReturnOn Assets
      SA1             Cow des Comptes (Supreme Audit Institution)
      SAR             Socie'te'Apicaine de Rafinage (RefiningCompany)
      SENELEC         Socie'te'Nationale d'Electricite' (National Power Utility of Senegal)
      SYSCOA          Systime Comptabilite' Ouest-Afiicaine (West African Accounting System)
      TA              Technical Assistance


                 has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.

TORS   Terms Of Reference
UNDP   UnitedNationsDevelopmentProgramme
WAPP   West Africa Power Pool
WBG    World Bank Group




                     Vice President: ObiageliK.Ezekwesili
                   Country Director: MadaniM.Tall
                    Sector Manager: SubramanianV. Iyer
                  Task Team Leader: Michel E.Layec

    SENEGAL ENERGY SECTORRECOVERY DEVELOPMENT POLICY CREDIT

                                           TABLE OF CONTENTS

I INTRODUCTION                                                                                                                                      4
I1 COUNTRY SOCIALAND ECONOMIC CONTEXT
 ..                        .................................................................................................................
                                                                                          ......................................................
     A.                                           ...........................................................................................       5

     B.     Political and Social Context                                                                                                             5
            Recent Economic Developments in Senegal                          ..................................................................      6
                                                                                                                                                     7
I11 THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM
   . C .     Macroeconomic Outlook and Debt Sustainability    ................................................................................
                                                                                       .........................................................
     A.                                                                                                                                              8
             The Poverty Reduction Strategy ....................................................................................                     8
                                                                                                                                                    10
I V BANK SUPPORT TO THE GOVERNMENT'S STRATEGY
   . B.      Government's Strategy for the Energy Sector                        .............................................................
                                                                                                          ......................................
     A.                                                                                                                                             19

     B.      Link to the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) ..........................................................                               19
             Collaboration with the IMFand Other Donors                           ............................................................     20
     C .     Relationshipto other Bank Group Operations                          .............................................................     21
      D.     Lessons Learned   ...........................................................................................................         22
                                                                                                                                                   23
V .  E.      Analytical Underpinnings          ............................................................................................
     THE PROPOSEDOPERATION                           ......................................................................................
      A.                                       ............................................................................................        23

      B.     Rationale and Description                                                                                                             23
             Policy Areas ................................................................................................................. 24
                                                                                                                                                    29
V I OPERATION IMPLEMENTATION
   .  C.     Agreed Actions  .............................................................................................................
                                                             ...............................................................................
     A.                            ........................................................................................................        34

      B.     Economic Impacts                    .......................................................................................... 34      34

      C.     Poverty and Social Impacts
       .     Environmental Impacts         ................................................................................................
                                                                                    ..........................................................      34

      E.
      D      Implementation Arrangements and Supervision                                                                                            35
                                  ......................................................................................................... 35
      F.     Fiduciary Aspects
             Disbursementand AuditingArrangements                          ..................................................................       36
      G.     Risksand Risk Mitigation............................................................................................ 37
Annex 1-Letter of Energy Sector DevelopmentPolicy                                 ............................................................     39
Annex 2- OperationPolicy Matrix, ResultsFrameworkand Monitoring                                                                                     82
Annex 3- Reform Action Plan           .....................................................................................................
                                                                                                                     .............................
                                                                                                                                                    93
Annex 4- Country and Energy Sector Background                              ................................................................        102
Annex 5- FinancialAssessment of SENELEC and SAR                                     ........................................................       115
Annex 6- Documentsin the Operation's File                                                                                                          128
Annex 7- Fund RelationNote            ...................................................................................................
                                                                ..........................................................................
                                                                                                                                                   130
Annex 8- Statementof Loans and Credits                                                                                                             132
Annex 9- Senegal At A Glance           ..................................................................................................
                                                           ...............................................................................
                                                                                                                                                   133

Map IBRDNo 36179 .

The Senegal Energy Sector RecoveryDevelopment Policy Credit was preparedby an IDA team consisting
of: Michel Layec (Task Team Leader); Stephan Gamier (Sr Energy Specialist); FabriceBertholet
                                                                            .
(FinancialAnalyst); Nicolette DeWitt (Lead Counsel); WolfgangChadab(Sr                                  . FinanceOfficer);                 Mourad
Belguedj (Consultant); Diop Saidou(FinancialManagement Specialist); Eric Yoboue (Sr. Procurement
Specialist). MamadouNdione(Macroeconomist). Seynabou Mbengue Gueye (Program Assistant); Lu Ha
(Sr Program Assistant)
   .

   SENEGAL ENERGYSECTORRECOVERY DEVELOPMENTPOLICY CREDIT

                      CREDIT AND PROGRAMSUMMARY


Borrower            The Republic of Senegal
ImplementingAgency  Ministry of Economy and Financehlinistry of Energy
Amount              IDA Credit of equivalent SDR 49.1 million (US$SO million)
Terms               IDA terms
Tranching           Two tranches:       First tranche o f SDR 34.4 million to be disbursed upon
                    effectiveness; second tranche of SDR 14.7 million to be disbursed when second
                    tranche conditions are met.
Description         The proposed Energy Sector Recovery DevelopmentPolicy Credit is in support of
                    the Government's economic and social program and of its Poverty Reduction
                    Strategy. The implementationof an energy sector reform programcentered around
                    the electricity and the hydrocarbon sub-sectors constitutes a key element of the
                    Government strategy.
                    The primary objective of this operation is to ensure a sustained and sound long-
                    term development of electricity services and supply of petroleum products for
                    Senegal. To achieve this primary objective, the operation comprises: (a) financial
                    support to the Government to allow the power utility of Senegal- SENELEC- to
                    restore by end CY2009 its financial equilibrium and to meet standard financial
                    ratios and credit worthiness; and (b) policy measures aimed at ensuring that the
                    electricity sub-sector and the downstream hydrocarbon sub-sector develop and
                    operate in an efficient andtransparent way with adequate governance.
                    The operation fully complements the efforts made by the Government and by the
                    donor community with respect to budgetary support to SENELEC and to energy
                    sector investment financing.
Benefits            The benefits of the proposed operation will be realized over time. Benefits are
                    expected to accrue to the Government budget through reduced subsidy
                    requirements to the electricity utility (SENELEC) and the refinery (SAR), thereby
                    freeing up scarce public resources for growth and povertyreductionmeasures.
                    Beneficiaries will also include the consumers of electricity and of petroleum
                    products who will enjoy increasedquality of supply at the lowest cost from a more
                    performingenergy sector.
Risks               The main risk under this operation is related to the rising and widely fluctuating
                    international energy prices particularly of petroleum products, which create
                    instability in domestic energy costs and may induce the Government to suspend or
                    only partially implement the continued pass-through of cost increases to
                    consumers. This risk is mitigatedby: (a) the Government'scommitment for reform
                    and actions to reduce costs, improve operational efficiency, invest in efficient and
                    least cost facilities and to diversify; and (b) the existing regulations and price
                    adjustment mechanisms for electricity services as well as for petroleum products
                    allowing for monthly or quarterly adjustments.
Operation ID Number P105279

    SENEGAL ENERGY SECTOR RECOVERYDEVELOPMENT POLICY CREDIT

                                    PROGRAMDOCUMENT

Date: May 21, 2008                                  LendingInstrument: DevelopmentPolicy
Country: Republic of Senegal                        Lending
Operation: SN -Energy Sector Recovery               BoardApproval Date: June 19,2008
DevelopmentPolicy Financing(FY08)                   EffectivenessDate: September 30, 2008
OperationID: P105279                                ClosingDate: June 30, 2010
Team Leader: MichelE. Layec                         Sectors: General energy sector (100%)
Sector Manager: SubramanianV. Iyer                  Themes: State enterprisehankrestructuring
Country Director:MadaniM.Tall                       and privatization(P)
                                                    Environmentalscreening category:N/A

Special DevelopmentPolicy Lending:                            []Yes        [ X I N O
Crisis or Post-Conflict Situation(exceptionto OP8.60):        [ ] Yes      [XI No
Programmatic:                                                 []Yes        [XINO
DeferredDrawdownOption:                                       []Yes        [XINO
SubnationalLending:                                           [3 Yes       [XI No




                                       TrancheReleaseInformation
Listbindingconditionsas stated inthe LegalAgreement.
1.      FinancialSustainabilityof the Recipient's Electricityand HydrocarbonSub-sectors:

(a)     Furtherpartialrecapitalizationof SENELECthroughthe transfer by the Recipientto SENELEC
ofthe 2008 RecapitalizationAmount.

(b)     Adjustment of SENELEC's electricity tariffs and/or transfer by the Recipientof budgetary
resourcesadequate to have enabled SENELEC to generate revenues in FiscalYear 2008 equal to the
2008 MaximumAuthorizedRevenue Amount.

(c)     Adjustment of SENELEC's electricity tariffs so that its average electricity tariff is expected to be
sufficient to enable it to: (i)achieve a debt-servicecoverage ratio of at least 1.2 in Fiscal Year 2009; and
(ii)producerevenuesequaltoits2009MaximumAuthorizedRevenuewithoutbudgetaryallocations
from the Recipient.

(d)     (i)Completionofastudyto: (A) simulatetheimpactsoftheplannednewelectricitytariff
structurefor SENELEC, together with recommended proposedtariff levels; and (B) assess the
environmentaland social impacts ofthe reductionof butane subsidies, together with recommended
measuresto mitigateany such adverse impacts; and (ii) development of an actionplan for the
implementationofthese recommendations.




                                                 2

2.      Governance of the Recipient's Electricity and Hydrocarbon Sub-sectors

(a)     Adoption by SENELEC and SAR of procurementprocedures designed to ensurethe economic,
efficient andtransparent procurement of goods and services by each, consistent with the Recipient's
Public Procurement Code.

(b)     (i) Separationof SENELEC'sactivities into the following three distinct business lines each with
separateaccounting: (A) electricity generation; (B) electricitytransmission and systems planningand
operations; and (C) electricitydistribution; and (ii) adoptionby the Recipientof a strategy, consistent
with the Program, to facilitate participationby the private sector inthe energy sector.

(c)     Completionof an audit by independentauditors ofthe internal audit functions of SENELEC and
SAR, together with recommendations by the auditors for the strengthening of these functions, and
development of an action planfor the implementationof such recommendations.

(d)     Creationof an agency to be responsible for regulatingthe import, refinery, storage, and
distributionof petroleumproducts inthe Recipient'sterritory, and staffingandprovisionof financial and
other resources requiredfor it to carry out its regulatoryfunctions.

3.      Long-term Developmentof the Energy Sector

(a)     Adoption by the Boardof Directorso f

(i)     Master plans of SENELEC for electricity generation, transmissionand distribution, basedon the
recommendations of independent consultants; and

(ii)    An investment program of SAR, basedon an updatedtechnical, economic, financial and
environmentalfeasibility study of SAR's investment program, preparedby SAR in conjunctionwith its
technicalassistant, supported by qualifiedconsultants.

(b)     (i) Submissionto the Recipient's Parliament of a regulatory framework designed to facilitate and
promotethe development of new and renewable energy sources; and (ii)adoptionby the Recipientof an
action planacceptableto the Associationdesigned to increase energy efficiency and improvedemand-
side managementof energy resources.
Does the operation depart from the CAS in content or other significant respects?          [ ]Yes [X ] No
Does the operation requireany exceptions from Bank policies?                              [ ]Yes [X ] No
Have these beenapproved by Bank management?                                               [[ ]Yes [ X I No
                                                                                             ]Yes [ ]No
I s approvalfor any policy exceptionsought from the Board?

Operation development objective
The primary objectiveofthis operationis to ensure a sustainedand sound long-termdevelopment of
electricity services and supply of petroleumproducts for Senegal. To achieve this primary objective, the
operation comprises: (a) measuresto allow the power utility (SENELEC) to restore by end of calendar
year 2009 its financial equilibrium and to meet standardfinancial ratios and creditworthiness; and(b)
policy measuresaimed at ensuring that the electricitysub-sector andthe downstream hydrocarbonsub-
sector operate in an efficient andtransparent way with adequate governance.




                                                  3

    SENEGAL ENERGY SECTORRECOVERYDEVELOPMENT POLICY CREDIT


                                     I. INTRODUCTION

1.       This operation is a Development Policy Credit (DPC) of SDR 49.1 million (US$SO
million equivalent) designed to support the policy changes needed to restore the financial
equilibrium of Senegal's energy sector with particular emphasis on the electricity sub-sector and
activities related to importing,, refining,, storing and distributing petroleumproducts in Senegal.
Such support to the sector, as well as investments currently under implementation or under
preparation through public and/or private projects, is critical for a sustained expansion of
Senegal's energy sector. The government's energy sector investmentprogram and this operation
are supported by a fairly large group of donors. The private sector is also significantly involved
in key activities.

2.       Senegal's economic growth needs and the demands of its population require an urgent
emphasis on significant investments in the energy sector to increase energy supply and to
improve the quality of the services provided. It also requires an improved performance and
governance by the main energy companies. Over the past two years, the Government has
delineated a detailed road map (with specific measures) to achieve these objectivesand adopted a
series of structural measures designed to bring about increased performance and transparency in
the operations ofthe energy sector.

3.       In 2006 and in the first months of 2007, Senegal suffered from a severe energy crisis
illustrated by power shortages, low quality of energy services, high energy services costs,
increaseddependency on expensive importedpetroleum products, and deep financial problems of
key energy companies. The dramatic increase in internationaloil prices contributedto the energy
crisis. This situation has also been created by a combination of factors: (a) lack of timely
investments, in particular in electricity generation; (b) inattentionto growing financial problems
largely due to increasing oil prices, but also to unwise decisions; (c) electricity and petroleum
retail prices not quickly adjusted to reflect rapidly increasingcosts; (d) suboptimal management
of the two main energy companies, SENELEC and SAR; and (e) political interferences in
decision-making and management of the utilities. Notwithstandingthe progress on reforms and
the large public and private investments that occurred recently, the situation in the energy sector
remains fragile and the financial situation of SENELEC and SAR is still a huge concern for the
Government.

4.       The energy crisis led to significant pressures on the national budget and on the fiscal
position of Senegal. Public resources that should have been assigned to the social sectors were
redirected to the energy sector; in the last three years, about US$350 million were transferred
from the budget to the energy sector. The energy crisis also had direct and measurable
consequences on Senegal's economic performance; the weak (2.3%) economic performance of
2006 is for a large part related to the problems ofthe energy sector.

5.       The Government recognizes that: (i)a performing energy sector is essential for a
successful implementationof its Accelerated Growth Strategy (AGS), for freeing-up budgetary
resources essential to the social sectors; (ii)a new and forceful strategy is required; and (iii)a
sustainedeffort will be neededto redressthe energy sector.




                                                   4

6.       To demonstrate its commitment the Government has laid out a new vision and strategy
described in the February 2008 Energy Sector Development Policy Letter(Annex 1). It calls for a
two-pronged approach: (a) Accelerating investment both in urban and in rural areas to provide
energy to the economy and the population, to increase the quality of the services, and to reduce
costs. Impressive actions have been underway since 2007 regarding investment in electricity
generation, others are planned to increase access and the supply of petroleumproducts, bringing
together the Government, private, public sector and donors expertise and financing; and (b)
Improving the operational and financial performance of SENELEC and SAR, the two main
companies in the energy sector, by financially restructuring SENELEC and SAR, controlling
costs and establishing performance targets, increasing transparency and         governance, and
mobilizing private sector expertise and financing.

7.       The World Bank is a long-standing and deeply involved partner in the development of
Senegal's energy sector, maintaining with the Government a fruitful dialogue and having
developedan in-depthunderstandingof energy sector issues specific to Senegal, coveringall sub-
sectors (electricity for urban and rural areas, upstream and downstream hydrocarbons, biomass,
public/private sector partnerships, regulatory issues, etc.). The Government sees the Bank Group
as a key partner in this economically and socially important sector. It asked the Bank to fully
engage and to work together with other donors at this critical stage of financial restructuring,
institutionalreforms, diversificationofenergy sources, etc.


                 11.      COUNTRY SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC CONTEXT


8.       The energy sector reformreflectsthe directives of the President of Senegal, and is part of
the Government's agenda of structural reforms required to implement the AGS, to increase
competitiveness and to reduce poverty and work towards the Millenium Development Goals
(MDGs). The Government has also realized that the energy sector reform is an enabling factor
for economic and social growth but also for the other economic and social sectors to perform.


A.       POLITICAL AND SOCIAL CONTEXT

9.       The Government continues its efforts against unemployment and poverty reduction.
Despite good macroeconomic performances (see below), progress toward MDGs had been
moderate and unequal owing to the mixed performance of Senegal in addressing the main
factors behind poverty and inequalities. Senegal is expected to reach its goals in term of
universal primary education and its combat against HIV/AIDS at the current pace of progress.
Furthermore, recent actions in terms of nutrition and immunization programs (DTC3 coverage
reached almost 80 percent in 2005) provide some encouraging signs of progress. The share of
education and healthexpenditure in total public expenditures increasedsignificantly over the past
few years, up by 0.9 and 0.5 percentage points of GDP respectively between 2000 and 2004.
This effort had been maintainedin 2005 and has begun to produce positive results as illustrated
by the recent increases in primary gross enrollment (up from 67 percent in 2002 to 82 percent in
2005) and in immunizationcoverage (DTC3 rate up from 54 percent in2002 to over 80 percent in
2005).

10.      However, major concerns remain with respect to the long-term objectives of eradicating
extreme poverty, fighting against malaria, and reducing infant and maternal mortality by 2015.
Senegal is currentlyoff-target on these goals. The latest household survey indicates that the share
of the population living in poverty decreased from 57 percent in 2001 (48 percent of households)


                                                 5

to 51 percent in 2005 (42 percent of households). This positiveevolutionneedsto be qualified on
three accounts: (i)the absolute number of poor persons has nonetheless increased; (ii) poverty
remains concentrated in rural areas because the decrease was larger in Dakar and other urban
centers than in rural areas. Progress toward reduction of child mortality was moderate. The
below 5 years mortality rate decreasedfrom 148 per 1000in 1990to 121 per 1000 in 2005, which
is above the 2015 target.


B.       RECENTECONOMICDEVELOPMENTSINSENEGAL

11.      Senegal is viewed as one of the best economic performers in Sub-Saharan Africa. This
performance is characterized by a real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growing on average by
about 5 percent annually in the past decade, marking the first sustained increase in average per
capita growth since independence in 1960. Over the past decade, the Government has shown a
capacity to generate economic growth and implement appropriatemacroeconomicpolicies. The
Authorities maintained their focus on enhancing revenue mobilization and a tight control on
current expenditures, while allowing for further increases in capital and pro-poor spending.
Supported by a well targeted fiscal stimulus and a moderate easing of monetary conditions by the
Central Bank of West African States, the economy remained on a solid growth and low inflation
trajectory. Senegal benefitedfrom significant capital inflows over the past decade and continued
to be one of the most assisted countries in the world. Furthermore, the growing number of
Senegalese living in industrial countries (and the increasing facilities to send money across
internationalborders) has generateda steady increase in remittances, estimated at aroundUS$900
million in 2006 which supported economic growthand socialprotection in Senegal.
                  1



12.       In 2006 however, Senegal's economic performance moved away from the historical
trend, with a real GDP growing by 2.3 percent and a significant increase in fiscal and external
deficits. The fiscal deficit rose from 3.0 percent of GDP in 2005 to 5.8 percent in 2006, leading
to the first accumulation of arrears vis-a-vis the private sector since 1997. The deterioration of
the budget deficit has been associated with a widening of the current account deficit from 6.1
percent of GDP in 2003 to 7.8 percent of GDP in 2005 and 9.4 percent in 2006. This gradual
deterioration was driven by strong domestic demand, mainly from the public sector, and
lackluster export performance. Such deterioration of the macroeconomic performance is to a
large extent explained by the surge in international oil prices, the temporary closing of the
refinery, the financial difficulties of the electricity sub-sector as well as of the largest exporting
firm (IndustriesChimiquesdu Senegal- ICs).

 13.      In2007, the Governmenttook significantmeasuresto repair macroeconomicweaknesses,
and resolve the crisis in the electricity sub-sector and ICs. The Government discussed with the
InternationalMonetaryFund(IMF) a three-year agreement (2007-2010) under the Policy Support
Instrument(PSI) approved by the IMF Board in November 2007 and reached an agreement with
ICs main shareholder. In the energy sector, the Authorities revised their strategy, with the
support of the Bank and other donors, and adjusted the electricity tariffs to address the financial
difficulties of the electricity company (SENELEC), that contributed to the high subsidies
allocatedto the sector (2.5 percent of GDP) and then the large fiscal deficit observed in 2006. As
a result, the GDP growth rate of 4.8 percent for 2007 is returningto the historicaltrend; the 2007
fiscal and external deficits are estimated respectively at 3.5 percent and 10.4 percent of GDP
(Table 1).


I This figure does not includenon-official transfers.


                                                     6

                             Table 1: Kev Macroeconomic Indicators:



               GDP Growth in %                          5.8     5.3   2.1      4.8
               OverallFiscalBalance (% of GDP)         -3.1    -3.0   -5.8    -3.5
               Inflation(annual change %)               0.5     1.7    2.1     5.7
               Curr. Acc. Deficit (% of GDP)           -6.1    -7.8   -9.8    10.4.
               Gross Official ForeignReserves
               (months imports)                         4.8     4.1    3.7     4.1


C.      MACROECONOMICOUTLOOK AND DEBT SUSTAINABILITY
14.      Macro Economic Outlook. Senegal's medium-term macroeconomic outlook is good,
assuming continuationof sound policies. GDP growth is projectedto be about 5.5 percendyear
over the next three years (2008-10) in line with the baseline scenario of the second PRSP. A
higher growth rate of about 5.7 percent per year, targeted by the Authorities under the AGS, can
be reached if the Government reinforces its capacity to accelerate implementation of market-
oriented structural reforms and execute the infrastructure projects, including energy and road
infrastructure, on which depends the success of the strategy. Shorter term macroeconomic
perspectives are linkedto the Government ability to tackle the current financial difficulties in the
energy sector in context of increasingoil prices, and the speed with which the Authorities will
finalize and implementthe arrangement with ICs. In both of these sectors, encouraging progress
was achieved at the end of the year 2007. Average inflation and fiscal deficit are expected to
return to their historical trend of about 2 percent and 4 percent of GDP per year respectively.
External current deficit is expected to remain high at about 11 percent of GDP because of
anticipated high imports for the infrastructure projects, including a large mining concession.
Major macroeconomicrisks are manageable.

15.     Debt Sustainability. Senegal's public debt became sustainable following the enhanced
HIPC Initiative and the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative (MDRI). Senegal reached its HIPC
floating completion point in April 2004, when it received debt relief of about US$850 million in
nominalterms and qualified in 2005 for further debt cancellation under the MDRIwhen the IMF,
the International Development Association (IDA), and the African Development Fund (AfDF)
cancelled their claims on Senegal amounting to about US$1.4 billion in nominal terms. As a
resultof these two initiatives, the externalpublic debt was estimatedat 18 percentof GDP at end-
2006. Public domestic debt was estimatedat about 3 percent of GDP, of which two-thirdsis long-
term.

16.     The most recentjoint Bank and Fund Debt SustainabilityAnalysis shows that the risk of
debt distress in Senegal is low over the following twenty years given the low current level of
debt, and assuming fiscal deficit and the inflow of concessional funds aligned with historical
trends. However, the debt ratio will get worse significantly if the GDP growth becomes lower
than the historicaltrend or if the fiscal deficit remains high (above 4 percent of GDP) and/or if
borrowingterms deteriorate.

17.     Senegal's economy remains vulnerable to exogenous shocks, including higher oil prices,
severe droughts, locust invasion etc. This fragility highlights the need to diversify the economy



                                                  7

and to promote private sector development, especially export-oriented activities, which is at the
center of the AGS. The medium and longterm economic outlooks depend on the capacity of the
Government to improve the business environment and to accelerate implementation of market-
oriented structural reforms and to execute infrastructure projects, including energy and road
infrastructures. Shorter term macroeconomic perspectives highly depend on the ability of the
Authoritiesto address the currentcrisis in the energy sector and the ICs chemical company.

18.     The soundness of the budgetary framework will be contingent upon investmentplanning
and implementation capacity of the Government. The Authorities intend to implement their
ambitious investmentprogram(including the new airport and the economic special zone projects)
with limited domestically-financed capital spending. The implementation of the investment
program and how the Government will deal with external shocks such as the surge in oil and
basic food prices are not without risk for the fiscal framework. As shown by the weaker
economic performance observed in 2006 the treatment of exogenous shocks can lead to a
significant deterioration of the fiscal deficit if the Authorities decide to absorb it by subsidies
and/or tax exemptions. The Authorities have tackled several other potential problems relatedto
the infrastructureand intendto align their ambitious investmentprogram with their planningand
implementation capacity. As of now it seems that the budgetary risks associated with the
macroeconomic programare limited.

19.      Despitethe limited risk associated with infrastructureworks, a prudentborrowing policy
i s necessary to maintaindebt sustainability. The Authorities have confirmed their preference for
borrowingexternally on concessionaryterms only, reinforcedthe monitoring capacity of the Debt
Unit within the Ministry of Finance and continued to conduct twice a year a debt sustainability
analysis in order to keep borrowingpolicy in line with macroeconomicoutlooks.

20.      IMF. Senegal's PSI arrangement with the IMF was approved by the IMF Board of
Executive directors in November 2007, following the expiration of the PRGF arrangement in
April 2006 and its final review concludedin January 2006. The Staff Reporthighlightedthat the
macroeconomic deteriorationin 2006 moved the country off the path of macroeconomic stability
it hadenjoyedfor morethan a decade. The worseningof the budgetarysituation largely reflected
rising energy sector subsidies resultingfrom delayed adjustments in the sector. The concomitant
crowding out of priority spending eroded the country's growth potential and slowed progress
towardsthe MDGs.

21.      The report noted in particular that economic activity could suffer if energy supply
problems remain unaddressed, recovery of the chemical company stalls, or the private sector
continues to face government payment delays. Slippages in restructuringpublic enterprises could
raise fiscal risks and endanger banking system soundness. Weakening of political resolve to
implement structural reforms and address governance concerns could undermine policy and
credibility and reduce aid flows.


                         111.     THE GOVERNMENT'SPROGRAM


A.      THE POVERTYREDUCTIONSTRATEGY

22.     The second Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP-11), through which the Authorities
offer their vision for the next five years, was adopted by the Government in July 2006. Its




                                                  8

formulation benefitedfrom donors inputs, local governments and representatives of civil society
as well as from the private sector. Its vision is well alignedwith the MDGs agenda.

23.      Senegal's medium-termvision stated under the PRSP I1is articulatedaround four pillars:
(i)wealthcreation; (ii)access to basic social services; (iii) protectionofvulnerablegroups; and
(iv) greater transparency, local development and participatory processes. The first three pillars
were already included in the first PRSP, while the last one has emerged as a new priority for the
Authorities. By placing the AGS at the center of the first pillar of the PRSP-11, the Authorities
have rightly emphasized the need to encourage private sector-led growth and to expand and
diversify exports. The AGS is based on two key objectives: (i)improvingthe overall investment
climate in the economy by focusing on a series of cross-cuttingmeasures; and (ii)promotingthe
development of five cluster sectors with a presumed good export growth and job creation
potential is placed at the center of the first pillar of the PRSP 11. The second pillar based on
human development will continue to promote access to basic social services by a growing share
of the population. The implementation of the national strategies in the education and health
sectors, as well as new commitments to enhance nutrition and access to sanitization and water are
the key elements of the Government's strategy. The third pillar of the PRSP-I1emphasizes the
need to improve the lives of vulnerable groups, an area which had been neglected so far, and
prescribes actions to ensure that these groups benefit from wealth creationand have better access
to social services. Vulnerable groups are numerous and diverse in Senegal, including children,
handicapped, elderly, and refugees. The fourth pillar is justified by the need to strengthen the
effectiveness of public spending as well as to promoteprivatesector development.

24.      Donor support for the PRSP. Because of its strategic role, and its good development
outcomes, Senegal's second PRSP has benefited from large foreign aid. Most bilateral and
multilateral development agencies have an active presence in Senegal, with the Bank, the
European Union, France and the United States being the largest contributors. Considerable
progress has been made in recent years in harmonizingdevelopment assistance in Senegal. These
harmonizationefforts are consistent with the principles articulated in the Paris Declarationon Aid
Effectivenessand in the Africa Action Plan (AAP). It ledto a close collaborationin the design of
budget support operations, includingthe adoptionof a Memorandumof Understanding(MoU) for
budget support, setting up common evaluation processes on the macroeconomic conditions, the
PRSP progress, and public sector management reforms. At the sectoral level, an explicit effort
was made by the Bank to fosterjoint projectswith other donors in infrastructure, including in the
energy sector.

25.      In October 2007 in Paris, the Government organized, with Bank support, a consultative
group meeting. The meeting was an opportunity for the Government and the development
partners to share the initial lessons from the implementation of the first PRSP and identify
together the best ways to implement successfully the second PRSP. As a result, the partners
underscored the need for further strengthening of cooperation and coordination between the
Government and its partners, and among the partners themselves.                They endorsed the
Government strategy by announcing financial commitments totaling US$3.9 billion and agreed
with the Government on a follow-up mechanism of commitments (for both sides) through
quarterly meetings in Dakar.




                                                   9

B.      GOVERNMENT'S STRATEGY FORTHE ENERGY SECTOR


The Government Enerw Stratew

26.     The Government's vision, the road map and specific measures for the energy sector are
presented in its February 2008 Energy Sector Policy DevelopmentLetter (Annex 1). The Letter
builds upon the President's directives and on a thorough review of the past 5 years including
lessons learned from the implementation of the 2003 Policy Letter. It provides the conceptual
framework for a sector recovery plan, and also for monthly consultations betweenthe Ministry of
Energy (ME), the Ministry of Economy and Finance, and other key ministries and the donors
interested in Senegal's energy sector. The new 2008 energy strategy aims at:

        e        Diversifying energy supplies away from expensive imported oil through the
        development of domestic energy resources (in particular biofuels, solar and wind
        resources), increasing reliance on regional hydroelectric potentials (the Senegal river
        potential managed by O M S , the Gambia river potentialmanagedby OMVG), and on
        regionalenergiesthrough the West Africa Power Pool.

        e        Increasing energy supply security with respect to hydrocarbon resources by
        strengthening domestic refining, increasing petroleum products storage facilities,
        securing the sourcingof imported petroleum products, and developing Senegal's largely
        untapped hydrocarbon resources.

        e        Developing the energy infrastructure required to meet energy demand and
        promote competitionthroughprivate/public partnerships.

        e        Increasing access to electricity, notably by promoting rural electrification and
        energy services needed for productiveand social uses.

        e        Managing energy demand and increasing energy efficiency at the demand and
        supply levelsto reduce supply risks but also to reduceenergy costs.

        e        Improving the governance of the energy sector, particularly of key parastatals,
        and also for the downstream petroleumsub-sector.

        e        Restructuringthe electricity sub-sector to increase performance and appropriately
        tap private sector expertise and financing.

        e        Ensuring a sustainable supply of households' fuels by consolidatingthe policies
        and actions related to the management of the forestry resources.

Kev Sector Challenpes

27.     Senegal's energy -sector is confronted with a number of short and medium term
challenges, constrainingeconomic growth and social development and impactingall segments of
the economy and the country fiscal performance (Annex 4 provides background information on
Senegal's energy sector). In early 2007, the Government asked its development partners to bring
their support in the design and implementation of a broad-based sector recovery program
covering investments as well as policy actions. In October 2007, in the context of the Paris
ConsultativeGroup meeting, the Government presented the actions taken so far and planned, and
requested donor support.

28.     The main specific issues currently facing Senegal's energy sector are: (a) inadequate
supply of electricity and petroleumproducts, poor quality of services and relatively high costs to



                                                10

the consumers; (b) insufficient financing for energy infrastructure both in urban and rural areas;
(c) weak technical and financial performanceof the energy companies, in particularof SENELEC
- the nationalpower utility and SAR-therefinery; (d) the needto increase transparency and
improve governance in the operations of these energy companies; (e) outdated strategic and
regulatory frameworks impeding the long-termdevelopment of the power and hydrocarbonsub-
sectors; and (f) very high dependence on importedand expensive crude oil and refinedpetroleum
products essential for many economic and social activities, in particular electricity generation.
The energy sector main issues and the Government's responses (implemented and planned) are
discussed below.

Issue#l: Inadequate SUDD~Yof electricity, Door aualitv of services, hiphcosts to the
consumers,and insufficientfinancing for electricitv infrastructure

29.     The lack of adequate and reliable power supply is consistently cited in private sector
surveys as being one of the critical constraints to Senegal's economic growth. It is also
consistentlymentioned by households as a major impedimentfor increasingthe quality of living.
This situation has led to expensive investments in small and inefficient generators and loss of
economic output. For 2006, it is estimated that power outages cost Senegal between 1.5 to 2
GDP points.

30.     Actions Already Taken. To mitigate the power shortages and the poor quality of
electricity services, the Government and SENELEC focused their actions on two main fronts: (a)
increasing electricity generation by implementinga sound generation development plan through
mobilizing privateand public financing; and (b) improvingthe transmissionnetworkperformance
by developingand rehabilitatingthe power grid.

31.     Increasing electricity generation. Since the end of 2006 the Government and
SENELEC havetaken the following specific decisionsand actions:

        0    For 2006 and part of 2007, leasing of 60MW of diesel units to manage increasing
        power outages caused by delays in the implementation of the investment program. As
        these additional costs were not fully reflected in the tariffs or readily compensated by
        budget transfers, such lease contributedsignificantly to the deteriorationof SENELEC's
        finances.

        0    Commissioningo ftwo Heavy FuelOil (HFO) generating plants:(a) the Bel-Air plant
        of 64 M W commissioned at the end-of 2006, financed by the Islamic DevelopmentBank
        and managed by a private firm; and (b) the Kounoune HFO plant of 67.5 M W fully
        commissioned in January 2008 under an IPP structure. The Government and SENELEC
        are currently assessing the possibility of a 30 M W extension of the Kounoune plant as
        well as of the new Kahone generating plant (see below).
             Commissioning in February 2006 of a 5 M W diesel generatingplant for the city of
        Ziguinchor.
             In 2007 and 2008, initiation of procurement for the development of two IPP
        structured projectsto be commissioned in 2010-2011: (a) a 125 M W importedcoal plant
        with a Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) signed in January 2008; the Government has
        also decided to bring forward a second tranche of 125MW for commissioning by 2011;
        (b) a 70MW diesel HFO plant (the Tobene project) under procurement; (c) a 60MW "Bel
        Air" type plant (the Kahone project) is also under constructionwith full commissioning
        expectedby end 2009.



                                                11

            The Government and SENELEC are also active members of the OMVS Regional
        body currently developingthe Felouhydroelectricproject on the Senegalriver (60MW to
        be commissioned in 2012 - 15MW for Senegal), and of the OMVGWAPP activities
        whose objectives are to develop the hydroelectric resources on the Senegal and the
        Gambia rivers and to integrate them in the West Africa Power Pool (WAPP) operations:
        (Sambagalou - 128MW to be commissioned by 2013 - 32MW for Senegal) and Kaleta
        (240MW to be commissioned by 2012 - 60MW for Senegal).
            Other initiatives are also under development and should, ifthey materialize, enhance
        diversification of energy resources: (a) a wind farm power project of 20 MW in the
        region of Saint-Louis; (b) a solar project of 7 MW in the region of Ziguinchor; (c)
        bioenergy projects in the region of Kaolack; and (d) biomass projects in the regions of
        Ross-Bethioand of Kaolack.

32.     Improving the Transmission Network Performance. The transmission system is
currently managed by SENELEC; transmission and distribution losses (technical and non-
technical) are currently estimated at 20% of generation. In 2006 SENELEC undertook the
construction of 175 kms of 225KV line between Tobene, Touba and Kaolack; commissioning is
expected by end 2008. This should significantly reduce technical losses in the Kaolack region.
In addition to the works on the 90KV ring network supplyingthe capital - Dakar, a second phase
to reinforce Dakar medium voltage network is also under implementation.               This should
significantly improve the quality of service within Dakar and reduce the risk of power outages
due to grid failures.

33.     Further Actions required. As indicated above, extensive and impressive steps to
mitigate power outages and increase the quality of supply have been taken. The main additional
measures laid out by the Government aim at: (a) ensuring that the two IPP generating plants
currently procured are commissioned on time, and that SENELEC accesses experienced advisors
particularly for the new coal plant; (b) rehabilitating as fast as possible existinggenerating units
where it makes technical, economic and financial sense (minimal critical maintenance of the Cap-
des-Biches C3 steam generating units allowing to maintain a capacity of about 50 MW will be
financed under the on going IDA Electricity Sector Efficiency Enhancement project); (c)
accelerating the rehabilitation of the Dakar power distribution network; (d) supporting the
production of domestic natural gas. The FORTESA and Oestrosen oil and gas companies
recently confirmed commercial quantities of onshore gas close to the existing pipeline system,
and are discussing with SENELEC gas off-take conditions; (e) reviewing the regulatory
framework to support the development of new and renewable energies; (0 defining and
implementinga Demand Side Management (DSM) and an energy efficiency program to manage
demand in a cost-effective way and reduce customers bills; and (8) implementing the regional
interconnections(OMVGWAPP).

Issue#2:Insufficientreliabilitvof supply of petroleum products, hiph costs to the
consumers,and insufficientfinancinp for petroleum sub-sector infrastructure

34.     Availability of crude oil and of petroleum products (including of LPG) as well as
assurancethat the countrycan managedisruptionsinthe supply of petroleumproducts is a critical
issue and an economic and political risk. For its supply, Senegal relies on the SAR refinery as
well as on imports. Over the last three-years, the SAR refinery, the importers and retailers have
suffered from problems originating from the build-up of arrears to suppliers and commercial
banks, the growing financial crisis largely related to the increase in petroleum prices, and no
investments. Some of these problems were also related to the petroleumproductsprices structure



                                                 12

which did not adequately remunerate SAR's activities. SAR's problems were also exacerbated by
rapid and substantial increases in oil prices and also by SENELEC's own financial problems, a
key client ofthe refinery and of the distributors.

35.      Actions Already Taken. To secure the supply of petroleumproducts, the Government
has taken actions on several fronts: (a) restartingthe SAR refinery, which stopped in mid 2006;
(b) increasing unloading and petroleum storage facilities through investments; and (c) resolving
the financial issues plaguingSAR and the petroleumproducts suppliers.

36.      Restarting the SAR refinery and increasing unloading and petroleum storage
facilities. In March 2007, the SAR refinery restarted its operations initially as a processing unit
which allowed to cover its fixed costs, and in September 2007, the refinery restarted processing
importedcrude oil. Inthe short term, the Government plans to: (a) increase the sea-line capacity,
set up a mooringbuoy for crude oil and products allowing unloadingships of 160 000 tons, hence
to reduce supply costs; (b) construct a 50 000 tons storage facility for HFO and crude oil; and (c)
with respect to LPG, to increase storage facilities by 22 000 tons (of which 12 000 tons financed
by the private sector) and to construct a sea line to unload larger ships of 12/15 000 tons. For the
medium/lonnterm, the Government is considering upgradingthe refinery with the objective of
increasing SAR refining capacity to 3 million tondyear (Annex 4 provides the investment
program). With respect to unloading and storage facilities, a preliminary evaluation of the
investment needs has been carried out. For the proposed large investments and as decided by
SAR's Boardof Directors, an updateof the 1999 engineering study coveringtechnical, economic,
financial, environmental and safety matters will be carried out to justify the investment and
secure financing.

37.      Further Actions required. The main additional actions that the Government needs to
undertake with respect to downstream related investments are: (a) the setting up of an open-
access storage company with a majority of the shares held by the private sector and operated by
an experienced firm, allowing all qualified participants to store products under non-
discriminatory technical and financial conditions; the experience of GESTOCI (Ivory Coast) is
currently reviewed; and (b) the creationof strategic stocks, currentlynonexistent in Senegal.

38.      With respect to policy measures, the Government has indicatedthat it will: (a) revisethe
regulatory framework; (b) create an autonomous downstream regulatory agency, also responsible
for monitoringstocks levels; (c) ensure efficient, transparent and competitive procurement rules
for all hydrocarbon imports carried out by SAR; and (d) open access to storage facilities to
qualified marketers, in particular non-major marketers. This was a critical action in the 1998
energy sector reform program, yet not implementedby the entities incharge of products storage.

Issue#3: Weak Technicaland FinancialPerformanceof the EnerpyCompanies

39.      It is clear that technically and financially sound energy companies (public and private)
are essential for a performing economy and a sustained development of Senegal. In 2006 and
2007, SENELEC and SAR technical and financial performance deteriorated significantly to the
point that these two companies were on-paper financially bankrupt, and had to be bailed out
through substantial budgetary transfers depriving social sectors of critical resources and havinga
spill-over effect on the whole economy particularlyon the banking, industrialand service sectors.

40.      With respect to the power utility SENELEC, the key reasons for the fast deterioration
                                             -
of its finances have been: (a) fast and substantial increases in oil prices. SENELEC is 85%
dependent on imported petroleum products; (b) retail electricity tariffs not fully and readily


                                                 13

adjusted because of Government's decisions to limit tariff adjustments, while compensating
SENELEC for the financial shortfalls, and of the tariff adjustment mechanism, used on quarterly
basis by the power sector regulatory agency (CRSE); (c) insufficient generating capacity while
having to cope with a rapidly growing demand (40-5OMW/year) and with failures on obsolete
existing machines. To avoid large outages during the election season and to make up for the
generation capacity gap, the Government instructed SENELEC to quickly lease expensive
generating assets, which in turn lead to considerable financial difficulties; (d) lack of efficient
state-of-the art generating facilities in part due to insufficient investments and financing
constraints over the past 10 years; and (e) inadequatereportingby SENELEC, and insufficient of
attentionby the State, sole shareholder of SENELEC ,to remedy a deterioratingsituation.

41.     To improvethe performance ofthe energy companies and of the energy sector in general,
in addition to the investments mentionedabove that will reduce costs, the Government has taken
measures aiming at: (a) restoringthe financial viability of the energy companies; (b) improving
their technical and managerial performance; and (c) ensuring a tighter oversight of their
performance and improvingthe governance of the operations of the companies. These measures
are detailed below.

42.     Actions taken with respect to SENELEC's Financial Viability. In order to restore
SENELECfinancial viability, the Government is planningrefinancingand to carry out a financial
restructuringof SENELEC; electricity tariffs will also be adjusted, and part of SENELEC's debt
to Treasury will be rescheduled. Through its 2008-2010 cost reduction program providing
savings of FCFA 22 billion, SENELEC will also contribute to resolving the financial crisis.
Investments in efficient generation units are also essential to reestablishingSENELEC's financial
health; fuel costs account for 65-70% of the cost of electricity services. The following sections
provideadditionaldetails on the efforts towards the restorationof SENELEC's financial viability.

         e       An assessment of SENELEC's financial situation and outlook is provided in
         Annex 4. On average between 2005 and 2007, about US$85 million per year (FCFA34
         billion) were transferred from the budget to SENELEC to cover the Government's
         decisions not to allow full tariff adjustments. Despite such transfers, SENELEC could
         not meet its financial obligations to its suppliers and to the commercial banks; in the
         second part of CY2007, the Government provided again US$160 million (FCFA65
         billion) to SENELEC to initiate the recapitalization of SENELEC.               The total
         recapitalizationand refinancing needs of SENELEC are however now estimated to be
         FCFA 118       billions (assuming crude oil prices at US$104/barrel).                This
         recapitalizationhefinancingcoupled with refinancing and restructuringof the short term
         commercial debt should allow SENELEC to clear its arrears, reestablish its financial
         standing with its banks and suppliers, and also its working capital. To support the
         Government's efforts of recapitalizing SENELEC, AFD intends to provide Euros 30
         million. In addition, AFD would refinance the equivalent of Euros 20 million of
         SENELEC's short term debt.

         e       In November 2007, in application of the CRSE regulations on tariff adjustment
        and in conformity with the GovernrnendIMFagreement under the PSI, retail electricity
        tariffs were increased on average by 6% bringing the average retail electricity tariff to
        about US$0.22cents/kWh. An "exceptional" review of the adjustment formula has also
        been decided (January 2008) as per CRSE regulations. It is expected that such review
        will conclude that another tariff adjustment should take effect in 2008. The Government
        has agreed in principle for a tariff increase to be effected by August 1, 2008.




                                                  14

         0        Other measures decided by the Government include the rescheduling (over 5
         years) of SENELEC's US$19 million (FCFA 9.5 billion) due debts to Treasury, and the
         Action Plan developed by SENELEC to reduce its operating costs; cost reduction of
         FCFA 22.5 billion over the 2008-2010 period has been decided by SENELEC's
         Management.

43.      Further Actions requiredwith respect to restoringSENELEC's FinancialViability.
Ensuring SENELEC's financial health will require additional measures. The key proposed
measuresarethe following.

         0        Revision of the tariff adjustment formula in line with CRSE's regulations
         ("revision exceptionnelle"). This is a key measure to be quickly acted upon by CRSE;
         such adjustment in the formula should allow CRSE to reassess SENELEC's 2007 and
         2008 Maximum Authorized Revenues (MAR) by better reflecting SENELEC's cost
         structure, particularly the share of fuel costs, while preserving the basic tariff setting
         philosophyof linking SENELEC's revenuesto benchmarksand operationalperformance.

         0        Furtheradjustment of the tariff settingmechanismto better reflect the constraints
         in which SENELEC operates, the rapid and large changes in petroleumproductsprices,
         and the imperativesof meeting industry financial targets. Such an adjustment is in any
         case required as Senegal's power sector structure will evolve as part of the institutional
         reform program (see para.48 below).

         0        Implementationin a timely manner of the refinancing/financial restructuringof
         SENELEC, of the new tariff schedule providing incentives to energy conservation and
         demand management, and, as needed, additional efforts from the Budget, and the
         reschedulingof SENELEC's debts to Treasury, the restructuring of SENELEC's short
         term commercial debt to match terms with the assets productive life, and further costs
         adjustments by SENELECduringCY2009.

44.      Actions taken with respect to SAR's Financial Viability. With respect to the SAR
refinery, many of the key reasons explaining its weak financial performance are similar to the
ones mentioned above for SENELEC. However, there were issues specific to SAR: (a)
substantial arrears particularly from SENELEC, one of its key customer, and some other
parastatals; (b) large mandated subsidies particularly with respect to LPG not fully or timely
compensated by budget transfers; (c) inadequate reporting by SAR and lack of attention by the
shareholders to a fast deteriorating financial situation; (d) a petroleum products price setting
system not fully reflecting the landed costs of petroleum products and of the downstream
activities; and (e) lack o f investmentsthat could have reduce supply costs. However, over the last
12 months, the Government has taken the following decisiveactions to improve SAR's finances.

         0        One of key issues faced by the refinery in 2006, which ledto SAR shutting down
         its refining operations, was the accumulationof a large debt to the traders. To resolve it,
         in 2007 the Government negotiated with its suppliers and banks, the refinancingof SAR
         debt, and the injection of funds to finance crude oil deliveries. Under the initial financing
         agreement the accumulated debt of about Euros165 million (FCFA85 billion) plus
         demurrage charges was to be amortized over a 2-year period through a surcharge of
         FCFA 35Aiter for gasoline, kerosene, gas-oil and FCFA 2Ykg for all the other products.
         Negotiations are quite advanced to renegotiate this agreement to inter alia amortize the
         debt over a longer period (5 years), and hence manage impacts on increasing oil prices.
         A Petroleum Products Import Securisation Fund (FSIPP) was set-up to collect these
         surchargesand gradually amortize SAR debt by end CY2009.



                                                  15

        e        Recapitalization. OHADA requires recapitalization when net equity is below
        50% of subscribed capital. In order to meet the OHADA's treaty requirements on capital
        structure, SAR's shareholdershave decidedto recapitalizeSAR.

        e        The Government's strategy is to progressively reduce and ultimately eliminate
       the LPG subsidy; the 2007 PSI agreement with the IMFset mid-2009as a target date. As
        part of its LPG strategy, the Government intends to effect cost savings through
        investments in sea-line and storage facilities.

        e        Import parity estimates have also beenadjustedto reflect CIF North West Europe
        quotes as decided by the Government in consultationwith SAR andthe marketers, andto
        reflect in the retail prices SAR's debt amortization mechanism discussed above. SAR is
        also allowedto keep the "droits de porte" of respectively 6% for white products and 10%
        for brown products as part of its operatingmargin.

        e        A new shareholder agreement between the State, PETROSEN and TOTAL was
        signed on January 9, 2008. TOTAL'Sholdings in the SAR refinery have dropped to
        34.6% while Senegal's shares increased to 65.4%; TOTAL will however keep full
        responsibilityfor technicaloperations. As indicated in the Policy Letter, the Government
        has decided to divest some of its shares in SAR aiming at an equity position of one third
        of SAR' shares. Negotiationsare underway with privatesector investors and neighboring
        countries regardingthe purchase of about one third of the State shares in SAR and the
        provision of shareholder loardcommercial debt to finance the refinery investment
        program.


45.     Further Actions required with respect to restoring SAR's Financial Viability.
EnsuringSAR's financial healthwill requireadditionalmeasuresas described below.


        e         Payments of arrears due by SENELEC and by the Government notably with
        respect to LPG price support. As of end December 2007, SENELEC owed SAR FCFA
        4 .7 billion andthe GovernmentFCFA 5.3 billion.

        e         Progressively removing the distortions in the price structure in particular
        regardingprice subsidies on LPG and on fuel oil sold to SENELEC.


Issue#4: Weak governancerulesand transparency in the operationsof Enerw companies

46.     The lack of clear rules for decision making particularly by the companies' Boards of
Directors, on procurement, of strategies and monitoring action-plans and of performance
indicators, and reporting requirements, also contributed significantly to the crisis at SENELEC
and SAR in an already difficult environmentof increasinginternationalprices, and more broadly
of the Energy sector.      To improve governance and management principles and rules for
SENELEC and SAR, in the second part of 2007 and in early 2008, the Government has taken
several important decisions and actions; additional measures are however needed. The actions
already taken or requiredare summarized below.

47.     Actions already taken with respect to SENELEC. The following decisions and
measures have been identified and some of them implemented by the Government in late
2007/early 2008.




                                                 16

      0        Reporting. SENELEC's Board has directed SENELEC's management to report
      quarterly on the financial and technical performanceof the company. Financialaudits are
      also carriedout twice a year.

      0        SENELEC Board. A decision to appoint two Directors with private sector
      experience (from the industry and the banking sector) has been made. Two Directors
      representing SENELEC's employees andthe consumers will also be appointed.

      0        Two Board Committees have also been appointed: (i)a financiaVaudit
      committee; and (ii)an investment committee. The Terms of Reference (TORS)of these
      two committees have beenfinalized.

      0        SENELEC's Management structure was streamlined in early 2008, and
      responsibilities reassigned. In particular, Finance/Accountinghas been separated from
      InternalAuditing.

      0        Strengthening SENELEC internal auditing department. A set of tools and
      methodologies are under preparation in particular: (a) a system allowing better
      monitoring of SENELEC's contractual obligations is under development and should be
      fully operational by January 2009; and (b) a cost accounting system preparing the
      unbundling generation, transmission and distribution activities should be in place by
      FY2009.

      0        SENELEC's procurement process. SENELEC is subjected to the regulations of
      the 2007 National Procurement Code; its 2008 procurement plan has been published. To
      conform with the regulationsof the Procurement Regulatory Authority SENELEC needs
      to finalize and have its procurement guidelinesand procurement manual validated by the
      Authority particularly with respect to procurement of oil products, which represent about
      80% of SENELEC's expenses.           These guidelines are also needed to reflect the
      operational constraints of SENELEC: direct purchases from the SAR refinery, supply
      agreements with countries or donors, and purchasesthat should be competitivelybid. To
      efficiently implement the 2007 Procurement Code regulations, a program to strengthen
      SENELEC's procurement capacity will be implemented.

      0        As reaffirmed in the 2008 Sector Policy Letter, the Government has decided to
      restructure SENELEC around three autonomous segments: generation, transmissionand
      distribution initially under an holding company, and to develop additional power
      generation through PPPs.


48.   Further Actions Needed with respect to SENELEC. Further actions required to
improvethe governance of SENELEC include:


      0        Strengthening of SENELEC internal audit function including the hiring of one
      experienced professional, finalization of the Financial and Administrative Manual,
      effective functioning of the two Board's committees, and monitoring of petroleum
      productsconsumption for power generation.

      a        Quickly implementingthe Government decision to proceed with the institutional
      reform of SENELEC is also critical for improving governance/accountability in
      SENELEC as well as for increasingits operationalperformance.




                                              17

49.     Actions already taken with respect to SAR and the hydrocarbon sub-sector. The
following decisions and measures have already been taken by the Government in late 2007/early
2008. These actions are similar to the actions delineated for SENELEC and include:


        a        Reporting. SAR's Board has directed management to report periodically on the
        financialand technical performance of the company. Externalfinancial audits are carried
        out once a year.

        a        SAR Board. A decision to appoint two Directors with private sector experience
        has beenmade. A third Director will represent SAR's employees.

        a        Board Committees. Two Board committees have been operatingfor some time:
        (i)afinancial/auditcommittee;and(ii)atechnicahafety committee.The additionofa
        third committee focusingon investment and procurement is under consideration.

        a        Procurement. SAR is currently a majority state-own company (the Government
        has reaffirmed its objective to be a minority shareholder) and is therefore subject to the
        principlesand provisionsofthe 2007 National ProcurementCode.

        a        The approval of the Energy Sector Policy Letter, the signing of a new
        shareholder agreement with TOTAL the negotiationswith potentialprivate investors and
        neighboring countries, and the decision to set-up a regulatory agency focusing on the
        petroleum sub-sector downstream activities, are key elements illustrating the
        Government's commitment to improve the governance of downstream activities and of
        SAR in particular.

50.      Further Actions Needed with respect to SAR and the Hydrocarbon Sub-sector.
Further actions requiredto improved the governance of SAR and of the hydrocarbon subsector
includethe:


        a        Implementation of the 2007 National Procurement Code principles and
        strengthening of SAR's procurement capacity.

        a        Assessing the performance of SAR's internalauditingfunctions.

        a        Setting-upthe downstream regulatoryagency.


Issue#% DevelopinpNew Stratepies and Action Plansto Ensurethe Low-Term
Developmentof the Electricitv and Hydrocarbon Sub-sectors

5 1.    To ensure a sustainable long term development of the electricity and of the hydrocarbon
sub-sectors, and taking into account the new challenges facing the supply and prices of
hydrocarbon resources, the Government has selected the following main strategic axis: (a)
diversificationof energy sources from importedpetroleum products through the development of
coal-based technologies and of new and renewable energies. KFW and AFD are the lead
development agencies financing the preparationof a new regulatory and incentive framework for
renewable energies; (b) development of a new framework allowing for increased private sector
participation (including institutional reform of SENELEC and new partnerships for SAR); (c)
development of least-cost investment programs for electricity generation, transmission and
distribution, the supply and storage of crude oil and refined products, the modernization of the
refinery; (d) promotion of Senegal oil and gas potential; (e) implementation of demand side-




                                                18

management and energy efficiency action plans; and (0 strengthening of the existing good
coordinationbetweenthe Governmentand its developmentpartners.

52.     Actions Already Taken. In support of this strategy, the following decisions and
measureshave already beentaken.

        0        Selection of consultants for the development of least cost investment programs
        for the generation andtransmission and for distributionof electricity.

        0        Setting up of an Ad-Hoc Committee including representatives of the
        Government, SENELEC and the donor community, to propose, implement and monitor
        SENELEC's institutionalreform. To assist this Committeea smaller operationalworking
        group (includingrepresentatives ofAFD and WBG) has beenset up.

        0        Identificationand phasing of priority investments regardinghydrocarbonsupply
        and storage and modernizationofthe refinery.

        0        Developmentof a demand-side managementand of an energy efficiencyprogram
        for electricityconsumption.

        0        Strengthening operational coordination with the development partners. The
        Minister of Energy is meeting monthly with interested development partners to discuss
        the implementationof the Energy Sector Recovery Action Plan and of the Sector Policy
        Letter.   The donor community is deeply involved in: (i)SENELEC's and SAR
        institutional reforms; (ii) the development of new legislation and regulationsto facilitate
        new and renewable energy penetration; and (iii)capacity and institutionsbuilding.

53.     Further Actions needed. Key additional policy measures required to ensure a sound
long-termdevelopment of Senegal's Energy sector are:


        0        The adoptionby SENELEC's Boardof the master investment plans regardingthe
        generation and transmission and the distribution of electricity in Senegal, and by SAR's
        Boardof an economically and financially sound investment program, taking into account
        safety issues.

        0        The adoption by the Government o f a new regulatory framework promotingthe
        development of new andrenewable energies.

        0        The implementationof tested demand-side and energy efficiency action-plans.

        0        Aggressive promotion by Petrosen of Senegal's oil and gas potential including
        completingessential data gathering activities.


             IV.      BANK SUPPORTTO THE GOVERNMENT'S STRATEGY


A.      LINKTO THE COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY (CAS)

54.     The World Bank Group FY07-10 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Senegal was
endorsed by the Bank's Board of Executive Directors on June 20, 2007. The main objective o f
the CAS is to reduce the incidence of poverty and improveemployment. The Bank is working to:
(i) develop country ownership through policy dialogue; (ii)use public expenditure reviews with a
focus on impacts at the levels of the consolidated central budget; (iii) monitor linkages between



                                                19

implementation and aggregate results; and (iv) emphasize investment in human capital through
the lendingand advisory services. The CAS describes how the Bank Group, including IFC, plan
to contribute to Senegal's development and is structured around a "governance" filter and three
main pillars: (a) accelerated growth/wealthcreation; (b) human development /shared growth; and
(c) ruraland urban synergy.
55.      The Bank Group support through its first pillar will mobilize a series of IDA and IFC
instruments organized to achieve the six following outcomes: (i)promoting a competitive
investment climate; (ii) building and maintaining basic infrastructure for growth; (iii)facilitating
access to financial resources by small and medium enterprises; (iv) promoting a modern and
diversified agricultural sector; (v) fostering sustainable development and management of natural
resources; and (vi) developing skilled labor and use of technology. The actions in the energy
sector will contributeto achievingthe first two of the six outcomes mentioned above.


56.      Bank Group support. Senegal's second PRSP and Joint IDA-IMF Advisory Note
(JSAN) were discussedby the Bank's ExecutiveDirectorson January 30,2007. The rationale for
the Bank Group's support to the Government's efforts to achieve the second PRSP objectives is
presented in the FY07-10CAS for Senegal approved by the Board on June 20, 2007 (Report No.
36608-SN).

57.      As of January 31, 2008, the World Bank had approved 143 loans and credits for Senegal
totaling about US$3 billion. Past projects have supported agricultural diversification, irrigation,
human resources development, institutional development, and expansion of the country's
infrastructure,particularly its transport system. In recentyears, the emphasis has shifted to better
utilizing and maintaining existing facilities and to helping the Government resolve some of the
key issues hampering long-term development prospects. The current active portfolio has a
commitment value of US$701.7million equivalent, with an un-disbursed amount of
US$424.3million. The ongoing portfolio is composed of 22 projects (including four regional
projects) in various sectors (rural development; human development, including population,
health, nutrition, education, social development, and HIV/AIDS; infrastructure, urban
development, energy, water, industry, private sector development, and budget support including
to strengthen public financial management).


B.       COLLABORATIONWITH THE IMFAND OTHER DONORS

58.      IMF. The IMF and the World Bank staff maintain a close working relationship,
especially with respect to: (i)implementation of the Poverty Reduction Strategy; (ii)reforms in
public finance management; and (iii)structural measures in specific sectors, such as electricity
and hydrocarbon sub-sectors which have a systemic impact on public finances and on
macroeconomic stability. Regardingthe division of responsibilities between the Bretton Woods
institutions, the IMF takes the lead in the policy dialogue on macroeconomic policies and
monitorsmacroeconomicperformance by way of quantitative performance criteriaand indicators.
In addition, the IMF's last PRGF-supportedprogramcontained structuralconditionalities in areas
such as electricity and groundnut sector reform, which have a direct bearing on macroeconomic
stability and growth prospects. This productive collaboration is continuing with the new IMF
three-year program under the Policy Support Instrument (PSI). In its recent Board discussions
and reviews of November 2007 on the PSI, the critical importance of financial and structural
reforms in the energy sector, of sustained availability of electricity and petroleum products to
ensure Senegal's economic and social development was highlighted (Annex 7).           Slippages in
restructuringpublic enterprises such as SENELEC could raise fiscal risks and endanger banking


                                                 20

system soundness. Weakening of political resolve to implement structural reforms and address
governance concerns couldundermine policy credibility and reduce aid flows.

59.     Donor Community. The donor community is very actively engaged in the reform and
development of Senegal's energy sector. Inadditionto the WBG (currently IDA and IFC) andthe
AFD who arejointly leadingthe dialogue on sector reforms with the Government, the following
donors are active in the energy sector: Abu Dhabi Fund, African Development Bank, China,
European Investment Bank, European Union, GTZ, Iran, Islamic Development Bank, KFW,
Koweity Fund, PROPARCO, and West Africa Development Bank (BOAD).


C.      RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER BANK GROUP OPEFUTIONS


60.     Bank Group. As noted above, the Bank and IFC are extensively involved in Senegal's
energy sector and working in very close collaboration. Bank's areas of involvement include the
electricity sub-sector through investments in new generation and rehabilitation of power
generation plants and networks, ruralelectrification, managementof the forestry resources, policy
and institutional reform, support to the introduction of the carbon credits mechanisms, capacity
building, etc.. The Bank is also actively participating in regional power projects. IFC has
provided commercial loans to two independent power producers. Currently the Bank Group has
four active projects in the power sector. Annex 8 providesa summary of the Bank Group loans
and credits.

61.     Active EnergyProjects

    0   IDA, The Electricity Sector Efficiency Enhancement project (Cr. 4060-SN) is the first
        phase of an APL, financing the rehabilitationof some of SENELEC existing generating
         units, the preparation of least-cost investment programs for generation, transmission and
        distribution, providing a partial risk-guarantee for the Kounoune IPP power generation
         plant, andtechnical assistanceto prepare/implement the reformof SENELEC.

    0   IDA and fully blended GEF Grant. The Electricity Services for Rural Areas project
        (Cra3081-SN),also the first phase of an APL, is financing part of the initial investment
         program for three rural concessions, to be managed by the private sector; and is
        continuing the Bank's support to forest resources management and biomass-based
        householdenergies.

        IDA. RegionalManantali and Felouhydroelectric projectsproviding power for the three
        members of OMVS (Mali, Mauritaniaand Senegal).

        IFC. Commercial financing of the GTI (60MW) and of the Kounoune(67.5MW) IPPs
        thermalgeneration facilities.
        In addition the World Bank is involved in the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM)
        and Carbon Finance Assist (CF Assist) efforts with co-financing from AFD, GTZ and
        UNDP. With the support of the PHRD Grant, specific projects have been identifiedand
        three of them at a fairly advanced stage of preparation.

62.     Potential Support from the World Bank Group. Energy projects where the World
Bank Group could participate include: (a) commercial debt support and risk mitigation (such as
Partial Risk Guarantee - PRG) for the implementation of IPPs; (b) financing of regional
hydroelectric projects (Felou downstream of Manantali providing power to the three OMVS
members, Kaleta, Sambagalou) and related OMVG transmission lines providing power to the



                                                 21

countries on the Gambia river; (c) acceleratingaccess to electricity in urban and rural areas; and
(d) trust funds to implement institutionalreformsand build capacity.


D.       LESSONSLEARNED


63.      Several important lessons have been learned from the 1998-2000 and the on-goingpolicy
reform efforts in Senegal and from designing and implementingenergy projects. Main lessons
are the following:

         a        Fundamental sector reforms are essential to ensure continued and sustainable
         developmentofthe energy sector. The Governmenthas acknowledgedthat private sector
         participation is necessary to sustain the efficiency improvements required to meet
         Senegal's growing energy demands in rural and urban areas, reduce costs and finance a
         large investment program. The Government has reconfirmed that it intends to rely on
         private sector PPPs (PublicPrivate Partnership)to develop electricity production, reform
         SENELEC and SAR, and also to accelerate the implementation of the electrification
         program.

         a        Policy reform programs often need to be accompanied by investments. This is
         one of the lessons learnedfrom the implementationofthe 1998-2000reformprogramand
         the 2000-2001privatization efforts of SENELEC. It is the approach followed up by the
         WBG in Senegal with operations combining concessionary and commercial investment
         financingas well as guarantees in support of new privatepower generation, rehabilitation
         of existing generation, transmission and distribution assets of SENELEC or for rural
         electrification.

         a        Sector reform, in particular when including private participation, is a complex
         process that entails both public and political supportand requires quality information and
         communication. One key reason why the two attempts at "privatizing" SENELEC failed
         in 2000-2001 was the lack of a clear consensus within the Government and the private
         partners with regard to the opportunity, the features and the true benefits expected from
         "privatization". The Government and the donors have now recognized that upfront
         efforts are needed to ensure that the reform program is realistic and feasible, expected
         outcomes are clear, and that it receives support from the public, the workers, the domestic
         private sector, and the political parties.      Hence well-thought and comprehensive
         consultations and a communication program explaining the Government strategy, the
         nature of the reform program, the benefits, the rationale for tariff adjustments, and the
         implementationschedule, are essential.

         a        Critical role to be ulaved bv the private sector to: (a) mobilize financing in the
         context of an expanding sector and limited public sector resources; and (b) improve the
         operational performance of the energy companies. This is the Government strategy
         notably with respect to new power generation facilities, the institutional reform of
         SENELEC and of SAR, and also with respect to rural electrificationwhere an innovative
         Public PrivatePartnershipmodel is implemented.

         a        A credible, simple and shared monitoring system consistently applied is critical
         to establish the baseline, quickly measure progress, identify possible difficulties, and to
         take correctivemeasures.



                                                  22

E.       ANALYTICAL UNDERPINNINGS
64.      The analytical underpinnings for the proposed operation have been providedby multiple
studies conducted in 2007 and in the first part of 2008 as well as by Bank Group's team long and
deep involvement in the preparation and implementation of energy projects in Senegal and in
other developing countries (see paragraphs. 54-61). The CAS, the PRSC, the IMF reviews,
Government studies particularly the Accelerated Growth Strategy, and project appraisal
documents have provided strong underpinnings and in-depth understanding for the design of the
operation, and in particular for the selection of the three policy areas: (a) Restoringthe financial
viability and sustainability of the electricity and hydrocarbon sub-sectors and of two key energy
companies; (b) Improving the Governance of the two sub-sectors and the companies; and (c)
Ensuringthe longterm development of Senegal's energy sector. The main documents relatedto
the operation are listedinAnnex 6.

65.      With respect to SENELEC and the electricity sub-sector, the main studies and
assessments that have been carried out over the last 18 months relate to detailed reviews of
SENELEC's short-termdebt, arrears and liabilities and assets, assessment and detailed financial
modelingof alternativefinancial scenarios and of recapitalizationand refinancingneeds, analysis
of the sub-sector main governance issues, reviews and workshop discussions of the institutional
reform options including taking stock o f lessons learned from the 1999-2001 two failed
privatizations of SENELEC and of the world-wide experience on that matter, assessment of
potential cost reduction, and reviews of the current tariff adjustment mechanism and of
SENELEC'stariff schedule.

66.      With respect to SAR and the hydrocarbon sub-sector, the main studies and assessments
relate to: a thorough review of downstream issues discussed by all interested parties at the June
2006 workshop, the October 2006 institutional and financial review of SAR, the review and
recommendations regarding the petroleum products price structure, and SAR own internal
reviews.


                            V.      THE PROPOSEDOPERATION


A.       RATIONALE AND DESCRIPTION

67.      The proposedDPC supports the implementationof the 2008-2010 energy sector recovery
program as described in the 2008 Letter of Sector DevelopmentPolicy (Annex 1). The French
Development Agency (AFD) has confirmed that it also plans to support the program with: (i)
Euro 30 million of budgetary support; and (ii) a non-sovereign loan of about Euro 20 million to
refinance part of SENELEC's short-termdebt.

68.      The primary objective of the operation is to ensure a sound and sustained long-term
development of electricity services and supply of petroleum products for Senegal, and therefore
to support the achievement of the Government's macroeconomic objectives. To achieve such
objective, the operation comprises: (a) measures to allow SENELEC to restore its financial
equilibrium and to meet standard financial ratios by end CY2009; (b) policy measures aimed at
ensuring that the electricity sub-sector and the downstream hydrocarbon sub-sector, which
provides essential inputs to the electricity sub-sector, operate in an efficient, transparent and
financially sustainable way with adequate governance and financial arrangements; and (c)



                                                 23

measures to ensure a sustainable long term development of Senegal's energy sector. The
operationcomplements the efforts made by the Governmentand by other donors with respect to
budgetary support to SENELEC and SAR, investment financing, and policy reform and capacity
strengthening. It also constitutes an effective vehicle to deepen the dialogue and harmonize
Government and donors strategies in the energy sector. Annex 2 presents the key performance
indicatorsfor the operation.

69.     This operationwill be disbursed in two tranches. The first tranche of SDR 34.4 million
equivalent will be disbursed upon effectiveness on the basis of actions already taken by the
Government. The second tranche of SDR 14.7 million equivalent will be disbursed once the
conditionsof secondtranche release outlinedbelow have beenmet.


B.       POLICY AREAS


70.     The operation covers three policy areas which, once fully implemented, should prevent
the recurrence of the financial crisis experienced by Senegal's energy sector in 2006 and 2007.
The main sector issues have been assessed in paragraphs 29 to 53; additional information is
provided in Annexes 4 and 5. The three policy areas, relatedaction plans and specific actions are
expected to provide sustainability and irreversibility of reform as they are part of the core
Government proposals for the energy sector and reflect a realistic assessment of the respective
rolesof the public and the privatesectors. They also address fundamental issues (effectivenessof
the Boards of Directors, quality of internal auditing, procurement processes, regulatory
frameworks and institutional restructuring) and the long term issues through the investment
programs. The policy areas and key actions are discussedbelow.

        0        Poficy Area I: Restoring the financial viability and sustainability of the
                                  electricity and hydrocarbonsub-sectors.

        0        Policy Area 2: Improving the governance of the electricity and hydrocarbonsub-
                                  sectors.

        0        Policy Area 3: Ensuringthe longterm development of the energy sector.

Policy Area 1: RestorinPthe financial viabilitv and sustainabilitv of the electricitv and
hydrocarbon sub-sectors

71.     Policy area 1 encompasses actions needed to restore and maintainthe financial health of
SENELEC and SAR over the medium to long terms with the specific objectives of restoring
SENELEC key financial ratios through recapitalization and refinancing, clearance of arrears,
increasingworking capital, and of amortizingSAR accumulated debt. It is important to note that
investmentinelectricity generation and in unloadingand storage facilities for petroleumproducts
is an essential part of the Governmentand the companies' strategies for financial viability.

Electricity Sub-sector

72.     With respect to the electricity sub-sector, the following actions have already been
implementedover the second semester of 2007-early2008 period.

        0        Partial recapitalizationof SENELEC by the Governmentthrough the provisionof
        FCFA 65 billion (US$160million) to SENELEC (financial transfers were effected over
        the September 2007 -March2008 period).



                                                  24

         0       Agreement between the Ministry of Financeand SENELEC to rescheduleover a
         5-year period (rather than 2 years) FCFA9.5 billion of debt owed by SENELEC to
         Treasury.

         0       Electricity tariff increase of 6% (November 2007); this brought average
         electricity priceto end-users to about US$cent 22/kWh.

         0       Adoption in January 2008 by SENELEC of the 2007 National Procurement Code
         applicable to all Government entities and enterprises where the State is the majority
         shareholder, and disclosure of its 2008 Procurement Plan.

         0       Agreement between SENELEC, its Board and the Government on a cost
        reduction program of about FCFA 22 billion over the 2008-2010 period, of which
         FCFA12 billion to be effected in 2008.

        0        Accelerationof: (a) the procurement process for a 70MW HFO diesel generating
        facility at Tobene under an IPP structure; (b) commissioningby end CY2008 of a 60MW
         HFO diesel generatingfacility at Kahone to be managed under a private O&M contract;
        and (c) commissioning of a 125MW coal-fired generation plant to be followed by a
        second tranche of 125 MW under IPP structures, as part of the Government and
         SENELEC diversificationstrategy.

        0        Strengtheningof SENELEC's Financeand Accountingdepartment.


73.     Additional policy actions impacting on the financial viability and sustainability of the
electricity sub-sector are needed to secure SENELEC's finances and need therefore to be
implementedduringthe second part of CY2008 and inCY2009. This includes:

      0    Full recapitalizationand refinancingof SENELEC, through additional Budget transfer
           to SENELEC. Extensive financial simulations have been carried out in consultation
           with all the parties and under a common set of assumptions, to reach acceptable
           financial ratios in particular Debt Service Coverage (DSCR) ratios of at least 1.2 in
           2009, 1.3 in 2010, 1.4 in 2011 and beyond. It has been concluded that SENELEC
           recapitalization and refinancing requirements were of FCFA 118 billion (US$ 290
           million). Taking into account the FCFA 65 billion provided in 2007, additional
           financing needsare thereforeFCFA 53 billion (US$l30 million).

      0    Restructuration of SENELEC's short-term financial debt into longer maturity debt,
           which should reduce financing charges. This should be achieved through (a) the
           conclusion of SENELEC's negotiations with commercial banks; (b) pursuing
           negotiations with Treasury on the restructuring of the relevant debt; and also through
           (c) the refinancing facility of Euros 20 million to be provided by AFD (see paragraph
           67).

           Tariff increases estimated to be about 17-20% in 2008 to provide SENELEC with the
           authorized 2008 and 2009 revenues as per the tariff regulations. Tariff adjustments
           will be accompanied by a restructuring of SENELEC's tariff structure, to inter alia
           promote rationalenergy consumptionand protect vulnerable groups, and by a Demand
           Side Management(DSM) program.

          A secondcost reductioneffort by SENELECcoveringCY2009.

          Further strengthening of SENELEC's finance and accounting functions, and of its
           internal audit functions.




                                                 25

      0   Adoption by CRSE of a new tariff setting/adjustment mechanism: (a) more responsive
          to significant changes in SENELEC cost structure such as in oil prices and in its
          generation mix (coal, regional imports, hydro, wind, etc.); and (b) reflecting the
          proposed institutionalreformof SENELEC.


HydrocarbonSub-sector


74.     With respect to the financial viability and sustainability of the hydrocarbon sub-sector
and of the SAR refinery in particular,the following actions have already been carried out in 2007
and in early 2008.

      0   Adjustment in the petroleum products reference price setting formula notably with
          respectto import parity prices (CIF North West Europe vs. FOB Med).

      0   Refinancing of SAR debt and implementation of a surcharge of FCFA 35/liter for
          gasoline and diesel and of FCFA 25/kg for all other products, to amortize the SAR
          commercialdebt initially over a 2-year period,and possiblyover a 5 year period.

      0   Creationofthe FSIPPto financially securethe importsof petroleumproducts.

      0   Signingof a shareholders' agreement with TOTAL coveringthe technical management
          of the refinery.

      0   Obligation for the refinery to comply with the principles and regulations of the
          NationalProcurement Code in particularfor procurement of crude oil, refined products
           and LPG.

75.     To further improve SAR's financial viability and the sustainability of the hydrocarbon
sub-sector, additionalpolicy measures should be implemented in CY2008 and CY2009:

      0   Progressive reductionof the LPG prices subsidy effectedin parallelwith cost reduction
           measures such as investment in an additional sea-line and in LPG storage capacity
           (additionof 22,000 m3).

      0   Clearance of all SAR's arrears to its suppliers.

      0   Appropriate pricing of SAR HFO to reflect the low sulfur content and lifting the
           restrictionon SAR's ability to market its products on the internationalmarkets.


Policy Area 2: ImDrovinp the Povernance of the electricity and hydrocarbon sub-sectors

76.     Policy area 2 encompasses measures aiming at improving the governance of the
electricity and hydrocarbon sub-sectors, specifically of SENELEC and SAR. Key governance
actions relate to reporting, procurement, performance of the Boards of Directors, internal auditing
functions and sector organizationand structure.

Electricitv Sub-sector

77.     With respect to improving the governance of the electricity sub-sector, the following
actions have already been carriedout:

      0   Reporting. Submission by SENELEC's management to its Board and to the Ministry
          of Energy and the Ministry of Finance of: (a) monthly reports regarding cash-flows,



                                                26

          budget implementation,performance indicators; (b) quarterly accountingand financial
          reports; and (c) bi-annuallyexternally audited financial statements.

      0   Procurement. Adoption by SENELEC of the National Procurement Code and annual
          disclosure of its Procurement Plan, startingin2008.

      0   SENELEC's Board. Appointment on SENELEC's Board of two directors from the
          private sector, and of two directors representing SENELEC's employees and
          customers, and setting-up of two committees assisting SENELEC's Board: (a) a
          Finance and InternalAudit Committee; and (b) an Investment Committee.

      0   SENELEC's ornanizational structure. Separation of the Finance/Accountingfunctions
          from the InternalAuditing functions. The InternalAudit department is also responsible
          for budget management.

      0   Initiation of the update ofthe Administrative and FinancialManual, formally layingout
          all internalbusiness processes.

      0   Confirmation o f the policy to rely on IPPs or private sector management for all new
          power generation facilities.

      0   Government decision to restructure SENELEC by separating the activities of
          generation, transmission and distributionand setting-up three distinct corporate entities,
          and as feasible to seek private sector majority interest in the capital or in the
          managementof these three entities.


78.     To further improve the governance of the electricity sub-sector, the following policy
actions should be implementedin 2008 and2009.

      0   Adoption by SENELEC's Boardof the Administrative and FinancialManual.

      0   Strengthening of SENELEC's internal audit functions as well as of the
          finance/accountingfunctions by completing independent audits and hiring additional
          expertise.

      0  Completion of all agreed prior actions required for the unbundling of SENELEC's
          activities (separation of accounts, business plans, tarifing mechanisms, operational
          interfaces, etc), and approvalby the Government of the strategy to seek private sector
          participation in each of three new business segments (generation, transmission and
          distribution).

HvdrocarbonSub-sector

79.     With respect to improving the governance of the hydrocarbon sub-sector, the following
actions have already been carriedout in 2007 and early 2008:

      0  Government confirmation of its decision to be a minority shareholder in the SAR
         refinery and to have the refinery operated by an experienced refiner. The new
         shareholder's agreement signed in January 2008 with TOTAL delineates TOTAL'Srole
         as the technical partner and as a minority shareholder.

      0  Reporting. Submission by SAR's management to its Board and to the Ministry of
         Energy and the Ministry of Finance of: (a) quarterly accounting and financial reports;
         and (b) bi-annuallyexternallyaudited financialstatements.




                                               27

          Decision to appoint new directors on SAR's Board of Directors, with relevant private
          sector experience, in a manner consistent with the shareholders' agreement.
          Strengthening of SAR two existing Board committees: (a) OperatiodSafety
          Committee; and (b) FinanciaVAudit Committee; and creation of an Investment and
          Procurementcommittee.

          SAR's Board has also directed management to report periodically to the shareholders
          on the financial,technicaland environmentalperformance of the company.

          Decision to set-up a full-fledged regulatory agency for downstream operations,
          replacingthe CNH.
          Implementationof all the dispositions laid out in the FSIPP regulations (decree and
          arrete).

80.     To further improve the governance of the hydrocarbon sub-sector, the following
additionalmeasuresshould be implemented in CY2008 and CY2009.

          Establishingand staffingthe new downstream petroleumsector regulatoryagency..
          Disclosureof the external auditor's reporton FSIPP's 2007 and 2008 transactions.

Policv Area 3: L o w Term Development of the Energy Sector

81.     To ensure a sustainable longterm development of the power and of the hydrocarbonsub-
sectors, the Government main policy goals are to: (a) increase energy security by diversifying
energy sources; (b) develop a new framework promoting increased private sector participation;
(c) implement a tested demand side-management and an energy efficiency program; and (d)
increase coordination between the Government, its development partners and the private sector.
Timely implementation of priority investments in the electricity and in the hydrocarbon sub-
sectors (in particular regarding storage facilities, sea-lines) is evidently essential for the
development of Senegal's energy sector.

82.     With respect to ensuring the longterm development of the energy sector, the Government
has already carriedout the following:

        e        Initiation of its off oil diversification strategy towards coal and new and
        renewable energies, and tapping into regional hydroelectricity potentials in the context of
        existingregional initiatives(OMVS, OMVG,andthe West Africa Power Pool).

        e        Selection, through international competitive bidding, of consultants for the
        development of least cost investment programs for power generation and transmission
        and for distributionof electricity.

        e        Developmentof demand-side management and energy efficiency programs. Key
        areas for actions are: revised electricity tariff schedule to promote energy conservation
        and demand side management; new regulatory and incentive framework for new and
        renewable energies and energy efficient equipment, information and communication,
        marketing of compact fluorescent lamps, optimization of public lighting - expected to
        lead to a 30% decrease in consumption for public lighting, improvedenergy management
        by the public sector entities, and new working hours.

        e        Enhancingthe dialogue with the development partners. Over the past 12 months,
        the Minister of Energy(ME) has met monthlywith the development partners interested in



                                                28

        Senegal's energy sector to discuss the implementation of the Energy Sector Recovery
        Action Plan.      Similar arrangements have been agreed with ME to oversee the
        implementation of the 2008 Energy Sector Development Policy Letter. With respect to
        the other stakeholders, the Minister of Energy and his team are also meetingthe private
        sector, the staffofthe utilities andcivil society at least once every quarter.


83.     To further support the long term development of the energy sector the following
decisions and policy measuresshould be made during2008-2009.

        a        Adoption by SENELEC's Board of the electricity sub-sector master plans for
        Generation/Transmission and for Distribution investments.

        a        Adoption by SAR's Board of the conclusions of a feasibility study covering
        technical, economic, financial, environmental and safety aspects, updating previous
        engineering work on SAR's investment program.

        a        Adoption of a new regulatory and of an incentive framework to promote the
        development of new and renewable energies.

        a        Adoption of an Energy Efficiency and Demand Side Management program and
        of the Action Plans.


C.      AGREED ACTIONS


84.     Conditionalities:Integrating good practice principles. The proposed actions reflect
the Bank's recommendations regarding good practice principles for the application of
conditionalityin DPC (see Table 1 below).


             Table 1: Good PracticePrincipleson Applicationof Conditionalitv

Principle1: Reinforcing Ownership
The proposed DPC directly responds to the Government's request for budgetary and technical support
of its wide-ranging reform program aimed at restoring the foundations for a sound and sustainable
development of Senegal's energy sector. The energy sector has beenhighlightedas one of the critical
current challenges facingthe country; three specific target areas have been identified: restorationof the
financial viability of the electricity and hydrocarbon sub-sectors, in particular of the two main energy
companies - SENELEC and SAR, improving the governance of the two sub-sectors, and ensuring a
sustainable long term development of the energy sector. There is strong government and broad-based
public support for a number of key institutionalreforms.

Principle2:Agreeing up-front with the government and otherfinancial partners on a coordinated
accountabilityframework
The energy sector reform program is a coherent program managed by the Ministry of Energy, and
involving a Government team including the senior staff from the Ministry of Energy, staff from the
Prime Minister's office, the Ministry of Economy and Finance, the Ministry of Budget as well as the
managing directors of the key energy companies. Many donors, World Bank Group, AFD, African
Development Bank, GTZ, KFW, Islamic Development Bank, BOAD, have participated in the initial
discussions to develop a consensus on the design of the reform program, and are now at varying
degrees actively engaged in its implementation and follow up. Other donors and financiers, IFC,
PROPARCO, European Investment Bank, China, Iran, and the private sector are also involved in the



                                                 29

financing of the investment program. The specific reform measures supported by the DPC are
embedded in the Letter of Sector Development Policy approved by the Council of Ministers and
forwardedto the Bank by the Minister of State in charge of Economyand Finance, and by the Minister
of Energy in February 2008.

Principle3: Customizingthe accountabilityframework and modalities of Bank support to country
circumstances
The policy areas, prior actions and conditions of second tranche release selected in the DPC are fully
consistent with the objectives of the Government's sector policy and with its accountability
mechanisms. The 2008 Letter of Sector Development Policy provides the main accountability
framework; a matrix establishingthe baseline as of February 2008, recordingprogress and laying out
requiredactions has beendevelopedby the Ministry to monitor the implementationof the Policy Letter.
Progressreviews and reportingwill continuethe well established practiceof the Ministry of Energy of
monthly consultations and reports between the Government team and the donors supporting Senegal's
energy sector. Following current practice, monthly consultativemeetings are heldwith the donors, and
quarterly meetings with the energy sector professionals (private and public sectors), the personnel and
the customers ofthe two companies, and with the civil society.

Principle4: Choosingonly actionscriticalfor achievingresults as conditionsfor disbursement
The conditions of release of the second tranche of the IDA Credit and the prior actions are in full
support of the government's reformprogram. They have been selectedto ensurethe development of an
energy sector responding to economic priorities and the demands of the population. The selected prior
actions are part of a largerreformand investment program; they are considered critical as they focus on
(1) the financial viability of the two key energy enterprises (SENELEC and SAR) which have in the
past required substantial fiscal transfers crowding out social sectors, (2) on improving sectoral and
corporate governance, and (3) on the longterm development. The specific conditionsof secondtranche
releasehave beenselectedso as to fully complete the recapitalizationand refinancingof SENELECand
SAR by 2009, and to deepen improvements in governance through procurement action plans,
strengthening of internal controls, institutional reforms, and optimization of investment programs and
implementationof efficiency improvements.

Principle5: Conductingtransparentprogress reviews conducive topredictable andperformance-
basedfinancial support
Monthly progress reviews are planned and full supervisionmissions will be carried out twice a year.
Progress reviewswill be carriedout within the framework proposed and usedby the Ministry of Energy
- the Ministry responsible for designing and implementingthe reform - and will rely    on the agreed-to
baseline information. No parallel monitoring and evaluation systems will be used. The two yearly
supervisionmissions will also follow that rule.

85.     Prior Actions. Specific Prior Actions for the proposed operation are embedded in the
Policy Matrix (Annex 2) and are presented in Table 2 below.They have been discussed with the
Government and are consideredessential for achievingtwo key outcomes in 2008 and early 2009.
They focus on:

        0        Quickly restoring SENELEC and SAR's financial viability and credibility
        through a series of measures: recapitalization, refinancing, debt rescheduling, arrears
        clearances, tariff adjustments and budgettransfers.

        0        Ensuringthat the past problems do not reoccur, by: (a) improvingthe governance
        of the electricity and hydrocarbon sub-sectors and of SENELEC and SAR, notably
        through enhancing the effectiveness of the Boards of Directors, of the internal audit
        functions, setting-up a new regulatory framework and strengthening capacity in the


                                                 30

        hydrocarbon sub-sector; and by: (b) optimizing investment decisions and effecting
        diversificationo fenergy sources.


                                     Table 2: Prior Actions

PolicyArea 1:Restoringthe financial viability and financial sustainabilityof the electricity
and hydrocarbon sub-sectors
1. Partialrecapitalizationof SENELEC throughthe transfer in late 2007 by the Governmentof
    Senegal to SENELECof an amount equal to FCFA 65 billion (US$160 million) (The "2007
    RecapitalizationAmount").

2. Agreement between the Government and IDA, formalized through a letter cosigned by the
    State Minister, Minister of Economy and Finance and by the Minister o f Energy, on the 5-
    years financial forecasts for SENELEC, confirmingthe commitmentof the Governmentto:
          recapitalize SENELEC in an amount of FCFA 109 billion (with FCFA 65 billion
          provided in 2007, FCFA 37 billion to be provided in Fiscal Year 2008 (The "2008
          Recapitalization Amount"), and FCFA 7 billion in Fiscal Year 2009 (The "2009
          RecapitalizationAmount") so as to enable SENELEC to: (i)achieve a debt-service
          coverage ratio of at least 1.2 in Fiscal Year 2009, 1.3 in Fiscal Year 2010 and 1.4 in
          each Fiscal Year thereafter; (ii) reduce its accounts receivable so that in Fiscal Year
          2008 and at all times thereafter, they do not exceed 95 days; and (iii) reduce its arrears
          to its suppliers so that they do not exceed 100 days in Fiscal Year 2008, 95 days in
          Fiscal Year 2009 and 90 days at all times thereafter;
          ensure that for Fiscal Year 2008 SENELEC earns an amount equal to its 2008
          Maximum Authorized Revenue, as assessed by CRSE during its ExtraordinaryReview
          of 2008 (The "2008 MaximumAuthorizedRevenueAmount");
          adjust SENELEC's electricity tariffs so that its average electricity tariff is sufficientto
          enable it in FiscalYear 2009 to producerevenues, without budgetary transfers, equal to
          its 2009 MaximumAuthorized Revenue, as assessed by CRSE during its Extraordinary
          Review of 2008 (The "2009 Maximum Authorized Revenue Amount"), and so that
          SENELEC's DSCR for 2009 is at least 1.2;
          transfer to SENELEC in Fiscal Year 2009 as a subordinated shareholder loan from the
          Government of SENEGAL, of an additional amount equal to FCFA 9 billion provided
          by the development partners budgetary support, and to be repaidstartingin FiscalYear
          2011; and
          reschedule SENELEC's existing arrears on the debt on-lent by the Government of
          SENEGAL to SENELEC over a 5 year period (rather than 2 years), with no penalty
          interest.


3. RecapitalizeSAR by the end o f Fiscal Year 2009 in conformity with the decision of SAR's
   Boardof Directors, and in accordance with the requirements of the OHADA Legislation.


Policy Area 2: Improvingthe governanceof the electricity and hydrocarbon sub-sectors
1. SENELEC's BoardDecision to establish two committees to assist its Boardof Directors: (i)
   the Finance and Internal Audit Committee, and (ii) the Investment Committee; Letters



                                                31

    appointingthe President of each committee; Mandates of each committeefinalized.

5. Preparation of the decree regarding the establishment of an agency to be responsible for
    regulatingthe import, refining, storage, and distributionof petroleumproducts in Senegal.



86.     Conditions for the Release of the Second Tranche. Availability of the secondtranche
of the IDA Credit will require that the Bank is satisfied that: (a) the macroeconomic framework
remains appropriate and implementation of the energy sector reform overall program is
considered satisfactoryby a Bank supervisionmissionto be carried out during the first quarter of
2009; and (b) the following critical actions ofthe overall program("Second Tranche Conditions")
be implemented. The Second Tranche Conditions focus on the three selected policy areas and
have been selected so as to complete the recapitalizationand refinancing of SENELEC and the
electricity tariff adjustment process, effecting transparent procurement rules for SENELEC and
SAR in accordance with the National Procurement Code, strengthening the internal audit
functions of SENELEC and SAR, putting in place a competent regulatory framework for the
downstream hydrocarbon sub-sector and for supporting new and renewable energies, and
deciding on least-cost investment programs. These conditions are presented below in Table 3
below.

                         Table 3: Conditions for Second TrancheRelease

1,  Satisfactorymacroeconomic framework. (As per the conclusions of the PSI review scheduled
    for October 2008)

2.  Satisfactory implementation of the energy sector recovery program (As per the conclusions
    ofthe Bank supervisionmissionscheduledfor the first quarter of CY2009).

3.  Implementationof the conditions listed below as provided in the IDA FinancingAgreement
    as conditionsfor Second Tranche Release.
Policy Area 1:Restoringthe financialviability and financial sustainability of the electricity
and hydrocarbonsub-sectors
    Confirmation of the further recapitalizationof SENELEC through the transfer to SENELEC
    of the 2008 Recapitalization amount of FCFA 37 billion, as agreed with the Government.
    (prior action2).

     Adjustment of SENELEC's electricity tariffs and/or transfer by the Government of
    budgetary resources adequate to have enabled SENELECto generate revenues in FiscalYear
    2008 equal to the 2008 MaximumAuthorized Revenue Amount.

    Adjustment of SENELEC's electricity tariffs so that: (i) its average tariff as of April 1, 2009
    is sufficient to allow SENELEC to reach a DSCR of at least 1.2 in 2009; and (ii)produce
    revenuesequal to its 2009 MaximumAuthorized Revenue without budgetary transfers.

    (i)Completionofastudyto:(a)identifyandsimulatetheimpactsoftheplannedintroduction
    of a new electricity tariff structure for SENELEC, together with recommended electricity
    tariff adjustments and (b) assess the environmental and social impacts of the reduction of
    butane subsidies, together with recommendedmeasuresto mitigateany such adverse impacts;
    and: (ii)Developmentof actionplans for the implementationofthese recommendations.



                                                 32

Policy Area 2: Improvingthe governanceof the electricity and hydrocarbon sub-sectors
8. Adoption by SENELEC and SAR of procurement procedures, designed to ensure the
   economic, efficient and transparent procurement of goods and services, consistent with the
    Public Procurement Code and validatedby Senegal Procurement RegulatoryAgency.

9. (i)Separation of SENELEC's activities (unbundling) into three business units with separate
    accounting: (a) electricity generation, (b) electricity transmission, and systems planningand
   operations; and (c) electricity distribution; and (ii)adoptionby the Government of a strategy,
   consistent with the Program, to facilitate participation by the private sector in the energy
    sector.

10. Completionof an audit by independent auditors of the internalaudit functions of SENELEC
    and SAR, together with recommendations by the auditors for the strengthening of these
    functions, anddevelopment of action plans for the implementationof such recommendations.


11. Creation and operationalization of an agency to be responsible for regulating the import,
    refining, storage, and distributionof petroleumproducts in SENEGAL

Policy Area 3: Ensuring the longterm developmentof the energy sector


12. Adoption by the Boardof Directorsof:

   (i)    SENELEC, of the conclusions ofthe master plan studies for electricity generation and
          transmission investment, and for distribution investment carried out by independent
          consultants; and

   (ii)   SAR, of the conclusions ofthe updateofthe technical, economic, financialand
          environmentalfeasibility study of 1999 on SAR's investment program, to be carried
          out by SAR in conjunctionwith its technical assistant supported by qualified
          consultants.

13. (i) Submission by the Government to the National Assembly of a regulatory framework
   designed to facilitate and promote the development of new and renewable energy sources;
   and (ii)adoption by the Government of SENEGAL of an action plan designed to increase
   energy efficiency and improve demand-side managementof energy resources.




                                                 33

                          VI.     OPERATIONIMPLEMENTATION


A.      ECONOMIC IMPACTS

87.     The net economic impacts of policy reforms under the operation are expected to be
positive and substantial. Reformswill free significantbudget resources for the social sectors and
will generate efficiency gains in the energy sector and in the whole economy through prices
changes, costs reduction and increased competition. The reforms and policy actions regarding
energy diversification, demand side management and increased energy efficiency coupled with
the investment programs of the electricity and the hydrocarbon sub-sectors are expected to have
large positive economic impacts on the quantity and quality of energy services used by the
productivesectors ofthe economy and the population, and on energy security.


B.      POVERTYAND SOCIAL IMPACTS


88.     The key measures supported by the proposed operation are likely to have substantive
positive economic and social impacts. These include freeing up budgetary resources for poverty
reduction program in particular in health, education, rural development, etc. resulting from: (a)
the reduction or elimination of budgetary allocations to the energy sector and in particular to
SENELEC and SAR, and (b) the support it brings to the mobilization of private financing. The
benefits to economic growth due to reliable supply of electricity are also expected to be
significant. Distributional impacts of specific policies supported by the proposed operation are
expected to be modest. Increasing the supply and reliability of energy services will certainly
benefit poor households.

89.     The most potentially significant negative short-term social impact is related to increases
in energy prices as Governmentpolicy, supported by the proposedoperation, is for energy prices
to reflect the cost of services. However, Government'spolicy is to protect vulnerable groups and
poor households. With respect to electricity prices, the Government has indicated that further
adjustmentsto electricity priceswill not impactthe socialtranche (40kWh/month or less) and that
cost reductionsare sought through investments.In addition to mitigate energy prices increases, a
demand side management and energy efficiency programs will be implemented to provide
households and other consumers of energy services with options to reduce their energy
expenditures, including a programof CFLs lamps. The new electricity tariff schedule, expected
to be effective mid-2008, should also ensure that poor customers pay less that more affluent,
larger electricity users. The LPG subsidy is expected to be progressively reduced and ultimately
eliminated; towardsthat objectivethe Governmenthas decidedto implement investments, such as
additional LPGstorage facilities and a second sea line that would reduce costs.


C.      ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS


90.     Energy policy reforms are generally beneficial to the environment because they promote
rationalconsumptionand developmentof energy activities. The Governmentprogram comprises
the following actions that would provide environmental benefits: (a) introduction of a new
electricity tariff structure with price incentives to manage consumption (see Annex 1: Energy
Policy Letter); (b) commissioningof more efficient power generationtechnologies, investmentto



                                                 34

reduce technical losses and marketing of efficient lighting systems; (c) incentives for the
development of new and renewable energies; (d) implementation of Demand Side Management
and of Energy Efficiency Programs; and (e) continuing support to current efforts for sustained
and participatory management of existing forestry resources, and management of households
energy demand.

91.     The progressive decrease and ultimately removal of the LPG price subsidies could
however have negative environmentalimpacts as this couldentice some LPG consumers to revert
to charcoal and woodfuels. The Government has indicated in its Policy Letter that a study on
domestic fuels will be carried out to assess the implications of a significant decrease or the
removal of the LPG subsidy on the consumption o fother household fuels. This study will be part
of a broader Poverty and Social Impact Assessment (PSIA) to be conducted once the
Government's strategy is sufficiently delineated and prior to the release of the second tranche;
required risk mitigation measures will then be agreed with the Government. With respect to
biofuels, the Policy Letter states that the biofuel policy and strategy will ensure that there is: (a)
no conflict with the food security objective; (b) no transfer of land to promoters; and (c) an
equitable share of benefitsamongst the various actors, especiallythe small producers.


D.      IMPLEMENTATIONARRANGEMENTSAND SUPERVISION

92.     The Ministry of Energy (ME) is the primary entity responsible for implementing the
proposed Policy Support Program and for coordinatingwith the Government, and the interested
agencies, the companies, and the stakeholders. Existing monitoring and consultation
arrangements will continue. The Minister of Energy will report monthly to the Prime Minister
and will consult with the Ministers responsible for Economy and Finance, and for Budget.
Monthly consultationsthat have been held at boththe Ministerial and at the technical levels over
the past year, includingwith the donors interested in Senegal's energy sector to discuss progress
in the implementation of the Energy Sector Recovery Action Plan will continue; the monthly
progress reports will be provided to the Bank. The status o f the performance indicators (Annex
2) will also be reviewedand discussed on a monthly basis.

93.     The World Bank Dakar-based energy and macroeconomic teams will ensure close
supervision of the operation implementation. Formal supervision missions will also be carried
out twice a year to assess the implementationof the Energy Sector reform program, to take stock
of the DPC results, assess the Government performance regardingthe triggers and as needed to
proposecorrective measures.


E.      FIDUCIARY ASPECTS

94.     A CFAAKPAR exercise was realizedin 2003 with an actionplanto support PFM reform
supported by donor; a Multi Donors Trust Fund administered by the Bank has been set-up. A
PEFA exercise has been undertaken in 2007 and the report concluded that although there was
some improvement in PFM reform implementation, key risks and challenges remain and require

(SA1- Cour des Comptes -); (ii) reliability of data for monitoring the stock of arrears; and (iii)
improvement in: (i) effectiveness of the internal audit system by the Supreme Audit Institution


reform through the creation of a specific body - the PFM Reform SteeringCommittee - (under
addressing the backlog of State accounts. The Government is committed to conduct the PFM

the Ministry of Economy and Finance) with representation from all governmental departments
responsible for specific reforms. The role of the Steering Committee is to: (i)coordinate the


                                                 3 5

reformsto be undertaken; (ii)harmonizeGovernment actions; (iii) monitorthe implementationof
the actionplan; and (iv) holddifferent actors accountable for progress.

95.     Through the proposed financial support and the implementationof policy actions, this
operation is expressly aimed at promoting financial sustainability and at enhancing the
governance in Senegal's energy sector, in particularof SENELEC and SAR.


F.      DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITING ARRANGEMENTS


96.     Credit Administration. The Borrower is the Republic of Senegal.              The untied
Development Policy Credit (DPC) of SDR 49.1 million (US$80 million equivalent) would be
disbursed in two tranches respectively SDR 34.4 million equivalent for the first tranche upon
effectiveness; and SDR 14.7 million equivalent once second tranche conditions are met. The
closingdate ofthe proposedoperationwould be June 30,20 10.

97.     The proposed credit will follow the Bank's disbursement procedures for DPCs. The
untied resources will be disbursed against satisfactory implementationof the development policy
program, and not tied to any specific purchases; no procurement requirements will be necessary.
Once the credit is approved by the Bank's Board of Directors and becomes effective and the
conditions of disbursement for each tranche have been met, the proceeds of the Credit will be
deposited by IDA at the request of the Borrower to the Central Bank (BCEAO) into a dedicated
account that forms part of the country's official foreign exchange reserves. The Borrower shall
ensure that upon the deposits from the Credit into the above mentioned account, an equivalent
amount is accountedfor inthe Borrower's budget management system, in a manner acceptable to
the Bank. The Borrowerwill confirm receipt to the Bank of the amounts deposited in the foreign
currency account and creditedto the budget management system. Ifthe proceedsof the credit are
used for ineligible purposesas defined in the FinancingAgreement, the Bank will requirethat the
Borrower promptly refund an amount equal to the amount of said payment to the Bank, upon
noticefrom Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.

98.      The administration of the Credit will be the responsibility of the Ministry of Economy
and Finance. The SA1 (Cour des Comptes) is required by law to produce its annual report on
public accounts to Parliament with Budget execution (loi des reglements) by the end of the year
following the execution of the Budget. A copy of this report and of the public accounts attached
shouldbe submittedto IDA.

99.      Safeguard assessment of the Central Bank. The CentralBank of West African States
(BCEAO) is the common central bank of the countries of the West African Economic and
Monetary Union, which includesSenegal. The most recent safeguards assessmentofthe BCEAO
was completed on November 4, 2005. The assessment indicatedthat progress has been made in
strengthening the bank's safeguards framework since the 2002 assessment and identified some
areas where further steps would help solidify it. The BCEAO now publishesa full set of audited
financial statements, and improvements have been made to move financial reporting closer to
InternationalFinancial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Furthermore, an internal audit charter has
been put in place, mechanisms for improving risk management have been established, and
follow-up on internaland external audit recommendations has been strengthened. The results of
continuous safeguards monitoring indicate that while certain vulnerabilities remain in internal
control systems and legal structure, there has been some progress in other areas, including

* As pertheBank'sGuidelines,this section draws on November4,2005 assessments by IMF staff.


                                                36

through: (i) improving the external audit process by adopting a multi-year audit program; (ii)
establishingan audit committee; (iii) expanding disclosures on financial positions of West Africa
Economic and Monetary Union countries with the Fund in the notes to the annual financial
statements; and (iv) further strengthening of the effectiveness ofthe internal audit function.

100.     These controls are intended to provide assurance that IDA funds have arrived at their
intended destination and are being used for their intended purpose of funding budgeted public
expenditures, subject to the Borrower's rules and regulations.


G.       RISKS AND RISKMITIGATION

101.     The main risksrelated to this operation include:(a) a deteriorationof the macroeconomic
framework in part because of increasing oil prices and reduced private sector appetite for the
energy sector; (b) a weakening of the existing political consensus for energy reforms; (c)
decreasing social acceptance of reforms; and (d) implementation delays and difficulties. For
these reasons, it is consideredas a high risk operation.

102.     Deteriorationof the macroeconomicframework. While the risk of a deteriorationof
the macroeconomic framework, through slow or negative growth, is low, there is still the risk of
stalled growth due to adverse natural events such as droughts and lower than anticipated export
revenues in key sectors such as tourism or fisheries. In order to stimulate private sector
development, the Government has recently adoptedthe Accelerated Growth Strategy and actedto
improve the business climate. This should help create a better investment climate and promote
reforms inthe five selectedcluster of activities. The favorablelong-termmacroeconomic outlook
and the positive fiscal positionof Senegal should help the country absorb unexpected economic
shocks. A PSI program is also in effect with the IMF.

103.     Increases in oil prices. Further increases in oil prices pose significant risks that need to
be mitigatedat various levels. This would have a direct impact on SENELEC and SAR financial
viability and on the industrial, service sector and on household energy consumers. Mitigating
such risk is however difficult in the short term. Regardingthe mediumand longterm mitigation
measures, the Government's strategy is anchored on the following principles: (a) diversification
of energy sources away from imported oil through increasing regional energy imports and
developing new and renewable energy sources; (b) stepping-up efforts to develop the oil and
natural gas potentialof Senegal; (c) reducingenergy intensity and managing energy demand in a
cost-effective way; (d) reducing costs through investment and increased private sector
participation both in the electricity and in the hydrocarbonsub-sectors; energy parastatals have
been instructedto reduce operating costs and optimize investment programs; and (e) improved
procurementpractices.

104.     Reducedappetitefrom the privatesector. The energy sector reformprogramrelies on
private sector participation in several respects: (a) development, financing and management of
existing and new power generating capacities and of the rural electrification concessions; (b)
investment financing and management of the refinery, oil storage facilities, petroleum products
retailing and development of Senegal natural gas resources; and (c) stepping-up the exploration
and production of domestic hydrocarbons. Continued private sector interest in power generation
investment is highly dependent upon reducing payment risks; this is linked to the restorationof
the financial viability of the electricity sub-sector and of SENELEC in particular,a key objective
of this operation. Similarly private sector investments in the refinery and downstream operations




                                                  37

are linkedto resolvingthe refinery financial issues, and ensuringa reasonable financial return on
investment and payments as per agreedcommercialterms.

105.    Weakening of political consensus for energy reforms. The next election cycle will
start in about 4 years (2012) with the Presidential Election. The Government team is very
convincedabout the necessity of deep reforms in the energy sector including institutionalreforms
of the electricity and petroleumsub-sectors. The Letter of DevelopmentPolicy was discussed in
the Council of Ministers early 2008. The main risks regarding a weakening of the current
political consensus for reforms could be related to: (a) the political and social impacts of an
energy pricing policy reflectiveof costs; (b) the restructuringof the electricity sub-sector bringing
private sector participation; (c) the divestiture, most likely to private sector interest, of part of the
Government's holdings in the refinery. The energy pricing policy risk can be managed by
explainingthe potentiallylarge fiscal and economic impacts of non-financiallyviable utilities and
through the agreements reached with the donors and the IMF.                  The risk regarding the
restructuringof the electricity subsector is mitigatedby the facts that the electricity subsector is
already partly restructured- IPPs, the RuralElectrificationAgency, the RegulatoryCommission-
and that the Government has already decided on the key features of a restructured SENELEC.
The risk regardingthe divestitureof the Government's holding in SAR to private sector interests
can be mitigated through information and communication (SAR has been traditionally a private
sector entity).

106.     Social acceptance of reforms. The social acceptance of further electricity and LPG
prices increases is somewhat uncertain and could also pose a potential reputational risk for the
Bank. In order to mitigate these risks, the Government has emphasized that: (a) the vulnerable
groups of consumers will be protected; and the (b) importance of communication and dialogue
with all the interested parties prior to announcing price adjustments, and of cost reductions
through investments, operationaladjustments and cost-cuttingefforts, and burden sharing.

107.     Implementation Delays or Difficulties. Implementation of the reform program has
required and will require the continuation of a strong leadership and the capacity to mobilize
political support, high-level technical expertise and financing. The Policy Letter cosigned in
February 2008 constitutes a critical commitment.One important implementation risk to manage
relates to the parallel implementationof the reform program and the investment program. The
need for strong leadership is particularly important regarding: (a) the recapitalization and
financing restructuringof SENELEC and SAR; (b) continuedenergy price adjustments to ensure
the financial viability and sustainability of the private and public energy companies; (c) the
mobilization of the financing; (d) the implementation of SENELEC's restructuring and the
divestiture of the State shares in SAR; and (e) timely financing and implementation of the
investment programs. Under the leadership of the Minister of Energy a strongteam has been put
in place; good coordination and dialogue between the Government team and the donors
supportingthis operationand the sector investment program is in place. The Ministry of Energy
has already developed a Policy Letter Implementationmatrix which will be a key instrumentfor
monitoringprogressandtaking appropriate correctivemeasures.




                                                   38

    SENEGAL ENERGY SECTORRECOVERY DEVELOPMENTPOLICY CREDIT

           ANNEX 1- LETTER OF ENERGY SECTORDEVELOPMENTPOLICY
                                       (FEBRUARY 2008)

                    [Ministry of Energy stamp intop right marginon each page]


Overview of the 2003 Letterof Energy Sector DevelopmentPolicy
1.       In April 2003, the Government of Senegal signed a Letter of Energy Sector Development
Policy expressing its desire to complete the energy sector reforms implemented between 1998 and
2000, by outlining new measures intended to foster the development of the sector, greater private
sector involvement, and reducethe supply costs borne by consumers.

2.       The mainthrusts ofthe strategy adoptedby the Government were as follows:

             (i)Restructuringthe electricity subsector so as to make it more efficient and to
                  encourage State divestiture through greater involvement of the private sector in
                  investment inand management of both SENELECand ruralelectrification;

             (ii)Strengtheningcompetitiveconditionsinthehydrocarbonssubsector;

             (iii)
                 Promotingthe Senegalesesedimentarybasinmoreactively; and

             (iv) Strengthening the sustainable management of wood resources by placing greater
                 responsibilityinthe handsof localcommunities.

3.       From a practical standpoint, in addition to maintainingthe role of single buyer assigned to
SENELEC, a decision was made to accord priority to the execution of all new power plant projects
as a private producer undertaking; to transfer, to the fullest extent possible, existingpower plants to
the private sector given their expansion potential; to decentralize production; and lastly, to assign
institutional responsibility for the management and financing of SENELEC activitiesto a strategic
partner under a concessionarrangement.

4.       Inorder to achievea ruralelectrificationrate of 15 percent in 2005 and 30 percent in 2015,
the State adopted a strategy that focused on granting a prominent role to the private sector with
respect to rural electrificationand adoption of the idea of concessions for rural electrification as a
priority framework for implementationofthe State's priority program.


5.       The Government's objective in the hydrocarbons subsector targeted the promotion of
activities aimed at achieving true liberalizationof the subsector and the introductionof competition,
by according a more prominent role to PETROSEN in downstream activities. To this end, the
Government decided to build up independent stocks so that new entrants, particularly those in
distribution and import businesses, could avoid being at the mercy of anti-competitive practices of
warehouse owners.




                                                  39

Lastly, inthe domestic fuel subsector, the Governmentreaffirmedits desire to pursue the
objective set forth in 1997, namely, the sustainabledevelopment of wood resourcesaimed at
benefitingthe localforest-dwellingpopulationand the promotionof fuel substitutionsuitedto
Senegalese cookingmethods.



Need for a New Energy Policy
6.       More than four years after the signing of the 2003 Letter of Energy Sector Development
Policy, the energy sector is still beset by a wave of tensions stemming from energy supply to
households, industry, and all other sectors of activity. The unprecedented rise in the price of
petroleum products has sparked a serious energy supply crisis, evidenced by periods of interruption
inthe supply of fuel, butanegas, and electricity.

7.       Owing to the severity of the crisis and the protracted nature of certain factors such as
tensions in the internationaloil market, the Government has reviewedthe suitability of its current
approach and decided on new measures to foster the development of the energy sector during the
period 2007-2012. These measures, some of which are underway, will need to be placed in the
global context of a clear policy and strategy that are sufficientlywell-definedto serve as a guide for
all stakeholders, the State, energy companies, investors, development partners, and consumers.

8.       The purpose of this Letter is to set forth the objectives sought by the Government in the
sector as well as the strategies that it intends to implement during the period 2007-2012, in light of
the importance of the sector to the country's economic and social development. To this end, The
Government has conducted an in-depth analysis of the energy sector, emphasizing the constraints
and obstacles faced, and has outlined its strengths and weaknesses, after assessingexecution of the
2003 Letter ofEnergy Sector DevelopmentPolicy.



Summary of Major Objectives and the New Energy Policy Strategy for 2007
9.       The Government's new energy policy set forth in this Letter of Development Policy
emphasizes the following three major objectives: (i)Ensuringan adequate supply of energy to the
country at the highest quality, on a sustainable basis, and at the lowest cost; (ii)Expandingaccess by
the population to modern energy services; and (iii)Reducing Senegal's vulnerability to exogenous
forces, particularly those linkedto the worldoil market.

10.      The Government's strategy focuses on the following mainareas:


         Developingand exploring Senegal's energy potential, particularlyintheareas of biofuels
and renewable energy;


         0        Achievingenergy diversification, throughthe useof fossil fuels, biofuels, the biomass,
         solarenergy, windenergy, etc. for power generation;


         0        Makinggreater use of hydropower in a regional cooperationcontext, particularly
         river basinorganizationsand the WAPP;




                                                    40

         a        Securing the supply of hydrocarbons in Senegal, through the strengthening of
         localrefining and cooperation with oil-producingcountries;


         a        Adapting the energy infrastructure to demand, with the assistance of the public
         and privatesectors;


         0        Providingelectricity at a more rapid pace, in particularthrough the promotion of
         rural electrification and the development of energy services for productive and social
         activities;


         a        Controlling energy demand and improvingenergy efficiency;


         a        Strengthening governanceofthe energy sector;


         a        Restructuringthe electricity subsector with the aim of enhancing its effectiveness
         and achievingjudicious private sector involvement; and


         a        Strengthening the policy for developingforest resources with a view to providing
         the populationwith aregular supply of domestic fuel.

A.       ASSESSMENT OF IMPLEMENTATION OF THE 2003 LETTER OF ENERGY
SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY
11.      Following the second attempt to privatize SENELEC, a process that drew no successful
bidders, the April 2003 Letter of Development Policy articulates the Government's desire to
complete and deepen the 1998 reform process by implementing new measures mainly in the
hydrocarbons and electricity subsectors. However, four years later, the main measures outlined in
the 2003 Letter ofEnergy Sector DevelopmentPolicyhavenotyet beensubstantivelydeveloped.

12.      Although the schedule for improvingproduct specification has largely been followed inthe
hydrocarbons subsector, no steps have beentaken to develop an independent storage system or to
build a petroleum product analysis laboratory with a view to the quality control of products sold in
Senegal. These activities, among others, were identified with a view to convening a meeting of
donors onthe energy sector, which has not yet taken place.

13.      With regardto measurespertainingto regulationof the subsector, the Permanent Secretariat
of the National Hydrocarbons Committee [Comite'National des Hydrocarbures CNH] continuesto
be plaguedby financialproblems, giventhe failure ofdownstreamactivity licenseholdersto pay fees
to cover its operating costs.

14.      Inthe case of the electricity subsector, results of the implementationof measuresinthe
two main areas of the strategy set forth in the 2003 Letter of Energy Sector Development Policy,
namely, the industrialrestructuringof SENELECand State divestiture, were mixed. State divestiture
failed to take place.

15.      However, important studies were started with a view to the financial restructuring of the
company and of production, transportation, and distribution activities in particular. These studies



                                                 41

resultedin two flagship proposals, namely the establishment of a consumer cooperativefund and
a worker investment fund that enables workers to become SENELEC shareholders over time,
alongwith nationals, foreigners, and an internationaltechnical partner, and the partitioningof the
activitiesofthe enterprise under a holdingcompany arrangement.

16.      The measure related to the transfer of existing power plants to the private sector was not
implemented. In addition, owing to the delay with the implementationof the second IPP project,
Kounoune Iandofthe third, as projected in 2002, SENELEC added 64 MW of capacity at Bel Air in
2006, with the same amount being projected for Kahone in 2008. This action by SENELEC does
not, however, undermine the private sector involvement strategy outlined in the Letter of Energy
Sector Development Policy, given that it took place in the context of a type of public-private
partnership new to SENELEC, involving the outsourcing of operations and maintenance activities
(O&M contract) to the power plantbuilder.

17.      In the case of rural electrification, ASER [Agence Sknkgalaise d'ElectriJicationRurale]
received significant financial assistance from the State, which facilitated achievement of a rural
electrificationrate of 16 percent (102,000 households) in 2006. The target set at end-2005 was 15
percent.

18.      The Government applied, through ASER in particular, the strategy outlined in the 2003
Letter of Energy Sector Development Policy, by carryingout extensive preparatory work, ensuring
ongoingfinancingthrough the establishment of a rural electrificationfund, and grantingtax breaks.
Inaddition, it receivedsignificant fundingfrom manydonors amountingto close to CFAF 60 billion.
The first Dagana-Podor-Saint-Louis rural electrification concession was awarded on a temporary
basis; the contract will be signed in February 2008. The process for the award of four additional
concessionsin2008, of atotal oftwelve, is underway.

19.      Inthecaseofdomestic fuel,thepolicytopromotetheuseofbutanegaswasmaintainedina
bid to preserveforest resources, with a price subsidy for cylinders (2.7 kg and 6 kg) providedto the
population. This assistancecost the Government a little under CFAF 100billion for the period2002-
2006.

20.      The other measures, such as the sustainable management of forest resources and the
promotion of fuel substitutes other than LPG, fell short of expectations, owing to inadequate
financialresourcesand problemssecuringfinancial assistance.

21.      However, supply management, in particularthrough the "sustainable management of forest
resources" and the "streamlining of exploitation" was successful largely because of the Sustainable

Energies TraditionnellesetdeSubstitutionPROGEDE].
ParticipatoryEnergy ManagementProject [ProjectProgrammede GestionDurableet Participativedes


22.      The share of household consumption of traditional fuels, namely wood and charcoal, fell
from 92 percent ofthe householdenergy balance in 1994to slightly under 75 percent in 2004, while
consumptionof modern energy, such as LPG, electricity, and kerosene, rose. The LPG share tripled,
climbingfrom 5 percentto 15 percent ofenergy consumptionduringthe same period.

B.       SITUATION AND CONSTRAINTS FACING THE ENERGY SECTOR
23.      Despite fairly significantprogress, the energy sector continues to face a variety of obstacles
andconstraintswhich should be eliminated.




                                                  42

24.      The Government has come up with a number of tailored approaches and strategies, after
analyzingof all these constraints and obstacles, and has decidedto take specific actionwith aview to
achievingthe targets it has set for itself.

GeneralSituation

TheEnergyBalance-DominanceofPetroleumProducts
25.      With a 20 percentage point decline in the biomass share of Senegal's energy balance (final
energy consumption) over the past decade (this figure stood at 37.8 percent in 2004), petroleum
products now account for the biggest share, risingto 53.4 percentin2004 (comparedto 38 percent in
1994), while the share ofelectricityrosefrom 5 percent in 1994to 8.8 percent in2004.

26.      These changes are largely attributableto the increase in transportation activities, expanded
electricity services, as evidenced by the rise in the nationalrural electrificationrate from 25 percent
in 1994to 34 percent in 2004, and the pursuitof a policy of "butanization," which ledto an increase
in LPGconsumptionfrom 50,000 metric tons in 1994to 131,000 metrictons in 2004, a situationthat
resultedinthe preservationofapproximately 55 1,000 hectaresof forest over the period 1974-2004.

DependenceandVulnerabilityofthe Sector
27.      The levelof independencevis-a-vismodernenergy, that is, excludingtraditionalbiomass, is
extremely low (on the order of 4 percent in2004 -43 percent ifbiomass is included) and reveals the
vulnerability of the energy sector, given that, other than hydropower generation at Manantali (264
GWh of an average output of 800 GWh) and very limited productionof natural gas (less than 15
million m3), petroleum products, which are all imported, by and large meet modern energy needs in
the country, in particularpower generation, which accounts for 35 percent of nationalconsumption
ofpetroleumproducts.

An ObstacletoMacroeconomicManagementandCostReduction
28.      This heavy reliance on imported oil puts Senegal in the category of countries that pay the
highest energy prices and, in an international context of high petroleum product prices, makes it
difficult to managethe macroeconomic situationwith a view to controlling inflation and combating
poverty. The energy crisis, which led to interruptionof refining activities from April 2006 to May
2007 and to a spike in the number of brown-outs, owing in particularto fuel shortages, a situation
which, thus far, had not occurred in the electricity subsector, poses a serious threat to economic
growth and, moreover, imposes a colossal financial burden on the State, with the cost of helpingthe
sector regainits footingamounting to almost CFAF 140billion in 2006.

29.      Inthe case ofthe electricityand hydrocarbonssubsectors, delays in or a dearthof investment
have made them vulnerable to exogenous shocks, while at the same time placinga stranglehold on
achievement ofthe objective of reducingconsumer supply costs.

HydrocarbonsSubsector

UDstreamActivities
30.      PETROSEN, the Senegalese Petroleum Company, which is upstream of this subsector, is
responsiblefor hydrocarbonsexplorationandproduction.




                                                   43

3 1.     Heavy crudeoil deposits havebeendiscovered inthe CasamanceoffshoreDBmeFlorefield,
where reserves are estimatedat approximatelyone billion barrels, excludinga pocket of light crude.
The extractionand use ofheavy crude have, thus far, posedbothtechnicaland financialproblems.

32.      Sincethe mid-l980s,PETROSENhas beenexploitingsmall naturalgas deposits as it is now
doing in the Gadiaga gas field, which produces 15 million m3 of naturalgas and 295 metric tons of
crudeper year.

33.      It should be notedthat owing to the fact that fundingfor explorationactivitieshas dried up,
PETROSEN'smission has shiftedto promotionactivities.

34.      However, shallow drilling in the past, coupled with underexploitation of the Senegalese
sedimentary basin, bode well for discovery prospects, as evidenced by the renewed interest of
internationaloil companies in Senegal, which has beenable to grant permits to most researchgroups
inrecentyears.

35.      The petroleumcode - Law No. 98-05 of January 8, 1998- and standard contracts represent
significant strides in the area of tax incentives. However, the petroleum code should be revised,
inasmuchas it is riddledwith ambiguitiesthat create problemsfrom a negotiatingstandpoint.

36.      Furthermore, in order to maintainthe refiningcapacity, the State, through PETROSEN, has
increased its share capital in SAR to 65.4 percent. It also assigned PETROSEN the task of
conducting activitiesto strengthen competitioninthe downstream sector, amongthem, investmentin
storagefacilities.

DownstreamActivities
37.      The upward price trend in the petroleum product market is continuing, particularly with
respectto gasoline, butane gas, and power generation fuel. A 2005 comparison between importsof
finished products (626,000 metric tons) and crude (886,000 metric tons) reveal the inadequacy of
refiningcapacity relativeto demand.

38.      Investment in modernizationand expansion of the refinery, an important component of the
reformpackage, did nottake place. Consequently, SAR hadto resort to importsto meetthe shortfall
betweenthe volume producedby the refineryandthe volume neededto satisfy marketdemand.

39.      From the standpoint of importation, despite the granting of licenses to several operators
other than SAR, the latter was the only entity engaged in this activity. Independent operators have
not yet obtained the required capacity - financial base, storage capacity - to engage in import
activities. The big petroleum companies select those products that they wish to import, a situation
that createsshortages in some areas.

40.      The disruption of activities following the financial difficulties of SAR exacerbated the
supply situation in the country, and brought to the fore an unanticipated dimension of the reform
process, namely, less responsibilityby actors for meetingthe needs of users and maintainingreserve
stocks.

A HostofIncrementalCostFactors
41.      The petroleum product supply system contains significant incremental costs that are linked
to both structural and cyclical factors. Structural factors include the various limits imposed by




                                                  44

existinginfrastructure- water removal from the Dakar Port, storagecapacity, obsolete receivingand
unloadingfacilities,etc.

42.      Cyclical factors stem largely from the disastrous cash flow situation of SAR, which has
greatly tarnished its credit status with respectto its suppliers and banks. This situationis reflectedin
the higher pricedifferentialschargedby suppliersand muchhigher interest rateson its loans.

Overcomingthe SupplyandHydrocarbonsCrisis:StateIntervention
43.      Inorder to stabilizethe supply of petroleumproducts to the country, The Government has
adopted various measures that have permitted SAR to resume refining activities, in particular, to
replace the FOB MED with the CIF NWE referencemarket via Rotterdam-Dakar,the establishment
ofthe FSPP [Fonds de Se'curisationdes Importations de Produits Pe'troliers],and the grantingof
a temporary supportmarginfor refining, financed by the FISPP, in order to repay S A R debt.


Status ofLiberalizationandCompetition
44.      The nationaloil market is currently an open one, from the standpoint of liberalization, with
the entry of new actors intothe various segments. However, pricecompetitionis non-existent,given
that all actors usethe fixed priceceilings.

45.      Inlightoftheincreasesinthepriceperbarrelofoil, TheGovernmenthas, for socialreasons,
kept in place a residual subsidy on the official LPG price and has, at times, frozen LPG prices and
fuel to SENELEC, using the public coffers to cover the resulting shortfall. Payment of these
amounts have sometimes beendelayed, a situationthat has adversely affected the cash flow of SAR
and SENELEC.

RegulatoryIssues
46.      Subsectorregulationinthe area of prices continues to be the focus of attentionof operators,
with a request for a reassessment of margins, particularlyfor distribution, transportation, and rights
of way. Inthe case of refiningand importation,mentionof port fees in a price structure context has
ledto differing interpretations.

47.      Significant standardization work remains to be done with respect to truck access to
warehouses and the docking of boats, giventhat the companies that own these facilities apply their
ownrules.

ElectricitySubsector
48.      The share ofelectricity inthe final energy balanceremains modest(8.8 percent) comparedto
the share of biomassand petroleumproducts.

49.      The almost completely thermal system of production, with the exception of energy imported
from Manantali, constitutes the core of petroleum productsand accounts for more than 35 percent of
national hydrocarbonsconsumption(closeto 600,000 metrictons of fuel consumption).

50.      Inthe case of the power system, demandcontinues to outstrip supply. Demand, which is
drivenby the consumptionofBTclients, is increasingat a rate that exceeds6 percent.

5 1.     Despite the expansion of the C IV diesel power plant in Cap des Biches (30 MW) in 2003
andthe start up ofoperations bythe BelAir diesel power plant(60 MW) in2006, additionalcapacity
has proven inadequate, leading to production shortfalls, owing in particular to delays in obtaining



                                                    45

new core generators. In addition, supply capacity has been adversely affected by the decline in the
availabilityof generators(from 77 percent to 70 percent between2003 and 2006), owingto obsolete
equipment and maintenance problems. Consequently, power generators were used, at prohibitive
costs (excessively highrates).

52.      Moreover, in an attempt to curb the deteriorating quality of service resulting from
insufficient capacity linked mainly to investment delays, SENELEC had to resort to the rental of
generators, despitethe fact that the tariffdoes not cover the energy productioncostsofthe generators
(97 CFAFkWhcomparedto SENLEC's averagesales prices of91CFAFkWh).

53.      Given the record increase in petroleum product prices (25 percent for heavy fuel oil and 22
percent for diesel) in 2006, expenditureby SENELEC and IPPs on fuel and oil hada negative impact
on the productioncosts of all power plants in the interconnectednetwork. These expenses climbed
to CFAF 130billion in 2006, while electricitysales stood at approximatelyCFAF 157 billion.

54.      The aforementionedfactors, combinedwith the fairly punitive method of tariff regulationin
the case of SENELEC, operating and maintenance problems of production units, the low overall
yield (under 80 percent), recourse to expensive financing, and the dearth of concessional funding
resulted in operating losses in 2005 and 2006. Fiscalyear 2006 ended with a net loss of CFAF 34
billion. The cost of refinancingthe cash flow deficit ranged from CFAF 81 billion to CFAF 109
billion, basedonthe assumptionsofthe study done onthe financial restructuringof SENELEC.

55.      Cumulativeequity capital losses over the past 15 years create the problem of sustainability
of the operation and have prompted the State to make a number of decisions, among them, the
recapitalization of SENELEC [and] the provision of financial resources to guarantee fuel supply
under normalconditionsthat are synchronizedwith the revenuecycle ofthe enterprise.

Rural Electrification
56.      The highnumber ofconcessions inthe area of rural electrification, which havebeenreduced
from 18 to 12, still seems excessive giventhe small number of power companiesthat are likely to be
interested in operating overseasand inrural areas. However, no plans havebeenmade regardingthe
role and place of the national private sector in concessionarrangements. Consideration of the issue
ofthe optimalnumberofconcessionsis ongoing.

Domestic Fuel Subsector
57.      In relative terms, the subsector accounts for the biggest share of the final energy balance;
however, its share has declined significantly over the 1994-2004 period (from 58 percent to 50.6
percent). This reduction is attributable, among other things, to the significant increase in LPG
consumption. Its share of the energy balance has tripled, rising from 5 percent to 15 percent of
household energy consumption, which has resulted in heavy subsidization in order to protect low-
incomeconsumers.

58.      Significant differences exist from one area to another in terms of the fuel mix used by
households. LPG is used more in the capital and main urban centers, while wood fuels meet the
needs of most householdsinother areas of Senegal.

59.      The steep rise in petroleum prices has prevented comprehensive implementation of the
program to eliminate LPG subsidies which, all told, will amount to CFAF 26 billion in 2005 and
CFAF 30 billion in 2006. Eliminationof the subsidy prior to makingthe necessary investments to
lowerthe cost ofsupply inthe country would leadto an increase inwood and charcoal use.



                                                  46

60.     Efforts to achieve alternative solutions, which include distribution of such substitutes as
kerosene, improvedstoves, and the use of agricultural waste and aquatic plants such as typha, have
beendisappointing.

61.     In light of the importance of the policy of sustainable development of forest resources,
which stems from the importance, role, and place of wood fuels in the final household energy
balance, the expansionofdevelopment activitiesandthe completionofthe work done by PROGEDE
seemto beof vital importance.

Renewable Energy Subsector
62.     The subject of renewable energy was virtually absent in 1997 and 2003 Letters of Energy
Sector Development Policy. Progress made in this area has, thus far, has been very limited. In
addition, muchofthe experiencegarneredinthis areahas not beenwell preserved.

63.     Senegal has, however, been involved with a variety of relatively successful organizational
and sustainable mechanism programs, includingthe programs to install the SONATEL and ASER
PV solar modules.

64.     At the moment, several private power generation projects are under consideration, in
particulara 7.5 MWc solar energy plant inZiguinchor and a 15 MW wind power plant inGandon, in
the Saint-Louisarea, inpartnershipwith the RegionalCouncil.

65.     However, the development of renewable energy, particularly in the case of projects started
by private promoters, poses the problem of the investment and transfer price of power generated,
giventhe wholesale purchasingmonopolycurrently heldby SENELEC.

Biofuels
66.     Giventhe sharp increase in the price of petroleum products, which pushed up the petroleum
bill from CFAF 185 billion in 2000 to CFAF 217 billion in 2003 and then to CFAF 353 billion in
2006, the Government has taken a number of steps designed to ease the economic burden imposed
by fuel supply in Senegal. At the international level, the Pan-AfricanNon-PetroleumProducers'
Association (PANPA) was createdwith the aim of forging an alliance betweenoil-rich countries and
those that possessfewer oil resources, and at the nationallevel, the agriculturalpolicy was revisedto
includeenergy farmingfor purposesofbiofuelproduction(Jatropha,sunflower, etc.).

67.     Inthe area of biofuel development, Senegal has several options, includingthe biodiesel
option which could be implemented using a plant that is well known in rural areas (the Jatropha
Curcas or Tabanani in Wolof).

68.     Inadditiontothe specialbiodieselproductionprogramoutlinedbyThe Government,which
is based on cultivating 321,000 hectares of Jatropha in 321 rural communities in Senegal,
SODEFITEX and the CSS have their own biofuel production projects. SODEFITEX is using
sunflower and cotton seeds; CSS is usingmolasses.

69.     At the end of what is called the pilot phase (2006-2009), SODEFITEX should achieve the
target of 10,000 metric tons of sunflower and 10,000 metric tons of cotton seeds, and during the
development phase (2009-202I),production of 50,000 metric tons of sunflower and 50,000 metric
tons ofcottonseeds.




                                                 47

70.     However, the ethanol subsector should be the first to supply gasoline for automobiles, given
the progressmadewith construction ofthe Compagnie Sucriere Sinigalaise (CSS) distillery. Ethanol
productionstarted inNovember 2007; the target set was eight million liters. Once produced, ethanol
shouldbe mixedwith regular gasolinebeforebeingdistributed to gas stations.

71.     The flood of requests received from investors to carry out biofbel production projects in
Senegal attests to the craze sweepingthe global market for biofbels. However, the development of
biofuels calls for the review of issues of crucial importance, with a view to establishing a clear,
stable, and secure framework for both investorsandproducers.

C. STRENGTHSAND WEAKNESSESOF THE ENERGY SECTOR

Weaknessesofthe Sector
72.      The sector's main weakness, as amply demonstrated by recent trends in the international oil
market,is itsvery highlevelofvulnerability resultingfrom a lowsupplyofcommercialenergy sources and
heavy reliance on foreign sources. This leads to high costs for consumers, which were driven up by the
poorconditionandlowcapacityofinfrastructuresuchas power,refinery,or petroleumfacilities.

73.      In the electricity subsector, significant delays in the implementation of investment
programs are attributable to the chronic lack of concessional financial resources, which results in
rather mediocre service, and a low levelof access by rural and periurbanpopulationsto electricity
at very uncompetitive per kilowatt hour prices. Moreover, owing to a lack of diversification of
energy sources usedto generate electricity, the power system, which is dominated by oil-based thermal
powerplants,faces limitations intermsofcost reductionandthecapacityto absorbexogenousshocks.

74.      The gravity of the environmental problems in a Sahelian country like Senegal and the low
purchasingpower ofhouseholdsnecessitatedthe continuation ofthe "butanization" and subsidy policy.
However, inrecentyears, the rise inLPGpriceshassignificantly increasedthe burdenofthe butanegas
subsidy,thuscallingintoquestionthe sustainability ofthis policy.

Strengthsof the Sector
75.      Ongoing energy infrastructure development, particularly in the petroleum and electricity
subsectors, should helpto addressthe deficiencies and shortcomingsofthe energy sector, while havinga
positive impact in terms of a reduction in costs borne by consumers, improved quality of service, and
greater access by the populations to these modern forms of energy. Strengthening and expanding the
energy production and distribution infrastructure are now a matter of urgency, in view of the level of
developmentof largescale projectssuch as the Special IntegratedEconomicZone, and majorminingand
hotelprojects.These constitutereal growthfactors inthe energy sector.

76.     The development partners' favorable view of Senegal should benefit the electricity
subsector which, despite the absence of gas, coal, or water profits, manages to attract the private
sector.

77.      Senegal's membership in river basin organizations such as the Gambia River Basin
Development Organization (OMVG) and the Senegal River Development Organization provides
valuable opportunities,inthe context of subregional cooperation and WAPP, to increase the share
of hydropowerto provideelectricity.

78.     Moreover, Senegal has renewable energy potential, particularly solar, wind, and biofbel
energywhich, ifproperlyexploited, couldhelpto reducethe dependenceon importedoil.



                                                   48

79.      The increased interest of international oil companies in hydrocarbons in Senegal, which has
quite an extensive, albeit underexploited, sedimentarybasin, bodes well for the discovery of crude oil or
natural gas deposits. The context of a sustained increase in oil prices on the international markets
introducesnew conditionsthat shouldprovefavorablefor heavy oil explorationinDame Flore.

80.      Equippedwith a well locatedport from a geographicalstandpoint and the sole refinery inthe
subregion, Senegalpossessesconsiderable assets that allow it to positionitselfas an oil hub.

81.      The dynamismofthe privatesector inthe petroleumsubsector,the quality ofhumanresourcesin
the energy sector, and the desire articulated by public authorities to make the requisitechanges to place
this sector on a highperformancetrack are all positivefactors favoring the developmentofthe sector.

D.ENERGY POLICY AND STRATEGY

Frameworksfor GovernmentAction
82.      Senegal's economic performancehas beenremarkable inrecentyears, especially incomparison
to that of sub-Saharan Africa (SSA), in terms of economic growth, inflation control, and the budget
deficit. The implementation of the frst poverty reduction strategy (2003-2005) led to a steady
improvementof per capita incomeand a decline inthe incidenceof poverty from 67.9 percent in 1994-
1995 to 57.1 percent in 2001-2002. However, with a 5 percent growth rate, it would take 30 years for
Senegalto double its per capitaGDP and, as notedby the Presidentofthe Republic, Senegal would still
be a less developed country. This observation formed the basis for the Accelerated Growth Strategy
(AGS), which seeks to consolidate the macroeconomic gains of the previous decade and sustainably
increasethe growthrateto approximately7-8 percentinrealterms.

Accelerated GrowthStrategy(AGS)andEnergy
83.      The AGS has two components, namely: (i)the establishment of a worldclass business
environment (EACI); and (ii) the identification and promotion of growth sectors.Thus, in view of the
importance of energy as a key production factor for sector development, the AGS has included the
energy sector inthe action plan for the establishment ofthe EACI, specifically interms of infrastructure
upgrade.


PRSPandEnergy
84.      With regard to energy, the PRSP falls within the framework of the energy services access
policy developed by the ECOWAS Heads of State. With a view to achieving the MDGs, it
therefore included the objective of improving access to energy services, with a target of 66
percent for households, of which 30 percent is for ruralareas, by 2015.

85.      In December 2005, the Government established the Intersectoral Committee for the
Implementation o f Synergies between the Energy Sector and the other Strategic Sectors for
Poverty Reduction (CIMES/RP), which seeks to ensure greater consideration of the energy
component inthe development and implementationof poverty reductionprograms.

Energy -A Challenge to Economic Development
86.      Bridging the infrastructure gap, including roads and energy, and in particularelectricity,
which is a major impediment in terms of availability and cost, is one of the key challenges that
Senegal must face in order to ensure the successful implementationof the AGS. Many experts
agree that Senegal could increase its growth rate by three percentage points, if it managed to
construct road and electricity networks comparable to those of Botswana. This constitutes the



                                                   49

core objective of the vision of the President, who has made infrastructuredevelopment the focus
of his policy.

FavorableMacroeconomicConditions
87.      Senegal enjoys favorable macroeconomic conditions, such as its strong fiscal position
with a steady increase in revenue, its low debt level (13 percent of GDP), and its rather
comfortableexternal reserves position-equivalentto 3.8 months of importsas of December 31,
2006 - which enables it to tackle the aforementioned challenges. Moreover, the Government
will continue its prudentbudget management policy, which is aimed at maintaininga stable basic
fiscal balance and ensuringa more efficient allocation of public expenditure.

InternationalContext

Fossil Fuels Stillthe DominantEnergySource
              -
88.      Global economic growth has remained strong in recent years, leadingto a steady increase
in global demand for primary energy, which, according to the International Energy Agency
(IEA), is projected to grow by 50 percent by 2030. Fossil fuels, petroleum and charcoal in
particular, should remainthe chief energy sources, with petroleum continuingto account for the
most significant share of global energy balance, and charcoal expected to experience the biggest
increase (in absolute terms).

Prices: IndustryProjections
89.      This increase in global energy demand is expected to lead to price increases for most
energy sources. Per-barrelpricesare therefore projectedto remain at between US$60and US$SO
over the next five years, with more of an upwardtrend, as evidenced by crude oil prices surging
to over $80, with a new recordposted in New York where the price was quoted at more than $95
per barrel.The price of charcoal, the energy source seen as the medium-termstabilizing factor for
global energy demand, is projectedto be in the range of US$50 to US$60per metric ton.



RegionalCooperation
90.      Cooperation with neighboring countries or within the wider WAPP context is important for
Senegal, to the extent that it providesthe country with valuable opportunitiesto significantlyimprove its
supply conditions, particularly with regard to electricity, through the interconnection of networks and
explorationof existing hydropowerpotential in the subregion.Moreover, Senegal is seekingto position
itselfas an oil hubfor the countriesofthe subregion.

Strategic Visions and Targets ofthe EnergyPolicy
91.      The underlyingconcept ofthe energypolicyobjectivesis derivedfromthevisionset forthinthe
PRSP-II, that is, one of a Senegal that will have undergone far-reaching changes in the country's
socioeconomicstructuresby 2015 ...a countryendowedwith basic socialandlocalserviceinfrastructures
                                                                "



guaranteeing urban and rural households their fundamental rights of access to drinking water and
sanitation, quality education, energy services, quality health services, mobility, and commercial and
securityinfrastructures."

92.      The PRSP-I1 therefore projects an average growth rate of 7-8 percent in real terms and
"significant progress in the social sectors with a view to achievingthe MDGs by 2015, particularly
throughbetter access to energy services."




                                                   50

93.     With respect to energy, Senegal is a signatoryto the decisionofthe ECOWAS Headsof State
(Decision A/DEC.24/01/06 adopted January 12, 2006), who set themselves the overall objective of
providingaccessby at least 50 percentofthe ruraland periurbanpopulationto modern energy services
by 2015, with a view to achieving the MDGs. The strategies to be implemented to achieve this
objective should, inparticular, leadto universalaccess to electricityinurbanand periurbanareas, anda
36 percentaccessrateinruralareas.

94.
at the national level - 50 percent for rural areas and 95 percent for urban areas by 2012. More
        As regards accessto electricity, Senegal is seekingto achieve a 75 percent electrificationrate

generally, the study underway on access to energy services, spearheaded by CIMES with support from
ECOWAS/UNDP,will helpto defmea programfor access to energy services, particularly with regardto
the promotion ofthe drivingforce behindproductiveactivities and improvement in basic social services
(education, health, water).
95.     The Government's new energy policy, which stems from the analysisofthe nationalcontext
and international trends, emphasizesthe following three major objectives: (i)Ensuringan adequate
supply of energy to the country, at the highest quality, on a sustainable basis, and at the lowest cost;
(ii) Expanding access by the population to modem energy services; and (iii) Reducing Senegal's
vulnerabilityto exogenous forces, particularlythose linkedto the world oil market.

96.        The Government's energy strategy revolvesaround the following areas:

             a. Developingand exploring Senegal's energy potential, particularly in the areas of
                 biofuelsandrenewable energy;
             b.     Achievingenergy diversification,throughthe useoffossil fuel, biofuels,the biomass,
                 solar energy, windenergy, etc.for power generation;
             C.  Making greater use of hydropower in a regional cooperationcontext, particularly
                 river basinorganizationsandthe WAPP;
             d. Securing the supply of hydrocarbons in Senegal, through the strengthening of
                 local refining and cooperationwith oil-producingcountries;
             e.  Adapting the energy infrastructureto demand, with the assistance of the public
                 and privatesectors;
             f. Providingelectricity at a more rapid pace, in particularthroughthe promotionof
                 rural electrification and the development of energy services for productive and
                 socialactivities;
             g.  Controllingenergy demand and improvingenergy efficiency;
             h. Strengthening governance of the energy sector;
             1.  Restructuringthe electricity subsector with the aim of enhancing its effectiveness
                 and achievingjudicious private sector involvement; and
             j.  Strengthening the policy for developingforest resources with aview to providing
                 the populationwith aregularsupply of domestic fuel.

97.     Overall, implementationof the Government's new policy should help Senegal to achieve
a level of independencevis-a-viscommercial energy (excludingtraditionalbiomass) of at least 20
percent by 2020, through the provision of, in particular, biofuels, hydropower, and renewable
energy sources.

98.     In order to achieve its set objectives for the energy sector, the Government developed a
recovery plan for the energy sector (PRSE). This plan, which covers the period 2007-2102 and is
monitored on an ongoing basis in collaboration with the development partners, is a follow-up to
the 2004-2007 Emergency Plan developedto overcome the crisis.




                                                 51

99.     This Emergency Plan helped, among other things, to: (i)limit the extent of brown-outs,
by renting generators with up to 60 MW capacity; (ii) execute an investment program worth
CFAF 175 billion; (iii) transfer CFAF 62 billion from the public treasury to SENELEC in 2005-
2006, to cover the tariff revenue shortfall; (iv) make CFAF 10 billion availableand grant a CFAF
12 billion State guarantee for payment of fuel consumption; and (v) provide a three-month
revolving line of credit from the IDB to the tune of CFAF 17 billion, to secure the supply of
SENELEC petroleumproducts.

100.    Against this backdrop, the application of measures set out in the PRSE should lead to
marked improvements in the energy sector, at both the physical infrastructure and institutional
levels.

Hydrocarbons subsector

101.    In light of the key role that this subsector plays in boththe energy sector and the national
economy, particularly through transportation activities, the Government will implement the
measures requiredto guarantee and secure the country's supply, as well as measures necessary to
reduce costs by strengthening the infrastructure and improving competitive conditions in the
subsector.

UDstreamactivities
102.    In this area, efforts will have to be stepped up to promote and explore the Senegalese
sedimentary basin by relying on renewed interestin Senegalby internationaloil companies.

103.    The petroleum code and standard contracts will be revised to remove existing
ambiguities, in order to facilitate negotiations with the companies. Improvements will include,
among other things: (i) the establishment of regulationsfor oil operations; (ii)a simpler definition
of the tax regime; and (iii) the establishment of certainparameters in the standard contract.

104.    As regards D8me Flore, a heavy oil market study will be conducted, focusing in
particular on productssuch as crude bitumenand fuels for power generation.

Downstream Activities
105.    The serious crisis that plagued the subsector prompted the State to strengthen its role,
particularly with respect to the refinery. However, the Government wishes to reduce its share
capital in SAR to a maximum of 34 percent by end-2008, to the benefit of other partners,
especially private ones, with a view to promoting the conditions for financing investments to
expand and modernize the refinery, while maintaining a minimum participation share of 20
percent.

106.    In a bid to reduce the country's supply costs for petroleum products while adapting
SAR's refinery capacity, investments will be made, including in particular in the short term, in
the constructionof a docking area for crude oil tankers with a capacity of 160,000 metric tons, a
sea line and a dock for butane tankers with a capacity of 12,000 to 15,000 metric tons and, in the
medium term, the expansion of the refinery's capacity to three million metric tons. At the same
time, import facilities, the source of incrementalcosts due to obsolescence, will be modernizedin
order to offset these additional costs.

107.    There are plans to provide additional LPG storage capacity of 22,000 metric tons, of
which 12,000 metric tons will be provided by the private sector and the remaining 10,000 metric



                                                  52

tons by the State through SAR and PETROSEN, in addition to a sea line, in order to
accommodate larger butane tankers, thus significantly reducing the freight component of import
costs for butane.

108.     The capacity requiredto ensure a 35-day security stock of liquid petroleum productsand
improveconditions for competition at the distribution and importationlevels will be put in place.
The State, through PETROSEN, is holdingdiscussions with private project promoters (a number
of projects are already underway) to develop a public-private partnership that is expected to
facilitate equal access by operators to storage infrastructures. To this end, a warehouse
management company will be established. A master plan for the development of storage
infrastructureswill be prepared in order to maximizeinvestments.

109.     In the case of distribution, the Government plans to review the criteria for issuing licenses, the
problem of barriers to the conduct of certain activities (jet fuel, lubricants), as well as the rules and
regulationsthat shouldapplyto all distributors, particularlyfor infrastructureconstruction.

110.     With regardto regulation,the conclusionsof the Saly seminaron hydrocarbons,whichrequired
the participation of industry professionalsand the other stakeholders, will be implemented, particularly
those relatingto: (i)the issueof distributionand transportation margins; (ii)warehouserights of way;
(iii)therulesapplicabletoboats(vetting), truck accessto warehouses, anddistributionandstorage
infrastructures; (iv) establishment of a petroleum products importation committee; and (v) the
transformationofthe CNHintoatruly regulatorybody.

111.     In light of the difficulties interpreting port fees in a price structure context, the
determination of a margin for this category (refining or imports), patterned after the correction
coeficients used in Moroccoand CBte d'Ivoireto reflect the differences betweenthe domestic market
andthe referencemarket, will beexamined.

112.     As regards the specifications of refined petroleum products, the Government, inview of
current oil prices, intendsto conduct a study on the importanceof the use of a heavy fuel oil with a two
percentsulfur content,particularly intermsofavailabilityonthe internationalmarketandthe implications
of such a specification, which could seriously affect the production cost for users, including power
producers.

Electricity Subsector

 Vision ofthe New Policy
113.     The vision underlyingthe new policy is one of an efficient sector working to enhance the
country's appeal insteadof discouraging investment, thus helpingto improve basic social services and
combatpovertyand, moregenerally, to achievetheMDGs.

Financial RestructuringofSENELEC
114.     An analysis of SENELEC's financial situation reveals a need for a cash flow ranging from
CFAF 81 billionto CFAF 109billion.In lightofthe urgentneedto carry out a financial restructuringof
SENELECand its equity situation, the Government decidedto provide a partial capital increaseof CFAF
65 billion in2007. Other measureswill be adoptedin2008, basedonthe financial restructuringplanto be
drafted by SENELEC.




                                                   53

StrengtheningofProductionandTransportationInfrastructure

115.    Diversifying primary sources is an important option for The Governmentwith regard to
the strengtheningof productioninfrastructures.Thus, in additionto the hydropower plant projects
-FelouandGouinaundertheOMVSandSambagalouand                     Kaleta under the OMVG - the
Government decided to develop the coal steam thermal subsector, beginning with a 125 MW
power plant using the BOO (build, own, operate) formula, which is being implemented. An
additional 250 MW of coal capacity will be installed by 2012. In the meantime, the Kahone 60
MW diesel power plant being constructedby SENELEC and the independent power generation
plant in Tobhe plannedfor two tranches, each with 70 MW diesel capacity (the call for bids for
the first tranche was just launched), will help to adjust generation capacity to demand,
accompanied by a positive impact on SENELEC's fuel expenditures.Two biomass power plant
projects with 30 MW capacity each, which were undertaken by IPPs in Kaolack and in the
northern section of the country, are at the discussion stage for the power purchase agreement
(PPA), while a feasibility study on a 60 MW power plant usingJatropha oil cultivatedon 200,000
hectares is under consideration.

116.    For a country like Senegal,this objectiveof controlling costs and ensuringthe availability
of energy supplies, which is based in particular on the coal steam thermal option for power
generation, representsthe best option. Indeed, a July 2006 study on the "Project for the strategic
substitution of energy production means - a coal-fired steam thermal power plant" reveals
significant savings in annual fuel expenses, based on hypotheticalprices of petroleum products in
2005, which were clearly extremely conservative.


which is currently beingexpandedwith the Tobene - Touba - Kaolack line. Under the OMVS and
117.    The development of a production park requiresstrengtheningof the transportationsector,

OMVG programs, the Kaolack-Tambaand Kaolack- Ziguinchor routes will be constructedwhile
the hydropower plants are being built. However, implementation of these sections could be
pushed forward by SENELEC for economic reasons, owing to the ongoing surge in petroleum
fuel prices.

An IndependentPower GenerationCode
118.    Notwithstandingthe fact that SENELEC is authorized (Law No. 2002-01 of January 10,
2002) to develop a production park by constructing its own power plants, or through private
power generation, independent power generation is an important option for the Governmentwith
respect to strengthening the power generation infrastructures. Operations and maintenance
(O&M) of the new power plants to be constructedby SENELEC will therefore be entrusted to
privateoperators.

119.    The Government conducted an analysis of the GTI experience and of the recent
Kounoune experience, in order to put in place a contractualmechanism aimed at reducingdelays
and resolvingproblemsspecificto independent power generation.

 SENELEC's Contributionto the RecoveryEffort
120.     A SENELEC cost reductionprogramwill be implementedin 2008, with special emphasis
being placed on improving the availability of facilities and financial performance, including
collection and an increase in overall yield, which provides substantial recovery margins. The
Governmentwill introducea monitoringsystem basedon a SENELEC report, in order to ensure that the
costreductionprogramis properlyexecutedandproducesthe expectedresults.




                                                54

 IndustrialRestructuringandInstitutionalChanges
 121.    Inorder to enable SENELEC's board of directorsto filly discharge its role, the Government
intendstowork to strengthenthe expertiseandskills ofthe managementstaffofthis body.

 122.    Followingits analysisofthe reformexperienceofthe power sector inAfiica and Senegalandthe
reasons for the failures and successes, and the presentation of the main possibilities in terms of
competition models, the Ad hoc Technical Group responsible for reviewing SENELEC's institutional
developmentreleasedseveral recommendationsat the endof a workshop held inDakar from September
27-29,2007.

 123.    On the basis of these recommendations, the Government separated the activities into three
divisions, namely, production, transportation, and distribution, under a holding company, with
judicious participation of the domestic and international private sector, consumers, and workers,
together with an international technical partner. The Production division is responsible for all of
SENELEC's current and future power plants (except for independent power producers). The
Distributiondivision is responsible for the distribution networks and retail sale within SENELEC's
distribution network. The Transportation division is responsible for the development, operation, and
maintenance of the transportation network across the entire country (with the exception of
international interconnection lines). It also plays the role of single buyer with a purchase and
wholesale monopoly for energy, and coordinates the system. It is responsiblefor planningrelated to
production and transportation methods. This industrial restructuringplan will be implementedby end-
2008.

124.     With regardto the institutionalframework,the domestic andinternationalprivate sector will
be the majority shareholder ofthe productionand distributiondivisions. The State will holda majority
interest in the transportation division, in light of its assigned role as planner and as the single buyer
responsible for launching, where applicable, calls for bids for the provisionof additional capacity by
privatecompanies, underthe supervisionofthe ElectricitySector RegulatoryCommission(CRSE). The
deadline for the wholesale purchase monopoly which will be held by SENELEC until 2009 will be
reviewed in the case of the Transportation division, with a view to deferring it by approximately ten
years or eliminating it.


 Donorand ConsumerContributions
 125.    Investment financing appears to be a key element for the recovery of the subsector. The
Governmenttherefore expectssubstantialandappropriatefinancingfrom the developmentpartners.

126.     Consumers will make their contribution to the overall effort required to ensure the
financial viability or financial equilibrium of the subsector, given that the policy of truth-in-
pricing will now be applied. The policy of truth in pricingclearly does not prejudicethe principle of
assistanceto consumers, as the poorestamongthem shouldbenefit from a lowerrate. Inorder to ensure
greater equity and encourage energy savings, a new progressive rate-setting mechanism will be
adopted in2008 inthe electricitysubsector.


 Regulation
127.     An evaluation will be done of the fairly punitive method of tariff regulation, especially
with regardto SENELEC, which is not in control of its investment program, from the standpoint
of timely mobilization of financing. However, the regulatory system fails to take this situation
into consideration with respect to the application of contract incentives for energy that has not
beenprovided.


                                                    55

128.     The Electricity Sector Regulatory Commission will be reorganized and strengthened,
particularly in view of the separation of SENELEC activities and majority shareholdings by the
privatesector inthe ProductionandDistributiondivisions.


Ruralelectrification
129.     The Government accords priority to providing the population with access to electricity,
especially in rural areas, with the objective of achieving a 50 percent rural electrificationrate by
2012. The aim is to provide 263,000 additionalhouseholds with access to electricity services by
2012.

130.     A detailed study of an investment program in connectionwith these new objectives including,
among other things, resource levelsandthe methodof organizationto be establishedat the ASER level,
will be conducted.

131.     Discussions will continue in order to determine the optimal number of concessions, taking
into account the role and place that the domestic private sector should occupy. The Government has
already made the decisionto reserve30 percent ofthe capital stock ofthe companies to be established
as part of these concessions to the domesticprivate sector. The issue of tariffs applicableto users living
in rural areas will be examined more closely, taking into account the Government's objective of
eradicating poverty, given that the incidence of poverty is higher in rural areas, and promoting social
cohesion.
132.        The policy to controldemand will be strengthenedinorder to streamlinethe impactofthe new
rural electrification objectives on SENELEC's investment program, particularly in production and
transportation.

133.     In light of poverty reduction efforts and with a view to achieving the MDGs, the
Government will undertake, with ECOWAS/UNDPassistance, a study on an overallprogramto provide
accessto energyservices.

Domesticfuel subsector
134.     Owing to the environmental consequences relatedto the predominance of wood fuels in
the final household energy balance, the Government outlined the domestic fuel policy and
strategy in the new Letter of Domestic Fuel Subsector DevelopmentPolicy,which seeks to supply,
in a sustainable manner, urban and rural householdswith energy sources for cooking, while ensuring
the preservationofforest resources.

135.     The "butanization" policy will be maintained. However, the Government will continue to
promote the truth-in-pricingtheory for butane gas, with the complete removal of the subsidy following
implementation of the program to reduce supply costs for butane by endJune 2009. In light of the
implications of a removal of the subsidy for consumption levels of the other types of hels, a study on
domestic he1rate-settingthat takes tax issues into account, particularly forestry fees, will be conductedto
shed lightonthe decisionsofthe Government.

136.     The Government will also review measures intendedto promoteaccess by the poor rural and
periurbanpopulationsto modernforms ofenergy suchas LPGor kerosene.

137.     With regard to the sustainable supply of wood fuels, the experience with participatory
management and the activities related to the demand component spearheaded by PROGEDE will


                                                   56

be continued, until the end of the management cycle. To this end, support from the development
partners is essential.

Renewable Energy Sources and Biofuel Subsector
138.     This subsector is the focus of the new policy to diversify and strengthen energy
independence,with biofuelprogramsfor the transportation sector and power generationprojectsusing
renewableenergy sources.

139.     A legal and regulatory framework will therefore be developed to promote renewable energy
sources. Incentives such as the obligation to purchase power generatedfrom renewable energy sources
andthe settingofpredetermined,sufficiently remunerativepricesarebeingconsidered.

140.     The Government intends to design a strong policy and put in place an incentive regulatory
framework to promote biohels, while continuingto hewto the previously establishedprinciples, namely
priorityaccordedto satisfyingdomestic energy needs, the absence of any conflictwiththe food security
objective, the non-transferof landto promoters,the equitable share of benefits amongthe various actors,
especiallythe smallproducers.
141.     The Government's new policy seeks to achieve a penetration rate of at least 15 percent for
renewableenergy sources (RESs) and biofuels for domestic energy consumptionby 2020, by providing
inparticular biofuels, hydropower,andrenewableenergy sources.

Energy Management and Energy Efficiency
142.     Owing in particular to Senegal's very heavy reliance on foreign oil, the Government
intendsto launch major energy managementand energy efficiency programs.

Thus in tandem with the introductionofthe truth-in-pricing principle inthe energy sector, a
series of measuresto promote energy managementand energy efficiency will be launched,
particularlythe implementationof the projectto reduce public expenditure on electricity, lower
bills for public lighting in communes, the promotionof solar andwind energy, andthe execution
of an energy efficiency program inthe residentialandtertiary sector as well as inthe industry.

SENELEC initiateda study to develop a program to manage demand (DSM, "Demand Side
Management"), which highlights in particularthe optimal conditionsfor successful
implementation(financing, implementation,and monitoring). While awaiting the findings ofthe
study, a test phase involving 684 customers over a three-monthperiodwas launchd for a project
to install low consumption lamps for domestic customers.

143.     Substantial savings are expected in the transportation sector. To this end, an evaluation
of the sector's potentialwill be launched to identify the energy saving and efficiency measuresto
be adopted.

144.       Inthe case of wood fuels, the promotionof Casamance-style kilns, the use of which has
been mandatory since January 1, 2004, helps to increase charcoal yield from 18 percent to 30
percent, while the use of improved stoves will push the figure up to 40 percent (compared to 15
percent). The Government will ensure that support funds are made available, under favorable
terms, to skilled manufacturers of improved stoves, in order to ease the constraints associated
with its distribution.

145.     In general, the energy savings working group established by the Government must
review, among other things, the issues related to information and awareness of actors, to




                                                  57

incentivesto be offered, and to financial mechanisms and structures for implementationof the
policyand actionplan, which will bedeveloped onthe subject.


                                                                     Dakar, February 11,2008


Ministerof State, Minister of Economy and Finance            Ministerof Energy

Official stamp                                                           OfJicial stamp

Abdoulaye Diop                                                        Samuel Amete Sam




                                             58

59

3.




      60

61

62

63

64

65

66

67

68

      YI




69

c.




            'dI




      70

71

72

c         t

     73

74

75

76

77

      i


78

79

80

81

sa2

m
00

I


cc
0
Q
$3%
.fi
Q)




       C    W
     .I     00


     s    00
          00




 M
 e
.d

      03
      0
      .-N
      0


      "KU
      <E


      cr
      N
      .-0E
      5




3
e
z
.I



88
i
Y

t




I

 I    I




`cr%
 0 0

r-

         v)
          %
         e3
        5 0)

          2x
          a,
        G >
          L-
          $
          0
          B
          a
          2
          0
         Y
          a,
          0
         .-LL
          r:
          c
          cd


         cs
          0

        .-E
         i?
          v)
        .-E      M
               a




     .-M
     E
    *:
     L-

     Y
     a

     Y
     em
     a
A    A

          @
          3
          0
          C

   2id




          .-f;'2
          w
          C




          .-.-b
           0
          c,
           &
           u
           w
          Iw




Ew
5
8

     I
.-0      I E
 E

C
0
a
3
p!         E

C
v)
8
5
Q)

4-
0
Q\
0
0
N

.e
 E

0E
.r(
Y
(d
Y
-EE
.-$
.-a,2
CE
 8
 0
Y
k
Ydzj
v)

Dx

If
W




      A

00   0000
0 0 0




.-M
aEEa
PE
 a
Y
-ga
WE



.-E
0
Y
-s2
Y
v)


Y


E
3
&I-

A A.h

I
5
o\    cr\      - 0 W W O r n ~
      0
               cNc 4N3 cNc 4N3 4N3 4N3 rO
               o o o o o o c
               - - 0 0 - - c
      0
      N
43    43
0     0        o o o o o o cc
      3
CY    CY




      +-'
      *
      C

      .-21
      i2

      0'
      2
      ._
      Mc
       0
       2
      li:
      ac
      -a
       cd
       v,
       C
       cd


      3
      w6

      rc
       0
      .-c0
      Y
      c1
       cd
       c
       %
      a2
       I

      eW
      %
      a
      Y

       c
       e1
       5c
      B       5  . . . .
             Z
      -
      A       A

 a
 0   W W a c h ~                  b     W

 0
 N   o o o o c
     0 0 0 0

 rc
 0   rNNNNCY
     oc o o o c
       k r c c c r c              r0 c r c
                                        0




                            s
                            0
                            c




                            -G
                            c
                            (3




                         %3




Y  >
                    -   A A


     SENEGAL ENERGY SECTORRECOVERYDEVELOPMENT POLICY CREDIT


              ANNEX 4- COUNTRY AND ENERGY SECTOR BACKGROUND


                                 A. COUNTRY BACKGROUND

1.       Senegal is located on the West Coast of Africa and is part of the West African Economic
and Monetary Union (WAEMU). With a populationestimatedclose to 12 million, its economy is
dominated by a few strategic sectors, including groundnuts, fisheries, and services. The informal
sector accounts for about 60 percent of its economy. The rural economy frequently suffers from
drought, and lacks access to basic services and infrastructure, leading to low productivity, high
emigration and higher poverty rates in rural areas. About half of the population lives in cities,
including25 percent inthe capital, Dakar.

2.        Over the past years, Senegal has enjoyed a stable political climate, and remained largely
unaffected by regional instability. In April 2000, Mr. Abdoulaye Wade won the Presidential
election and became the third President of the Republic of Senegal, representing the first
transition to another political party since independence in 1960 from France's colonization. A
new Constitution, approved in January 2001, reduced the length of the presidential term from
seven to five years and the unlimited number of terms to two. President Wade won the last
presidentialand legislativeelectionsheldrespectivelyon February and June 2007.

                             B. ENERGY SECTORBACKGROUND

I.INTRODUCTION

3.        The following sections present background information regarding Senegal's Energy
Sector, the main issues facing the energy sector and the actions to be undertaken to fully support
Senegal's economic and social growth, and in particularto prevent the reoccurrence of the recent
difficulties. The Policy Matrix (Annex 2) and the Reform Action Plan (Annex 3) provide the
policy framework and key actions supported by the operation.

Enerw Sector Institutions

4.        The main institutions in Senegal's energy sector and their responsibilitiesare presented in
the following paragraphs.

5.       The Ministryof Energy (ME) is responsible for the development and implementationof
energy policy and regulations pertaining to biomass fuels, electricity, upstream and downstream
hydrocarbon activities, energy pricing, energy efficiency programs. The Ministry of Rural
Developmentis responsible for biofuels.

6.       Biomass fuels. The ME and the Ministry responsible for forestry resources coordinate
the activities carried out by public and private entities. Over the last 7-years, the PROGEDE
(Sustainable and Participatory Energy Management Project) project, has been supported by the
Bank; its objectivesare to implement a sustainable managementof the existingforestry resources
of Southern Senegal and demand-side management measures.




                                                102

7. Electricity Sub-sector:
      0   SENELEC is the public utility (100% State own) responsible for the development o f
          electricity services in the urban and rural areas within SENELEC concession perimeter;
          SENELEC serves about 700,000 customers with a peak demand o f about 400 M W              '.
      0   ASER ("Agence Senegalaise d'Electrification Rurale") is a public agency, responsible
          for accelerating access to electricity services in rural areas. ASER is promoting rural
          electrification through domestic and international private sector participation supported
          by grants covering 60-70% o f the initial investment.
      0   CRSE ("Commission de Regulation du Secteur de I'Electricite") regulates all the
          activities o f the electricity subsector and is part o f entities under the Ministry o f Energy.
          In particular it determines the maximum revenues SENELEC should collect in a given
          year, monitor the implementation o f the relevant regulations, and is responsible for the
          procurement o f additional power generation (PPs or other arrangements).
      0   Independent Power Producers UPPsl. SENELEC has so far also contracted with two
          private independent producers - thermal plants o f GTI 50 MW and Kounoune Power
          S.A. 67.5 MW - and is also importing power from the Manantali Regional Hydroelectric
          project - about 50-60 M W . Two other IPPs are under implementation - a 70 MW diesel
          IPP and two tranches o f each 125 M W imported coal power plants. Another plant
          financed by IDB and managed by a private entity, and the Felou regional hydroelectric
          plant are under construction. The GTI, the Kounoune IPP, and the Manantali and Felou
          hydros are financially supported by the Bank Group (IDA and IFC).

8. Petroleum Sub-sector:
      0   PETROSEN. Upstream petroleum activities are coordinated by PETROSEN - a 100%
          government owned company- which carries the Government's upstreamjoint ventures
          and the SAR refinery shares.
      0   SAR - Societe Africaine de Raffinaae - is the domestic refinery now majority owned by
          the State (65.4%) as some o f the majors have opted out.
      0   Marketers. Six private distributors are responsible for the retailing o f petroleum products
          and LPG in Senegal. Depots are owned by some o f the distributors.
      0   The C N H ("Comite National des Hydrocarbures") coordinates downstream activities and
          establishes retail petroleum product prices structures and maximum retail prices on a
          monthly basis. The CNH is not however a full-fledge regulatory entity.

E n e r w Consumotion and Resources Base

9.        Energy consumption in Senegal is dominated by woodfuels (wood and charcoal), which
accounts for 50-55% o f energy used. LPG (butane) is an important fuel as 85% o f the capital's
households and 55% in other urban centers rely on this energy. The country's technical
hydroelectric potential (located on the Senegal and Gambia rivers) estimated at about 1,000 MW

(200 MW) on the Senegal river. A second hydroelectric project - the 60MW Felou project -
hasjust recently been tapped, with the completion o f the Manantali regional hydroelectric project

downstream o f Manantali is under construction.

  SENELEC's concession perimeter comprises the main urban centers of Senegal, villages that were
electrified in 2000 and 175 villages part of Framework 10 ("Convention 10") for which the Government
provides SENELEC with public financing ("Fonds de Preference") to electrify a defined list of villages.
ASER's geographical perimeter includes all the villages not included in SENELEC's perimeter; this
territory has been divided in 12 concessions that will be bid out to private concessionaires.SENELEC has
also set-up a subsidiary that plan to be compete for the 12 rural concessions.




                                                      103

10.     Most of Senegal's commercial energy needs are met by imported petroleum products.
Senegal estimated 2008 consumption of refined petroleum products (including aviation, marine
bunkers and exports) is about 1.7 million metric tons. Fossilfuels in the form of heavy petroleum
were discovered offshore some 35 years ago at Dome Flore (100 million tons), but producing
such reserves was then considered non-economical(for crude oil prices below $40/barrel). The
Government is currentlydiscussingwith private partners the development ofthe resources. Small
quantities of natural gas are produced onshore near Dakar (Diam Nadio and Thies) and used by
SENELEC for electricity production. Additional volumes of natural gas have been recently
proven and available for increased electricity production.While some explorationfor gas and oil
has been carried out and there are promising prospects, no comprehensive hydrocarbon
explorationeffort has beenundertaken in Senegal.

11.     Woodfuels Supplv is based on geographically concentrated and non-sustainable forest
resource management practices(clear cutting). Some 3 million tons of woodfuels are consumed
each year and it is estimatedthat some 80,000 ha of forest lands disappear each year due to land
clearing for agriculture, bush fires, production of charcoal and overgrazing. To address this
problem, the IDA/GEF PROGEDE project was approved by the Bank's in June 1997 with the
objectives of developing village level sustained managementof the forest resource in some areas of
Senegal and promoting the use of efficient cookstoves; the project was completed in December
2004. Additional resources for continuing implementation of supply and demand side
management activities were included in the Electricity Services for Rural Areas project also
supported by IDA. Such project had very positive outcomes regarding resources management,
efficiency, institutional development and capacity building. A follow-up FY09 operation is
currentlyconsideredby IDA.

Government Sector Policy and Stratew

12.     An updated Government sector policy and strategy is laid out in the February 2008
Energy Sector Policy Letter (Annex 1).   The main objectivesare:

                 Diversification of energy supplies through: (a) development on a sustained basis
        of domestic energy resources in particular biofuels, solar and wind resources, and
        hydrocarbons; (b) development of regionalhydroelectricpotentialsnotably the remaining
        hydroelectric potential of the Senegal and Gambia rivers, particularly in Guinea; (c)
        participation in the West Africa Power Pool; and (d) coal-based power using imported
        coal.
    h .          Increasingenergy supply security with respect to hydrocarbonresources by: (a)
        strengthening domestic refining; (b) increasingpetroleum products storage facilities; (c)
        securing the sourcing of imported petroleum products; and (d) promoting aggressively
        the explorationand productionof domestic oil and gas.
        e        Developing the infrastructure required to meet energy demand through
        private/public sectors partnerships.
        e
        energy services needed for productiveand social uses.
        .        Increasing access to electricity, notably by promoting rural electrification and

                 Managing energy demand and increasing efficiency at the demand and supply
        levels.
                 Improvingthe governanceof the energy sector.
                 Restructuringthe electricity sub-sector in order to increase performanceand to
        appropriately tap privatesector expertise and financing.



                                                 104

        e         Ensuring the sustainable supply o f households fuels, by consolidating and
        expanding the policies and actions related to the management o f the forestry resources.

11.THE ELECTRICITY SUB-SECTOR: OBJECTIVES,MAINISSUESAND REQUIRED
ACTIONS

13.     Main Objectives. In the electricity sub-sector, the main objectives are to ensure the
supply o f electricity services required by the economy and the population at the lowest cost
possible and with the best reliability and security. Because o f the relatively poor physical
condition o f the existing infrastructure and the extension needs, timely financing o f the electricity
sub-sector investments is critical. To meet these objectives, the Government has proposed three
areas for action: (a) restructuring o f the generation, transmission and distribution activities
currently carried out by SENELEC; (b) as feasible, relying on private sector for financing and
improving performance; and (c) implementinga new approach in order to quickly increase access
to electricity services in rural areas.

14.     Electricity services in Senegal are currently mostly provided by SENELEC which
operates generating plants in Dakar and in five main cities. The generation capacity o f the Dakar
interconnected system is about 530 MW (2007) including 370 MW o f SENELEC thermal plants,
50 M W from the Manantali regional hydroelectric plant (installed capacity o f 200 MW) and 117
M W from two Independent Power Producers (GTI Dakar, and Kounoune Power SA). The 2007
peak demand was about 400 M W . Over the last 10 years, the rate o f electrification increased very
slowly; the national rate o f electrification is relatively low (40%) with access to electricity largely
confined to the greater Dakar area (70%) and four urban centers: St. Louis, Kaolack, Ziguinchor
and Tambacounda. Village electrification is limited (17%) to areas in the immediate vicinity o f
these large population centers and some tertiary centers. The vast majority o f the population
living inthe 10 000 smaller centers o f Senegal (4,000 inhabitants) is without electricity service.

15.     For its supply o f petroleum products and in particular o f Fuel Oil, SENELEC depends to
a large extent on the SAR refinery and on the private oil companies. SENELEC is SAR's largest
client. In 2006 and 2007, SENELEC's financial difficulties posed considerable financial
problems to the actors o f the downstream petroleum sector and to the local banks supporting
SENELEC and SAR's activities. For Senegal's energy sector to be performing, both SENELEC
and SAR need therefore to be financially restructured and made financially secured.

16.     Rural Electrification (RE). In its effort to reduce poverty and redress imbalances in
development, the Government has concluded that accelerating RE is critical. With World Bank
support the Government has started to implement a major rural electrification program over a 15-
20 year period aiming at reaching a 50% access rate in 2020 as compared with a 2007 access rate
o f 17%. The Government strategy in rural areas, described in the Rural Electrification
Development Letter o f May 2004, reflects two principles: (a) relying on public/private sector
partnerships, with the significant share o f the rural infrastructure fundingprovided by the national
budget and donors (the private sector providing about 20-30% o f the financing) while the private
sector is called to manage technically and commercially the rural concessions, and (b) ensuring
long term sustainability. A public entity - ASER (a) defines, coordinates and monitors
implementation of the RE program; and (b) ensures increased access to electricity services in the
rural areas of Senegal by granting geographical concessions (12 concessions are currently
envisaged) through a transparent and competitive bidding process. Smaller projects developed by
local sponsors (community associations, villages, other entities operating in the rural areas, etc.)
will complement the rural concessions.



                                                    105


17.      Bank's Support in the Electricity Sub-sector. Insupport of the Governmentstrategy, the
Electricity Services for Rural Areas program(a three-phase APL program) was approved by the
World Bank Executive Directors in September 2004. The RE program main development
objective is to support the progressivetransformationand improvementin the livingconditionsof
rural Senegal by: (i)providing lightingand access to moderncommunicationto rural households;
(ii) improving delivery of social services by providing electricity to potable water delivery
systems, health clinics, schools, etc.; and (iii) enhancing economic productivity through the
provision of electricity for productive purposes. The Electricity Sector Efficiency Enhancement
Program (a two-phase APL program) was also approved by the World Bank ExecutiveDirectors
in April 2005. The main development objective of this program is to help Senegal to provide
reliableand cost effective energy services to support economic growth and poverty alleviation.

18.      Kev Sub-sector Issues. Senegal's electricity sub-sector has recently been characterized
by frequent load shedding, inability to meet the fast growing demand for power increasing
currently at a rate of 40-50 MW/year, relatively poor quality of service, high costs due to high
thermal generation costs to a large extent related to international high oil prices, relatively high
transmissionand distribution losses (about 20%), very weak financial position of SENELEC, and

due to obsolete facilities - over the last 10 years investment in generation, transmission and
limited access to electricity services, notably in the rural areas. This difficult situation is in part

distribution has been inadequate, poor investment and management decisions, government
interferenceand a lack of timely maintenance.This ledto a disappointingfinancial and technical
performanceof SENELEC, and to the 2006-2007 energy sector crisis.

19.      Electricitv Sub-sectorReforms.In 1997, giventhe critical situationof the electricity sub-
sector, the Government undertook a major energy sector reform outlined in the 1997 Energy
Sector Policy Development Letter. For the power subsector the reform aimed at introducing
private sector participation in investments and operations to improve performance and ensure
adequate supply. Specific actions relatedto: (i)corporatization of SENELEC and transfer of all
state-owned generation, transmission and distribution assets to the corporatized SENELEC; (ii)
enactment of a new electricity law and correspondingimplementationdecrees; (iii) establishment
of an independent regulatory agency for the power sector- CRSE, (iv) "privatization" of
SENELEC; and (v) separation of provisionof electricity services in urban areas from provision of
services in rural areas. The 1998 electricity law provided for: (i)clear separation of the policy,
planning, regulatory and managerial responsibilities between sub-sector entities; (ii)clear
principles and regulations regarding the operation of the independent regulatory agency; (iii) an
evolving approach towards unbundlingof the sector key activities (generation, transmission and
distribution); (iv) competition in generation and open access to the transmission grid; and (v) the
setting-up of a rural electrification agency (ASER) to speed-up implementationof Senegal's rural
electrificationstrategy.

20.      Lessons Learned.With respect to SENELEC, two privatization attempts were carriedout
between 1999 and 2002. In March 1999 following a competitive process, under a concession
arrangement SENELEC operational responsibilitieswere transferred to a privateconsortium(the
Strategic Partner) which held 34% of SENELEC's shares. However in September 2000, the
concession contract was terminated under a "friendly" mutual agreement signed between the
Government and the Strategic Partner.The main reasons for this decision were: (a) poor services
provided by SENELEC under the new arrangement; (b) disagreement on the price of
SENELEC's shares that the Strategic Partner wanted to acquire to reach majority control of
SENELEC; (c) delays in tariff adjustments requested by the Strategic Partner; (d) substantial
disagreements between        members of the consortium; and (e) disagreements between the
Government and the Strategic Partner regarding financing of investments considered by the


                                                 107

Strategic Partner to be beyond the contractual obligations. In July 2001, the Government
launched a new tender to select a strategic partner and in November 2001 two technical and
financial bids were received. In July 2002 after months of negotiations, the Government declared
unsuccessful the second privatization attempt but reaffirmed its commitment to bring private
sector participationinthe sub-sector. The key reasonfor this outcome was related to the financing
of new investment; the privatesector indicatingthat it would not finance the investment program.

21.     With respect to public/private partnerships the experience demonstrates that: (a) there is
limited appetite among large international companies to buy assets and/or to finance large
investment programs (with the exception of IPP generation investments) in perceived risky
environment such as Africa; (b) "privatization" needs to be accompanied by investment
financing including concessionary financing; and (c) privatization strategies and responsibilities
need to be very carefully designed, understood and owned by the different stakeholders and
supported by in-depthdue-diligence.

22.      Restructuring of the activities carried out by SENELEC. In September 2007, the
Government confirmed its intention to progress quickly with the institutional reform of the
electricity sub-sector, and dialogued with the donors on its vision regarding sub-sector structure
and the role of the private sector. The ad-hoc Technical Working Group and the Consultative
Group were reenergized with a mandate to delineate the road map and initiate preparatory
actions.The Government expects however that public sector financing will be neededto carry out
the substantial rehabilitation and development required over the next 5 years and to restore
SENELECtechnicaland financial strengths.

23.      The Government has taken another step towards increasing accountability amongst the
players and to remove the dominant position of SENELEC in the electricity sub-sector. Its
objective is to progressivelyopen-up the electricity sub-sector to competitive pressures, with the
separation of generation activitiesfrom transmissionand from distributionactivities. With respect
to additional generation, the approach involves requesting competitive bids from independent
power producers (IPPs) and potential importers to provide for generation requirements             4.
SENELEC's existing generation assets will be used to form a new generating company with a
majority stake offered to the private sector. With respect to transmission activities, a new
company will be set-up and will be: (a) the sole purchaser (through Power Purchase Agreements-
PPAs) of the power generated by the generating companies, (b) the system operator; (c)
responsible for overall system planning; and (d) will sell power to the distribution companies
involved in urban and rural areas. It is likely however that public financing will be required at
least for transmission investments, but it should be operated by the private sector. With respect to
the distributionof electricity, the Government has taken all the decisions requiredto separate the
distribution of electricity in urban and semi-urban areas; within SENELEC's perimeter
distribution will be carried out by a majority-held private sector company probably under a
leasing or concession arrangement. The provision of electricity services in rural areas will be
done by private sector operators coordinatedand monitoredby ASER (see paras. 6 and 15 above
on ASER).

24.      Prospects for increasing energy efficiency and for demand-side management. The
Government intends to launch soon an energy management and a demand-side management


  Senegal is building another 60MW diesel generatingplant at Kahoneunder an O&Mcontract
(commissioningexpected by endCY2008), is inthe procurementstages of selectinga third IPP for a
70MW diesel(Tobene IIPP, expectedcommissioningby end-2009)and is also proceedingwith a 125MW
IPP for of coal power plant.


                                                  108

programs. The strategy and action plan were presentedat the April 28, 2008 workshop in Dakar.
Key areas for actions are: (a) revised electricity tariff schedule promoting energy conservation
and demand side management; (b) new regulatory and incentive/disincentive framework for
renewablehon renewable energies, energy efficient equipment; (c) distribution of compact
fluorescent lamps; (d) optimization of public lighting expected to lead to a 30% decrease in
consumption; (e) improved energy management by the public sector entities; (f) new working
hours; and (g) informationand communication.

25.      Actions Reauired to resolve Kev Outstanding Issues. To resolve the key issues facing
Senegal's electricity sub-sector, the following actions have been recentlyundertakenor should be
undertaken (see Annex 2 Policy Matrix). The Action-Plan should focus on the: (a) financial
viability and sustainability of the electricity sub-sector, including financial restructuring and
refinancing of SENELEC, clearance of arrears, electricity tariffing and          the operational
performance of SENELEC; (b) governance of the electricity sub-sector, including SENELEC's
reform, SENELEC's Board and Committees, Internal auditing, regulatory frameworks and
institutions, oversight and reporting, procurement; and (c) long term development of the sub-
sector, including diversification, investments, energy efficiency and demand side management
and capacitybuilding.

111.THE PETROLEUMSUB-SECTOR: OBJECTIVES.MAINISSUES AND REOUIRED
ACTIONS

26.      Main Obiectives.The Government's main objectives for the petroleumsub-sector are to:
(a) strengthen domestic refining by restoring SAR's financial health, bringing new shareholders
and implementingnew investments; (b) secure the supply of petroleumproducts requiredby the
economy and the population by increasing petroleum import and storage facilities; this should
also significantly reduce costs; (c) accelerate the efforts to assess and develop Senegal's
hydrocarbon potential in particular the gathering of essential data; (d) improve the regulatory
frameworkand regulatorycapacity; and (e) ensure the financialviability ofthe sub-sector.

27.      The sub-sector is of crucial importancefor the development of Senegal, as it provides a
significantshare of the energy requirementsfor transport, power generation, industrialneeds, and
household needs. It also affects domestic competitivenessand the external and fiscal balances.
Senegal does have primary hydrocarbon resources but as described below, no comprehensive
exploration efforts have yet been undertaken. Exploration to date has not led to any significant
commercial discovery of hydrocarbons.

UDstreamactivities
28.      The Societe Nationale des Petroles (Petrosen), a 100% state-owned enterprise, was
established in 1981 to promote petroleum exploration and production. Senegal's sedimentary
basins cover a total surface of 175,000 Km2 of which 110,000 km2 are prospective for
hydrocarbons -70,000 km2 onshore, 23,000 km2 in the shallow offshore (0-200 m water depth),
and 20,000 km2 in the deep offshore (200-2,000 m water depth)-. While petroleumexploration
started in 1954; Senegal's hydrocarbonpotentialis however not yet established. About 55,000 km
of seismic lines have been shot and over 120wells drilled; the drillings have beenconcentrated in
two zones of the country. Internationaloil companies have recentlyexpressed interest in Senegal,
as they have in neighboringcountries(Gambia, Guinea, and Mauritania).

29.      Oil and gas have recently been discoveredin neighboring Mauritania and oil companies
have made serious enquiriesabout doing business in Senegal. In 1970 an oil discovery was made
at Dome Flore (60 km offshore Casamance); this discovery is of some 100 million tons (one



                                                109

billion barrels) but the oil is heavy (9.1 to 9.6" API). The Dome Floor discovery was made at a
time of low oil prices and nonexistenttechnology to produce such fields, especially offshore. In
today's higher energy prices environment and availability of lower-cost, proven technologies to
produce such heavy oils, (Le., Venezuela, Canada, Middle East, etc) an independent review ofthe
potentialto produce the Dome Floor field shouldbe undertaken expeditiously to take advantage
of the existingpricing and technologicalenvironment.Commercialquantities of natural gas have
been confirmed recently by FORTESA near Dakar. This has the potential to significantly
diversify energy inputs for power generation and to reduce costs.

30.      PETROSENhas been focusingon the promotionof Senegal's hydrocarbonpotential,and
has been asked to carry the Government shares in energy companies such as the SAR refinery
(see para. 3 1 below on SAR). As part of its upstreammandate, PETROSENhastherefore focused
on acquiring seismic data for interpretation of prospects in onshore sedimentary basins in
Northern Senegal, similar to those in neighboringMauritania, where commercial oil discoveries
have recently been made. Given the growing gas-to-power convergence, a strong set of signals
should be provided by the Authorities and PETROSENto level the playing field and encourage
gas exploration and production (E&P) with full economic cost recovery under state of the art
ProductionSharingContracts. This would enhance E&P for gas upstream and conversionto gas
in industrial and commercial sectors, given gas competitive prices in today`s oil price
environment.

DownstreamActivities(Refining, Storapeand Distributionof petroleumproducts)
3 1.     Senegal estimated 2008 consumption of refined petroleum products (including aviation,
marine bunkers and exports) is about 1.7 million metric tons; at full capacity SAR is expected to
provide about 1.2 million tons and about 80% of SENELEC fuel oil requirements. SENELEC's
and SAR's performance are therefore very much linked. To meet its commercial energy
requirements Senegal currently imports all of is oil (crude or refinedproducts). Such dependence
places a heavy burdenon Senegal's balance of payments and in today's high crude oil pricesand
supply risks environment this is considered by the Government as one of the country's main
challenges with serious implicationsfor the performance ofthe economy and for social stability.

32.      Refining. SAR was commissioned in 1963 near Dakar (MBao site) initially with the
major oil companies holding 90% of the capital; the facilities are in excellent condition. With the
departure of all but one of the majors (TOTAL), the State now owns 65.4% of SAR.'           In 1983,

technology is dated - relatively simple hydroskimming. The agreements confer to SAR the
SAR's capacity was expanded from 0.9 to 1.4 million todyear. In addition to its small size, the

monopoly for crude oil imports and refining. Storage capacities are very high for crude oil
(190,000 tons), but only limited for refinedproducts (35,000 tons), which makes SAR dependent
on the installations of the oil companies. The refinery acts as a service operation for its
shareholders, who pay for using its services. Retail distribution of petroleum products is the
responsibility of subsidiariesof multinationaloil companies and of some smaller independents.

33.      In2006 and part of 2007, SAR was shut-downbecauseof its inability to pay for crude oil
and refined petroleum products; in September 2007 however it fully restarted its operations.
This financial problem was mostly due to the high level of accumulated debt (about FCFA 85

'Initially90% of SAR shares were owned by major multinationaloil companies (TotalElfFina-54.6%-,
Mobil-1 1.8%- and Shell-23.6%-)and 10% bythe Government(Petrosen).Over the years however,the
multinationalshave abandonedrefiningactivities, andsomethe distributionbusiness.TOTALIis now the
only private shareholderwith 35.4% of SAR'shares.
  SAR's capitalmay be opened-upsoon to foreign operatorsincludingfrom neighboringcountries.


                                                 110

billion; US$165 million) due to inadequate pricing, unpaid subsidies accumulated on some
products (in particular LPG), but also because of SENELEC's and ICs' cash-flow problems and
large arrears. To solve this problem, a new price structure has been enacted and a mechanism put
in place to amortize SAR's debt over initially a two year period(negotiationsare quite advanced
to amortize such debt over a five-year period) and to finance crude oil purchases. SAR faces a
series of problems ranging from its competitiveness, payment delays by its main customers and
by the State (for example regarding LPG subsidy payments, etc.). While it appears to be a
technically sound refinery run by an internationally known operator, it is essential that its
financialand commercialproblemsare resolved.

34.     In early 2008 (see Annex 1 Policy Letter) the Government confirmed that it did not
intendto remain a majority shareholder in SAR and that it will seek investors. InJanuary 2008, a
MOU was signed with TOTAL whereby TOTAL undertookto be the technical operator for SAR
and to reduce its shareholding in SAR to 34%. A memorandum of undertakingwas also signed
with the National Iranian Oil and Refining and Distribution Company (NIORDC) potentially
interested to become a minority shareholder (about 33-34%) and to invest in SAR. Other
investors may also be interested.An investment program has beenelaboratedfocusing initially on
increasing storage facilities, sea-lines, and debottlenecking. In the last phase of the investment
program, SAR's refiningcapacity could be increasedto 3 million tondyear.

35.     Storage, Import, export and distribution of petroleum products. The subsidiaries of the
internationaloil companies (Shell, Mobil andTOTAL) have well establishedfacilities and market
positions, strengthened by the mergers of TOTAL, Fina and Elf. These companies own and
operate all the crude and petroleum products storage facilities. Although new entrants (such as
Addax and Elton) have seen their market shares increasing, albeit slowly, the impact of this
competition on retail prices has been limited. In the context of the 1998 reform program a law
was passed      allowing free access to the storage facilities by other private distributors.
Implementationof this disposition has led however to tensions between actors because of a lack
of credible enforcement and dispute resolution mechanisms. Based on this experience the
Government recently decided to: (a) promote the setting-up of a private sector led storage
company (in which it plans to hold a minority interest) guaranteeing open access to all
participants; and (b) set-up a full fledged regulatory agency for the downstream petroleum sub-
sector.

36.     Pricing of Petroleum Products. Maximum retail prices are decided by the Government
basedon monthly reviewsof the price structure carriedout by CNH (and are the same throughout
Senegal). Prices are revised every 4 weeks and adjustments effected if variation exceed 4%.
Retail prices are high in part becauseof high internationalpetroleumprices transport, storage and
distribution and storage costs, relatively small size of the market, high taxes and the additional
margin imposedto make the SAR refinery financially viable and the amortizationover 5 years of
the debt accumulated by SAR between 2004-2007 (see para. 32.above). These are also high
because of weak competition in the retail business. Petroleum productsprices are distortedby the
tax and subsidy regimes aimed at supportingtargeted industries (notably the fishing industry) or
residential customers (kerosene and LPG) (Table 1 below). These pricing distortions have
inevitably created problems, notably: (a) substantial subsidies that created large financial
problems to SAR and hadto be covered by the nationalbudget; (b) significant loss o f revenues to
the Government; and (c) use of polluting fuels in cars and for domestic uses. These pricing
policies and the implementation mechanisms have been discussed in the context of broader
economic and budget management discussions, includingwith the IMF.

7 Law No. 98-31 of April 14, 1998


                                                111

 Table 2 -PetroleumProductsPrices per liter and KG (2005 and 2008)

                 Product                     Price(FCFMiter)                      Price




I FuelOil380                            I    135      1     332       1     0.27     I     .83      I


  1 US$=FCFA400

  37.     LPG Prices. Senegal has implemented a successful LPG promotion strategy. In 2005
  75% of urban households were using LPG; 95% in the capital Dakar. LPG prices for small
 containers (2.7 kG and 6 kG) are subsidized requiring a relatively large budget transfer (for
 CY2008 the LPG subsidy is estimated to be in the order of FCFA 35 billions). The Government
  has indicated that it wants to phase out the subsidy by mid 2009 with a two-fold strategy of
  reducing costs (through improved procurement procedures and investments in unloading and
  storage facilities) and progressive decrease of the subsidy. In a context of rising international
 petroleum prices this may be proved to be a difficult with potential negative impacts on the
  forestry resources.

  38.     RegulatoryFramework and Regulatory Capacitv.Created by the 1998 law, the National
 HydrocarbonCommittee(CNH) is on paper responsiblefor overseeingthe downstream activities.
 However because of the current regulatory framework8,budget constraints leadingto a shortage
 of experienced personnel, lack of technical facilities (such as resources to certify the quality of
 products), CNH has not been an effective actor. The Government has now decided to transform
 CNH into a full fledge regulatory body for the downstream petroleum sub-sector, similar to the
 CRSE for the electricity sub-sector. This would require: (a) a thorough review and adjustments of
 the regulatoryframework including implementationofthe open access policy to storage facilities,
 competitive framework for distribution, and providing CNH with enforcement tools; (b) review
 of the petroleum prices adjustment mechanism; (c) building capacities in the new entity; (d)
 settingup a laboratoryto test compliancewith quality standards; (e) ensuringthat the regulatoris
 professionally staffedand securely funded; and (f)that it is sufficiently autonomous.

 39.      The Petroleum Imports SecurisationFund (FSIPP). To secure the supply of petroleum
 products through imports, the FSIPP was created in 2006 at a time when the SAR refinery was
 not operational, and when Senegal was facing severe risks regardingpetroleumproducts imports
 (Presidential Decree of September 2006). Funding of the FSIPP is provided by: (a) potential
 short-term reduction in oil prices; (b) financial or in-kind contributionsfrom other countries; and
 (c) other financial resources. Such resources are to be used for: (a) potential commercial losses


 8 As describedindecree 98-337 of April 21, 1998.


                                                  112

 from product imports as provided by the price structure; (b) financially supporting refinery
 operations; (c) other costs related to the imports of petroleum products; and (d) as needed to
 compensate for increases in retail prices, analysis regarding the supply of petroleum products,
 audits of the Fund, etc. The Fund is managed by a Committee, its budget approved by the
 Minister of Finance and the Minister of Energy. The Fund cannot spend more that its available
 resources. The FSIPP however started its operations without the governance structureforeseen in
 the Decree.

 40.      Investment Program in downstream activities. The Energy Sector Policy Development
 Letter (Annex 1) emphasizes urgentpublic investments in logistics(crude oil and productstorage
 facilities, sea-lines) to secure the supply of oil resources as well as a strategy to reduce costs. A
 second phase of investments is proposedto increase productionof LPG and other productsand a
 third investment phase envisages large investments in hydrodesulphurization and in an
 hydrocraker. Financing for first phase investments have been partly secured. While preliminary
  studies have been carried out for second phase and third phase investments, an update of their
 economic and financialjustification will be necessary.




, and oftwo sea-lines                                            I                             I

  41.      Key Issues in the Petroleum Sub-sector. As described above, Senegal downstream
  petroleum sub-sector faces several issues. Although the downstream activities including imports
 were for the most part liberalizedin the context of 1998 sector reform, constraintsto competition
 remain significant. The main outstanding issues are related to: (a) non-discriminatoryaccess to
  storage facilities by the emerging Independents; (b) the relative weakness of the regulatory
 framework and of the public sector oversight institutions, in particular of CNH; (c) financial
  problems that lead SAR to stop its operations for more than one year and created severe problems
 to the crude oil, refined products suppliers and marketers, and also to SENELEC; (d) distorted
 petroleum products price structure which does not fully cover some of the costs including
 subsidies notably on LPG products, not timely reimbursedby the State to the suppliers; and (e)
 the financialhealthof large consumers of petroleumproducts, such as SENELEC.

 42.      Actions Required to Resolve Key Issues. In order to resolve the above mentioned key
 issues, the Government has recently taken or soon plan to undertake the following actions
 focusing on: (a) priority investments on storage and unloading facilities; (b) financial viability
 and sustainabilityof the downstreamhydrocarbonsub-sector including financial restructuringand
 recapitalization of SAR and arrears clearance; (c) progressive phasing out by mid 2009 of



                                                   113

subsidies notably on LPG; (d) procurement of crude oil and of refinedproducts;(e) improvingthe
governance of SAR (Board composition and Board committees) and of the FSIPP; (f) putting in
place new regulations and a competent regulatory agency; and (g) development and
commercializationof domestic naturalgas, and promotionof Senegal's hydrocarbonpotential.




                                             114

    SENEGAL ENERGY SECTOR RECOVERY DEVELOPMENT POLICY CREDIT
              ANNEX 5- FINANCIAL ASSESSMENT OF SENELEC AND SAR


                         A. FINANCIALASSESSMENT OF SENELEC

1.      This section reviews SENELEC's past financial performance over the last 6 years (2002-
2007), discusses the outlook (2008-2015), electricity tariff regulation and tariff levels. A key
objective of the operation is to support the Government's effort of restoring the financial viability
of SENELEC, the key entity in the electricity sub-sector of SenCgal. It is also important to
understand the main causes o f the current crisis and to put in place adequate prevention and
mitigation mechanisms.

A.l- SENELEC RecentFinancialPerformance(2002-2007)

2.      In 2001, following a failed attempt to privatize SENELEC, the Government injected 40
GFCFA o f equity in SENELEC in order to help restore the financial viability of the power utility.
This proved however to be insufficient and SENELEC financial situation has significantly
deteriorated since 2002 (see table 1 below).


SENELEC Operating Profitability
3.      Operating Revenues. From 2002 to 2007, electricity sales in volume increased by 6.4%
per year on average, with slower growth in 2006 and 2007 reflecting widespread load shedding.
The growth in demand originated primarily from low voltage residential users; high voltage sales
decreased and now represent only about 5% of total electricity sales. Operating revenues
increased at a much faster rate than electricity sales in volume (12.4 % per year on average)
reflecting several tariff increases (that took place in 2005, 2006 and 2007) as well as large
budgetary subsidies in 2005, 2006 and 2007. These subsidies were provided to compensate
SENELEC for the loss o f revenue caused by the non application of the tariff-setting formula (see
section A.3).

4.      Operating costs increasedfaster than revenues; this has been driven mostly by generation
costs and oil prices. Senegal relies on petroleum based thermal generation for 85% of its
requirements. In addition, SENELEC found itself with insufficient generation capacity from 2005
to 2007, resulting in abnormally high costs as least-efficient units were running in base-load.

5.      Operating Performance. Aside from generation, operating performance remained largely
stable over the period. Transmission and distribution losses remained around 20-21% of power
sent-in. This apparent stability reflects some improvement in commercial performance, in
particular in revenue collection. Personnel costs per kWh sold remained largely constant in real
terms over the period.

6.      Operating Income. In 2002 and 2003, SENELEC experienced an improvement in its
operating profitability, and for the first time in several years achieved a positive operating income
in 2003. However, profitability started to fall again in 2004, and dramatically deteriorated in 2005
and again in 2006. Some improvement took place in 2007. However, operating profitability
remained inadequate in 2007, as well as overall over the last five years.




                                                   115

7.        OperatingProfitability. As indicatedin table 1 below since 2002 SENELEC's operating
profitability has improvedwhile remaininglow. As a result of this significant improvement in
operatingprofitability which took place in 2002 and 2003, SENELEC achieved a positive
operatingincome in 2003. This improvementcan be explainedprimarily by two factors: (a) a
10% tariff increase in March2002 with a full year effect on 2003; and (b) cheaper bulk supply of
power from the Manantalihydro (which also occurredin 2002 with a full year effect in 2003). In
addition, efficiency improvementstook place in other areas: improvedrevenue collection, a
substantialdiminution of fuel costs in 2003 comparedto 2002 (due to a better fuel mix: switch
from diesel oil, gas oil and keroseneto HFO).
  Table 1: SENELEC Summaw Profit and Loss Statement
                             -
                                             2002    2003   2004   2005    2006 2007e      annual
                                              1,725 1,826 1,952 2,171 2,192         2,344  growth
  Losses in %                                 21 6%   209%   21 2%  21 2%   205%     21 3%
  Electricity Sold (GWh)                      1352    1444   1538   1710    1741    1846     6.4%
  Electricity Sales                           108.7 117.7 124.3 134.6 157.2         181.9   10.8%
  Average tariff revenue per kWh (FCFA)         8 0 4  815    808     78 7    903     985    4.1%
  Subsidy (tariff compensation)                 7.7     0.0    0.0   25.9    32.9    29.2   30.7%
  Average total revenue per kWh (FCFA)          861    81.5   808     939    1091    1144    5.8%
  Other revenues                                4.1     4.5    4.8    5.0     5.2     5.2    5.1%
  Gross operating revenue                    120.4 122.2 129.1 165.5 195.2          216.3   12.4%
  Variable generation costs*                  62.3     58.3  63.6    97.2 134.6     139.3   17.5%
  Variables costsper kWh sold (FCFA)            461    404    414     569     773     755   10.4%
  Electricity purchase(fixed costs)             8.6     9.1    9.2    9.3     9.4     9.6    2.3%
  Operations, mainten.and services             17.2    15.3  19.9    27.0    32.4    33.3   14.1%
  Personnel                                    14.0    16.4  18.3    19.1    20.9    21.5    9.0%
  Personnel costsper kWh sold (FCFA/kWh)        103    I 1 4  ! I 9   I 1 2   I 2 0   117    2.5%
  Taxes and assimilated                         3.7     3.4    4.1    4.4     5.2     4.8    5.2%
  EBITDA                                      14.7     19.7  14.1     8.4    -7.3     7.8
  Depreciation                                 15.3    15.7  13.2    16.2    16.6    18.9    4.3%
  Operating Income                             -0.6     3.9    0.9   -7.8   -23.9   -11.1
  Operating margin (Income/Revenue)           -05%     3 2 %  07%    -47%   -122%    -5 1%

  Net Interestcharges                           2.8     5.8    3.4    6.9    12.4     6.9   20.2%

  Net Income (before exceptional)              -3.4    -1.9   -2.4  -14.8 -36.3     -18.0
  Exceptionnal                                  1.7     1.9    4.0   10.7     2.1     2.1


  Rate of return on Assets
  Times Interest Earned (EBITDA/lnterests)

  *Fuel + electricity purchase




                                                    116

Financing.debt leveland sustainabilitv
8.        SENELEC started the period under review with satisfactory ratios with regard to debt
level and interest coverage. However, SENELEC operates in a capital intensive sector in which
large investments are required to replace existing equipments and meet the increase in demand.
SENELEC never achieved a satisfactory return on assets (ROA). The best ROA was 2.4% in
2003, and the overall ROA from 2002 to 2007 was negative. Also, SENELEC did not benefit
from significant concessional financing over the period. Most of the investments were financed
under commercialterms, with interestrates in localcurrency rangingfrom 7.5 to 9.5%.


9.       Unsurprisingly, this situation resulted in a sharp deterioration of SENELEC solvency
ratios. From 2002 to 2006, net financial debt increased from 0.7 to 3.4 times equity; interest
coverage (by EBITDA), originally at a comfortable level o f 5.3, diminishedyear after year and
became negative in 2006. SENELEC found it more and more difficult to finance its current
operations, let alone its investments, and had to increase recourse to short term financing
instruments. SENELEC also accumulated large arrears towards its suppliers. This increased
illiquidity is illustrated by the diminution in the current ratio, which went from a level of 1 in
2002 (1.3 is usually considered as the acceptable limit) to 0.65 at the end of 2006 (Tables 2 and
3).




       Overdraft                               11.9    16.6     18.5    33.1    37.0    21.6
       Financial Debt                         56.0     65.9     56.0    62.4   134.9    97.6
       of which Medium Long term                36 3    41 5     31 8    42 5    80 4    63 8
       of which Short Term                      19 6    24 4     24 3    20 0    5 4 5   33 8
       Total Net Financial Debt               67.9     82.5     74.5    95.5   171.9   119.2
       Other liabilities (operations)          18.9    21.0     22.5    25.0    25.4    25.3
       Equity and quasi-equity                86.7     88.3     93.9    79.5    43.4    92.5
       Total Debt and Equity                  173.4   191.9    191.0   200.0   240.7   236.9

       Current ratio                              I    0 9 7    084      0 73   065     076
       Accounts receivable in days              I20     137      I l l   102     109     107
       Net Financial Debt / Equrty               0 7     0 7      0 6     1 1    3 7      1 2




                                                 117

        Table 3: Summarv Cashflow Statement
        Fiscal year endingDecember 3 1st         I 2002 I 2003 I 2004  I2005
        EBITDA

                                                                                        -0.1



        Net Investments                          I       I      I
                                                   -15.31 -17.31 -20.71 -30.9


        repayment of principal on financial debt    -20.5  -19.6  -24.4  -24.3  -20.0   -54.5
        new borrowing                                17.0   29.6   14.6   30.5   92.51   17.11
        Increase(+)/decrease(-) infin. debt         -3.6    9.9   -9.9    6.4   72.5  -37.4
        Equity Injection(+)                          0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
        DividendDavments(-)                                                   -44
       hnvestment subsidv(+)                         0.21   3.51   6.51   1.8
       IIncrease(-)/decrease(+) in net cash      II
                                                 I   1.71  -8.81   3.21  19.0
                  \ ,           \ I               I      I      I      I
        Financing                                   -1.71   4.61  -0.11  27.1
        Before recapitalization
        Debt service Coverage Ratio-DSCR (annual)    0.9    0.7    0.9    0.3    -0.4
        With recaaitalization
        Debt service Coverage Ratio-DSCR (annual)    0.9    0.7    0.9    0.3    -0.4


RecapitalizationReauirements

11.     The 2007 recapitalizationwas clearly requiredto allow SENELECto continueto operate,
but far from sufficient to restore its financial viability. A static analysis of SENELEC balance
sheet at the end of CY2007 reveals a significant financial gap. SENELEC still owed more than 54
GFCFA in payment arrears, mostly to suppliers, but also with significant arrears towards the
public sector (taxes, social security contributions, concessional borrowingon-lent to SENELEC).
This is in addition to significant amounts of short term financial debt towards local banks
(including overdrafts, lines of credit, securitizationof future revenues).

12.     Even if SENELEC could achieve a normal level of operating profitability over the next
few years, it would not be able to repay its accumulatedpayment arrears, because it will also need
to service its medium and long term financial debt, self-finance a portion of its investments
program, and finance the increase in working capital caused by increased sales. SENELEC will
have to rely primarily on external financing for new investments, which highlight the importance
of improving its financial ratios which are still degraded with regard to liquidity and debt service
sustainability.

Main reasons for weak financial performance

13.      SENELEC disastrous financial performance over the last 2 years results from the
combination of several factors that intervened in a context of low operating profitability and
fragile balance sheet. It should be noted that these weaknesses and risk were analyzed in the
Project Appraisal Document of the Electricity Sector Efficiency Enhancement Project (prepared
in early CY2005). The document pointed out several significant financial risks for the short and
medium term, the main one being the delayed investments in generation. In addition, oil prices



                                                   118

since 2005 have been much higher than anticipated at the time. SENELEC financial difficulties
were anticipated,but not their scale.


14.      Investment Planning and Generation Costs. In the absence of significant hydroelectric
resources, and giventhe small size of its power system, Senegal has hadso far limited choices of
generation technology. Looking back over the last 6 years (2002-2007), the main driver of
SENELEC financial performance has been the availability of least-cost generation capacity.
During the course of CY2002 SENELEC started to benefit from 50-60MW of imported power
from Manantali(regional hydroelectric plant located in Mali). This resultedin cheap bulk supply
of power to SENELEC (FCFA35/kWh) and provided the equivalent of about 18 months of
increase in demand. The full year benefit of Manantali allowed the utility to generate a positive
operating income in 2003.

15.      However, in the absence of additional generation capacity in 2004 and 2005, SENELEC
experienced increasing difficulties to meet the growth in demand. SENELEC ran in base load
some of its more costly generation(using diesel oil) some with very poor generationefficiency
(including steam units and gas turbines). The dramatic increase in generation costs from 2004 to
2006 (with variable costs going from 41 to 77 FCFA per kWh) is the consequence of a
combination of three factors: higher oil prices, degraded fuel mix (higher proportion of DO
comparedto HFO), and lower generationefficiency.

16.      At the end of 2005, in order to avoid major power supply disruptions, the Government
and SENELEC decided to lease emergency generation(running on DO), which added significant
leasing costs in 2006. The commissioning of the Bel-Air HFO plant (fall 2006) contributed
however to improve the generation situation in 2007. While oil prices have continued to rise, a
better fuel mix and increased generationefficiency have alloweda small reduction in the average
generation costs in 2007.


17.       Oil Prices and the Tariff Setting; Mechanism. Fuel represents a large proportion of
SENELEC operatingcosts (about 70%). SENELECdoes not have the financial capacityto absorb
increases in oil prices, which therefore have to be passed on to consumers. This requirement is
recognized by the electricity sector regulator (CRSE). However, in practice, tariff mechanisms
have not always allowedto fully reflect increasedfuel costs in electricity tariffs (see sectionA.3).
The indexing mechanism had not been designed for an environment of volatile and rising oil
prices.The Maximum Allowed Revenues(MAR) for a given year was initially based on the level
of oil prices at the beginning of the year. As a result, SENELEC was not able to reflect the
increase in oil prices during the year in its tariffs. To its credit, the regulatorhas recognizedthe
problem and taken steps to improve the indexing mechanism. The first change was to base the
annual maximumrevenue on average oil prices at the beginningof each quarter. Subsequently, to
take into account of price volatility within each quarter, the regulator decided to take into account
oil pricesat the beginningof each month.

18.      Financing Stratem and the Liquidity Crisis. SENELEC operates in a highly capitalistic
sector, characterized by the predominance of long lived assets, some of which generate increasing
economic return over time (distribution and transmission investments). Financingterms should
match assets lifes (Le. equity or long term financial debt).           However, even after the 2001
recapitalization, SENELEC carried some significant short term financial debt. As mentioned
earlier, SENELEC managed to mobilize commercial financing, at a relatively high cost, but also
with relatively short repayment horizons (5 years in several instances). This financial structure
was pointed out as a significant source of risk in the project document of the 2005 Bank project


                                                 119

that supported the Kounoune IPP, and proved indeed to be problematic. Faced with reduced or
even negative cash flows from current operations, SENELEC used a variety of short term
financing instruments (overdraft, credit lines with local Banks). Also, several financing
operations took place in 2006 consisting in securitizing future revenues (for an amount of 50
GFCFA) of SENELEC. This mode of financing is costly (with financing costs well in excess of
10% interest for the securitization operations) and put SENELEC in position of dependency in
relation to local banks and is also unsustainable as local banks cannot expand indefinitely their
exposure.

19.      SENELEC also started to accumulate payment arrears with its suppliers, in particular fuel
suppliers. The company found it increasinglydifficult to procure fuel, leadingto significant cost
increases, in particularbecause HFO imports in Senegal needs to be planned in advance and that
payment guarantees have to be offeredto the supplier.

20.     This financial crisis also forced SENELEC management to focus mostly on short term
critical financial emergencies and to neglect other questions important for sustainable
improvements in efficiency and productivity.

Key lessonsfrom the crisis

21.      Investment is essential. Bringing online additional generation on time is a key lesson
from the last three years that has been learned by the Government. Over the last 24 months
SENELEC and the Ministry of Energy (ME) have been very proactive in making sure that
adequate generation capacity is in place to serve demand. The Kounounepower IPP (financed in
part by the IFC and supported by a IDA PRG) has started to operate commercially in January
2008. Another addition of thermal capacity (also HFO) is planned in Kahone for the end of 2008,
to be followed by another HFO plant to built in Tobene under as an IPP (likely in 2010). In
addition, the Government has recently signed a Power Purchase Agreement for a 125 MW coal-
fired plant (scheduled to begin of operations in 2011).  The generation bottleneck is now being
addressed; investments in transmission and distribution need now to be addressed. However,
given SENELEC financial situation, decisions regarding capital expenditures should be made
through amore rigorousprocess.

22.      Additional financial restructuringis needed.Another important lesson from the financial
crisis is that failure to fully address SENELEC financial fragility in 2001 contributed to the
problems experienced by the utility over the subsequent years and provedto be very costly. The
first recapitalization tranche of GFCFA 65 in 2007 was necessary to provide liquidity to
SENELEC and put the company in line with OHADA legal requirements (a company that has
lost more than half of its initial statutory equity must be recapitalized or liquidated). However,
SENELEC needs additional stable financial resources that only its owner would be willing to

the mediumterm commercialdebt. AFD is consideringsuch an operation.
provide.In complement to additional recapitalization, it would be necessaryto refinance some of


23.      Internal ControVFinancial Management. The financial information provided by
SENELEC to its board of directorsand to the Government through its annual financial statements
can be considered as reliable overall (the number of reserves formulated by the auditors has
decreased over the year and do not relate to fundamental issues). However, this information is
episodic and comes with significant delays. During, the recent crisis, SENELEC Board of
Directorsand controlling authoritiesdid not react promptlyto SENELEC difficulties, in large part
because they were not fully aware of the magnitude of the crisis. In addition, the annual budget
process within SENELEC is deficient and the monitoring of budget execution is also limited.


                                                120

Overall, the budget process has not allowed SENELECto set realisticperformanceobjectives for
its internal units and to monitor the results based on the objectives.This seems to reflect a more
general problem of insufficient measure and analysis of the cost drivers of the various activities
within SENELEC.Going forward, this is clearly an area where SENELEC performancehas to be
improved.

24.      Board Strenf$heninn. There is a consensus on the fact that energy sector governance in
SENEGAL needs to be improved.Part of the improvement should take place within SENELEC.
However, the external control exerted over the public utility is critical to sustain internal
improvementsin control and monitoring.The crisis also highlightedtwo key deficiencies, in the
area of investment planning, and of financial strategy and monitoring. SENELEC's Board has
recently created two specialized committees, which would precisely deal with these issues. The
Investment Committee ("Comite des Investissements") would be informed and review on a
regular basis SENELEC investment plans. This could contribute to a much needed improvement
in the rigor of the investmentplanningprocess within SENELEC. The AudidFinance Committee
("ComitC des Finances") would monitor more closely SENELEC financial situation and play a
role inthe determinationof SENELEC financingstrategy.

25.      Renulatorv Mechanisms. Tariff setting mechanisms were not the primary cause of
SENELEC financial distress and the sector regulator (CRSE) has demonstrated its technical
independence, its adherence to rules, and its sense of responsibility. However, questions remain
with regard to the appropriateness of the current revenue cap mechanism for regulating
SENELEC tariffs. This mechanism, inspired from UK regulatory practices, has been developed
for mature distribution utilities in developed countries. In the case of SENELEC, most of the
costs originate in generation, rather than distribution. The sector is also expanding rapidly,
renderingfive year previsionsquite unreliable.Despitesome adjustments effected by CRSE, this
i s a key aspect that needs to be pursuedwith the regulator in particular in the context of the next
revision ofthe revenue formula (coveringthe periodbeyond 2009).

A.2. SENELEC Financial outlook (2008-2015)

26.      SENELEC's financial forecasts have been prepared usingthe financial model developed
recently by external consultants to SENELEC. All parties interested in the financial forecasts
agreed on a common set of assumptions Main assumptions are as follows: (a) Growth of sales in
volume of energy would be around 10% annually over the 2008-2010 period (catching up from
the demand repression since 2005), and around 7% per year thereafter; (b) The current revenue
formula would be applicable until the end of 2009 and the the tariff formula applicable from 2010
onwards would be based on an expected rate of return around 9% on average over 5 years, with
lower return at the beginningof the regulatoryperiod; ( c) Electricity tariffs would be adjusted at
the end of July 2008 and SENELEC will fully recover its expected revenue; (d) Crude oil prices
would be at US$104/bbl.on average in 2008 and remainconstant in real terms thereafter; (e) the
planned 125 MW coal plant for which a PPA has recently been signed would start to operate in
2011; (f) SENELEC would benefit from an additional recapitalization of 53 GFCFA (60% in
2008 and the rest in 2009); and (g) SENELEC would normalize its situationvis-a-vis its suppliers
(progressive repayment of arrears) intwo years (endingDecember2009).

27.      Main Results and Conclusions. Under the above mentioned assumptions: (a)
SENELEC would go back to an acceptable level of operating profitability in 2009 (return on
assets of 7.5% projected); and (b) Electricity tariffs would have to be raised significantly
(between 15 and 20% in addition to the recent adjustment assuming no budgetary transfers to
compensate SENELEC) to achieve the 2009 MAR).


                                                121

28.         Key Issues and Risks. There are significant challenges that could make it difficult for
SENELEC to fully achieve cost recovery within the next two years:                           (a) the political
acceptabilityof a further large tariff increase could be problematic (current average tariff is quite
high at USc22/kWh). The Government proposed change in electricity tariff structure, currently
degressive with the volume consumed for residential users, could however minimize the impact
on the poorest users; (b) the need to secure large amounts of financing over a two year period
for investment. SENELEC will need to borrow around US$290million (145 GFCFA) in total in
2008-2009 to finance new investments(not including investments in generation to be developed
under IPPs structures). A combination of different options needs therefore to be assessed
including : (i)                 Optimization of the investment program i.e. development of least cost
programs;           (ii)   refinancing of commercial debt. AFD has proposed to refinance some of
SENELEC short and mediumterm commercial debt; and (iii) reschedulingof the concessional
debt on-lent by the Government (for about 7 GFCFA).


 Table I: SENELEC Summan, Profit and Loss Statement
                          -                -- --
                                     . I   -- --
Fiscalyear endingDec. 31st                 !007e 2008                   2011    2012     2013   2014   2015
GWh generatedand purchased                 2,344 2,534                  3,160    3,372 3,554    3,788 4,067
                                           -- --
Losses in %                                 2 1.3%  19 8%                I 7 8%   I 7 6%  17.1%  17.0%  16.7%
Electricity Sold (GWh)                      1846    2032                 2598    2780     2945   3143   3389
Electricity Sales                          181.9 236.3                  320.4 336.8 352.9 371.3 392.9
Average lariffrevenue per kWh (FCFA)          98.5  116 3                123 3    121.2    119.8 118.1   115.9
 Subsidy (tariff compensation)               29.2    18.4                  0.c      0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0
Average rolal revenue per kWh (FCFA)         114.4   125 3               123.3    121.2    119.8  118.1  115.9
Other revenues                                5.2     5.6                  7.8      8.6     9.4   10.3   11.5
Gross operating revenue                    -
                                           216.3 260.3           313.2 328.2 345.4 362.3 381.6 404.4
Variablegeneration costs*                  139.3    166.6 *i296.7                162.0    163.7 179.7 205.7
 Variables costsper kWh sold (FCFA)           75.5   82 0    75 2  71 9    64 5     58.3   55.6   57.2   60.7
Electricity purchase(fixed costs)             9.6    19.5   19.8  27.3   54.4     55.0    59.4   60.9   60.5
Operations, mainten. and services            33.3   24.7    36.3  34.9   31.C     32.4    25.9   30.8   41.5
Personnel                                    21.5   21.7    22.3  23.0   23.7     24.4    25.1   25.9   26.7
Personnel  COSISper kWh sold (FCFA kWh)       11.7    IO.7    9 9   9 4     9 1      8.8    8.5    8.2     7.9
Taxes and assimilated                         4.8     4.8     5.0  4.8     4.3      4.5     3.6    4.3    5.9
 EBITDA                                    -- 7.8   22.9    44.0  40.0   47.2     67.1    84.6   80.0   64.2

Depreciation                                 18.S   20.8    19.9  22.5   24.C     24.1
 Operating Income                          --11.1     2.2   24.1  17.5   23.2     42.4
Operaring margin (IncomelRevenue)            -5.1%   0 8%   8 1%   56%     7 Ik   12.3%

Net Interest charges                          6.5     7.9   12.3  15.5    18.2     19.4

 Net Income (before exception.)            --18.a    -5.7   11.8    2.0    5.0    23.0
 Exceptionnal                                 2.1     0.0     2.2   0.0    0.0      o.a
 Net Income (after exceptional)            --
                                            -15.9    -5.1   13.9    2.0    5.0    23.a
Rare of relurn on Assers                     -5 3%   0 9%   7 5%   4 8%    5 99   I O 2%
TimesInrerest Earned (EBITDA Inreresls)    -- - 1 1    2 5    3 6    2 6     2 t      3.2
                                              95%    101%   108%   106%   107Y     112%
*Fuel + electricity purchase




                                                         122

Table 2: Summary Balance Sheet                                  -
Fiscalyear ending Dec. 31st                                     -2010   20111 2012) 20131 20141 2015
                                          *                                   I      I      I      I
Net fixed assets                           214.3 272.0 317.3     346.1 362.3 377.7 392.5 409.6 429.1
Inventories                                   5.8    7.0    7.1    7.7    7.0    6.8    6.8    7.5    8.6
Clients Accounts receivable                  63.1   72.2   80.6   80.8   84.5   88.9   93.1   98.0  103.7
Other Current Assets                         35.4   42.2   42.8   46.2   42.2   40.8   41.2   45.2   51.7
Less Current Liabilities                    -91.8  -87.9  -91.6  -90.9  -88.41 -85.91 -87.31 -91.8) -98.5
Net Current Assets                                                43.6 = 45.41  50.51  53.91 58.91 65.5

                                           232.1 316.9 368.9 402.7 421.O
                                                                --13.0   13.3   22.5   47.4   62.4   62.4
                                                                               450.7 493.8 530.9 556.9

Overdraft                                    16.8   38.0   30,s   22.6   11.9
FinancialDebt                                97.6  152.3 177.5 217.7 243.3
o f which Medium Long term                          120.6  169:   205.:  226.C  243.4
of which Short Term                                             -  12.;   17.31  20.2)  24.41  28.61  32.t
TotalNet FinancialDebt                                          I---
                                                                 240.3 255.21 269.61 287.01 303.01 317.5
Other liabilities (operations)                                    19.8   19.8   19.8   19.8   19.8   19.8
Equityand quasi-equity                       92.5  106.7 140.7   142.6 146.0 161.3 186.9 208.1 219.3
Total Debt and Equity                      232.1 316.9 368.S '  --
                                                                 402.7 421.O   450.7 493.8 530.9 556.9

Current ratio                                                     1.19   1.28
Accounts receivable in days                                         94     94
Net Financial Debt / E q u i y                                  --  1.6    1.7    1.5    1.3    1.2    1.;


                                                                       -
Fiscalyear ending December 31st            2007e 2008     2009   2010  -
                                                                       2011    2012   2013   2014   2015
EBITDA                                        7.8   22.9   44.0   40.0   47.2   67.1   84.6   80.0   64.2
Variation in working capital                  7.0  -20.8   -5.5   -4.7   -1.7   -5.1   -3.4   -5.0   -6.6
Variation in other liabilities               -0.1   -5.5    0.0    0.c    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
I                                         1
Net Interestscharges                         -6.9   -7.9  -12.3  -15.5 --18.2  -19.4  -20.7  -22.2  -23.6
Cashflow from operations                      7.8 -11.3    26.2   19.7
                                                                  ::-  - 27.3   42.6   60.5   52.8   34.1
Net Investments                             -25.0  -78.5  -65.2  -51.2 --40.2  -40.1  -40.3  -43.2  -46.5
Cash flow after investments                -17.2 -89.8 -39.0     -31.5 -12.9     2.5   20.3    9.6  -12.4

repaymento f principal on financial debt     -54.5  -33.8  -31.8   -8,;  -12.2  -17.3  -20.2  -24.4  -28.6
                                                                                                     -;:;I
new borrowing
       ty                                     17,lI  88.51  57.01         37.8   37.61  37.61  40.41  43.4
Increase(+)/decrease(-) in fin. debt        -37.4   54.8   25.2   40.2   25.6   20.31  17.41  16.01  14.9
E ui In'ection(+)                            65.0   20.0   20.0           0.0    0.01   0.01   0.01
Dividenduavrnents (-)                                       0.0    0.0   -1.7   -7.7  -12.8  -10.6
Investmentsubsidy(+)                          2.1    0.0    2.2    0.c    0.0
Increase(-)/decrease(+) in net cash         -12.5   15.0   -8.4   -8.6 --1 1.o
Financing                                    17.2   89.8   39.0   31.5   12.9
Before recapitalization
Debt service Coverage Ratio (annual)          0.2   -0.1    0,9    1.5     1.5
With recapitalization
Debt service Coverage Ratio (annual)          1.3    0.4    1.3   --
                                                                   1.5     1.5




                                                        123

A.3 Electricity tariff regulationand tariff levels

29.     The currenttariff mechanisms are basedon the concessioncontract betweenthe company
and the Government, which defines a formula applicable for the years 1999-2004. CRSE (the
regulator) is in charge of the application of the formula,. Electricity tariffs were to be determined
by a revenue cap formula applicable over successive five year period. The maximum allowed
revenue (MAR) for any given year calculation is based on a reference level of revenue of 76
GFCFA for the year 1998 (1998 is the initial reference year because it is the year precedingthe
application of the concession contract). This reference level is increased to reflect: (a) price
inflation since 1998; and (b) increase inthe volume of electricity sold. Inaddition, some costs are
added to the MAR as pass-through (some taxes and regulatory fees) and penalties are deducted
from the MAR if availability of power is below certain threshold (unserved demand above 0.5%
of sales).

30.      This formula has important virtues: (a) an incitation to reduce costs, reduce losses and
improve collection rates, because this is not a cost plus and the company retainsthe gains made
(as long as the price revision formula is in application); (b) even though the formula does not
explicitly include an efficiency improvement factor, it allows the consumers to benefit from the
economies of scale brought by the development of the sector: an increase of x% in the quantities
of energy sold since 1998, will translate only in an increase of 80% of x% of the MAR, reflecting
the assumption that the operator has fixed costs (which were supposed to represent 20% of total
cost in 1998).

3 1.     However inthe context of the first 5-year review carried out in 2005, shortcomingsin the
formula were noted that could cause (and indeed caused) a large imbalance between tariffs and
costs for reasons beyond the control of SENELEC. The most significant problems relate to the
indexationformula: (a) there was an excessive time lag in the indexation: for instance, the recent
tariffchange applicable August 1". 2004, was basedon the difference in average prices duringthe
year 2003 compared to 2002 (this was especially problematic because variations of oil prices
which could be large are reflectedwith delays); (b) more importantly the indexationformula did
not reflectthe reality of SENELEC costs. The reevaluationindex was based on weighted average
of the following indexes: consumers prices in Senegal: 50%; consumer prices in France: 30%,
and prices of Fuel Oil in Senegal: 20%. The weight given to oil prices in the formula (20%) was
low comparedto the share of fuel purchase in SENELECtotal costs. For the period2000 to 2003,
the proportion of fuel costs in SENELEC total costs has always been significantly above this
level (varying between 46% in 2000 and 32% in 2003). In addition, it was noted that a growing
share of SENELEC costs were represented by the purchase of bulk power (23% in 2003) whose
price is largely linkedto fuel prices.Overall, between40 and 50% of SENELECcosts are directly
linkedto fuel pricesand this was not reflected inthe indexationformula.

32.      There were also other potential problems with the revenue cap formula. For instance, the
formula took into account the quantities of energy sold but not the structure of sales which is an
importantdeterminantof costs: for a given quantity of energy, it is much cheaper to supply large
industrialusers in LV or HV-MV than domestic users, for several reasons (level of losses, cost of
metering, cost of billing, rate and of revenue collection, differences in the typical load curve,
etc.); changes in the financing cost of new investments were not reflected in the formula: this
could affect SENELEC significantly and is in large part determinedby factors beyondits control
(changes in the level of interest rates, availability of donor financing...); the penalty for
exceeding the definedthreshold of unserved demand has some benefits in terms of incentives but
is also potentially problematic in a system that is rapidly expanding: for instance, the penalty for


                                                 124

the year 2002 has represented 2% of the allowed revenue for the year'. Taking into account the
circumstances explainingthe black-outsfor the application of the penaltymechanismwould have
the advantageto mitigatethis asymmetric risk for the operator (which is not rewardedfor a level
of service better thanthe threshold).

33.      Another issue regardingthe tariff adjustment mechanism was the articulationbetweenthe
MAR and the actualelectricity tariffs. Eachquarter, on the basis of available data regardinginput
prices (oil prices, domestic and international inflation) and of SENELEC sales of electricity in
volume, CRSE was preparing an update of the MAR for the year. This estimate was then
compared to the revenue that SENELEC could expect from the application of current electricity
tariffs. If the difference between the MAR and the expected revenue was superior to a threshold
(3%),   CRSE then notified the Government of a proposition to adjust tariff levels. The
Government had then the choice between accepting the proposed adjustment (an absence of
reaction within 30 days is considered as a tacit approbation) or rejecting or modifying it. When
the proposedtariff adjustment is not accepted, SENELECexperiences a loss of revenue. This loss
of revenue is calculated by CRSE and entitles SENELEC to a compensation for the "tariff
deficit".

34.      Most of these issues were addressed during the 5-year review carried out by CRSE in
2005; a new tariff adjustment mechanism was then adopted in 2005 covering the 2005-2009
period. However over the 2005-2007 period, in part becauseof political and social considerations
and also hopingthat oil prices will come down, CRSE conclusionswere not fully adopted by the
Government, This resulted in delayed and reduced tariff adjustments compared to what was
required by the regulatoryrevenue formula. As a result, tariff compensation representedbetween
15 and 20 % of electricity sales in 2005, 2006 and 2007. This provedcostly to public finance, but
also penalized SENELEC, because the Government has, at times, paid the compensation with
significantdelay, preciselywhen SENELEC badly needed liquidity.




 The energy regulatory commissionhas refusedto reduceor cancel the penalty,arguingthat it doesnot
havethe authorityto changethe concessioncontract.


                                                125

              B. FINANCIAL ASSESSMENT OF SAR (THE OIL REFINERY)

35.     An important objective of the Government energy sector reform program is to restore
SAR financialviability, a key entity in the energy sector of SCnegal. This section reviews SAR's
financial performance over the last 3 years (2005-2007)and the outlook; key financial issues are
also discussed. It should be noted that as of early 2008, PETROSEN representing the Republic of
Senegal owns 65.6% of SAR's shares and TOTAL 34.6%.

B.1- SAR RecentFinancial Performance (2005-2007)

36.     The SAR refinery stopped operating in early 2006 because of its inability `to finance
crude oil purchasesas SAR's commercial arrears amounted to about US$210 millions (FCFA 85
billions). On March 2007 it restarted as a processing entity, and in September 2007 fully
restarted its refining and product import operations, owing to the successful negotiations of a
financing package with BNP/Paribas. Under that agreement, SAR debt's was to be amortized
over a 2 year period through a surcharge on retail prices respectively of FCFA35Aiter for white
products and FCFA25hter for the other products. SAR and the Government are currently
renegotiatingthe agreement with the objectives of amortizing the outstandingdebt over a 5 year
period and also mobilizing financing for investment.

37.     A summary of the refinery 2005-2007 Profit and Loss statements and of the 2006 and
2007 Balance Sheet are providedbelow intables B1 and B2.




  FiscalYear ending Dec. 31"       I       2006              2007

        Net FixedAssets                   12 073            12 639
            Inventories                  20 127             47 385
   ClientsAccounts Receivable            33 375             81 347
       Other CurrentAssets               47 591             13 838
                Cash                     14 014             36 125
           Total Assets                  127 180            191334

      DEBT AND EQUITY
              Equity                     -30 577            -16 267
     TotalNet FinancialDebt              14 939              9 009
   Other liabilities (Operations)        128 771            189 404
            Other debt                   14 047              9 188
     Total Debt and Eauitv               127 180            191334


                                                126

B.2 SAR Financial Outlook (2008-2009)
    -

38.     As shown below, starting 2007 the refinery is expected to show positive financial results.
This is due to the following: (a) partial operation in 2007, then full operation of the refinery
starting in 2008; (b) adjustment in the estimate of import parity prices (CIF NW vs. FOB MED);
and (c) the surcharges createdto amortize SAR commercialdebt over a 2 year period.


  FiscalYear ending Dec. 3lSt      1      2007               2008                   2009
             EBITDA                      21 853             39 870                 32 560
          Depreciation                    1523                1770                   1870
        OperatingIncome                  20 330             38 110                 30 690
      Net InterestCharges                 8 542              8 528                  5 054
      Change in Provisions                  776              3 630                 -1 250
          Income Taxes                         1             1 067                  6 097
           Net Income                    12 563             32 135                  18 290


B.3 Key FinancialIssues

39.     However the SAR refinery still faces the following financial issues: (a) it is in default
with respect to OHADA's regulations; in 2007 its net equity was less than 50% of its subscribed
capital. SAR's Directors have decided that the company should continue its operations; a
recapitalizationis therefore required; (b) its rescheduled commercial debt of FCFA72 billion by
end 2007 (initially FCFA85 billion) could be fully amortized by June 2009 due to the above
mentioned surcharges; (c) arrears owed by SENELEC of about FCFA 5 billion (as of March
2008) and by the State regarding LPG subsidies for an amount of about FCFA 10 billion (as of
end December2007).

40.     SAR's needs to be recapitalized to meet OHADA requirements but also to restore its
working capital; the recapitalization needs are estimated to be about FCFA25 billion. Such
recapitalizationcould be in the form of new capital, integrationof reserves, assets revaluation, or
a combinationof these options.




                                                127

    SENEGAL ENERGY SECTORRECOVERY DEVELOPMENT POLICY CREDIT
                  ANNEX 6- DOCUMENTSINTHE OPERATION'SFILE


                               A. ELECTRICITY SUB-SECTOR

0       Electricity Sector Efficiency Enhancement Project-ProjectAppraisal Document(2005)
-WorldBank    -
0
World Bank -
        Electricity Services for RuralAreas Project- ProjectAppraisal Document (2005) -

2007) -SENELECGeneration
0                                and Transmission DevelopmentStrategy - 2008-2020 (Oct./5/

0
Bank -  DetailedInvestment Programand FinancingPlan of SENELEC- 2008-2012 - World
         SENELEC -



0       Energy Sector Recovery Program ImplementationMatrix (March/5/2008) - Ministry of
Energy -
0
MasterPlan-(July 2007) - SENELEC --
        Terms-Of-Reference for GenerationRransmissionMasterPlan, and for Distribution

0
reports (November 2007-February 2008) - NERA EconomicConsulting-
        Financial ForecastsandFinancialRestructurationNeedsof SENELEC- 2007 and 2008

0
Developpement Consultants-
        Audit of SENEGAL Electricity sub-sector (April 2008) - IDC Infrastructure

0       SENELEC's financial forecasts - SENELEC-

2008 -
0       SENELEC- 2008-2010 Cost ReductionProgram/QuickWins (SENELEC)- March

0       Mandates of SENELEC's BoardCommittees (March 2008) - Ministry of Energy-
0       SENELEC-2008 Procurement Plan(SENELEC)
0       SENELECInstitutionalRestructuring(2007) - BMCE Capital-
0


        Electricity Tariff Study (September 2005) - ONE-
        SENELECFinancialsituationas of December 3 1,2006 - Serge Yao Consultant-
        SENELECFinancialRestructuringProposal(2007) - Ecobank -
0

0

0       SENELECUnaudited2007 financial accounts (Feb. 2008) - SENELEC-

                               B. HYDROCARBONSUB-SECTOR

0
1,2, 2006 - NationalHydrocarbonCommittee/CNH-
        Reporton the Workshop on the Hydrocarbonsub-sector - Sali Portudal May 3 1, June


May 2006)- Fred Sexsmith, Downstream Oil Advisors -
0       Review ofthe Price Structure and of ImplementingDecree of Law 98-31 (Draft report

0       RecoveryPlanfor Societe Africaine de Raffinage(October 2006) - DS Consultant
0       Fondsde Securisation des Importationsde ProduitsPetroliers- FSIPP-Two Decrees-
Ministry of Energy
0       Draft Decreefor the proposedDownstreamPetroleum Agency (April 2008) - Ministryof
Energy
0
1999) - Technip Group -
        DetailedEngineeringfor the Revampingof Dakar Refinery- 7 volumes -(February




                                               128

                              C. OTHER DOCUMENTS

0        Energy Efficiency ProgramAction Plan (January 2008) - Ad-Hoc Committee on Energy
Efficiency -
0        DraftCountry EnvironmentalAssessment ( May 5,2008) -World Bank
0        Poverty Monitoring Survey for 2005-2006 - Senegal- (September 2007) -National
Statistical and DemographicAgency.




                                             129

     SENEGAL ENERGY SECTOR RECOVERY DEVELOPMENT POLICY CREDIT
                               ANNEX 7- FUNDRELATION NOTE

IMFExecutiveBoardApproves Three-yearPolicy Support Instrumentfor Senegal
Press Release No.07/246
Novcmber 2, 2007


 Ihc Executive Board of the Intcrriatiorial Monetary 1:~iiid(IMI,) today appro\ed a three-)ear
Policy Support Instrtiment (PSI) for Senegal to support the countc's econoniic ef'forts. 'I'he PSI
for Scncgal is aiiiicd at consolidating tnacr(xconoiiiic stability. incrcasing tlic country's groutli
potcntial. and reducing poberty. 'I'hc program focuses on rnaintainitiga soilrid tiscal policj staiice
;itid enhancing fiscal governance :ind traiisparenc>     . It also includes measures to develop the
private sector and incrcasc the financial scctor's contribution to gron-th. Approval of a PSI for
Senegal signifies IMI"endorsemcnt o f the policics outlined in the program.


'I'he 1MF's framework for PSISis designed for low-income countries that may not need, or want,
I M F financial assistance. but still seek IMF advice, monitoring and endorsement of their policies.
PSIS arc voluntary and demand driven. PSI-supported programs arc based on country-o\incd
povertj reduction strategies adopted in a participatory process invohing civil society and
dcvclopmcnt partricrs and articuiatcd in a Povcrtj Reduction Strateg) Papcr (PRSP). This is
intended to cnsiirc that PSI-supported programs arc consistcnt with a comprehensi\ e framcaorh
for iiiacroecoiiotnic. structural and social policies to foster growth and reduce poverty. Members'
pcrformancc under a PSI is iiornia11y rc\ icwcd scnii-annually, irrcspcctibc of tlic status of thc
program (see Public Information Notice No. 05/145).


Following the Executive Board's discussion on Senegal, Mr. Dominique Strauss-Kahn, IMF
Managing Director and Chainnan, stated:
"Despite the temporarj setbacks suffered in the last two years, Senegal has achieved a high
degree o f inacroeconomic stability and robust grov,th over much of the last decade. The Policy
Support Instrumcnt is vicficd as the appropriate ncxt stcp i r i the I~tind'srclations with Senegal.
Rigorous inipleinetitation of the macroeconomic franiework and structural reforms, \c hich are
part o t the autliorities' program, should position Scncgal wcll iii its cfforts to sustain cvtcrnal
assistance and make progrcss in raising growth. allcviatirig povcrty. and achieving tlic
MiI1ent iuin Developmetit Goals,
        i

" I'he program focuscs on a sound fiscal policy staricc arid cnhancing fiscal go\ ernance arid
transparency. It also includes measures to develop the private sector and raise the contribution of
the financial sector to the ccononiy. whicli are crucial to raising growth and alleviating povcrt).
In this contcxt. the strong support o f Scriepal's development partncrs for thc irriplcnieritation of
the country's second I'overtj Reduction Strategy rind the Accelerated Growth Ctrategy at the
rcccnt Consultati\c Group rnceting hill be very helpful.
"Spending restraint and sustained domestic revenue mobilimtion will be essential to attain the
fiscal deficit targets envisagcd by tlic authoritics ovcr the mcdium tcriii. In particular, it will be
necessary to work expeditiously toward adopting encrgy sector rcfonri to help rcducc the sector's
drag on the public finances. 'I'his will a l l o ~the authorities to channel spending towards priority
social scctors, the judicial systcm, and thc environiiicnt. On the revenue sidc. Sencgal's
traditionally strong record o f tax collection should be safcguardcd, including through a careful
design of the planned special economic zone. The authorities' intention to generally rei.          an
concessional loans will, along uith the envisaged sinallcr fiscal deficits. Iiclp contain govcrnment


                                                    130

debt to stistainable Icvcls. `Ihe expeditious elimination of` all payment delays by the governrrieiit
i s critical because of their adverse impact on the private sector.

" IIic authorities' eff`orts to irripro\!e fiscal transparericy and govcrriaiice arc indispensable for
raising piiblic sector effectiveness and eiihancitig policy credibility. In particular. the measures
tahcn \I itti respect to the airport pro.jcct enhance its transparericy and limit its budgetar) risks.
Similarly, the authorities habc committed to addressing goveriiaiice conccriis with respect to the
special economic one. I'he planned fiscal reforms, including an important strengthening o f
govcrnnicnt procurement practices, are also wclcoiric and should help nioderiii7c Senegal's
Public Financial Maiiagcrrient systems.
"Strong implenientationof the program will be essential to address risks, including froin SIOM     er-
than-expected growth. and for Senegal to make progress in achieving sustained growth and
poierty reduction," Mr. Strauss-Kahn said.

IMFEXTERNALRELATIONSDEPARTMENT
Public Affairs            Media Relations
Phone:202-623-7300 Phone: 902-623-7 100
Fax:     202-623-6278 Fax:         202-623-6772




                                                     131

SENEGALENERGY SECTOR RECOVERY DEVELOPMENT POLICY CREDIT

                               ANNEX 8- STATEMENT OF LOANSAND CREDITS




  -*
    Tdal Disbursed(Adlve)           341 10
          01 whch hss beenrepaid    om
    Tdal hsbursed(Closed)           2.207 63
          01 which tu8 beenrepad    385 90
    Tdal Disbursed(Adlve + Closed)  2,548 73
          01 whichtus beenrswd      385 80
    Tdal Undisbursed(Adm)           341 11
    Tdal Undisbursed(Cbsed)         683
    TdalUndisbursed(Actm + Cbsed)   347 84



    !&iWlWm                                                                                                                       DifleieiiceBetweell
                                                                                                                                  Expeaelandwm1
                                                               SllpeMSlOIl WWltng        QrlullalAlnoimt IllUS$MillloriS           Dlsbursemeldr'.

  RopclID                          Rolecl Name                k&Qt& llnolRlouess N lBR0          IDA  GRANT CWlC8l.     UlldlSb.      Ollg. FrinRedtl

   Po83609                         SN-Agr Markets &Agnbus       S           s       2006          35                       34 8        4 67
   PO93622                         SN-Agr Svcs &Prod Orgs , S              MS       M)6           20                      1518         053
   PO69207                         SN-Casamance Emerg Ret      MU          MU       2005          20                        7 11        4 7
   PO73477                         SN.Elec Sec Efi Enhanc I MS             MS       2005        15 7                        124       1081
   PO85708                         SN-Elec Sew for RuralAn     MS          MS       2005       29 9                      2354         19 16
   PO713530                        SN.GEF Elec Slvc for Rura   MS          MS       2005                    5               481        424
   w58367                          SN-GEF lnlg Marine Cstl R   MS          MS       2005                 534       034      282        148
   PO86480                         SN-GIRMAC SIL (FY05)        MS          MS       2005          10                       549         1 %
   PO74059                         SNHIV/AIDS Prevent & Co     MS          MS       2002          30                      1232         668       -1 3
   PO84022                         SN-Local Authorities Devel1 MS           s       2007          80                     7475         1003
   PO41528                         SN.Long Term Water Sec !     S                   2001         125                     2018         -356      45.5
   PO97181                         SN-Nutr Enhanc Prog II .     S           ss      2007          15                      l o r n     -039
   PO88656                         SN-Padicipatory LOCDev F    MS          MS       2006      5005                       4271         11 47
   PO51609                         SN-Prw Inv Promotion SIL (   U           u       2003          46                     24 72        1354
   poem13                          SN-PrtvSec Ad) Crdt (FYOd    U           U       2004          45                        21 4      20 21     20 21
   poe9254                         SN-Quality EFAAPL2 (FY       S           s       2007          30                     2568          698
   PO55472                         SN-Urb Mobility lmproveme   MS           s       2000          70                      1067         292       426
   Overall Result                                                                              621 7    1034       034   34874       11553      1961
                                                                                senegal
                                                    comrittedandDisbursedOutstandlngInvestnentPortfolio
                                                                           As OT 11/5O12OO7
                                                                           (InUSDMillions)


                                                                    comrittad                                                 DisbursedOutstanding

                                                                       29!@                -Patici                                      "Quasi           -Partici
MAwroval                 companv                      -w
                                                      Loan               buitv *GT/Rh+l      panJ                   -
                                                                                                                    Loan     w           Eauitv *GT/Rh+l

198w80                    Bhs                            0      0.92          0         0         0                     0        0.92         0        0       0
1-                        Cimentsdusahel              14.63     4.52       7.17         0         0                 14.63       4.52        7.17       0       0
199719719&r98             Gti dakar                   14.02     3.41          0      9.09    16.92                  14.02        3.02         0      2.34 16.92
200Y05                    Kounoune                   49.71          0         0         0         0                 40.42          0          0        0       0
2007107                   Separnsa.                    5.85         0         0         0         0                     0          0          0        0       0
2007l07                   Socodrn                     58.4          0         0         0         0                     0          0          0        0       0

                lata1Pddio:                         14269       8.86       7.17      9.09   16.92                   69.07       8.4         7.17     2.34 16.92

  &notes GuaranteeandRiskManagement Prcduds.
*QuasiEquityindudesbothloanandequiiytypes.




                                                                         132

SENEGALENERGY SECTORRECOVERYDEVELOPMENT POLICY CREDIT
                                               ANNEX 9- SENEGAL AT A GLANCE

 Senegal at a glance                                                                                                                       9/17/07

                                                                                     Sub-
Key Development I n d i c a t o r s                                              Saharan       LOW
                                                                   Senegal          Africa  income            Age dlstrlbutlon, 2006
(2006)                                                                                                                    Male               Female

Population mid-year (millions)                                         10 8           770    2 403           70-74
Surface area (thousand sq km)                                           197        24,285   29,215           8084
Population growth   ( O h )                                             1 8           2 3       1 8
Urban population (YOof total population)                                 51             36       30          50-54
                                                                                                             4044

GNI (Atlas method US$ billions)                                         9 1           648     1,562          30-34

GNI per capita (Atlas method US$)                                      840            842      650           20-24

GNI per capita (PPP international $)                                  1,840         2,032    2,698            10-14
                                                                                                                0-4
GDP growth (Oh)                                                         2 1           5 6       8 0                x )      10        0      10         20
GDP per capita growth (Oh)                                              0 3           3 2       8 1                                Dercent

(most recent estimate, 2000-2006)
                                                                                                                                                          1
Poverty headcount ratio at $1 a day (PPP %)                              26 '           41
Poverty headcount ratio at $2 a day (PPP %)                              56             72                   Under-6 mortallty rate (per 1,000)
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                         52             47       59
Infant mortality (per 1 000 live births)                                 78             96      75
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                               23             29

Adult literacy male (YOof ages 15 and older)                             51             69       72
Adult literacy female (Ohof ages 15 and older)                           29             50      50
Gross pnmary enrollment male (YOof age group)                            83             98      108
Gross pnmary enrollment female (Oh of age group)                         77             86      96

Access to an improved water source (% of population)                     72             56      75
Access to improved sanitation facilities (% of population)               52             37       38                     1880    IS85   2WO    2W5


                                                                                                                   0Senegal        OSub-SaharanAfrica

Net Aid Flaws                                               1980      1990          2000      2006  '
                                                                                                                                                          I
(US%millions)
Net ODA and official aid                                      260      812            423      689          IGrowth of GDP and GDP per caplta (Oh)
Top 3 donom fin 2005)
  France                                                      108      230            147       158
  Spain                                                                   6              1       82
  United States                                                36        57             23      40

Aid ( O hof GNI)                                              7 6      14 7           9 2       8 1
Aid per capita (US$)                                           47      111              44      65

                                                                                                                                                          I
Long-Term Economic Trends
                                                                                                                  90          85          W
Consumer prices (annual % change)                             8 7       0 3           0 7       2 1
GDP implicit deflator (annual YOchange)                      11 0       0 0            1 9      3 1              &GDP              -GDP      per capitaO5

Exchange rate (annual average, local per US$)             211 3       2723          710 1    522 9
Terms of trade index (2000 = 100)                              99        99           100        82
                                                                                                                1980-90    1990-2000      2000-06
                                                                                                                      (average annual growth %j
Population, mid-year (millions)                               5 5       7 3           9 5      10 8                   2 6           2 6         2 1
GDP (US$ millions)                                        3,503       5717          4,692    9,186                    2 6           3 0         4 4
                                                                        (% of GDPj
Agriculture                                                  17 9      17 9          16 9      13 7                   1 9           2 4         1 6
Industry                                                     17 9      19 9          20 5      19 9                   3 2           3 8         3 9
  Manufacturing                                              12 0      13 7          12 9      12 0                   3 1           3 1         1 7
Services                                                    64 2       62 2          62 7      66 5                   2 6           3 0         5 2

Household final consumption expenditure                     73 1       79 2          76 0      79 7                   3 8           2 6         3 9
General gov't final consumDtion eXD0nditUre                 24 8       184           12 8       9 7                   0 3           0 9        -3 1
Gross capital formation                                     16 6        9 1          20 5      29 2                   0 2           3 5       13 7

Exports of goods and services                               23 9       25 4          27 9      25 6                   1 6           4 1         3 1
Imports of goods and services                               38 4       32 2          37 2      44 2                   1 9           2 0         6 0
Gross savings                                                 0 1      -0 5          14 6      18 5


Note Figures in italics are for years other than those specified 2006 data are preliminary indicates data are not available
a Country poverty estimate is for earlier period b Aid data are for 2005

Development Economics Development Data Group (DECDG)




                                                                            133

                    18W                                                          16W                                                        14W                                                                  12W
                                                                                                                                                                                     SENEGAL
                                                                                                                                                                ENERGY SECTOR RECOVERY
                                                                                                         M A U R I T A N I A                                         DEVELOPMENT POLICY
             SENEGAL                                                                                                                                                   FINANCING PROJECT
                                                                                                                    Podor                                                       Planned     Existing

                                                                                                                                                                                                         225 kV LINES

                                                                                       Rosso                      Ndiayne            Har                                                              90 kV LINES
                                                                                                   Dagana                             Lao
                                                                                                                                                                                                         30 kV NETWORKS

                                                                                                                                                          Kaedi                                          225 kV SUBSTATIONS

                                                                                                                                                                                                         90 kV SUBSTATIONS
                                                          Saint-Louis
         16N                                                                                                                                             Thilogne
                                                                                                                                                                                                         SECONDARY CENTERS                   16N

                                                                       Mpal                                        Lagbar
                     ATLANTIC                                                                                                                                                                            REGIONAL POWER PLANTS

                                                                                                                                                                Matam                                    ELECTRIFIED TOWNS AND VILLAGES
                       OCEAN                                                   Louga                                                                                                                     SOLAR ELECTRIFIED VILLAGES

                                               Tioukougne Peul
                                                                        Kbmr                                 Lingure
                                                                                              Daraa
                                                 Fs Boye

                                            Darou Khoudos

                                                                 Mkh              Darou Mousti                                                    Mamri
                                                                                                                           Vlingara
                                           Kayar            Tivaouane
                                                                                         Mbak                                                                                            Bakel
                                                        This

                             DAKAR      Rufisque                               Diourbel


                                                                                   Gossas                                          Payar
                                                Mbour                                                                                                                                                   Nay
                                                                                                                                                               Toubr Bafal                                                To
                                                                  Fatick               Guinguino                                                                                                                           Manantali
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Hydroelectric Plant
                                                                                                   Kaffrine
                                                    Ndangane               Kaolack

         14N                                                                                                          Koungheul
                                                                                                         Niahne                                                                                                                            14N

                                                                  Sakone                                                                      Koussanar
                                                                                   Keur Madiabel     Nganda                                                                                                                  M A L I
                                                                                                                                                          Tambacounda                This map was produced by

                                                                       Karang              Nioro                                   Maka                                              the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                           du Rip                                                                                    World Bank. The boundaries,
                      SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                                      colors, denominations and
                                                                                                                                                                                     any other information shown
                      PROVINCE CAPITALS                                     THE                                                                                                      on this map do not imply, on
                                                                                                                                                                                     the part of The World Bank
                      NATIONAL CAPITAL                                GAMBIA                                                                                           Dialakoto     Group, any judgment on the
                                                                                                                                                   Meedina                           legal status of any territory,
                      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                     Gounas                            or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                                     Vlingara                                       a c c e p t a n c e o f s u c h
                                                                                       Bounkiling                                                                                    boundaries.
                                                                   Diouloulou
                                                                                                                Kolda
                                                                             Bignona                                                                                                                     Mako
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Saraya
                                                                                          Sdhiou    Tanaf
          0    25   50    75    100 Kilometers                    Ziguinchor                                                                                                                                        Kdougou                     IBRD
                                                                                 Goudomp
MA                                               Diembreng      Oussouye                                                                                                                                                                            36179
  Y       0       25       50          75 Miles
   2008                                                                                            G U I N E A - B I S S A U
                                                                                                                                              14W
                    18W                                                          16W                                                                                           G U I N E A                        12W

