Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5 5 2 8-AR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARGENTINA
BAHIA BLANCA I PORT PROJECT
April 7, 1987
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This documenl has a restricted distribution and may be used by reipients only in the perrormance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed writhout World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = Austral (AW)
A$ 1          = US$ .806        (December, 1986)
A$ 100        = US  80.64       (December, 1986)
System of Weights and Measures
1 meter (m)   =  3.28 feet (ft)
I kilogramo   =  2.205 pounds (lb)
I ton         =  2,205 pounds (lb)
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AGP     -  General Port Administration
CGP     -  General Port Captaincy
DNCPVN  -  National Directorate of Port Construction and Navigable Waterway
DNPPT   -  National Directorate for Transport Policies and Programming
DNV     -  Directorate of National Highways
FA      -  Argentine Railways
JNG     -  National Grain Board
NIOSP    -  Ministry of Public Works and Services
PC      -  Project Committee
PCU     -  Project Coordination Unit
PNT     -  National Transport Plan
SMM     -  Secretariat of Merchant Marine
SNA     -  National Architectural Services
SPW     -  Secretariat of Public Works
SSD     -  Safety Services Department
SMtI    -  Secretariat of Merchant Marine
SSPT    -  Sub-Secretariat of Transport Planning
SST     -  Sub-Secretariat of Transport
ST      -  Secretariat of Transport



FOR OMcIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARGENTINA
BAHIA BLANCA I PORT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.    PROJECT SUMMARY .................................           ......      1
II.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR AND THE PORT SUBSECTOR    ............             3
A.  The Transport Sector                                               3
(i)   General            ........................                  3
(ii)   Institutional Organization and Planning ..........           4
B.  The Port Subsector ...............*.*. .. ... * ............       5
i)  General                      ........                          5
(ii)   Traffic and Physical Environment ...................         5
(iii)   Organization and Planning ..........................         6
(iv)   AGP's Administrative System, Accounts and Audit.....         8
(v)   DNCPVN's Organization and Accounting *..........             9
(vi)   Pricing Policy and Tariffs                                   9
(vii)   Tugboat Services      .                                     10
(viii)   Past and Projected Financial Results of AGP  ....-..        11
C. Bank Involvement in the Transport Sector and Lending
Strategy ..* ....                                               , 12
D.  Experience with Past Lending           .............................  13
=II.  THE PROJECT ................ ...............................o          13
A.  Project Origin and Objectives .........        ...................  13
B.  Rationale for Bank Involvemeat  ..oe.e.....    14
C.  Description         ..............................................  15
D.  Costs and Financing ...... * ... *..*.....  *.................    15
E.  Economic Evaluation           ...... . ...... e*eo. &o O*9*eeo    18
F.  Project Risks ...........  .........................*........      19
This report is based on the findings of the appraisal mission that took
place in December 1984, as revised during a post appraisal mission which
visited Argentina in June 1986 comprising Messrs. G. Unda (Senior Port
Engineer), T. Markus (Senior Financial Analyst), and R. Auzmendi (Senior
Transport Economist). Messrs. F. Adams and L. Garcia (Consultants) assisted
the mission in the technical and financial evaluation, respectively.
This document has a restrked distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be discksed without World Bank authoriztonL



TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
Page No.
TV.   PROJECT INFTLE  NTATION DETAILS ...............................    19
A.  Project Execution ..          ........     ...........  .....    19
B.  Procurenent and Consultancy Services .....    ................  23
Co Disbursements  Os..................     ......................  24
D.  Special Account and Auditing..............................     25
V.    RECOMMENDATIONS ..............        ..            .........      26
TABLES
2.1   Modal Composition of Domestic Traffic        ........................    29
2.2  Traffic through Argentine Ports          ..............................    30
2.3  Grain Exports by Major Ports ....s............s .............    31
2.4  Grain Exports at Bahia Blanca (1978-1985) ......   ...............  32
3.1   Detailed Cost Table - Emergency Works        ........................    33
3.2  Detailed Cost Table - Maritime ....e....ee .. .*ss*..* ..S....      34
3.3  Detailed Cost Table - Grain Handling Reconstruction
and Modernization ...*.........      ...........................  35
3.4  Detailed Cost Table - Silo Safety Program         ....................    36
3.5  Detailed Cost Table - Railway Works          ..........................    37
3.6  Detailed Cost Table - Technical Assistance        ...................    38
3.7  Detailed Cost Table - Engineering Studies ........ ............    39
3.8  Project Components by Year ...................................    40
3.9  Financing Plan by Summary Accounts ...........................    41
3.10  Financing Plan by Project Components         .........................    42
3.11  Financing Plan by Foreign Exchange ..........................      43
4.1  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements          ..........................    44
ANNEXES
1.   Main Characteristics of the Transport Sector                        45
2.   Past and Future Port Traffic                                        53
3.   Financial Analysis ..............                                   62
4.   Bank Assistance to the Transport Sector                             74
5.   Project Description and Implementation Details                      78
6.   Economic Evaluation                                                 96
7.   The Technical Assistance Program ....                              114
8.   Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File           121



- iii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
Page No.
CBARTS
1.   - Organization of the Secretariat of Transport (ST)  .........    122
2.    - Organization of the Secretariat of Merchant Marine
(SMff) and Fluvial Transport ...............................    123
3.    - Organization of General Port Administration (AGP) ..........   124
4.    - Organization of National Directorate of Port
and Navigable Waterways Construction (DNCPVN)    .............  125
5.    - Project Implementation Schedule ...........................    126
MAPS
1.     IBRD 18829  - Argentina Transport Systeu
2.      IBRD 20383  - Proposed Facilities at Bahia Blanca



ARGENTINA
BAHIA BLANCA I PORT PROJECT
I. PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      The Government of the Republic of Argentina.
Beneficiaries: The General Port Administration (AGP), the National
Directorate of Port and Navigable Waterway Construction
(DNCPVN) and Argentine Railways (PA) of the Ministry of Public
Works and Services (MOSP), and the National Grain Board (JNG)
of the Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries
(SAG) would be responsible for utilization of the proposed
loan proceeds.
Amount:        US$50.0 million
Terms:         Repayment in 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with
interest at the Bank's standard variable rate.
On-Lending     US$12.3 million, US$0.8 million and US$1.1 million from the
Terms:         Government to the National Grain Board (JNG), the Argentine
Railways (FA) and the General Port Administration (AGP),
respectively, under the same terms and conditions as the Bank
loan.
Project
Description:   This would be the first Bank involvement in the port sub-
sector. The main project objective is to facilitate grain
exports at the Bahia Blanca Port.  More specifically, the
proposed project comprises: (i) civil works and equipment for
the rehabilitation of existing infrastructure and the
replacement of a damaged grain elevator by a modern
installation; (ii) civil works and equipment for a silo safety
system at selected grain terminals; (iii) technical assistance
for the strengthening of port management and administration,
the development and implementation of a cost accounting
system, the introduction of cost-based port tariffs, and the
improvement of maintenance services of JNG and DNCPVN at
selected terminals and repair facilities, respectively; and
(iv) completion of engineering studies for a proposed
expansion of the Bahia Blanca grain terminal, initiated under
the Loan 1521-At.
Benefits:      The economic benefits should be realized by Argentina through
improved net income from its grain trade with major importing
regions of the world. The domestic market is highly
competitive and thus it is expected that a substantial portion
o,f the economic benefits of the project will be passed on to
the farmers.



-2-
Risks:          Since this is the first Bank operation in the subsector and it
would be implemented by several government agencies, there is
some risk of delays. Cost overruns and delays have been
experienced iu other transport projects financed by the Bank
in Argentina. Possible project delays will be minimized by
intenslve supervision early in the project cycle and by the
establishment of a Project Committee and a Project
Coordination Unit which would coordinate the participation of
the various government agencies responsible for project
implementation.
Estimated Project Costs:
-US  Million--
Local    Foreign      Total
Civil Works                                       14.7       9.8       24.5
Equipment                                          1.9      29.5       31.4
Project Supervision                                0.4        1.7       2.1
Technical Assistance and Engineering Studies    0.6           2.4       3.0
Total Base Cost (December 1986 prices)            17.6       43.4      61.0
Physical Contingencies                             2.3        5.9       8.2
Price Contingencies                                0.4        1.4       1.8
Total Project Cost                                20.3      50.7       71.0
m                  
Financing Plan:                              - UU$ Million
Foreign       Local         Total 1,
Proposed IBRD Loan                        50.0            -            50.0
Government                                 0.5           9.7           10.2
AGP                                         -            1.5            1.5
JNG                                        0.2           3.5            3.7
FA                                          -            1.3            1.3
Total Financing:                          50.7          16.0           66.7
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY                  1988 2/ 1989   1990    1991  1992    1993    1994
-US$ Million
Annual                      5.1 3/  5.3   12.0    12.0  10.3       4.5     0.8
Cumulative                  5.1 -  10.4   22.4    34.4  44.7    49.2    50.0
Rate of Return:  45% average (from 20% to over 1OOZ for individual project
components).
1/ Taxes and duties amounting to US$4.3 million equivalent, to be
borne and collected by the Government, are excluded.
2/ Includes retroactive financing.
3/ Includes initial deposit of US$3.0 million into Special Account.



-3-
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR AND THE PORT SUBSECTOR
A. The Transport Sector
(1) General
2.01      The transport sector plays a crucial role in the economic
development of Argentina. It has been estimated 1/ that transport costs
represent on the average about I0Z of total produetion costs of major
industrial products, and between 10 and 18X of FOB prices for export of
grains, which In 1985 amounted to about US$2 billion. Moreover, the
transport sector represents about 6-8Z of GDP, and around 18-20% of public
sector investment. Consequently, the Government places high priority cn
improving the operation, coordination and efficiency of the sector, to avoid
and/or eliminate bottlenecks that could severely damage the country's
economy.
2.02      The transport sector in Argentina is influenced by the fact that In
such a large country (2,767,000 sq km), the bulk of the total population
(about 30 million people) is concentrated in a few large cities but the rest
is dispersed in a large number of small urban centers. About 70S of the
country's population and 85X of the country's GDP are located and generated
within a 600 km radius from Buenos Aires; the joint result of concentration
and dispersion imply long-distance hauls between supply and demand centers of
agricultural production, raw materials, and manufactured products;
furthermore, a large volume of exports and imports require long haullng
distances to ports. In addition, severe draught limitations of navigable
waterways and ports impose high ocean freight rates.
2.03      To meet the transport demand, the country has developed an
extensive transport network consisting of 36,500 km of national roads and
about 380,000 km of provincial roads, of which 57,000 km are paved (27,000 km
national and 30,000 km. provincial); 34,000 km of railways; 17,000 km of
pipelines; over 100 ports, of which 13 account for over 902 of the overall
throughput; and 90 commercial airports. The transport system is operated by
a large privately owned fleet of trucks and buees; a publicly owned railway
that carries freight, and Intercity and suburban passenger traffic; a mix of
public and private maritime and river shipping companies; and five public
airlines, two major (one serving also international traffic) and three
regional. Background information on the transport sector is presented in
Annex 1.
2.04      Transport demand has kept pace with economic development in the
country. Table 2.1 shows the evolution of freight and passenger traffic
during the last two decades. The general trend has been a moderate growth of
about 1-1.5% per year for freight, and 3-3.5% per year for passenger. In
line with worldwide trends, highways represent the dominant mode for Internal
transport, with ports handling most of the foreign trade andialrlines
handling most of the international passenger traffic. Each mode's share for
passenger and freight traffic has remained approximately constant in the last
decade. During the next decade, little change is expected in the highways'
and railroads' shares (56% and 10% respectively) of freight traffic. The
pipelines' share (13%) may slightly increase with the exploitation of gas
1, National Transport Plan (PNT), 1982



- 4 -
reserves, and water cabotage's (20%) may slightly decrease; as for domestic
passenger traffic, airlines (6%) can be expected to increase slowly while
railways (8%) to decrease and the share of road transport (86%) to remain
constant.
(ii) Institutional Organization and Planning
2.05      Historically, planning and coordination in the transport sector
have been weak. The considerable tndependence of the Government's modal
transport agencies under different ministries obstructed the integration and
consistency of transport plans and policies. To offset this lack of
coordination, the National Directorate for Transport Policies and Programming
(DNPPT) was established in 1977 in the Ministry of Public Works and Services
(MOSP) and became responsible for preparing the National Transport Plan
(PNT). The Bank, under the Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1384-AR) and the
Highway Sector Project (Loan 2296-AR), and UNDP have provided technical
assistance and funding for the PNT. One of the main recommendations of the
PNT, implemented by the present Government (para 2.06), was that the various
principal agencies dealing with transport should be reorganized under the
same ministry.
2.06      The present government which took office in December 1983,
introduced changes in the institutional structure designed to consolidate the
authority of the MOSP, which includes now the agencies responsible for public
sector transport operations which were previously within the jurisdiction of
other ministries. The MOSP has now seven Secretariats of State: Transport,
Merchant Marine, Energy, Communications, Hydraulic Resources, Public Works,
and Coordination of Public Works and Services. There are two secretariats
specifically handling transport matters, namely: (a) the Secretariat of
Transport (ST) (Chart 1); and (b) the Secretariat of Merchant Marine (SMM)
(Chart 2). The ST is responsible for the development of national transport
policies, for the definition of plans and programs for all modes of
transport, including water, and for program implementation of land and air
transport. It comprist-s two Su!P-Secretariats: (i) Transport Planning (SSPT)
which is responsible for the development and definition of transport
policies, coordination and planning of work carried out by the various
transport entities, and central investment and budget planning; 3nd (ii) Land
Transport (SST) which is responsible for all metropolitan, highway and
railway transport matters, including the State-owned entities Directorate of
National Highways (DNV) and Argentine Railways (FA). There is also a
National Directorate of Commercial Air Transport responsible for all
commercial air trau.sport matters, including state-owned commercial airlines.
The SMM is responsible, in coordination with ST, for the preparation of
national policies, plans and programs for water transport. It has also
responsibility for program implementation of water transport. The SMM is
responsible for all commercial navigation, shipping and port activities,
including the State-owned shipping lines and the port administration. The
system seems to be working well: the general planning for water transport is
conducted predominantly at ST, in conjunction with all other transport mDdes,
and the role of SMM becomes more relevant at the planning and implementation
stages of specific water projects. MOSP's Secretariat of Public Works (SPW)
is Indirectly related to transport matters as it is responsible for the
construction of public grain elevators through the National Architectural
Services (SNA).



-5-
B. The Port Subsector
(i) General
2.07      Most of the existing operational port facilities in Argentina were
built before 1920, and although there are some modern installations, the
system, in general, is old and some facilities obsolete. There are four
types of ports: (i) public, administered by the General Port Administration
(AGP); (ii) public, administered by public enterprises, such as Yacimientos
Petroliferos Fiscales (YPF), Somisa, Acindar, etc.; (iii) private; and
(iv) regional, administered by provinces or municipalities. The first group
form the backbone of the port system in the country, while the private group,
mainly involved in grain business, has lately been gaining importance as a
result of the privatization policy supported by the Government. The group of
regional ports only fulfills a localized function, and it is of little
relevance to the overall port system. During the period 1980-85, the total
traffic volume through the port system has been about 85-90 million tons per
year, and the participation of the above mentioned four groups has been,
respectively: AGP ports 55-60%, non-AGP public ports 35-40Z, and private
ports 6-8% in 1983-85 and 1-2% in 1980-82. The traffic of regional ports has
been insignificant.
2.08      Geographically, Argentina's ports can be classified into three
zones (Map IBRD 18829): (a) the Atlantic, whose main ports are Bahia Blanca,
Comodoro Rivadavia, Rosales and Quequen; (b) the Rio de la Plata, whose main
ports are Buenos Aires and La Plata; and (c) the Parana River, whose main
ports are San Nicolas, Villa Constitucion, Rosario, San Lorenzo and Santa
Fe.  In 1985, these eleven ports handled 89 percent of the total
international and domestic traffic, with Buenos Aires accounting for the
largest share (17%). The main ports are somewhat specialized: most of the
general cargo is handled at Buenos Aires, mineral and petroleum products at
Buenos Aires, Comodoro Rivadavia, La Plata, San Nicolas, San Martin, Santa Fe
and Rosales, and grain products at Buenos Aires, Bahia Blanca, Quequen,
Rosario, Santa Fe, San Nicolas and Villa Constitucion.
(ii) Traffic and Physical Environment
2.09      In 1985, port traffic in the country was 86.5 million tons, and
preliminary figures for the first half of 1986 indicate a volume of traffic
of about 85 million tons (Annex 2, footnote 1). In 1985, exports represented
44% of total traffic, imports 7% and the remaining 49% domestic cabotage,
(Table 2.2). Import volumes have been affected by restrictions imposed by
Government in 1982, declining from 15% in the early 1980s to the
above-mentioned 7% in 1985; however, a recovery to similar levels is expected
in the near future. Exports are dominated by grain (Table 2.3) which in 1985
represented 54% of total exports. Iron and steel products are the most
important import products. Domestic cabotage consists basically of petroleum
products (82% in 1985).
2.10      Grain exports averaged about 22 million tons in 1983-85 (Table 2.3
and Annex 2). The main grain production regions of the country are located
adjacent to the Parana and Rio de la Plata rivers; 1985 grain exports through
Rosario and other Parana River ports accounted for about 60% of total, while
4.9 million, or 21% was exported through Bahia Blanca. However, the role of
this port in the Argentine grain trade is more significant than what those



- 6 -
percentages reflect. First, due to an exploslon In one of the grain silos In
Harch 1985, traffic that year encountered great difficulties at Bahia Blanca
and cannot be condidered norul (In 1984, bahIa blnca handled 22X of total
grain exports and 252 In 1983). Second, due to draft limitations of river
ports, 25'-28' (Annex 1), and the fact that even under present conditions
Sahl& Blance can operate at 38W6 draft, about two thirds of the number of
vessels calling at Bahia Blanca In 1985 had been partially loaded at other
Argentino ports beforo. 2/ As a result, In that year 8.7 million tons of
grain exports, or 372 of total, were carrled by vessels having bahia Blanca
as the lest Argentine port of call: 4.9 million tons were loaded at Sahia
Blanca (Table 2.4) and 3.8 mllilon tons had been prevIously loaded at river
porte.
2.11      Private ports have gained Importance in recent years.  In grain
export trade alone, private facilitles handled 152 of exports ln 1982, 182 in
1983, 24% ln 1984 and 272 In 1985. Additional details are given In Annex 2.
Specifically, negotlations to bulld a private grain terminal in Rosales,
close to Bahia Blanca, are reaching the final stages. If finally built, this
termlnal ls expected to handle about 2 million tons of grain to be exported
by the same cooperatives that are negotlating Its construction. The
construction of this terminal will not affect the economic vlability of the
proposed project. A comprehensive grain traffic assignment model [Annex 1,
Appendix A, paras. 2 and 31 developed by the Government etimatem a potential
demand for port capacity In the Bahia Blanca area of about 8.5 million tons
of grain by 1990. In the economic justification of the proposed project, It
was assumed that only 6 lllion tone [Annex 6, pare. 4 (a)] would be handled
at the Bahia Blenca Port after completlon of the project, while the balance,
without Puerto Rnoales, would go through the river ports, which are more
expensive to the economy due to draft lilitatIons. The terminal at Rosales
vould provide the extra capacity to the Bahia Blanca region to be able to
handle the potential traffic demand, but without affecting the 6 mIllion tons
assigned to the Bahia Blanca port.
(iii) Organization and Planalng
2.12      With the recent ministerlal reorganizatlon, the main agencles in
the port subsector have been placed under the SMM (Chart 2), which oversees:
(a) the financially autonomous enterprIse AGP (pare 2.16 and Chart 3) which
is responsible for the construction, aainteno-ce cad administration of shore
facilities for general cargo, the collection of port charges, and the
provision of some shore services and equipment, although most cargo handling
operations are, In fact, performed by private stevedoring companles on shore
and aboard ship; (b) General Port Captaincy (CGP) which is responsible for
coordinatlon of port regulatIons, assistance to the subsector's entities ln
drafting operating standards, studle and projects, and supervislon of port
operations performed by private stevedoring and tugboat companies; and
(c) the national Directorate of Port and Navigable Waterway Construction
(DNCPVN) (Chart 4), an agency funded by the national budget, originally
responsible for construction and malntenance of dock facilities, but which at
present is only responsible for planning and carrying out waterway and port
2/ An alternative, but of restricted capacity, is the privately operated
transhipeent facillty at Punta Alfa in the Rio de lo Plata in front of
Montevideo, Uruguay, where existing depth permits a 40' draft in
protected water. 1.2 million tons were loaded at Punta Alfa in 1984
and 1.9 million In 1985.



_ 7 _
dredging, both capital and maintenance. Grain sllos construction Is the
responslbility of the RNA under the Secretariat of Public Works in MOSP.
Another Important agency for the wovement of grain at the ports, Is the
Natlonal Grain board (JNG) under the Minltry of Agriculture (Annex 3).
2.13      SuperfLcially, the responolbilltlos of the varioua agancies appear
clear, but port planning, operatlonal responslbilltieo and control are
sometmes divided in a amblguous manner among these agencles. In addition,
the Internal efficiency and staff capacity, partlcularly of DNCPVN, are
weak. These matters were extenslvely dlcussed between the Co-rernment and
succelive bank mlccIons. The Government is aware of these probloem, and Is
actively purouing the achievemnt of the Logal and adminiltrative condiltons
to permit the lmprovement of the efficiency of the port system.
2.14      In late November 1986, a Public Enterprise board was created wlth
the specifIc purpose of Improving the efficiency of all Public Enterprlses In
the country. The Governmnt's main policy objective for the port subsector
is to lmprove overall efficiency through its reorganization tnto maaningful
units, from the operational and financial viwpoints, which will (i) oparate
wlth autonomy and a clearly identified decision-making process, (ii) function
as commercial enterprlse., and (iI) be accountable for the operations. This
objective Is reflected in a draft port low which has been prepared by SNM,
and submltted to the Parliament. The general framework of the draft port law
to to decentralize port administration, to give more operational and
financial autonomy to the main pnrwt of the system, to consolidate In one
authority the functions performed at present by AGP and CG?, and to define
the legal status of private and lndustrlal ports. In the same draft law,
complete autonomy as a commercially oriented enterprise is given to DNCPVN,
at the present part of the Central Government. This draft law Is an
important step forward In the reorganizatlon of the port subsector and
further improvements will be discussed In the context of the preparation of
the proposed Bahia Blanca II Port Project (FY89) (para. 3.03). There are,
however, some areas that need imediate improvement for the Institutional
reforms to achieve their full benefits. These are: costing, cost-based
tariff system, planning, port operation Improvements and investment
evaluation criteria. The technical assistance component Included in the
proposed project (paras. 4.06 and 4.07) Is addressed to strengthen these
areas in a manner that would ensure full implementatlon and therefore the
achievement of the established objectives.
2.15      The investment program for AMP in the five-year period 1986-1990
averages about US$35 mllilon equivalent per year, wlth the highest values
planned for 1987 (USS57 million) and for 1988 (US$46 million). The program
is aimed to reconstructlon and rehabilitation of existing port facilltles and
it does not include major uneconomic Investments. During the 1986-1990
period, investments proposed in the port of Buenos Aires consisting basically
of rehabilitatlon of berths to handle containers and hazardous cargoes
represent about 402 of AGP's total investment program. Other Investments
consist of relatively minor rehabilitation and Improvement works in varlous
ports throughout the country. The Investment program for DNCPVN averages
about US$50 million per year out of which about US$39 million per year
correspond to malitenance dredging and the rest to varlous capital dredging
projects, wlth lictle or no economic analysis of each project. The technical
assistance component of the proposed project asis to improve the planning
capability of DNCPVN and AGP. The Government has developed a comprehensive
multimodal computer model (Annex 1, Appendix A, paras. 2 and 3) which
simulates the operation of the grain movement from the production zones to



- 8 -
the final destination abroad. This model represents a powerful planning tool
to assess port and dredging improvements, and although developed for the
movement of grains its principles are applicable to any type of traffic. The
model is handled by SST but its main characteristics are not known in detail
by staff of AGP and DNCPVN. To strengthen the planning capabilities of ACP
and DNCPVN, the two agencies will each assign one engineer and one economist
to be trained for a period of four months by SST in the principles, use and
application of the model. The same professionals will be assigned as
counterparts for the planning component of the proposed technical
assistance. During negotiations, agreement was reached whereby on December
31 of each year, the Government would review the annual investment programs
of AGP and DNCPVN with the Bank, and specifically, before budget
finalization, it would consult with the Bank on any ACr and DNCPVN proposed
new investment projects which are greater than US$10.0 million. The
investment criteria to be used in the preparation of the investment plans,
(Annex 1, Appendix A) was also agreed during negotiations.
(iv) ASP's Administrative System, Accounts and Audit
2.16      AGP, established in 1956, is responsible for the operation of some
32 Government-owned ports. As most of the cargo handling operations are
performed by private firms employed by port users, AGP's role is to ensure
the timely availability of port facilities and equipment, and through
coordination, orderly operations. Owned by the Government, AGP operates as a
commercial enterprise and it is to generate sufficient revenues to cover
operating costs and to finance investments in equipment. Civil works are
generally financed by the Government through capital contributions. The
General Port Administrator is the Chief Executive of the Authority and he is
assisted by a Board consisting of the Deputy Administrator and the heads of
the Technical, Commercial, Administrative and Control Departments. A
Consultative Committee, made up of representatives from various port users,
(representatives of shipping lines, cargo handling firms, enterprises, etc.)
and a Coordination Committee with representatives from AGP, Customs, and
Prefectura assist in facilitating cargo movements and safeguarding the users'
interest. The indivldual ports, headed by Administrators directly
accountable to the General Port Administrator, are organized basically in the
same administrative structure as the one that exists in the Head Office.
2.17      In general, AGP's financial accounting procedures are sound and the
books are kept in accordance with commercial accounting practices.
Corrective measures attempting to overcome the distorting effects of the past
years pronounced inflation have been consistently applied. AGP has started
to develop cost accounting for its entire operation; parts of the system are
already implemented in the port of Buenos Aires. The basic problem in this
respect is that data base and data collection are poor. The technical
assistance component of the project [para. 3.05 (f)(i) and Annex 7, Section
BI is designed to assist the Authority in overcoming these deficiencies, and
to implement an entity-wide costing system, responding to the needs of AGP.
The upgraded system would produce and disseminate information for operational
and investment decisions, tariff assessment, budgetary and general management
control and is expected to be implemented by December 31, 1989 (para 4.06).
2.18      AGP's fixed assets are kept on historical value basis and, although
indexed for inflation, provide a low basis for the depreciation
calculations. Also the depreciation rates employed are too low. Therefore
to establish appropriate costs, including depreciation, that should be



-9-
recovered from the port users, AGP's fixed assets should be revalued on a
technical basis. During loan negotiations, agreement was reached that the
revaluation should be completed by December 31, 1989, and the results
incorporated to AGP's books from January 1, 1991.
(v) DNCPVN's Organization and Accounting
2.19      The National Directorate of Port and Navigable Waterway
Construction (DNCPVN), under the MOSP, is responsible for the maintenance
dredging of all navigable waterways in Argentina and for contracting and
supervising dredging carried out by contractors. DNCPVN has no financial
autonomy; for operational and budgetary purposes, it is organized as a
Government department, practically without operating revenues, as by and
large it does not charge the users to recover dredging costs; expenditures
are financed from MOSP's budget. The organization is headed by the Director
General and has six departments (Studies, Public Works Construction,
Planning, Equipment Maintenance, Accounting and Administration) at its
headquarters in Buenos Aires and in six operational districts. The
organization is somewhat archaic; the rather complicated administrative
procedures impose serious difficulties for effective management.
Operational, statistical and financial information are limited and even when
available, are difficult to retrieve for timely management decisions.
Accounting is based on single entry system, and there is no cost-accounting.
The Government is aware of these problems and has decided to overhaul
DNCPVN's administrative practices and establish financial and cost accounting
systems with a view to introduce appropriate operational controls on the
short run and with the longer term aim to recover dredging costs from the
users. The technical assistance component of tne project [para 3.05 (f)(ii)
and Annex 7, Section B] would support this initiative and would aim to:
Xi) upgrade DNCPVN's general accounting system to a level in accordance with
commercial accounting practices; and (ii) implement a costing system suitable
for appropriate management control and to provide a basis for establishing
dredging charges to be recovered from port users (para 4.06).
(vi) Pricing Policy and Tariffs
2.20      In Argentina, port charges are basically collected by AGP.  The
charges for port services nave essent'ally been set to serve general economic
and political objectives being pursued by the Government while still
recovering on an overall basis the cost of port operations. However, as
tariffs have not been correlated to the recovery of the costs of individual
services, there is substantial cross subsidJzation within AGP, between the
various ports and especially between import and export operation. For
instance, the Government export promotion policy is reflected by having lower
charges for export cargo than for impe-ts. Similarly, port dues are
classified (theoretically) according to the quality of services performed by
the various ports; actually their aim is to charge more the ships carrying
imported goods to Buenos Aires. In the absence of cost accounting, neither
the direction nor the extent of cross subsidization, even if warranted, could
be appropriately determined and/or monitored.
2.21      The major pricing issue, however, is related to the non-recovery of
dredging costs. The cost of dredging services is financed out of general
budget funds, and DNCPVN which performs this service, does not charge the



- 10 -
users (neither directly nor through AGP) for it. As a result, the Argentine
economy has to absorb the overwhelming bulk of the dredging costs,
subsidizing the shipping industry, which is mostly foreign owned. Also, as
the result of this policy, the perceived cost of the river ports to the
users, in the case of larger vessels, is less than the actual economic cost
since they are not paying for the dredging of navigational channels.
Therefore, in addition to the subsidization, the absence of users charge for
dredging introduces a factor which may distort traffic allocation between
ports.
2.22      The proposed project would through action program oriented
technical assistance address the above-mentioned issues, by establishing
appropriate costing systems both in DNCPVN and AGP to develop a base for
revising and upgrading both the structure and the level of the port tariffs
with a view to appropriately recover from users all the cost of the services
provided, including dredging costs applicable to AGP's operations (para 3.05
(f) (i) and (ii) and 4.06 (b) and (c)). The action programs would assist AGP
to reach the ultimate financial target, full cost recovery (including
depreciation based on revalued assets, interest and dredging costs) by 1995,
and interim financial targets   (recovering working costs including dredging,
interest and about 50% of the depreciation based on revalued assets) by
1991. Based on the forecasted traffic, revenues and costs, the achievement
of these targets would involve gradual tariff adjustments (or cost savings)
of about 25% up to 1991 and another 25% from there up to 1995 (para. 2.27).
(vii) Tugboat Services
2.23      Tugboats services in Argentina are provided by private companies
and tariffs (approved by the Government) are based on operating costs and on
contractually guaranteed returns until November, 1991, when the present
concessionary contracts will expire. To ensure that the fleet remains in
line with the demand for these type of services, the Government recently
introduced a freeze on issuing new licenses and on replacements of tugboats
when they reach the end of their useful life.
2.24      Tugboat tariffs are regularly reviewed and adjusted by MOSP, as
warranted, based on the operating costs. During the last two years, three
adjustments reduced tariffs by about 23% in real terms in Buenos Aires, and
18% in other ports. Current tugboat rates in Argentina are the lowest since
1980, representing on the average about 2.5% of the export freight cost.
While the current tariffs are not expected to materially influence Argentine
export possibilities or hinder normal port operations, improved operational
practices are desirable. In recognizing this, the OSP has recently
established a Tugboat Rationalization Committee to define measures and
actions required to improve the efficiency of the tug services in a manner
that is translated into tangible benefits to the users. in supporting this
objective, during loan negotiations agreement was reached whereby 1OSP:
(i) would continue to monitor the cost and tariff performances of the tugboat
operations and forward to the Bank the relevant studies and improvement
recommendations for comments at least once a year starting in 1987; and
(ii) would forward by June 30, 1991 for the Bank's comments, the proposed
arrangements with private tugboat operators when the current contracts expire
in November, 1991.



- 11 -
(viii) Past and ProJected Financial Results of AGP
2.25      With the exception of 1985, during the past few years, despite the
reduction of the port traffic, the financial results of AGP's operation were
positive. Port tariffs have been largely protected from inflation as ship
dues have been set in US dollar terms and other port charges have been
indexed often above inflation rates. In addition, costs were not sensitive
to traffic, as AGP p,erforms neither stevedoring nor cargo handling
functions. Between 1982 and 1985, revenues steadily increased (by some 22Z
in constant terms), while total operating expenses increased by 26%, and
working costs (cash expenses) increased by about 32%. AGP's- 1986 operating
income dropped by about 25% due to reduced traffic and because tariffs were
not adjusted to compensate for the marked inflation. However, AGP's
operation was still profitable; compared to the 1982-1985 average annual
profit of A$ 2.2 million; a profit of A$ 1.1 million is expected in 1986.
The working ratios during the same period were reasonable varying between .68
and .82, but the operating ratio in 1985 was 1.03. Cash surpluses have been
invested in short term deposits and bonds earning market rates of interest,
and AGP's 1986 (preliminary) balance sheet indicates a sound financial
position with a current ratio of 3.5. Details of the financial evaluation of
AGP are included in Annex 3.
2.26      The reported past financial results, however, are somewhat
distorted. Firstly, the low depreciation costs resulted in unduly low
operating costs. This problem would be rectified through the asset
revaluation exercise (para. 2.18). Secondly, AGP has never been charged for
dredging and consequently, its tariffs do not include any element for
recovering this cost from the port users. In case AGP would have to pay for
the full cost of dredging, its existing profit margin would almost certainly
be adversely affected as market conditions would not permit to introduce a
substantial, corresponding tariff adjustments instantaneously. The problem
of the extent of, and the mechanism for, the dredging cost recovery is
addressed through the technical assistance component of the project [para.
3.05 (f)(i) and (ii)J.
2.27      Based upon the projected traffic and other assumptions included in
Annex 3, AGP's financial forecast indicates that operating revenues are
expected to increase by about 24Z between 1986-1991. About half of the
revenues would be generated by cargo dues, over 35% of which would be grain
traffic related. Working costs are forecast to increase by about 60% mainly
due to AGP taking responsibility from 1991 for the dredging costs. Salaries
(the most important single cost item), material and administration costs,
would increase by about 13Z, 10% and 122 respectively. AGP's cash generating
capacity would improve until 1990, however, in 1991, the working ratio is
expected to be 1.05 as a result of assuming the responsibility for
maintenance dredging costs. During the next five years, internally generated
funds would equal about 25Z of the next five-year investment program and
apart from the Bank loan (representing about 4% of the program) the
Government, through capital contributions, is expected to finance about
two-thirds of the planned investment. While cash generation would be
reasonable, even before assuming responsibilities for dredging costs, AGP
would incur operating losses at an increasing scale (about A$ 25 million by
1991) due to higher depreciation charges basically resulting from asset
revaluation. AGP should aim at full cost recovery by 1995 and to gradually



- 12 -
improve AGP's financial viability. During loan negotiations it was agreed
that the Authority would introduce all the necessary tariff increases (or
cost saving actions) to ensure that: (i) working ratios will not be worse
than 0.85 in 1987, 0.83 in 1988, 0.82 in 1989 and 0.80 in 1990; (ii) 1991
through 1994 the working and operating ratios will not be worse than .84 and
1.23 respectively; and (iii) in 1995 the total operating revenues would cover
all operating costs (including depreciation based upon the revalued assets)
plus interest. It is estimated that the achievement of the 1991 interim
targets, which would recover all working costs (including maintenance
dredging), plus about 50% of depreciation based on revalued assets, would
require an overall tariff increase (or cost saving) of about 25% (in real
terms) which, depending upon the market conditions, could gradually be
introduced from 1988 onward. The achievement of the 1995 tatget would
require additional tariff increases of about 25% in the 1991-1995 period.
2.28      For -he Port of Bahia Blanca, which represents about 13% of AGP's
business, the projections indicate that during the next five years, operating
revenues would increase by some 67%, reaching A$ 6.1 million in 1991. The
1991 working costs would be about A$ 4.2 million, and half of that would be
related to (the previously not accounted for) maintenance dredging. Between
1986 and 1991 the port's operation is expected to generate some A$ 15 million
cash surplus, which would be availablr to meet Bahia Blanca's share of the
Head Office expenses, to finance part of AGP's investment program and debt
obligation. Details of the past and forecast financial results are in
Annex 3.
C. Bank Involvement in the Sector and Sector Strategy
2.29      This would be the first Bank involvement in the ports subsector in
Argentina. However, the Bank has been extensively involved in the country's
transport sector. Since June 1961, five loans for a total of US$328.5
million have been made in the highway sector and two loans totalling US$152.5
million have been made to help improve the railway system. Another loan for
an amount of US$87 million has been made to increase Argentina's grain
storage capacity, improve railway facilities at Rosario and modify railway
wagons for more efficient transport. A summary of Bank assistance to the
transport sector is presented in Annex 4.
2.30      The Bank's strategy for transport emphasizes the timely provision
of finance in support of policy reform and institution building objectives,
including: (a) development of policies aimed at achieving a better and more
rational utilization of existing transport facilities through adequate price
signals to users, which should take into account adequate cost-recovery
policies; (b) reduction of total transport cost by improving modal interfaces
and the efficiency of operations within each mode; (c) improvement of the
competitive situation of Argentina in exports to world markets, particularly
by improving the efficiency of export corridors; (d) further support to main
agricultural exports, continuing the efforts of ongoing operations in silos
and railways facilities; (e) improvement of public sector management through
better efficiency and commercially-oriented operations of public sector
enterprises; (f) further integration of the public planning, budgeting and
programming processes and strengthening of the financial and rersonnel
management practices of sector agencies; (g) improvement of safety conditions



- 13 -
in transport facilities; (h) improvement of statistical data collection and
establishment of adequate management information systems to Esupport timely
decisions; (i) institution-building of adequate planning capabilities to
define high priority projects in an inter-modal transport scenario; and
(j) institutional and human resources development, through co'aprehensive
training program at the upper and middle management and operating levels.
D. Experience with Past Lending
2.31      The results of transport projects in Argentina have been mixed.
The projects have assisted with institutional development, as confirmed in
the completion and audit reports for the Second and Third Highway projects.
The most important contributions have been the improvement of the DNV
planning practices and technologies of field surveys of the network, and in
improving DNV's organization efficiency and management procedures.
Improvements have been less notable with regard to broader policy issues such
as pricing. Railway lending, in particular, has not achieved expectations,
especially in areas such as pricing and institutional rationalization. Also,
in most cases, the projects have experienced delays and, in many cases cost
overruns, especially after the economic crisis of the mid-1970s and the more
recent budget constraints in the 1980s. These experiences have been taken
into account in the design of the proposed project (paras. 4.02 and 4.18).
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin and Objectives
3.01      The rehabilitation and expansion of the Ing. White grain terminal
at Bahia Blanca was identified by the Bank in 1978, and the feasibility of
the project was undertaken by the Government in 1980 through the
UNDP-financed Bahia Blanca and River Ports Terminal Study, for which the Bank
was the executing agency. Discrepancies over investment priorities, the
South Atlantic conflict, and other factors delayed further project
preparation; funding for engineering studies were allocated in the ongoing
Loan 1521-AR in 1983, and in 1984 the Government decided to undertake the
Bahia Blanca Port Project in two phases: Phase I addressed to rehabilitate
existing port and grain-handling facilities, and Phase II to expand the
capacity of the grain terminal. Appraisal of Phase I took place in December
1984 and a Yellow Cover-SAR was issued in February 1985.
3.02      In March 1985, a serious accident, due mainly to design problems
with regard to silo safety systems, put elevator 5 out of service,
considerably reducing the grain terminal exporting capabilities. All
facilities operated by JNG are self-insured. Following the accident the
Government undertook an emergency plan to maintain Argentina's grain exports
at levels required to fulfill the country's commitments (Annex 5, para. 2).
The Government requested Bank financing for an expanded Phase I which would
include funds for the construction of an emergency ship loading gallery, and
the reconstruction and modernization of the damaged elevator 5. The proposed
project would restore the terminal's grain exporting capabilities. More



- 14 -
specifically, the main objectives of the Bank support for the proposed Bahia
Blanca I Port project are to facilitate grain exports by: (a) rehabilitating
existing infrastructure including the reconstruction and modernization of the
damaged elevator 5; (b) upgrade the silo safety system and maintenance
services at selected grain terminals; (c) strengthen port management and
administration systems; (d) develop and implement cost accounting systems
which will be the basis for the introduction of cost based tariffs in the
port subsector; and Ce) strengthen DNCPVN and JNG maintenance capabilities.
3.03      The proposed project has been designed to respond to the port's
emergency and rehabilitation needs and to establish an analytical basis for
further improvements which would be sought under Phase II. The overall
objectives of the Bahia Blanca II project is to further support the
Governmen_'s efforts to facilitate grain exports and to continue the
institutional and pricing initiatives started in Phase I. More specifically,
the objectives of the Phase II project are to: (a) expand the grain handling
capacity of Bahia Blanca and deepen the access channel and basin iu order to
reduce ship waitlng time and lower shipping transport costs; (b) improve
grain handling safety systems both in Bahia Blanca and throughout the
country; (c) implement a commercially oriented port tariff policy which
includes the cost recovery of dredging; (d) rationalize the tugboat system in
the ports of the country; and (e) implement an institutional development
program to strengthen the operation of the main agencies involved in the port
subsector. The Government fully supports this second phase, and has already
taken actions for its preparation. An Executive National Commission for
Bahia Blanca Phase II was established in early 1986, and a consulting firm
has been hired in January 1987 for the detailed engineering studies with
financing under the Loan 1521-AR.  These studies are expected to be completed
by mid-1988; the required funds for the completion of the studies are
included in the proposed project [para 3.05 Cf)J. The first task of the
consultant is to carry out a technical-economic assessment of the Bahia
Blanca Phase II Project, taking into consideration new developments in the
region [i.e. construction by a private group of a grain terminal in Puerto
Rosales [para 2.11)].
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.04      The Bank's strategic objective is to use analytical work and
lending operations in support of Government efforts to reactivate the economy
through export-led growth, increase the availability of foreign exchange and
stabilize the economy. The Bank therefore should support country's efforts
to enhance its international competitiveness, to increase domestic resource
mobilization and to improve public sector management. The proposed project
is in line with the stated general Bank group strategy through reduction of
shipping costs for exports, rationalization of port tariffs, improvement of
the operation of export corridors, and promotion of efficient operations.
The proposed project would be the first loan for the port subsector, more
specifically for grain export, an area of vital importance for the Argentine
economy. The Bank's assistance is considered appropriate and timely, given
the current conditions of the port of Bahia Blanca, its importance in the
national system, and the vital role it plays in completing cargo to large
vessels unable to get full load in other Argentine ports due to draft
limitations.



- 15 -
C. Description
3.05      The proposed project would comprise the following components (a
detailed description of the proposed project is given in Annex 5):
(a)  Emergency Works: civil works and equipment for the
rehabilitation of the ship-loading gallery at berth 9,
including the construction of a temporary truck reception
station. This component was carried out by MOSP through the
SNA.
(b)  Maritime Works: (i) partial demolition of an existing iron
wharf currently underway and the construction of two nooring
dolphins already completed have been carried out by AGP; and
(ii) removal of a sunken dredger, carried out by the
Prefectura Naval.
(c)  Grain-Handling Systems' Rehabilitation and Modernization:
civil works and equipment for reconstructing and nDdernizing
the Elevator 5 complex, including all ancillary facilities,
paving and repaving operational areas, including sewerige and
lighting, and supervision of construction. This component
would be carried out by MOSP through SNA.
(d)  Silo Safety Systems: upgrading safety systems at Bahia Blanca
and at Buenos Aires, Rosario, Villa Constitucion, Necochea,
Bahia Blanca, Barranqueras, Diamante and other JNG's port
terminals acceptable to the Bank, including civil works,
electrical systems, equipment and detection devices.
Execution would be the responsibility of JNG.
Ce)  Railways/Port Interface: rehabilitation of Bahia Blanca's
railway's marshalling yard that would be carried out by MOSP
with the participation of FA.
(f)  Technical Assistance and Engineering Studies: consultants/
experts services for: (i) improving AGP's general and cost
accounting, and management information Eystems and developing
cost-based tariffs; (ii) developing and implementing DNCPVN's
general and cost accounting, and management information
systems; (iii) assisting JNG in the reorganization of its
repair and maintenance facilities at its Rosario grain
terminal, and DNCPVN in upgrading its maintenance services;
and (iv) carrying out the completion of final engineering
studies of the Bahia Blanca II Port Project, initiated under
Loan i521-AR. AGP would be responsible for item (i); DNCPVN
for item (ii) and the corresponding part of item (iii); and
JNG for the corresponding part of item (iiI) and item (iv).
D. Costs and Financing
3.06      The total cost of the proposed project, including taxes and duties
and provisions for contingencies and reflecting December 1986 prices, is



- 16 -
estimated at US$71.0 million, of which US$50.7 million is the foreign
exchange cost. The proposed Bank loan of US$50.0 million would finance about
75% of total project cost, net of taxes, equivalent to 100% of the foreign
exchange cost of the Bank-financed items. The balance of the project cost
will be financed by the Government, AGP and JNG. Further details on the
financing plan of the project are in para 3.09. Detailed estimates are given
in Tables 3.1 to 3.8 and are sunmarized on the following page.
3.07      Cost estimates are based upon: (a) final cost for emergency
ship- jading gallery and mooring dolphins (works completed in 1986. para
4.11); (b) contract values for the partial demolition of the iron wharf and
the removal of a sunken dredger; (c) FA estimates for railway works;
(d) preliminary estimates based on an analysis of the present conditions of
all silo safety-related civil works and equipment for each of JNG's terminals
for the silo safety program; (e) engineering for grain-handling systems'
reconstruction and modernization (final layout, structural design and
equipment specifications); (f) manpower estimates and prevailing consultants'
fees for technical assistance; and (g) contract value for engineering
studies.
3.08      The following physical contingencies are included in the project
costs: 10% for the partial demolition of the iron wharf, railway works.
technical assistance, supervision of construction and engineering studies;
15% for grain-handling systems and the silo safety program. Price
contingencies for foreign and local cost components were calculated based on
projected changes in international prices as the Government intends to
maintain the purchasing parity value in line with expected changes in
international prices. Price escalation for foreign and local costs
components has been estimated at 1% for 1987 through 1990 and 3.5% for
1991-1995. Consultants fees used are US$6,000 to US$9,000 for expatriates
and US$3,000 to US$4,000 for local consultants. Estimated manpower for the
professional services including supervision of construction and engineering
studies, that would be financed through the proposed project, would amount to
about 140 and 530 man-months of foreign and local experts, respectively.
3.09      The removal of the sunken dredger included under maritime works
project component would be financed by the Government through its national
budget. The proposed project including this item would be financed as
follows: (a) the foreign exchange costs, amounting to US$50.7 million, by a
Bank loan of US$50.0 million, a Government contribution of US$0.5, and a JNG
contr._.bution of US$0.2 million; and (b) the local costs, including taxes and
duties amounting to US$20.3 million, by Government, AGP, JNG and FA
contributions of US$14.0, US$1.5, US$3.5 and and US$1.3 million,
respectively. Taxes and duties amounting to US$4.3 million equivalent, will
be borne and collected by the Government. Government financing required for
the project would be covered through the national budget, and it should
include US$1.3 million corresponding to FA local cost contribution. AGP's
and JNG's financing could be covered from their internally generated funds as
their contributions represent no more than 7% and 3% of their expected
respective operating cash surplus over the next five years and both agencies
generate foreign exchange revenues. During negotiations, the Government
confirmed that they will include in its national budget the necessary



BA  SAWEA I POS P1WW'
Project (bet amary
(A4 '000)                        (u  '000)                     Z Total
-  Fo--4g    Base
Loa                 7tLFoign    Total   ICaI    P     total    e          Cats
A. &*rgwqy Works                         465.0   1,660.0   2,125.0      372.0   1,328.0   1,700.0        78        3
B. !Hriti  I*otic                      2,550.0   1,700.0   4,250.0   2,040.0    1,360.0   3,400.0        40        6
C, Grain Handlig Rehabiltatiii        11,988.1  35,852.5  47,840.6   9,590.5  2B,682.0  38,272.5         75       63
D. SUlo Safety Progran                 4,657.5  11,092.5  15,750.0   3,726.0   8,874.0  12,600.0         70       21
BE. Tedmcal Ass1stanc                    250.0   1,000.0   1,250.0      200.0      800.0   1,000.0       80        2
F. RaPlwo works                        1,500.0   1,000.0   2,50.0    1,200.0       800.0   2,000.0       40        3
G.  ktirkeer1zg Stuz1ies                 500.0   2,000.0   2,500.0      400.0   1,600.0   2,000.0        80        3
Total Baeldr Oaets                    21,910.6  54,305.0  76,215.6  17,528.5  43,444.0  60,972.5         71       100
Ehyidal GotIrncie                  2,844.7   7,458.1  10,302.8   2,275.8   5,966.5   8,242.3         72        14
Price CQ trirersies                  488.5   1,695.7   2,184.1      390.8   1,356.5   1,747.3        78        3
Total Project Ooets                   25,243.8  63,458.8  88,702.6  2D,195.0  50,767.0  70,962.1         72      117
April 2, 1987



- 18 -
local counterpart funds required by PA to carry out the railway works
component. Further details of the financing plan are given in Tables 3.9 to
3.11.
3.10      The Government would be the Borrower of the Bank loan; the
Government would on-lend funds from the proposed loan to: (a) JNG for the
implementation of silo safety systems component, the technical assistance for
the reorganization of its Rosario grain terminals' repair and maintenance
system and for the completion of the final engineering studies for Bahia
Blanca II Port Project; (b) AGP for the technical assistance component
addressed to this agency; and (c) FA for the railway component. Terms and
conditions of these on-lending agreements would be rhe same as those of the
Bank loan; this was confirmed during negotiations. The effectiveness of
on-lending agreements satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition for loan
effectiveness.
E. Economic Evaluation
3.11      The project is designed to reduce the transport cost of grain
exports through the rehabilitation of existing facilities and the
rehabilitation and modernization of elevator 5. The economic benefits of the
proposed project will be to relieve congestion and reduce costs for hauling
grain from inland production regions to final foreign ports. Cost reductions
will be due mainly to the lower cost per ton of shipping grain because of the
faster ship turnaround time at Bahia Blanca. The silo safety program would
reduce the probability of accidents occurring. The institutional development
component would make a start toward increasing Government capacity to plan
and manage ports in a more efficient manner, thus reducing costs, Improving
resource allocation and enhancing the quality of services at ports.
3.12      Significant economic benefits should be realized by Argentina
through improved net income for the country in its grain trade with major
importing regions such as Northern Europe, the USSR and Japan. The share to
be received by Argentina depends on the position of the country in the world
market, and the degree of competitiveness of the shipping market, which is
high at present and expected to remain so in the foreseeable future.
Conservatively, it has been assumed, for the purpose of the analysis, that
Argentina would receive only 50% of the project generated international
benefits with the rest accruing to foreign sources.
3.13      All components, with the exception of the Technical Assistance
component and engineering studies representing about 5% of total project
cost, were subjected to full economic evaluation. An analysis was done both
for each individual component on a marginal basis and for the project as a
whole. Annex 6 gives details of the economic analysis of each project
component. The overall economic rate of return for the project is about 45%
and the ERR for each project component ranges from about 20% for the
reconstruction and modernization of silo 5 to about 100% for the emergency
works, the removal of a sunken dredger and the removal of the iron wharf.
The silo safety program will substantially reduce the occurrence of
accidents. If only ome third of the actual accidents in the last 10 years
could be avoided, the ERR of this component would be about 12%. As this is a
very conservative estimate of the accidents to be avoided, the most likely
ERR for this component will be substantially higher than 12Z.



- 19 -
F. Project Risks
3.14      Sensitivity analyses were performed taking into account possible
changes in construction costs and benefits. These analyses indlcate that the
ERR for the project remaine at levels above 30X (Annex 6). All project
components involve proven technology, and therefore technical rlsks connected
with the project are minimal. This is the first Bank operatlon in this
subsector, and therefore there is no experience concerning the capacity of
the Government to Liplement the project properly and In time. Projects in
the highway and railway subseccor have been affected by cost overruns and
delays; this, together with the several agencies Involved In the proposed
project implementation, poses a certain degree of risk. To minimise thle
risk, the project provides for the creation of a Project Committee (PC),
supported by a Project Coordlnation Unit (PCU) (para 4.02).   This, together
with intense supervision early in the project cycle, will substantially
reduce those risks.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS
A. Project Execution
4.01      The proposed project would be completed in about six and a half
years by the Government through the MOSP, except for the silo safety program
and the completion of the final engineering studies for the Bahia Blanca II
Port Project which implementation would be the responsibility of JNG under
the Secretariat of Agriculture of the Ministry of Economy, and the removal of
a sunken dredger by the Prefectura Naval under the Ministry of Defense.
Within the MOSP, the Secretariat of Public Works (SPW) through the National
Architectural Services (SNA) would be responsible for the grain-handling
system's rehabilitation and the remodelling of the graln terminal inner roads
and parking areas; the Secretariat of Merchant Marine (SlM) through two of
its agencies, namely, AGP and DNCPVN would be responsible for the technical
assistance addressed to them and for the partial demolition of the iron
wharf and the construction of two mooring dolphins; MOSP through the
Secretariat of Transport (ST) and with the participation of FA would be
responsible for the railway works. In addition to the silo safety program,
JNG would be responsible for the technical assistance for the reorganization
of its repair and maintenance systems at the Rosario grain terminals.
4.02      The execution of the project will be coordinated and mDnitored by a
PC headed by MOSP which will include representatives of the various
Ministries/Secretariats involved. To enable the PC to appropriately
coordinate and monitor the implementation of the project, the PC would
establish a PCU headed by a fulltime professional, satisfactory to the Bank,
and professionals from all agencies concerned to follow-up on a day-to-day
basis all project-related ntters; the PCU would be directly responsible to
the PC, and act as direct liaison with the Bank. The PCU should Include
technical representatives of all executing agen.ies. Draft term of
reference for the PCU are given in Annex 5. The PCU will prepare quarterly
reports on the progress in project Implementation according to the format
given in Annex 5. The establishment of the PC and the appointment of the



- 20 -
full-time head of the PCU would be a condition for loan effectivenese.
During negotiatlons, agreements were reached on the functions and responal-
bilities of the PCU and on the preparation and contents of the quarterly
progress reports. The project implementation schedule for the proposed
project is given In Chart 5.
4.03      AGP, the executing agqncy for the damolition of the iron wharf and
the mooring dolphins, and Prefectura Naval, the executing agency for the
removal of the sunken dredger, have adequate capabilities to carry out the
procurement and supervislon of constructlon of Items under its
responsibility. FA, the executing agency for tho railway component, has
ample experience with Bank-financed projects.
4.04      Consultants/experts with experience in construction of modern silo
systems would be require to assist SNA in the supervlsion of the grain
handling systems' rehabilitation component (reconstruction and modernization
of elevator 5). SNA is a technical department that has been, during the last
three decades, responsible for construction of all elevators operated by JNG;
SNA, however, would benefit from the experience of the supervision
consultants to strengthen its supervisory functions. Agreement to retain
consultants for that purpose prior to the award of construction contracts
was confirmed during negotiations.
4.05      Implementation of the silo safety program, which general
description and contents is given tn Annex 5, would be under the JNG
respor-sibility. This program Involves the upgrading of the safety system at
the main grain terminals (para 3.05 (d)). A preluminary assessment of the
needs (both in equipment and in civil works) has leen carried out by the JNG
and reviewed by the Bank (Annex 5, Appendix A). International safety
consultants to be financed under Loan 1521-AR will assist the JNG In the
preparation of the final design of the system. Supervision of the works will
be carried and directly by JNG with Its own personnel. This silo safety
program would later be extended to the rest of JNG terminals through the
proposed Bahia Blanca II Port Project currently under preparation. An
important step for-ard hee been the recent establishment of the Safety
Services Department (SSD) within the JNG's organization which would be
directly responsible for the implementation of the Silo Safety Program;
qualified staff consisting of about a dozen local experts in safety matters,
is currently being recruited. A condition for loan effectiveness would be
the appointment of the head of SSD and the recruitment of safety experts to
make SSD fully operational. During negotiations, agreement was reached with
JNG on the following:
(a) furnishing to the Bank a plan of action satisfactory to the
Bank for the supervision of construction of works related to
the improvement of silo safety, prior to the award of
contracts for such construction and works;
(b) carrying out the recommendations of the safety experts
financed by Loan 1521-AR, in respect of the ports of Buenos
Aires, Rosario, Villa Constitucion, Necochea, Bahia Blanca,
Barranqueras, Diamante and other ports acceptable to the Bank,
not later than December 31, 1988;



- 21 -
(c) completing the technical specitications for works and
equlpment included In the lilo safety program component, not
later than June 30, 1988; and
td) preparing and lmplementing safoty codoe and regulatloni for the
JNC terminals, not later than Decomber 31, 1988.
4.Ob      Tho SMM would be romponsible for the coordination and oupervision
of the technical assistance componont addresed to DNCPVN and AGP (Annex 7,
Sectlons b and C). The objectives of the technical assistance to DNCPVN are
to: (1) develop and Implement coot accounting, commercial finoncial
accounting, planning and management Information systems to establish a
reliable basis for administrAtive controls and tariff structures, Including
cost recovery of dredging; and (ii) reorganite the repair and maintenance
services. The technical assistance to ACP would be addressed to improve cost
accounting, commercial, financial accounting, planning and management
Information systems so as to develop the inatitutlonal/administrative
framework for the establishment of a cost-based tariff structure. During
negotiations agreement was reached on:
(a)  timing and scope of the technical assistance components under
the responsibility of SMM and Its agencies (Annex 7, Sections
B and C);
(b) retaining consultants for technical assistance to AGP not
later than December 31, 1987; implementing an appropriate cost
accounting system for AGP satisfactory to the Bank by
December 31, 1989; developing a cost based tariff structure
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank by June 30, 1990;
preparing a plan of action satisfactory to the Bank for the
implementation of such tariff strunture not later than
December 31, 1990; and starting to implement such plan of
action not later thaa June 30, 1991; and
(c) retaining consultants for the technical assistance to DNCPVN
not later than December 31, 1987; implementing a comercially
based general accounting system and a cost accounting system
for DNCPVN and developlng a mechanism to recover dredging
costs by December 31, 1989; preparing a plan of action
satisfactory to the Bank for the implementation of such
mechanism not later than December 31, 1990; and starting to
implement such plan not later than June 30, 1991.
4.07      JNG would be responsible for the technical assistance to reorganize
maintenance services at its Rosario grain terminals. During negotiations
agreement was reached with JNG on the following:
(a) retaining consultants required to assist JNG in organizing the
Rosario grain terminals not lat:r than March 31, 1988; and
(b) implementing the recommendrAtions made by the consultants at
Rosario in the rest of JN6's grain terminals not later than
December 31, 1990.



-22-
4.08      With regard to operational efficiency of JNG's Ingeniero White
grain terminal at Bahia Blanca, during negotiations it was agreed that JNG
would take all necessary actions to achieve the operational targets shown in
the table below, during the period of implementation of the proposed project.
Operational Targets
Size of shipment per vessel                    Ship loading rates
(ton)                              (average tonlship/day)
1988     1990      1992
At Berth 9       20,000 or more                   11,000    13,000    28,000
between 10,000 and 20,000        10,000    12,000    26,000
10,000 or less                   9,000    11,000    24,000
At Berth 5 and 6 20,000 or more                   17,000    18,000    19,000
between 10,000 and 20,000        16,000    17,000    18,000
10,000 or less                   15,000    16,000    17,000
Mode of transport                          Reception unloading rates
(average ton/day-high season)
1988       1990       1992
Railway                             15,00 1  0   1 I0O
Truck                                10,000     11,000     17,000
An anAlysis of the operation of the Babia Blanca system is given in Annex 5.
4.09      Completion of the engineering studies initiated under Loan 1521-AR
that would be included in the project correspond to the final design of the
proposed Bahia Blanca II Port Project. Consultants for the execution of the
work have been retained by JNG following the Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by the World Bank Borrowers. The contract was signed on
January 30, 1987 and the work is scheduiled to be completed in 18 months; the
manpower required amounts to about 400 man-monthsb. The total estimated cost
of the studies amounts, to about US$4.8 milliow excluding taxes out of which
about US$2.6 million will be partially financed under Loan 1521-AR and the
balance of US$2.2 million through the proposed project. Monitoring and
supervision of the consultants' work will be carried out through the Bahia
Blanca Technical Cowmittee established under Loan 1521-AR, supported by at
least three experts with wide international experience in this type of
project. The cost of these experts is being financed through Loan 1521-AR.
4.10      Upon completion of the proposed project and not later than six
mont.hs thereof, NDSP would prepare a Project Completion Report to assess the
success in the implementation of the project including the achievement of
financial, operational and otber institutional gpals, and general evaluation
on the lessons learned from past experience. This has been agreed during
negotiations.



- 23 -
B. Procurement and Consultancy Services
4.11      All major civil works and equipment to be financed by the Bank
under the proposed project would be procured following international
competitive bidding procedures in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Local
competitive bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank would be followed
for civil works for items with an estimated cost of US$2.0 million equivalent
or less and for procurement of equipment with an estimated cost of US$0.3
million or less. An exception to the above LCB procedures would be the
special LCB procedures used for procurement of emergency works and equipment
for the rehabilitation of the ship-loading gallery at berth 9, for which
restricted LCB procedures limited to Argentine bidders specialized in
grain-handling systems, were used. Since more than six bids were submitted
and the award was made to the lowest evaluated bidder, the Bank agreed in
principle with those procedures and this contract (with an estimated value of
US$1.7 million) will be financed retroactively. Procurement of components
and spare parts for replacement/upgrading mechanical and electrical systems
related to silo safety would be procured through International Competitive
Shopping (ICS) procedures, as standardization has to be taken into
consideration. Bidding docunents for civil works and procurement of goods
with a value of more than US$0.5 million would be subject to prior review and
approval by the Bank.
4.12      LCB procedures to be used by the Borrower are, in general,
satisfactory to the Bank; however, specific agreement was reached during
negotiations on the following: (a) foreign bidders should be allowed, if
they so wish, to participate in LCB, and association with local firms should
be on a voluntary basis; (F) awards should be evaluated on a CIF basis,
taking into account the freight costs quoted freely by each bidder; and (c)
no restrictions should be imposed with regard to imported materials.
Contracts for civil works for the partial demolition of the iron wharf and
the construction of two mooring dolphins amounting to US$1.9 million and
US$0.5 million equivalent, respectively, were awarded under LCB procedures
satisfactory to the Bank, on December, 1986 and March, 1986 respectively and
they would be financed retroactively.
4.13      Prequalification would be required for civil works contractors and
equipment suppliers for the reconstruction and modernization of elevator 5.
In evaluating bids for equipment procured through ICB, Argentine bidders
would be allowed a margin of preference equivalent to 15Z of the CIF costs of
competitive imports, or the relevant prevailing customs duty, whichever is
lower. Professional services that would be financed ay the Bank (para 3.05
(c), (d) and (f)) would be selected and engaged following the Bank Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants. During negotiations, all procurement and related
matters were discussed and agreed upon.
4.14      Procurement arrangements for items to be financed under the
proposed loan including physical and price contingencies, are summarized as
follows:



- 24 -
Project Element                             (US$ million)               Total
Procurement Procedures          Coat
LCB     ICB     IcS      Other 1/
1. Emergency Works                 1.7      -        -        -          1.7
(1.3)                                (1.3)
2. Maritime Works                  2.4       -       -        -          2.4
(1.0)                                (1.0)
3. Grain Handling Rehabili-
tation and Reconstruction
(a) Civil Works              -      14.4     -         -         14.4
(6.1)                       (6.1)
(b) Equipment                -      26.3     -         -        26.3
(26.3)                      (26.3)
4. Silo Safety Works
(a) Civil Works             6.1       -       -        -         6.1
(2.4)                                (2.4)
(b) Equipment                -       4.0    3.9        -          7.9
(4.0)  (3.9)                (7.9)
5. Railway                         2.1        -      -        -          2.1
(0.8)                                (0.8)
6. Supervision of Construction      -         -      -       1.7         1.7
(1.4)      (1.4)
7. Technical Assistance             -         -      -        1.0        1.0
(0.9)      (0.9)
8. Engineering Studies              -         -      -       2.1         2.1
(1.7)      (1.7)
9. Total: 3/                      12.3      44.7    3.9      4.8        65.7 2,
(5.5)   (36.4)  (3.9)    (4.0)      (50.0)
1/ Consultants' services would be retained in accordance with Bank
Guidelines.
2/ Removal of the sunken dredger financed directly by the Government,
amounting to about US$1.0 million, is not included.
3/ Totals may not add up due to rounding.
Note:  Figures in () correspond to the foreign exchange cgst component
that would be financed by the Bank.
C. Disbursements
4.15      Disbursements of the loan would be made against:
(a) 40% of total expenditures of civil works;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures of imported goods; 100% of the
ex-factory cost of locally manufactured goods; and 85Z of
local expenditures for imported goods locally procured;
(d) 10OZ of foreign expenditures and 80Z of local expenditures for
professional services.



- 25 -
4.16      Bank funds are expected to be disbursed over a six-and-a-half year
period, in line with the standard profile for port projects in the Region.
Retroactive financing in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the signature of the Bank loan but after November 1, 1985, in an aggregate
amount not exceeding US$2.3 million equivalent, would be made in respect to
works and equipment for the emergency works, the partial demolition of the
iron wharf and the construction of two mooring dolphins at berth 9. All
disbursement-related matters and retroactive financing were discussed and
agreed at negotiations. The estimated schedule of disbursements is given in
Table 4.1.
D. Special Account and Auditing
4.17      In order to reduce the time period during which the Government
would finance the Bank's share of the project's cost with its own resources,
the Bank would make advance payments from the loan account into a Special
Account, for an amount, in US$, of 3.0 million, which would be opened in the
Banco de la Nacion and would be available for reimbursing the Government for
the Bank's share of the project cost. The Government vuMld be entitled to
make withdrawals from the Special Account for payments representing the
Bank's share of the project cost incurred by the JNG, SMK through its
agencies (AGP and DNCPVN), SNA and FA on Bank-approved contracts. Supporting
documentation of withdrawals from the Special Account would be examined on a
routine basis by regular project supervision missions. To facilitate fund
withdrawals and their control, withdrawal requests from SMM through its
agencies (AGP and DNCPVN), SNA, JNG and FA would be forwarded to the Banco de
la Nacion through the PCU. Disbursements from the loan would be made on the
basis of certified statements of expenditures for local expenditures where
the contractual values are less than the equivalent of US$2C0,000 and for
foreign expenditures where contractual values are less than the equivalent of
US$50,000. During negotiations, agreement was reached on the terms and
conditions of the special account.
4.18      In addition to the Special Account and in order to ensure
consistent availability of counterpart funds, during negotiations it was
confirmed that the Government will include in its annual budget appropriate
amounts as counterpart funds specifically for the project. It was also
agreed that: (i) independent auditors acceptable to the Bank will be retained
to audit the accounts of AGP, JNG and DNCPVN, the Special Accounts and the
project-relatel accounts in accordance with appropriate auditing principles:
(FA's accounts are already being audited under the Second Railway Project,
Loan 1677-AR); and (ii) annual audit reports will be forwarded to the Bank
not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year.



- 26 -
V. RECONMENDATIONS
5.01      The following matters were discussed and agreed with the Government
and its agencies:
(a) AGP and DNCPVN will prepare their investment plans using
Investment criteria satisfactory to the Bank and they will
review with the Bank by December 31 of each year their annual
investment programs and specifically, before budget
finalization, they will consult with the Bank on any new
investment projects over US$10.0 million (para 2.15);
(b) AGP would revalue its assets not later than December 31,
1989 and incorporate the results to its books starting on
January 1, 1991 (para 2.18);
(c)  MOSP would:  (i) monitor the cost and tariff performances of
tugboat operations and forward to the Bank the relevant
studies and recomeudations at least once a year starting in
1987; and (ii) by June 30, 1991, forward for the Bank's
comments the proposed arrangements to be introduced after the
expiry (in November, 1991) of the existing concessionary
contracts (para 2.24);
(d) AGP would: introduce all necessary tariff increases (or
cost-saving actions) to ensure that:(i) between 1987-1990
working ratios will be reducing annually from 0.85 to 0.80;
(ii) from 1991 through 1994, working and operating ratios will
not be more than .84 and 1.23 respectively; and (iii) in 1995
the total operating revenues will cover all operating costs,
including depreciation based on revalued assets, plus interest
(para. 2.27);
(e) the Government confirmed that they would include in the
national budget local counterpart funds required by FA to
carry out the railway component (para 3.09);
(f) terms and conditions of on-lending agreements between the
Government, FA, JNG and AGP (para 3.10);
(g) terms of reference of the PCU and the contents of quarterly
reports to be submitted to the Bank (para 4.02);
(h) SNA would retain consultants with experience in construction
of modern silos for the supervision of construction of the
reconstruction and wodernization of the grain-handling
systems, prior to the award of the construction contracts
(para 4.04);



- 27 -
(i)  JNG would carry out the silo safety program cotsisting of
Implementation of the recommendstions of the silo safety
experts financed by Loan 1521-AR, not later than December 31,
1988; preparation and implementation of silo safety codes and
regulations for its terminals not later than December 31,
1988; preparation of final engineering for alU civil works and
equipment included in the silo safety program component, not
later than June 30, 1988; and furnish to the Bank a plan of
action satisfactory to the Bank, for the supervision of the
works, prior to the award of construction contracts (pars
4.05);
(j) timing and scope of the technical assistance components under
the responsibility of SIK and Its executing agencies
[para 4.06 (a)];
(k) SKM's agencies would retain consultants for the technical
assistance referred to in preceding subparagraph not later
than December 31, 1987 [para 4.06 (b) and (c)J;
(1) AGP would Implement an appropriate cost-accounting system by
December 31, 1989; formulate cost-related tariff structures
satisfactory to the Bank, by June 30, 1990; develop an action
plan for its Implementation by December 31, 1990; and start to
implement such action plan by June 30, 1991 [para 4.06 (b)];
(m) DNCPV! would: implement commercially-based general and cost
accounting systems by December 31, 1989; develop an equitable
tariff structure and nechanisms to recover dredging cost by
fecember 31, 1989, and a plan of action to lntroduce the
tariffs by December 31, 1990; and start to implement such plan
of action by June 30, 1991 [para 4.06 (c)];
(n) timing and scope of technical assistance components under the
responsibility of JNG and retention of consultants not later
than March 31, 1988 [para 4.07 (a)J;
(o) JNG would take all necessary actions to Implement the
consultants' recommendations for the reorganization of
maintenance services not later than December 31, 1990
[pars 4.07 (b)];
(p)  JNG would take all necessary actions required for the
achievement of the operational targets (para 4.08);
(q) MOSP would prepare a PCa not later than six montbm after
completion of the project (para 4.10);
(r) procurement procedures and related mtters, including specific
agreements on allowing foreign bidders to participate in LCB
having regard that their association with local firms sbould
be on a voluntary basis; evaluating bids on a CIF basis taking
into account freight costs freely quoted by each bidder; and



- 28 -
not imposing restrictions to imported msterials (paras 4.12
and 4.13);
(s) disbursement procedures, including retroactive financing for
the emergency works and equipment, partial demolition of the
iron wharf and construction of two mooring dolphins which
contract values amount to the equivalent of about
US$1.7 million, US$1.9 million and US$0.5 million, respec-
tively, for expenditures incurred after November 1, 1985
(para 4.16);
(t) terms and conditions of the Special Account (para 4.17);
(u) the Government would include in its annual budget appropriate
amounts as counterpart funds to ensure availability of
sufficient funds for the implementation of the project (pars.
4.18); and
(v) AGP, DNCPVN and JNG would: retain independent auditors
acceptable to the Bans, to audit their account and the Special
and project-related Accounts in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles; and forward to the Bank the corresponding
annual audit reports not later than six months after the end
of the fiscal year (para 4.18).
5.02      Conditions for loan effectiveness would be:
(a) the effectiveness of the on-lending agreements with JNG, FA
and AGP for funds from the proposed loan for the implemen-
tation of the project components under the responsibility of
these agencies (para 3.10);
(b) the establishment of the PC and the appointment of the
full-time head of the PCU (para 4.02);
(c) the appointment of the head of the SSD and the recruitment of
safety experts to make the SSD fully operational (para 4.05).
5.03      Subject to the above, the project provides a suitable basis for a
Bank loan of US$50.0 million. The terms would be 15 years with a three-year
grace period.
April 7, 1987



ENTINA
*1IA UIIAI   I POT  OUCT
boi l Co ocltle  of Oooe1tc Troflic
lstwwbee
Pesee   Tr tfic
(bille I    sIII s .au0  ME     *        190   j         973     L      10 o             1961    j       twa      L ,           J.       J4        L       9s     .
Air                      0.6      2       I.0     3       2.4     4       3.7     6        3.4     6       3.3     6       5.4     6       3.9     6        3.7 a    6
AS4                      22.7    76      30,2    64      45.3   03       53.6   67        50.1   as       45H5    u       50.8   37        53.2   06       S4.1 oso
b1li                      6.4    22       4.7    IS       6.    13       4.2      7       3.6     6       3.3     6       4.1     7        4.3     a       5.0 a   I
Tota1                   29.7   100       SS.9   100      S4.6   I00      61,    tO10      57.1   100      52.1   100      16.3   100      61.9   100       63*.4   I00
Frallit Traffic
(b111 IIO   t-u
bote                     24.0   I1       29.9    3I      1.5    2 1      20.6   20        21.0    2 1     I6.     ao      20.1    to        3.9     9      17.4 *
no"                      36.0   47       44.3    49      49.9   56       60.3    S        56.7    56      I2.I   55       57.9    96       57.9    57      56.3 a
PipaISFs                  2.0     3       5.2     5       9.3    II       13.6   13       13.5   13       12.7   13        12.3    12       2.3    13       *.o
bIl                      14.2   It       1536    IS      10,7    12       9.5     9        9.2    10      11.4    l2       13.3    13      1i.2    11       9.5. 
Totel                   76.2   100       95.0   100       A.4   100     104.0  too       100.4   I00      "5.l   00       03.2   100      100.7   100
Piglti r Traffi ICme  not Irelv0  soteral pes
NIP
fltrwn Statistics
atlasa oUlrectarato for Air T*eacgrt
Kce.bw 1e16e



- 30 -
TABLE 2.2
ARGENTINA
BAHIA BLANCA I PORT PROJECT
Traffic Through Argentine Ports
(million tons)
Ports                         1970    1980   1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
Exports                       15.0    21.0    29.7    26.0    35.4    32.3    38.3
Buenos Aires                   6.6     6.3      7.0     6.2      8.1      7.1     6.8
Rosafe 1/                      4.9     9.3    13.7    12.4    15.9    15.2    18.0
Bahia Blanca 3/                1.8     2.5      4.0     3.3      6.2     4.9      5.3
Others                         1.7     2.9      5.0     4.1      5.2      5.1     8.2
Imports                       10.1    12.6    10.1      7.0      5.7     6.4      5.6
Buenos Aires                   5.5     5.7      4.1     2.5      2.0      1.9     1.2
Rosafe 1/                      2.8     3.2      2.9     2.8      2.4     2.9      3.2
Bahia Ulanca 3/                -       1.3      1.1     0.4      -       -        0.1
Others                         1.8     2.4      1.8     1.3      1.3      1.6     1.1
Domestic Traffic 2/           58.3    48.0    51.3    49.8    47.7    46.4    42.6
Buenos Aires                  13.5    11.6    11.2      9.9      9.8      7.3     6.7
Rosafe 1/                      5.6     6.2      6.6     7.1      6.7     6.6      5.6
Bahia   ancea 3/               4.8     5.9      6.1     6.4      6.4     6.8      6.9
Others                        34.4    24.3    27.4    26.4    24.8    25.7    23.4
Total                       83.4    81.6    91.1    82.8    88.8    85.1    86.5
Note: 1/  Includes the ports of Rosario, Santa Fe, San Martin, San Nicolas and
Villa Constitucion
2/  Traffic in and out of each port
3/ Includes Ing. White, Galvan and Rosales
Source:   NTP and AGP data.
December 1986



- 31 -
TABLE 2.3
ARGENTINA
BAHIA BLANCA I PORT PROJECT
Gzain Exports by Major Ports 1978-1985
(million tons)
Other
Parana
San       River    Buenos              Bahia
Year       Rosario   Martin 1/ Ports    Aires    Queguen    Blanca   Total
1978         5.0       0.2       3.2       4.2        0.7       2.0      15.3
1979         5.3       0.2       3.9       3.2        1.0       3.7      17.3
1980         4.7       0.4       2.6       2.0        0.6       2.2      12.5
1981         6.5       1.5       4.5       3.1        1.0       3.9      20.5
1982         5.3       1.8       3.2       2.7        0.5       3.1      16.6
1983         6.8       2.1       3.6       3.4        1.7       5.8      23.4
1984         5.8       2.2       3.4       3.0        1.5       4.5      20.4
1985         7.2       2.6       4.1       2.7        1.9       4.9      23.4
1/ Includes private ports in this area.
Source: Study on static and dynamic capacity of port facilities for grain and
sub-products (SSTP-NOSP) based on information provided by JNG.
December 1986



- 32 -
TABLE 2.4
ARGENTINA
BAHI.A BLANCA I PORT PROJECT
Grain Exports at Bahia Blanca 1978-1985
(millions of tons)
Year               Wheat       Corn      Sorghum   Other      Total
1978                 0.2        0.3       1.4        0.1       2.0
1979                  1.8       0.4       1.5        -         3.7
1980                  1.6       0.1       0.4        0.1       2.2
1981                  1.2       1.0       1.6        0.1       3.9
1982                  1.3       0.4        1.4       -         3.1
1983                 4.1        0.4       1.3        -         5.8
1984                 2.8        0.4        1.3       -         4.5
1985                 4.0        0.2       0.7        -         4.9
Source: Study on static and dynamic capacity of port facillties
for grain and sub-products (SSTP-MOSP), based on
Information provided by JNG
December 1986



AElNTINA
BAHIA ILANCA I POR PROJECT
Table t. EIEFGENCY VORIS
Detailed Cost Table
^ '000)
Expenditures bi Fiimanciers
(USS '000)
WORLD BANK                          GRWiENT O  ARONTINA
1987   1989 1989 1990 1991 1992 Total    1987  1988 1M   1990 199  1M   Total
szLzZzZ : = .. .  .:: =: :: z: :.:: s__  s:2 --==a  zzz    zZ   zz=-=--zZ22
I. INVESIhENT COSTS
A. CIVIL VORKS
SHIPLOADING GALLERY         201.0    -    -    -    -    -   201.0  301.5    -    -    -    -    - 301.5
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS           201.0    -    -    -    -    -   201.0  301.5    -    -    -    -    - 301.5
D. EQUIPMENT
SHIPLOADING EGUIPHENT    1,133.6    -    -    -    -    - 1.133,6   72.4    -    -    -    -    -  72.4
Sub-Total EQUIPMENT           1,133.6    -    -    -    -    - 1133.6   72.4    -    -    -    -    -  72.4
Total INVESTIENT COSTS          1334.6    -    -    -    -    - 1,334.6  313.9    -    -    -    -    - 3.9
:::Z:  Z =a--- :::_ v::: 3:: z:zz z__:i-:=  - _=: i--- :__:2     =: =zzz XZ=z
Total                             19334.6    -    -    -    -    - 1t334.6  373.9    -    -    -    -    - 373.9
::: _s:::z  :::: ::::2 =2==  ==:: :ss:::  ::::= 2= =--=X  - __X   iZ -ZZ Z =  zZ-e
April 2. 1987 12:29
I.'
D3
9-



iMerns
Table 2. 11ITI1E Mg
btiled Cost Tble
(A 1oo)
Ezleitum  by Fiwitr
(IBI '000)
DOMEN POT WIMINSTNTJIN                                  M                         bd99mI w  w
191    IM   IM  1990 Iam  192 1,I    1M1   191   191  1991191199  Total 193   IM   193  1991 199  19M  lal
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ __............._ ......._____,_
*uui * m mo - ls  ol1   "  mmo~uznuun  =m umur zm7 am sm . t sm 
i. nuswm cos
is CIVIL  gS
..........
NIEIm   INN  0mW                      9477 239.3    -    -    -   - 1,137.0  631U 11595    -    -    -   - 791.3  1I1    .5    -   -   -    -   1263                     W
CSUTlICTI0N ar ontoN  DOIPS           233.4     -        -               MA- 234  181.9                         1.9 3-. 2                  - -            30.2
ENOVIMML OF UPS 131                                                                -     -    -   - -         -     -     52   75    -          -       1401.0
NO-Total CIVIL NOMS                    1231.1 239.3    -    -   -    - 1.470,4  320.3 159.5    -   -    -    - 930.3   35  m33.0    -    -    -    - 1,11U.5
tsu   1W4ESIEN COSTS                     1231,1 239.3                      1470.4  32. 159.5    -    -    -    - 93.3           $ 1 334 IS  -   -    -    - 1,116.5
-SX   m=  9muI mm u  mu0 1112MI m   m                  muw    mu130 mu~ mu20 -0=   ama,  IMM IM11     u SC10M=
Tsu1                                      1t231#1 239.3    -         -    - 1.470A4  820,3 159.5    -    -    -    - 91.3  1335  3.0    -    -    -    - 1,166.5
aaina 332*3     u~- -u  mu-  ---     mu-222m   m             u          m             mu-
Nyul 2# IW   1212
I



wi  miau@   n
Table 3. WtAlN IWII  K SIUVICTIO AO      U   AIIP
htaild Cost Table
(A 0002
t"dif  firamtis
IPdtfle  eo
Jo mm                                        vE   p Now=
__. .___. ... _._................. . 
97    1M      IM      IM     IM      I9     Tel       Mr 197   3       M1    5   12"  2M  m    ll
I, INUiWi COTS
A. C1l2I UWS
-- - ---1-- ---W----E                      -  700.4        -              -       -   7.4         - a.m          -    -    -   - 1.
~ltt iJU                                 15.9 -,           -                      -   73.9  2.173.?       -      *    _          _  1*173.9
EU   U CIOI                             915.4 2 J311.1  1,400.6               -     423  21373.6 241. 211.9    -    -   -  696.9
-Istal CIVIL                             19701.3 3,011.7  21.400             -      - 613.5  2.3I.9 4.517,5 2.l?    -    -   - 9.17.3
1. E183
113192111                                  -  76.1  I.sM2l  61.5  114.5           - 2,775.1       -   0.0   5.6  5.4   7.3   -   177.1
["To                                       -  S2.7   910.9    .9  274.7  142.2 2.63.4             -   331.6    6.i 514  7.5 91    111                            ha
TWAB    KETUS                              -  307.2   543.   470.1  14.2   52.9 2,4.6             -   19.6   34.7 5.A  I.  3.    199
WINN 813                                   -  197.5   3.1  362.2  102.0   53.3 1eP.I                   12.6   22.23  193  6.6 3.4       42
inn :s lsiutu                              -      It'   1,lo61l 19611,3  5.   264.3 5203o         -   0.2  113.3 1g9       .  1L      342
lwI U CIIU 61l                             -  40.9    14.6  M.2  20.4  124.  2*3263  -                 29.4    2.0 4.   13 1.9   100.7
ICLM  (IP                                  -  373.1    61.4   57.9  194.6  111.7 2M6.6            -   2MI   42.1 314 12.4 64    321
W I                                        -  54.7    2.2   mJ   262.3  11.2 2*50.7               -   1.2   SL.9  * J          IL? a.    u
FUM _    L to  LI                           -  373.    I5.    MY.9  194.*6  10.7 lM.              -   231   42.1  iL4 12.4 6.4   321a
NOW  111ES                                     175,6   310.3  20.4     1.6    7.6    M.$          -   11.2   194  17.1  54  3*    952
imeU                                       -   4.7   692.1  m7.   242.1  134.2 2154.7             -   12.2   54.  00.3  M6    .    1*
N1*EEM                                         153.    272.5  23.2  01.1   41U.5   M.1             -    9.5    72   *4  512            49.9
&*4Tuhu1  0SMT                                - 5S.3A  9,w3.5 7,9. 2M9.5 1200.8 26,3.2               -  364,   w.3 WA    16135 79.3 3a
t. simm.u W1Efl
CL Uan                                  244.   612.1     1.0       -      -       -   177.2    62.0  13.0    9.2       -    -   -   219J
CUIFENT                                    -   10.It   1U7.4   61.9   51.5   25.4    JLI               23.    46.9 0.5 12.  6.4  t11
STdal WltllNua Po a MrZI                  244,1  542.6   3.4    6.9   51.5   5.4  1,413.2    61.0  155    97.1    5            922.  6.4    M
--   --   --           .~-   ------------         - n         ~        -            
Toal r     rTIO  Ceom                      1,9,4  .92,2 16996.5 *1%14.6 291.0 I275.2 33,6.9 212A. 4.9976 2 M  5. 174.2   1 11,369
lot.)                                      194.4 3,952.2 10.995 6.1146 24.10 1,275,2  336   2612.9 4997.6 2 7 .             11742   .1 11424.9
bvi1 2. 1WV 12SN9



USA INcA I mT FJOCT
Table 4. SILO SAFETY M6OUS
htaled Cost Table
(A '000
Exwcdltum by Flnaters
(US$ '00)
.................... ... "........................ . .............. .. .... ... w_................. . ..... _......
TH  MICAlelL GRAIN IND                                      IIURLD SWII                                 6WEJN7Yr Of MlMllZ
.:                  s..............     s.... . ............ ......................... ...:: ....... .......S................ . 33 ....3 3.3    =..
I. hNSTIIhNTI  COSTS
....................... 
As CIVIL VMS
m0ii AN  KM?I FLEVATlOA  IrSLATIIN               - 119.5   179.5   191.3123.4        -   603.0      -    79.0   119.7   120,?    92,4    -    402.0         -  12.6  19.1  1943  13.2    -  64.1
EAD W     1 ENIKElEl                             - 158.0   239s4   241.9 164,9    -   804.0         -   105.3   159.6   161.2   109.9    -    536.0         -  U.8l 25.5  25.7  17.5    -  S5,5
ELECTWICAL STSTS WUAOING                         - 316.0   478.8   483,5 329.6    - t16,0 0         -   2107   319.2   322.4   219.8    -  1i07240         -  33.6  50.9  51.4  35.1    - 171.2 L1
IlEOICM. WIRAIN1S                                - 131.7   199.5   201.5137.3    -   670.0          -    97.8   233J0   134.3    91,6    -    4467          -  1440  21.2  21.4  14.6    -  71.3
tblotal CtILt US                                    - 724,2 190972 1t109.1 755.4    - 3.84.9           -   482.9   731,4   73.l1   503.6    -  29456.6         -  77.0 116.7 11749  80.4    - 32.0
3. E0IIM
MST OJLIECTIEl SYSTEMS                                 -        -       *      -    -        -      -   933,9 1263.4 1,276.0   U999    -  462432           -  53.2  90.6  91.4  55.5    - 270.8
NITINK AMM OIECTION SYSTERS                      -     -        -        -     -    -        -      *   14.6   2660   268.6   1831    -    89343            -  11.2  17.0  17,1  11.7    -  57.0
FIAISNTINS EIJIPNE                               -     -        -        -     -    -        -      -   329.2   49.7   503.7   3434    -  146750            -  21.0  31,1  32.2  21.9    - 1069
NISELNIEMOUS EWUIPIEN                                                                               -   219,5   332,5   335.3   229,9    -  12146               1480  21.2  21.4  146    -  71.3
bTotal EgUIIW                                       -     -        -        -     -    -        -      - 105586.  2t36046 2W3642 1,625.3    -  7P929,1          -  99.5 150.7 152.2 103.7    - 506.1
..........  ....... ....... ....... ..... .... .......  ..... ....... ....... .......  . ........ .... . ......  .. ... ..... ..... .. _-    _. _        
Total IN     CT5  CUSTS                                - 724.2 1,097.2 1i109,1 755,4    - 3.04,9          - 2.040i9 34092,0 39122,9 2412849        - 204104,7      - 176,5 267.4 270.1 154.1    - 8".
mEns 33:33  :s::::: uus:aama  zn:ua an::  uasaam:  mm: aamnuuss  uzaaa:a nnhza  nse     :amu inmmnms  u:su  m:s::   333s araa annu  ::a: ma.:
total                                                   - 724,2 1,097.2 1,109.1 755.4    - 340849          - 2,040.9 3,02.0 3.122.? 2P12849         - 10.38407      - 17645 267.4 270.1 194.1    - 899"1
3338  ag   Bas3333 aauna 33333 3333 3.3333w  Sawn 3:3N3XX anus,              a.      si          3.:.:.  sun a:W sunw -S-ss-, SEES   =   s  55 _ u .... as 
... ..._ .................    . .......... ._  . ._. ~ ............. .. ............. .................. w_....... ...... ..... ....... ........... __..........._._._ _._ ... ....... ......... _.__. ._
April 2# I1 U121V



IMIIA KA I NAT ""CT
Table S. RAILSAY MM1S
Detailed Cost Table
(A '000)
EXFnditures by Finaniers
(US. '000)
......W................ ........................... ......................................................................................  ., .... .. .. _.........._
ARENTINE RAILWAYS                                 WOLD INIK                           OGUERlNT O  ARGENTINA
1997 1m     1999  Im     1991 IM   Total    197 199  19m    1990  1991 1992 Total  1997 1999 19   1990 1971 192 Total
nsa. sasa xaman annum Musa sgun wamasga wans uza s sauass sagas sa 313= awn *man anna sa3s yas mass sat as._
S. ISfYEIENT coST
................I
A. CIVIL   M S
............
UPRADIII  BAHIA  INCA MARSHALLING YARD              - 503.8 508,8 257.0    -          1,269,6       - 335,9 339.2 171,3    -    - 846,4           - 536 54,1 27,3    -    - 135.1
............... ................................... ...... ...........  .........  .... ...... ..... ..... .... .... .....  ...... ..... ..
tb-Total CIVIL VMS                                      - 503.8 5008M  257.0    -    - 1.269,6          - 335.9 339,2 t71.3    -    - 846.4           - 53,6 54.1 27.3    -    -135.1
Total IIESTIINT COSTS                                       - 503.9 509.9 257.0    -    -1,269.6            - 335.9 339.2 1713    -    - 846,4            - 53.6 54.1 27.3    -    - 135.1
n:ma333   OnX as    X aim:tS nan   4 nun:u2m   :::: X::a:ma  sJma imXE suag mW au:t aaXmaX  na nsa uSXi  mass aW.n *S   as
Total                                                        - 503.8 509,9 257.0    -    - 1,269,6           - 3MM,9 339.2 171.3    -    - 846,4           - 53,6 54,1 27.3    -    - 135.1
:am  Main:         rasa: ens:   ass usXs :Zsusn a ga nsaig: n aiuu  ss us :s s  ::  :s m a:     nna z    r.a smg Is mass   --
.     .......................................................................................................... ....1.2..2.................... . .......... . . .
April 2. I"S? 121297
11



MA KM I M  IcT
*Tble 6. UOUCA  UIA I 
(A '300)
EWiEMItum bv Firnavis
13M. 943  AU9INI3TUATIWN              TIE MATIOIV DAI&    K 63*31043WE                                               a513          ARMNTINA
I"?m1 me         utm    lm    1m    1371         99? lnr lm  s399919 9 foul  193713m sm       1990 1991 1992tm   to1  117 1m  lm   1993 1991 1m  161a
.~~~~ t . _. ." *" .. *w._. .......- |
r*FII     coIap   -m--"                          .        .     .                                                -       -     - 142,91 10.4 3.        -        -       3.3  - N5.7 45.3 9.  -    - e .0
FIN h. allEUITMT3 W                           204    3  4 2          -                      *-    -    -         -3    -  31  47.2  17.0    -           -   147.3  .6*   5,o  1.4    -    -    -  133.
mlum   MUMIl  C_IItE AJ l.                            .    .     . -           .   .     . 13 4t .4i0 14,    -    *  42.4     -  S504 54.0 53.2    -    - 1696        -  4.4  4.5  4.6    -    -  13.5           w
IWIIPEt NAWICE CS TNITS ONCN                     .        .     .     .     .     .   .   .      .     .     .     .     .   .    - 142.9  34.1    -    -    - 279i,  - 3.7  VA    -    -    -  44.3
iibToeI   CHIITIiIt3 SI miW                      20.3l lis   4,2    .    -    .413         - 12. 14.0 314.4         -  42.4  31 43,1   4 23! 5947    -    - 375.7  64, 31.2 59.  133.         -    - 16146
~~~~~~~~~~~~.  ___ ................  . ........... . . ..... .... .....   .... .... .... ....  .  ... ....._ _ __ .....   .... . .... _ ..... . ___._ 
16do1 loutI=   UII                                  20t3 36.3  4.2    -    -         -  41    - 1329 14.0 .14.6           42.4  83.1 44.4 2195 47    -    - 375,7   6.4 3312 5. l3,              -    - 1i1de
s "sss ~~~~~~~~~ats                                                        x assemas-n" so* s s
T1SU                                                 20. Ido  4.2    *       -       411      - 1339 14#0 14.6    -        42.4  31 4034 29.51 4.7    -    - 3757   14  312 59.9 133    -    - 1414
s~~~~~9   n    gm    but   s8 ru   mamns ws  e  s  asx =28   an  mu    _m                  a    so    _=   _~  $    eJ
bu.. 2. 1..7 li. . .
I..
3.
I-
I,



WIA KCA I PORT MJECT
Table 7. EUIIUEERI STLPiltS
btllM   Cost Table
(A '000)
EpHdiwum  hb Flnalcurs
(USS '0003
................................................ ...................................................................................*,-................. .--.----
THE NTIOW.WGAIN WARD                                Olt  MNK                            GOW NT OF AGENTINA
..... ........ ............. .................  ....................... ................................  .............................. ~.__ ..
1997  IM    2m   1M   199  IM   Total  1187   I         19 1M       199  199 M    Total    1197 I191  1M 90 1991 19m  Total
Us,:  3 :5     u  "uSR .,,, ,,,,  ,, .Sam   51W .......mv;ss a,. s. s..    R    ,.       Sam.. us:S us': uss. *s s     s u  s
I. INETEIIT COSTS
..... ...........
A. CSTANIS SERVICES
............................ 
WHIA ILCA I PORT PROCT DESIGN    207. 167.9 424    -                       - 41.2  931.3 6717 1696    -    .    . 196727  66.3 53.  13.5    -    -    - 13345
Sub-Total CO LTANTS UERYICES                 207.8 167.9 42.4    -    -    -41.2   31.3 6717 169.6    -    -    - 1l672.7  66.3 53.6 13                   -           -    - 133.5
Total INMJEBST      COSMS                       207,8167,942.4        -    -    - 418.2  C31.3 671.7 169.6    -    -    - 1.672.?  64,3 53.6 13.5    -    -    - 133,5
a:u:.  .s_-  u,su ux uu                                                                             --uu  mxss. sx u"s us::: uu us:: usu  uusus  uXss::sa: u &z    .  u  ::=:
Totl                                             2078 167.9 42,4    -    -    - 419.2  931.3 671.7 169.6    -    -    - 14672.7  66.3 53.613.5                 -    -    - 133.5
--------                                                                                     -~~~BW    gn   ls'  ae  asOmn...sMV  ngnaa.- ---     *3as 2-=
April 2i IM     12129



AIA 3AMA I FM  PIOACT
Pronct Cwoewnts bw Year
Totals Includins Cwitinrlnclis                                     Totals Including Contincics
(A '000)                                                          (USS '000)
..... ................ ....... ............ ,... .......................  ...............................  .................._., ............ .. ................
1997     19B8      1989      1M0    1991    1m         Total       1987      1798     19M       1M0    I"         1992    Total
A. CErSENCY VKs                         2,135.6         -         -         -       -        -  2.135.6   1,708.5           -        -         -        -       -  1,709,5
o. lMITIIE HOS                          31356.7  1,16408          -         -        -       -  4#5215   2,685,4    931.8             -        -        -        -  3,617.2
C, GRAIN  ANDING IH5ILITA101N    5,697.917,437.2 174230.5 10.929,4 3,4442 1,701.7 564339.8   4,559.3 13,949.8 13,784.4  8966207 2,755.3 1I361.4 454071.9
g. SILO StEY   6RAM                           -  3,677.0  5570.7  5,626.4 3,935.6            - 180709,6           -  2,941.6  4t456,5  49501.1 3,068.4           - 14,967.7
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANE                    138.2    650.4    459,5    153.8           -       -  1,401.9       110.6    520.3    367.6    123.0          -        -  1121.5
F. RAILVAY WORKS                              -  11116.6  1,127,7    569.            -       -  2,613.8           -    893.2    902.2    455,6          -        -  2.251.0
S. ENGINEERING STUDIES                  1.381,9  1,116.6    261.9           -        -       -  2,780.4   1,105.5    893.2    225.5            -        -        -  2,224.3
Total MJECT COSIS                        12,710.2 25,16295 24,670.4 17P178,1 7,297 1,701.7 88,702.6  10,168.2 20,130.0 199736.3 13,742.5 5,923.9 1,361.4 70,962,1
.............. ......................... ................................ ............................................................... ........................... ................................................ ..___
Arill 2 1M97  12120
'-U
I-.
S
Coo



71111W
IWIA WUb I PNT PI,CT
FIn rane   Plan bg Sumvu kcous
(M1s '00)
GNERAL PORT   THE NATIO.AL   ARUNTIIE                      GJERISEIT OF
ADIINISTRATION  6RAIN MORD       RAILMYS      MORLD 3M1(      ARGESTINA         Total
------------............ ------------  .............  .............----- - --------                      Local IExcl. Duties S
Aout    Z    Aount  2    amt   Z             Aount  2        Amnt   Z       Amt   Z    For. Exch.    Taxes)            taxes
410222=2  2x3- *a-: :a u *      :: cu s 2 3s:  :232:::a : 221a  3n : ::: S2z22 X2 :::::: :::::  222121212: 2::::  u    S   S
Is INESTIET COSTS
............. .
A, CIYIL  MRKS                      1,470.4   5.2  34684.9 13.1  1*269.6  4.5  109597.9 37,6  11,165.3 39.6  29,199.1  39.7    11,275.2         1522146   14691.3
of EGUImT                                 -     -        -    -         -    -  350401.9 94.0   2.259.7  6.0  37P661,6  53.1    35,4019              0.0   2,259.7
C. S'ERVISIOR Uf CUISTIRTION             -     -         -    -        -    -   1,413o2 80.0      353.3 20.0  1.76605   2.5       1,413.2         247.3      106.0
3e CONSW.TAIS SERVICES                 4l.9   1.2    460,6 13.9         -    -   2.S48,4 76.2    295.0  8.8  3,345.8   4.7    2.676,6              468.4     200.7
. _. _. _......  ........  ........ ....   ....... ....  ........ ....  ........ ....   ........ .....  ... . ___- -- - ----  __ ---......                      . __   I
Total IMESTENT COSTS                  1I512,2  2Z1  4,145,5  5.8  1.269,6  1.9  494961.4 70.4  14,073.4 19.8  704962.1 1000    50,67.0             15,937,3   4,2!7.7
Total Utsbuustu t                       1,512.2   2.1  4.145,5  5.9  1,269.6  1.8  49t961,4 70.4  14,073.4 19.9  709,762.1 100.0  . 50767,0         15937,3   49257.7
23222222 22222  =22232322 1xx2&23222 232: :22:2:23 2:::  22222122 3232r 2322233 2X2         21222=222  232:222=222  2*223222
Ari1l 2 1997 12120



DMI UAMA I MRT PCT
Flniwnli  Plan bh  ProJuct Comnnts
(USI '0400
EHERAL PORT   THE NATIOWAL   ARENTINE                         61YEN1T  V
ADMINISTRATION  GAIN WARD         RAILWAYS      OILD    S6    ARETIN               Total
------           ............  ............- -   ----------- -------- ------------  ----------              Local (Excl. Outies I
Amt      t    A2mount    I    Amout            Amout           Ammt    Z       Amount            For, Exch.    Taxn)       Taxes
nsa::.  mu::  =r:::::: g::u  uuauuuu nun  Umna  uS-- nnSer  mngu::                     u3 s c   uusun      uusui    uuunu
A. ENEMENICY WORKS                            -     -         -    -         -    -   1s334,6 73.1       373.9 21,9   1,70.5   2M4        I.334.6          27l.4      102.5
t. WITIIE  IORKS                        1.470,4  40,7         -    -         -    -      9M0.3 27.1   1,166.5 32.2   34617.2   5.1        1446.9         1,953.3     217.0
C. GRAIN HANLING  EAILITATION                 -     -         -    -         -    -  33,966,9 75.1  11,204.9 24.9  454071.8  635    338966.9             09500.6  2,704.3
DP  SILO SAFETY PROGRON                       -     -  3MO4M? 24.6           -    -  10.38487 69.4       9Mot1  6.0  14,967.7  21.1    1OS41.6          39529.1    m9.
Es TECHSICAL ASSISTANCE                    41.9   3.7      42,4  3.1         -    -      875.7 78.1      161.6 14.4   1.12125   1.6         897.2          157.0       67.3
F. RAILWAY WORS                               -     -         -    -  1,269,6 56.4       846.4 37.6      135.1  6.0   2,251.0   3.2         900.4        14215.6      135.1
B. ENSIIRINS STUDIES                          -     -    41892 109.          -    -   19672o7 75.2       133.5  6.0   29224,3   3.1       1,779.4          311.4      13345
Total Disbursumtt                        l.512.2   2.1  414595  3.9  1.269,6  2.6  499961o4 70.4  14.073M4 19.8  70962.1 100.0    50,767.0                15i937.3  4W257.7
uuuunuu: gnu::  urnauc:2:   uuu :nu s  u*u  uuuuun  us:  unnua nn uRn:  nu   s  uassn   umsn  m             m: :s=
._. _......... ................ ... ... .__..................... .... ...... .. _. ___.____.___...   _..   _. .........
Apil 2. I96 12120



ARGENTINA
lABIA BLANCA I PORT PRWICT
Financnlg Plan by Foreign Exchange / Local / Taxes
(US 'o000)
THE
GENERAL PORT    NATIONAL   ARGENTINX              GOVERNNENT OF
ADMINISTRATION  GRAIN BOARD  RAILWAYS   WORLD BANK  ARGENTINA      Total
AMOUNT       ANOUNT    AMOUNT       AMOUNT      AMOUNT      AMlOUNT
I.   Foreign                   73.2        167.8       -      49,961.4        564.6   50,767.0
II. Local (Excl. Taxes)    1,439.0       3,559.4   1,269.6        -         9,642.4   15,937.4
III. Taxes                     -             -         -          -         4,257.7    4,257.7
Total Project               1,512.2      3,727.2   1,269.6   49,961.4      14,464.7   70,962.1
April 7,19- 87
l
April 7, 1987



- 44 -
TABLE 4.1
ARGENTINA
Bahia Blanca I Port Project
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US $ million)
Disbursed in         Cumulative
FY and Semester Ending       Semester    FY      Disbursements       z
1988
December 31, 1987            4.0 1/                 4.0            8
June 30, 1988                1.1      5.1           5.1           10
1989
December 31, 1988            2.2                    7.1           14
June 30, 1989                3.1      5.3          10.4           21
1990
December 31, 1989            6.0                   16.4           33
June 30, 1990                6.0     12.0          22.4           45
1991
December 31, 1990            6.0                   28.4           57
June 30, 1991                6.0     12.0          34.4           69
1992
December 31, 1991            6.0                   40.4           81
June 30, 1992                4.3     10.3          44.7           89
1993
December 31, 1992            3.5                   48.2           96
June 30, 1993                1.0      4.5          49.2           98
1994
December 31, 1993            0.8      0.8          50.0          100
Assumptions:
Board Presentation: May, 1987
Loan Signature    : June, 1987
Loan Effectiveness: August, 1987
Project Completion: December, 1992
Loan Closing Date : December, 1993
1/ Including Initial deposit of US$3.0 million into Special Account.



- 45 -               ~~~~ANNEX I
Pa-g e of 5
ARGENTINA
BAHIA BLANCA I PORT PROJECT
Main Characteristics of the Transport Sector
A. General
1.        During the period 1970-1984, GDP, public sector and transport
investments, and traffic amounted to the following average yearly values:
1970-74     1975-79      1980-84
GDP (Estimated in milllon 1985 US$)              58,000       64,500      64,000
Public Sector Investment (million 1985 US$)       3,400        4,900       3,500
Transport Investment (million 1985 US$)             750          900         580
Freight Traffic (billion ton-km)                     92           96         100
Passenger traffic (billion pass-km)                  45           58          56
The transport sector represents about 6-8Z of GDP, and around 18-20% of
public sector investment. However, its share of the latter has been reduced
along the years, and, what is more important, its absolute value has been
substantially reduced in 1980-1984. Partly as a result of this decline, some
deterioration and bottlenecks are starting to appear in Argentina's
transportation structure, which is significantly affecting the whole economy.
2.        The transport demand is influenced by the size of the country (2.8
million sq. km), the uneven distribution of the population with a large
concentration of more than one-third living in the capital city, Buenos
Aires, the concentration of agricultural areas, raw material deposits and
manufacturing and trading activities in a limited number of places and a
large volume of exports and imports channeled through a few major ports.
As a result, the transport system is large, with long average hauling
distances, low traffic volume in several links of the network and big
concentratiorn in major nodes such as Buenos Aires, and to a lesser extent,
Rosario and Cordoba. Moreover, physical characteristics, like severe draft
limitations of navigable waterways and ports, impose further constraints to
the system.
3.        To meet the transport demand, the country has developed an
extensive transport network consisting of 36,500 km. of national roads and
about 380,000 km. of provincial roads, of which 57,000 km. are paved (27,000
km. national and 30,000 km. provincial); 34,000 km. of railways; 17,000 km.
of pipelines; over 100 ports, of which 13 account for over 9O0 of the overall



- 46 -                       ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
throughput; and 90 commercial airports. The transport system is operated by
a large prlvately owned fleet of trucks and buses; a publicly owned railway
that carries freight and intercity and suburban passenger traffic; a mix of
public and private maritime and river shlpping companies; and five public
airlines, two major (one serving also international traffic) and three
regional.
4.        Transport has kept pace with economic development in the country.
Table 2.1 shows the evolution of freight and passenger traffic during the
last two decades. The general trend has been a moderate growth of
of about 1.-1.5Z per year for freight, and 3-3.5% per year for passenger,
with significant fluctuatlons during the analyzed period. For example, in
1981 and 1982, years of economic receasion (negative growth), passenger
traffic decreased at annual rates of -7Z and -9Z, and freight traffic
decreased at a -4% per year. Traffic, particularly freight, increased in
1983 and 1984, reflecting some improvements In the economic situation of the
country. Preliminary figures for 1985 indicate a slight decline in freight
traffic, but an overall increase in passenger traffic.
5.        In line with worldwide trends, highways represent the dominant mode
for internal transport, with ports handling oost,of the foreign trade and
airlines handling most of the international passsenger traffic. Each mode's
share for passenger and freight traffic has remained approximately constant
in the last decade (Table 2.1). In 1984, road transport's share amounted to
more than half of total inter-urban domestic freight traffic, in terms of
ton-km, and about 86% of total inter-urban pabsenger traffic, in terms of
passenger-km. During the next decade, little change is expected in the
highways' and railroads' shares (56Z and 10% respectively) of freight
traffic. The pipelines' share (13X) may slightly increase with the
exploitation of gas reserves, and water cabotage's (20%) may slightly
decrease. As for domestic passenger traffic, airlines (6%) can be expected
to increase slowly while railways (8%) to decrease and the share of road
transport (86Z) to remain constant.
B. Transport Modes
(i) Highways
6.        For the most part, the coverage of the road network is adequate,
but there has recently been some deterioration in conditions because of
budget restrictions. A study of highway needs made in 1980-1982, under the
Fourth Highway Project, found that 23% of the trunk and primary network
(6,400 km) required reconstruction, and, by the end of 1985, about one-third
of the paved national network was in bad condition. Since 1983, Government
has increased its investment on the road network to catch up with the backlog
and the Bank's Highway Sector Project is providing financing and technical
assistance to support the Government's efforts.



- 47 -                       ANNEX 1
Page3of 5
7.        Major issues in the road dubsector concern weak Investment
planning, lack of provincial funding and staffing, low road user charges on
heavy vehicles and poor highway safety. Many provincial Governments lack an
adequate revenue base and as a result are unable to maintain the road network
properly. A 1984 road user cost study indicated that truck and bus operators
are paying only 40% to 70% of the marginal costs that they Impose upon the
system. The number of traffic accident deaths is more than three times
higher, relative to total population, that it is in the United States or
Canada. These issues are being addressed under the Highway Sector Project
through the financing of provincial road rehabilitation and highway safety
components, technical assistance and studies. In addition, under agreements
reached with the International Monetary Fund, Government has agreed to
gradually increase diesel fuel prices which will enable recovery of a larger
share of the marginal cost caused by trucks and bus0s. Since the issues are
complex and involve considerable human and financial resources, they will
continue to require Government attention for many years.
(1i) Railways                                         1
8.        Although railway traffic and operations have shown some
improvement, in recent years, Argentine Railways (FA) is experiencing serious
difficulties. After a long-term decline, railway freight traffic increased
by 25% in 1982 and 17% in 1983 to 13.3 billion ton-km, mainly because of
increased grain production which represents about 37Z of total railway
traffic. However, the growing traffic trend was interrupted in 1984, when FA
experienced a decline of 16% of freight traffic and further aggravated in
1985 with a decline of 15% over the already low level of 1984. Since 1976,
in an effort to adjust to the past decline in traffic, the labor force was
cut from 157,000 to 95,000. Service over 7,600 km of uneconomic branch lines
was closed, and service reductions were made on another 13,000 km.
Locomotive and wagon availability improved, as did the average load of
,freight wagons and turnaround time. In spite of this progress, the railways
has continued to incur heavy financial losses, with a working ratio of about
2 and an operating ratio of about 3. The total operating deficit before
depreciation in 1985 amounted to about US$300 million. Furthermore, recent
trends reinforce the impression that FA is moving away from some of the
progress previously achieved. Staff has recently increased to 103,000; the
program to reduce the size of the network has been frozen; an uneconomic
lines study sponsored by Loan 1677-AR has been cancelled.
9.        In light of recent trends, in April 1985 the Government intervened
in the management of FA and indicated that they would restructure the
financial debt and improve efficiency. The recent events underscore the need
for further examination of the appropriate role of the railways. In line
with previous studies, new management indicated that the railway must turn
increasingly to unit and block trains for the main bulk commodities on a
basic network of about 16,000 km if they are to compete with trucks and
approach financial viability. Management also proposed to obtain cost
reductions by reducing services to branch lines, increasing operational



- 48 -                       ANNEX I
rae 4 of 5
efficiency including the coordinatlon of the four broad gauge lines, and
limiting investments mainly to the rehabilitation of principal corridors.
FA's new management also proposed to limit Investments in electrification to
exlsting commitments. The above measures, if Implemented, would have had
favorable impact both on FA operations and the economy as a whole, but little
progress has been achleved until mid CY1986. As part of the Bank's sector
work in the country, a report on Transport Sector Enterprises is scheduled to
be lssued in mid-FY-88, and FA will be analyzed in detall.
(iii) Water Transport
10.       The port system is discussed in Section B of Chapter I of the
text. Maritime and river transport are of key importance to the economy of
Argentina: it handles more than 90% of Its foreign'trade. The Parana,
Uruguay, Paraguay and Alto Parana rivers together with the River Plate (Rio
de la Plata), constitute a large Inland waterway system, which carries more
than 70% of the traffic transported by water. The Parana River alone during
the last years, carried over 50% of the country's grain exports. This
waterway system, however, suffers the natural draft limitations that force
large vessels to be only partially loaded at the river ports and completed
(topped-off) at deeper ports/waters. Topping-off operations are an important
feature of the water transport system, and of gr'at relevance for the
proposed project.
11.       With the exception of Southern Atlantic ports, all Argentine ports
are affected detrimentally by shallow sea or fiver approaches. This has
considerably delayed container penetration and has affected the grain export
system. Because of draft limitations (25-30 ft) the size range of bulk grain
carriers (18,000-35,000 DWT) calling at Argentine ports is far below the more
economical size of 50,000-70,000 DWT ships which are increasingly used to
service large markets in Northern Europe, East Asia and Japan. The smaller
ships increase transportation costs, prevent Argentina from fully realizing
its grain market potential, and congest the ports. While smaller ships of
20,000-30,000 DWT will continue to be used in the future in the Latin America
trade and to ports with draft limitations, the existing shallowness of the
river ports remains a major economic drawback. Bahia Blanca is farther from
the major grain producing areas than the river ports, but its main attraction
is that it serves larger vessels (30,000-45,000 DWT) with a draft of up to
38'6".
12.       The general increasing trend of grain exports in recent years and
the prevailing draft limitations have led to a search for alternative
solutions to ship grains more economically. One has been to load to 25-28
ft. draft at Rosario and other Parana River ports, and then to proceed to
Buenos Aires and/or Bahia Blanca for "topping-off'. Another alternative is
the privately operated transhipment facility at Punta Alfa in the Rio de la
Plata in front of Montevideo, where existing depth permits a 40 ft. draft in
protected water. Other companies are now considering establishing similar
services at Rio de la Plata. A Bank Study attached to Bahia Blanca Port,
Phase II Project Brief, dated May 13, 1986, concludes that deepening the



- 49 -                     ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
access channel to permit navigation to 45' is economically superior to
establishing transhipment facilities at the entrance of Bahl Blanca access
channel.
13.       The Argentina fleet's participation in the International trade Is
of about 152 and 42 of the total volume of imports and exports,
respectively. The fleet consists of 86 vessels totalling 1.7 million DWT and
having an average age of 13 years; 50 of thors vessel, representing about 40X
of the total DWT are owned and operated by ELMA, the state-owned shipping
company; the rest of the fleet consisting of 18 bulk carriers, one contalner
ship, general cargo and refrlgerated vessels Is privately owned. During the
last five years, Argentina's merchant fleet has had a net increase of only
1101000 DWT. Domestic river transport fleet consists of about 52 vessels,
totalling 0.3 million DWT and an average age of 17 years, and about 300
barges. This fleet is privately owned except 5 tankers which are
state-owned.
(iv) Civil Air Transport
14.       Argentina's extensive area, long average travel distances, and
medium-to-high income per capita, have made civil air transport an important
element in the country's transport system. Airport infrastructure is well
developed. There are ten International airports and ten airfields which can
also attend international traffic on request. These terminals are
complemented by other 380 authorized airfields and landing strips. There is
some overdesign of airport facilities, particularly along the Parana River,
where pairs of large, modern airports have been built at cities separated
only by the river, such as Resistencia and Corrientes, and Santa Fe and
Parana.
15.       Argentine air carriers operate in international, regional and
domestic routes. Since 1980, demand for air transport has been falling in
all three markets, with recent signs of a modest recovery. Domestic
recession and the South Atlantic confrontation weighed heavily against
Argentine airlines. Aerolineas Argentinas (AA), (also to be included in the
forthcoming Transport Sector Enterprise Paper), the main state-owned carrier
and the only covering the regional and international market, has had a share
of about 702 of domestic traffic, 44Z of regional market and 52Z and 41% of
traffic to/from USA and Europe, respectively. The other main airline
performing in the domestic market is Austral Lineas Aereas (AU), formerly a
private company, but temporarily in domain of the public sector after it
failed to service its debt to the National Development Bank, its main
creditor. The Government is interested in selling this company back to
private groups, but no agreement has been reached yet. Its share of the
market is 26%. Four other small airlines also perform in segments of the
domestic market. AA and AU balanced their revenues and operating costs in
1984, but were not able to service their debts.
February 1987



50 -               ~~~~ANNEX I
- 50 -                       Appendix A
Page 1 of 3
ARGENTINA
BAHIA BLANCA I PORT PROJECT
AGP and DNCPVN Investment Criteria
General
1.        The assessment of the rehabilitation, modernization and expansion
of the port of Bahia Blanca has determined the development by the Government
of a comprehensive methodology for the economic evaluation of port and
dredging projects. In particular, special emphasis has been placed on the
analysis of the impact in the Argentine port system produced by the
improvements to be carried out in anyone of the ports of the system. All
ports in the country are interdependent to the extent that they fulfill a
similar function, and consequently Improvements in one of them could possibly
make unnecessary the execution of projects in other ports. Another important
concept is that an ecunomic analysis should include the total transport cost
of linking the initial origin with final destination, by means of the
different modes necessary to provide the service. An improvement in Bahia
Blanca, for example, could possibly represent a saving when the commodity is
passi ag through the port, but if this traffic is diverted from another port,
that saving could be partially offset by an increase in land or water
transport. Consequently, not only the port system has to be studied as a
whole, but also the whole intermodal transport network. A computer model has
been developed for analyzing export grain mDvements through the port system;
the same princlples could be applied to other commodity export traffic.
The Assignment Model
2.        Along the years, and as a result of the different studies carried
out for the preparation of the Bahia Blanca project, it was possible to
develop a comprehensive computer model which simulates the operation of the
grain movement from the production zones to the final destination abroad.
The model is composed of two sub-models, land and water, which are related in
such a way to determine the allocation of traffic flows which minimizes the
total (system) transport cost. This cost is composed of all activities
necessary to complete the connection of each origin with each destination,
such as: road, rail, transfer, port, shipping, waiting time etc. The
assignment model is able to take into consideration the various possible
topping-off operations in the system when determining the least cost path for
the different origin-destination pairs.
3.        The model became fully operational during the preparation of the
Bahia Blanca Port Project, and it was thoroughly discussed with several Bank
missions. The inputs for the water sub-model are: (i) export volume matrices
by port of origin (Argentina) and destination (abroad) based on official
forecasts on production, consumptJon and foreign trade; (ii) ship size
distribution based on historical data and world trend; (iii) navigation



AIIE 1
- 51 -                    Appendix A
Page 2 of 3
and port ship costs based on the model 'Shipcost, Vessel and Voyage Costing
Model' developed by the Bank in 1984; (iv) available drafts at ports and
terminals; (v) number of berths, including ongoing or soon-to-be started
construction; and (vi) service time by port based on historical data and
expected increased efficiency. One of the outputs of the water model is
total navigation and waiting time cost that form the basis for the
calculation of economic benefits. Other outputs of the water model become
inputs for the land model: (i) average unit cost of navigatio.. to connect
each port with final destinations, which is used by the land mDdel as an
indication of the relative attractiveness of each port; (ii) ship waiting
time cost, determined by the water model through the application of a
Poisson-Erlang I queue model, another indication of relative attractiveness
of each port; and (iii) average ship load in each port. In addition, the
land model requires the following inputs: (i) grain export volumes by inland
origin; and (ii) operating cost by truck and train, based on medium-term
marginal costs and tariffs. The outputs of the land model are total truck
and train transport costs, and the assignment of traffic to ports Which feeds
again the water model. A new run of the model starts ik the port traffic
assignments differ significantly from the original distribution. Experience
has shown that this iteration process converges rapidly. As a result of both
models, the total system transport cost is determined, and it is used to
estimate the benefits of analyzed projects. For the Bahia Blanca project,
several calibrations were carried out of the different functions which
integrate the model, and the results were satisfactory when comparing them
with historic.  data.  Traffic assignments to the different ports are
coherent and logical, based on what intuitikely might be expected. In
summary, the assignment model is considered to he a powerful planning tool
which adequately reflects the behavior of tha system under the various
conditions determined by the analyzed alternatives.
Investment Criteria
4.        The investment criteria for port and dredging projects will
_ontemplate the following:
(i)  projects costing more than US$10 million equivalent will be subject
to a system analysis carried out on a relevant transport network;
if applicable, the model described above, or an adaptation of it,
will be used;
(ii)  realistic project alternatives in the context of the Argentine
economy will be thoroughly analyzed; improved technology will be
considered to the extent it is feasible to incorporate it under
Argentine conditions;
(iii)  projects will be analyzed from the national rather than provincial
or sectorial viewpoints;



52 -               ~~~~ANNEX I
- 52 -                   Appendix A
Page 3 of 3
(iv) traffic projections will adequately reflect the expected
macroeconomic conditions of the project influence zone and the
situation of world markets;
(v) realistic assumptions will be made on the ship fleet size that will
serve Argentina in the foreseeable future;
(vi) construction and maintenance costs will be based on economic prices
of main inputs; stage construction is expected to be an important
consideration to define alternatives;
(vii) benefits will be calculated as the difference of the total
transport cost, defined in a broad sense, between 'without and with
the project" conditions and will reflect adequately the impact of
the project in the overall transport network; transport costs
should also be based on economic prices;
(viii) all relevant costs required to implement the project (i.e. in other
modes, in other sectors) will be included in the analysis;
(ix) realistic assumptions will be made on possible efficiency
improvements in the port under study and in other ports of the
system;
Cx) common economic indexes will be determined to assess the economic
merits of the project; the opportunity cost of capital will be
established at 10;
(xi)   sensitivity analysis of major assumptions will be carried out to
test the results of the project evaluation; and
(xii) these results will also be tested against major changes in
transport policy in the country (i.e. tariffs, regulations, user
charges, port ownership).



- 53 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
ARGENTINA
BAHIA BLANCA I PORT PROJECT
Past and Future Port Traffic
1.        As shown in Table 1 of this Annex, the total port traffic in the
period 1980-1986 has been somehow constant around an annual average level of
about 85-90 million tonsl/. However, the composition of that traffic has
shown substantial changes with a significant increase of grain (average 7.5%
p.a.) and a moderate decline of liquid bulk and other commodities during the
above-mentioned period. With respect to the traffic volumes in the main
ports of the system during the same period 1980-1986, Bahia Blanca shows a
rather constant value around 6 million tons (about 75% of which is grain
export traffic), Buenos Aires a substantial and steady decline from 23
million tons in 1980 to 14 in 1985 due mainly to large reductions in import
and domestic traffic, other AGP ports have maintained an about constant
volume around 25 million tons (about one-third of which is grain export
traffic) despite the decline of import and domestic traffic, and other
non-AGP ports show a significant and steady increase from 30 million tons in
1980 to 40 in 1985. Table 6 shows the participatlon of private ports in
grain exports, which has increased from 18% in 1983 to 28% in 1985.
2.        As mentioned elsewhere, grain plays a significant role in Argentine
port traffic and especially in Bahia Blanca Port. Consequently, an
elaborated traffic projection analysis for grains was carried out as part of
the proposed project preparation and is included in the report: Evaluacioc.
Economica del Proyecto de Ampliacion del Puerto de Bahia Blanca (Fase II),
published by the MOSP in December 1985. The traffic projection was based on
a detailed analysis of production, consumption and domestic
industrialization, and the expected export volumes were determined as
residual of those-quantities. The grain production projection was carried
out at the level of JNG districts, which are units agroecologically uniform,
and was based on the following general assumptions: (i) a slight increase in
absolute international prices, and an improvement of oil-product relative
price as compared with grain, especially wheat; (ii) agriculture continues to
show favorable relative prices to livestock; (iii) the relationship between
international and farmer prices remain unchanged; (iv) no major technological
improvement in grain production except for a more active participaticn of the
National Program for Fertilizers especially in wheat production. The grain
consumption projection was based on an annual growth of 1.7%, the same as the
1/   Only preliminary figures for the first half of 1986 are included.
Order-of-magnitude values for the second half seem to indicate some drop
in 1986 yearly volume, which is partially due to various exceptional
conditions prevailing in that year: (i) severe floods in grain producing
areas; (ii) protectionism policy adopted by some competitor countries;
(iii) low capacity volume in Bahia Blanca due to an accident in silo 5;
(iv) frequent strikes in various sectors. Consequently 1986 is not
considered to be a typical year for the port traffic in Argentina.



- 54 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
expected population growth, with the exception of wheat (1.5Z), reflecting a
decreasing trend In Its consumption. The domestic industrialization of grain
is based on the current percentages with respect to the total production.
With the previous projections it was possible to derive the expected export
volumes. Further analysis was carried out to determine final destination of
exports, evolution of the ocean going fleet, and future trend in completion
of partially loaded vessels in Bahia Blanca and Buenos Aires. In the
abovementioned report, the total traffic thus estimated was assigned to the
different ports uslag a comprehensive mathematlcal model, Which simulates the
operation of the grain movement from the production zones to the final
destination abroad. The model is composed of two sub-models, land and water,
which are related in such a way to determine the allocation of traffic flows
which minimizes the total (system) transport cost. This cost is composed of
all activities necessary to complete the connection of each origin with each
destination, such as road, rail, transfer, port, shipping, waiting time. The
assignment model is able to take into consideration the various possible
topping-off operations in the system when determining the least-cost path for
the different origin-destination pairs. The results, adjusted to reflect
expected port capacities at the beginning of the next decade and acceptable
average waiting times for calling vessels, are indicated in Table 7. Traffic
projections for liquid bulk and other cargo are also included in the same
table, and are based on historical growth, forecasted growth of the economy,
and expected port capacities.
3.        The total throughput in 1991 amounts to about 105 million tons
which represents an acceptable 2.7Z growth per year during 1985-1991. Table
7 gives also an indication of the expected number of vEssels and their net
registered tonnage.



- 55 -
ANNEX 2
ARGENTINA
MARIA BLANCA I PORT PROJECT
Total Par_ System
tln uil.1on tons)
Partial
1980     1981      1982     1983      1984      1985     1986 2/
TOTAL TRAFFIC
Grain                     10.42    18.73      14.73   12.61    18.47    20.80       9.59
Liquid bulk              38.33    42.77       40.73   38.31    38.26    38.17    16.10
Others                   32.80    29.55       27.30   27.85    28.38    27.56    17.10
Total                  81.55    91.05      82.77   88.77    85.11    86.53    42.79
EXPORT
Grain 1/                  10.31    18.49      14.52   22.36    18.35    20.75       9.78
Liquid bulk               3.14      3.18       2.38    1.53      0.93      3.11     0.58
Others                   12.65    13.26       11.37   12.02    13.94    14.43       7.13
Total                  26.10    34.93      28.27   35.91    33.22    38.29    17.29
IMPORT
Grain 1/                   -         -          -       -         -         -        -
Liquid Bulk                2.69     2.21       0.75    0.20      0.17      0.26      -
Other                     9.88      7.85       6.25    5.46      6.24      5.39     3.1
Total                  12.57    10.06       7.00    5.66       6.41     5.65      3.1
DOMESTIC
Grain                      0.10     0.22       0.21    0.24      0.11      0.05      -
Liquid bulk              34.35    38.44       37.87   36.63    37.28    34.81    15.42
Others                    13.51    12.60      11.71   10.79      9.00      7.74     6.89
Total                  47.96    51.26      49.79   47.66    46.39    42.60    22.31
1/ Grain ioes not Include either oil seeds like soy or byproducts.
2/ 1986 traffic includes only first semester.
NUMBER OF VESSLES AND NRT (in th. of tons)
Oceanic                  3,253    3,875       3,306   3,447    3,290    3,480       1,673
1/ (24,775) (32,753)  (28,504)(35,190) (33,618) (35,605)  (17,576)
Fluvial                                                 328       423       331       233
(International)                                     (1,745)  (2,719)  (2,245)   (1,881)
Fluvial                 49,495 2/43,147 2/ 34,7332/29,692   29,510   28,467    15,458
(Dometic)             (27.533) (27,528)  (28.645T(28.188) (26,874) (24,713)  (12,630)
1/ Figures in parentheses indicate NRT in th. of tons.
2/ It includes fluvial, international.
December 1986



- 56 -
ANNEX 2
ARGENTINA                           Table 2
BAHIA BLANCA I PORT PROJECT
Bahia Blanca Port
(in million tons)
Partial
1980     1981     1982      1983     1984      1985     1986 2/
TRAFFIC
Grain                       1.82      3.89     3.11     5.89      4.58     4.92       1.65
Liquid bulk                  .66      1.00     1.26      1.18     1.02      1.01      0.69
Others                      0.81      0.11     0.23     0.25      0.25     0.30       0.18
Total                     3.31     5.00      4.60     7.32      5.86     6.24       2.52
EXPORT
Grain JL/                   1.82      3.89     3.11      5.89     4.58     4.92       1.65
Liquid bulk                   -       0.01     0.11     0.13      0.06     0.10         -
Others                      0.64      0.03     0.10     0.17      0.20     0.23       0.16
Total                     2.47      3.94     3.32     6.19      4.85     5.26       1.83
IMPORT
Grain                        -         -        -        -         -        -           -
Liquid bulk                 0.03      0.02      -        -        0.01      -           -
Others                      0.08      0.02     0.02     0.02      0.03     0.04         -
Total                     0.12      0.04     0.02     0.02      0.03     0.04         -
DOMESTIC
Grain                        -         -        -        -         -        -
Liquid bulk                 0.63      0.96     1.14      1.04     0.95     0.91       0.67
Others                      0.08      0.05     0.10      0.05     0.02     0.02       0.01
Total                     0.71      1.01     1.25      1.09     0.97     0.93       0.68
1/ Grain does not include either oil seeds like soy or byproducts.
2/ 1986 traffic includes only first semester.
NUMBER OF VESSLES AND NRT (in th. of tons)
Oceanic                      244       353      251       353      280       284      N.A.
1/ (2,226)  (4,063)  (2,950)  (4,873)  (3,711)  (3,988)
Fluvial                                                    14       25         9      N.A.
(International)                                          (24)    (110)     (21)
Fluvial                      660 2/   783 2/   842 2/   714        447       260      N.A
(Domestic)                 (910)    (940)-  (937)-  (978)    (891)    (789)
1/ Figures In parenthesis indicate NRT In th. of tons.
2/ It Includes fluvial, International.
December 1986



- 57 -
ANNEX 2
ARGENTINA                            Table
BAHIIA BLANCA I PORT PROJECT
Buenos Aires Port
(in million tons)
Partial
1980     1981      1982     1983      1984      1985     1986
TOTAL
Grain                        1.90     3.00      2.22     3.18      2.85      2.28     0.77
Liquid bulk                 6.50      6.19      4.89     6.20      4.71      3.75     1.08
Others                      15.24    13.35    11.36    10.49       8.76     8.20      4.61
Total                    23.65    22.55    18.48    19.88    16.33    14.24         6.46
EXPORT
Grain 'I                     1.90     2.92      2.19     3.18      2.85      2.28     0.77
Liquid-bulk                 0.81      0.59      0.85     0178      0.29      0.21     0.13
Others                      3.59      3.44      3.12     4.17      3.95      3.86     1.81
Total                     6.31      6.96      6.17     8.14      7.09     6.36      2.71
iMPORT
Grain                         -        -         -        -         -         -         -
Liquid bulk                 0.95      0.67      0.29     0.05      0.04      0.08      0.01
Others                      4.75      3.67      2.15 '   1.93      1.86      1.14      0.77
Total                     5.70      4.34      2.45     1.98      1.90      1.22      0.78
DOMESTIC
Grain                        -        0.07      0.02      -         -         -          -
Liquid bulk                  4.73     4.92      3.74     5.36      4.38      3.45      0.94
Others                       6.89     6.24      6.08     4.38      2.95      3.19      2.03
Total                     11.63    11.24      9.85     9.75      7.33      6.64      2.97
1/ Grain does not include either oil seeds like soy or byproducts.
2i 1986 traffic includes only first semester.
NUMBER OF VESSLES AND NRT (in th. of tons)
Ocanic                      1,776    1,866    1,559    1,519    1,478    1,302         668
1,         (10,977) (12,003) (10,495) (11,870) (10,702) ( 9,796)  (5,197)
Fluvial                                                    119      131        99       68
(International)                                         (357)    (525)    (480)    (360)
Fluvial                    11,290 21 9,295 2/ 7,351 2/ 7,009    5,970    4,828    2,507
(Domestic)               (7,008)  (6,624)- (6,735)  (6,583)  (5,170)  (4,987)  (2,031)
1/ Figures in parentheses indicate NRT in th. of tons.
2/ It includes fluvial, international.
December 1986



- 58 -
ANNEX 2
ARGENTINA                            Table 4
BAHIA BLANCA I PORT PROJECT
Other AGP Ports
(in million tons)
Partial
1980     1981      1982     1983      1984      1985     1986 2/
TOTAL
Grain                        6.03     9.83      6.91     9.66      7.08      8.68      3.23
Liquid bulk                  6.58     8.56      7.23     6.31      6.31      6.87      1.51
Others                      12.01    10.37    18.27    19.34    10.53    10.35         6.94
Total                    24.63    28.76    22.42    25.32    23.94    25.91         11.68
EXPORT
Grain 1L/                    6.00     9.78      6.89     9.50      7.08      8.65      3.22
Liquid bulk                  0.94     1.35      1.02     0.56      0.52      2.10      0.41
Others                       3.88     5.31      4.60     4.93      6.34      6.45      2.91
Total                     10.83    16.45    12.53    15.00    13.95    17.21         6.54
IMPORT
Grain                          -       -         -        -         -         -        0.01
Liquid bulk                  0.31     0.28      0.04     0.08      0.03      0.08      0.01
Others                       1.88      .90      0.92     0.81      0.95      0.89      0.28
Total                     2.20      1.19      0.97     0.90      0.98      0.97      0.30
DOMESTIC
Grain                        0.03     0.04      0.01     0.15       -        0.03        -
Liquid bulk                  5.32     6.92      6.15     5.66      5.76      4.68        1.09
Others                       6.23     4.14      2.74     3.59      3.23      3.01       3.75
Total                     11.59    11.12      8.92     9.40      9.00      7.73       4.84
1/ Grain does not include either oil seeds like soy or byproducts
2/ 1986 traffic includes only first semester.
NUMBER OF VESSLES AND NRT (in th. of tons)
Oceanic                       939    1,499    1,137    1,137    1,038    1,153             402
1/ (9,130) (14,081) (10,818) (12,110) (11,881) (13,170)         (5,861)
Fluvial                                                    130      129       117           84
(Internatlonal)                                         (851)    (895)    (975)          (854)
Fluvial                    27,214 2/23,981 2/17,958 2/14,648   14,389   16,310           8,780
(Domestic)              (15,139)  (8,103)  (6,647)  (7,177)  (6,055)  (6,453)         (2,670)
1/ Figures in parentheses indicate NRT in th. of tons.
2/ It includes fluvial, International.
December 1986



- 59 -
ANNEX 2
ARGENTINA                           Table 5
SANIA BLANCA I PORT PROJECT
Other Non AGP Ports I/
(in million tons)
Partlal
1980     1981      1982     1983      1984      1985     1986 3/
TOTAL TRAFFIC
Grain                        0.65     2.00      .491     3.87      3.95      4.92     3.94
Liquid bulk                24.58    27.01    27.34    24.61    26.20    26.54    12.80
Others                       4.72     5.71      7.42     7.76      8.82      8.71     5.33
Total                    29.95    34.72    37.25    36.2k    38.97    40.17    22.07
EXPORT
Grain  2|                   0.59      1.90      2.33     3.79      3.84      4.90     3.94
Liquid bulk                 1.39      1.23      0.40     0.96      0.06     0.70      0.01
Others                      4.54      4.48      3.55     2.75      3.45      3.89     2.25
Total                     4.54      4.48      3.55     2,.75     3.45      9.49     6.20
IMPORT
Grain                          _       _         _        _         _
Liquid bulk                  1.39     1.23      0.40     0.06      0.06      0.10     0.07
Others                      3.15      3.25      3.15  ' 2.691      3.39      3.32     1.99
Total                     4.54      4.48      3.55     2.75      3.45      3.42     2.06
DOMESTIC
Grain                       0.06      0.10      0.16     0.08      0.11      0.02       -
Liquid bulk                23.19    25.63    26.83    24.56    26.14    25.77         12.72
Others                      0.29      2.15      2.76     2.77      2.79      1.52      1.10
Total                    23.54    27.88    29.75    27.41    29.04    27.29         13.82
1/ It includes private and public ports not handled by AGP (es. YPF terminals)
2/ Grain does not lnclude either oll seeds such as soy or byproducts.
3t/ 1986 traffic Includes only first semeter.
NUMBER OF VESSLES AND NRT (in th. of tons)
Oceanic                       294      157       359      438       494        741       356
1/ (2,442) ( 2,606) ( 4,241) ( 6,337) ( 7,324)   (8,651)   (4,271)
Fluvial                                                     65      138        106         75
(International)                                         (513)  (1,189)       (769)     (644)
Fluvial                 2/10,331  2/9.088 2/ 8,582    7,321    8,704         7.069     3,838
(Domestic)              ( 4,476) T1I,861)(14,332) (13,450) (14,758)  (12,484)   (6,381)
1/ Figures in parenthesis indicate NRT in th. of tons.
21 It includes fluvial, International.
December 1986



- 60 -
ANNEX 2
Table 6
ARGENTINA
BAHIA BLANCA I PORT PROJECT
Private Participation in Grain Exports 1
(in million tons)
Traffic Volume in 1985
JNG           Direct           Prlvate
Port                       Facilities        Loading         Facilities        Total
Bahia Blanca                        4.8              0.1                -              4.9
Buenos Aires                         1.4             1.1               0.2             2.7
Diamante                             0.4              -                 -              0.4
Mar del Plata                        0.3              -                                0.4
Necochea                             1.6             0.6                -              2.2
Rosario                              3.7             2.2               3.2             9.1
San Hartin                           _                _                4.0             4.0
Santa Fe                             0.3                                -              0.3
V. Constitucion                      1.2              -                 -              1.2
San Nicolas                          1.5             0.1                -              1.6
San Pedro                           0.6               -                 -              0.6
Del Bene                              -               _                0.5             0.5
Total 1985                        15.8             4.1               7.9            27.8
(57%)           (15%)             (28%)
1984                                18.5                       5.9           24.4
(76Z)                    (24%)
1983                                22.1                       4.9           27.0
(82%)                    (18%)
1/ Available statistical data includes by-products, and for 1984 and. 1983 JNG facilities
and direct loadirg are aggregated.
Note: Private facilities of the most important ports are: Rosario: Faca, Genaro Garcia and
Punta Alvear; San Martin: Aca, Dempa, Quebracho and Transito; Buenos Aires: Aca and Eucyn.
Source: AGP and SSPT
December, 1986



- 61 -
ANNEX 2
Table 7
ARGENTINA
BAHIA BLANCA I PORT PROJECT
Port Traffic Projections
(in million tons)
Vesels
Liquid       Other                      Vessels        NRT
Crains         Bulk        Cargo         Total        (number)    (in th.)
Ports      1985  1991   1985  1991   195199    1985  1991   1985  1991   1985  1991
Bahia Blanca 4.92   6.0   1.02   1.4   0.30   0.4   6.24   7.8    565    650  4,798  5,800
Buenos Aires 2.28   2.7   3.75   4.2   8.20   9.4  14.23  16.3  6,229  6,500 15,263 17,000
Other AGP
Ports      8.68  11.5   6.87   7.3  10.36  14.5  25.91  33.3 17,580 21,000 20,608 25,000
Other non-AGP
Ports      4.92   9.0  29.79  29.0   8.73  10.0  43.44  48.0  7,916 12,000 21,904 28,500
TOTAL       20.8   29.2  41.43  41.9  27.59  34.3  89.8  105.4
December 1986



- 62 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 7
ARGENTINA
BAHIA BLANCA I PORT PROJECT
Financial Analyis
(1) General
1.        The financial evaluatlon is complicated by the numerous agencies
performing port services. Of these, some are flnancially autonomous, but
others are not; some collect charges (e.g., pilotage by the Prefectura);
others perform services at the Government's expense, without receiving dlrect
compensation (e.g., dredging by DNCPVN). The proposed project will Initiate
and lead to institutional changes increasing AGP's responsibilities by
transferring services now external to the entity. While this may well
involve a number of cost/revenue changes in AGP, for the purpose of the
financial analysis it has been assumed that the only significant change
during the forecasting perlod would be AGP's cost responsibility for dredging
at Bahia Blanca as from 1991.
2.        A further comDlication is that substantial portions of the project
investments, apalt from AGP, will be under the operational responsibility of
JNG and to a lesser extent of FA; these two agencies will be responsible for
their investment related debt obligations. The financial analysis in this
report concentrates on AGP as a whole, as it Is the focal point for the
institution strengthening objective of the project. Within AGP, separate
projections have been developed for Bahia Blanca port which generates about
12% of AGP's revenues. The railway investment component of the project
represents only a minuscule part of FA's annual fund requirements, and the
silo component of the project Is for the construction and modernization of
grain handling facilities at the Ing. White grain terminals at Bahia Blanca
that handles less than 20% of JNG's total business. The details on the
financial situation of JNG are Included in Section (v) of this Annex.
(ii) AGP's Past Financial Performance
3.        In Argentina port tariffs have been protected from the high rates
of inflation: ship dues have been set in dollar terms and other charges have
been regularly indexed, often above the rate of lnflation. For this reason,
even though port traffic declined. Between 1982-1985 AGP' -..--venues steadily
increased; they were sufficient in each year to cover the eP:penses and to
generate profits representing 7-9% of the operating revt iue,. In 1985 the
operating revenue (A.$52.9 million) was some 22Z higher t;tn In 1982 (A.$43.5
million); during the same period AGP's cash expenses Increased by 32% and the
total operating expenses, due to virtually constant depreciation costs,
increased by only 26Z. However In 1986, regardless of the marked inflation,
no tariff adjustments were made and as a result of this and due to the
reduced traffic, AGP's Income was some 25Z less than in 1985. Since 1982 the
sources of the operatlng income have considerably changed; in the past, the



- 63 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 7
main source was the rather unpredlctable storage rental. Storage revenues
are largely dependent on Importation of general cargoes and between 1981 and
1985 Imports decllned by some 54x. In addltlon, the Increasing
containerization has a1so reduced the demand for storage services.
Consequently, storage rental which represented about 32Z of AG?'e 1981
operating revenues, in 1983 reduced to 21X and in 1985 to 9X. By 1986 cargo
dues were the most Important contributors to the total revenues (44X)
followed by ship dues (331).
4.        Slnce AGP does not perform stevedoring and cargo handling
functlons, Its costs are not sensitive to trafflc. Variations in the cash
expenses have been largely the result of policy type of actions such as
salary adjustments or change In malntenance practices. Payroll has always
been the moot Important cost item for AGP; In 1982 lt represented 422 of the
total working expenses and due to subsequent salary adjustments and
additional social benefits (Latroduced in 1984), now account for more than
half of AGP's annual cash expenses. The importance of the cost of materlals
and spares temporarily declined In 1983 and 1984 as AGP was deferring
maintenance works (largely due to Import and currency restrictions affecting
Its spare parts purchases). The weight of administrative expenses (basically
Head Office costs) In relation to the total working expenses remained
constant (about 242) between 1962-1985. Depreciatlon costs have been low
because AGP's assets were not revalued on technical basis. Based on the
historical values of the assets, despite of indexation, during the last five
years depreciation represented no more than 1.6S of the gross fixed assets
values. Because of the low depreciation charges, AGP's past operating
results have been reported to be more favorable than should have been. In
addition, in the past, dredging costs have not been shown in AGP's books and
the lack of reflecting the net results of dredging further dlstorted the
reported operating results. With the exception of 1985 (when the annual loss
was A$1.1 million), the annual profits averaged about A$2.2 million; based on
the preliminary Information, AGP in 1986 expects a profit of A$1.1 million.
5.        The financial position of AGP has been sound.  Over the recent
years, the current ratios were high, cash surpluses (particularly substantial
during the last two years) have been invested in short term Bank deposits or
State Bonds earning market rate of interests. As of the end of 1986, AGP's
(preliminary) Balance Sheet showed about A.$1.7 million cash at Bank and A.$4
million short term financial investments and some A.$8 million receivables
against about A.$5 million short term obligations. AGP's 1986 current ratio
is 3.5. Details of AGP's Financial Statements are shown In Tables 1 to 4 of
this Annex.
(iii) AGP's Projected Financial Performance
6.        Based upon the projected traffic (and other assumptions as shown in
section (iv) of this Annex) a financial forecast was prepared for the next
five years. The projections reflect the anticipated costs of future
operations including dredging at Bahia Blanca for which DNCPVN is expected to
charge AGP from 1991. However, in order to assess the need for (and the



- 64 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 7
extent of) any tariff/revenue actions that may be needed to meet fund
requirements and to achieve realistic financial objectives, the projected
revenues are based upon existing tariffs. The sensitivity of the forecast
performance to changes in cost and to lower than expected traffic has also
been tested (para. 12).
8.        In the next five years, AGP's total operating revenues are expected
to increase and by 1991, based on the current tariffs, would be A.$49
million, some 24% higher than in 1986. Cargo dues would remain the most
important contributor to the revenues followed by ship dues.  The importance
of storage would further decline, while grain would be gaining; in 1991 about
35Z of cargo dues would be grain traffic related (compared to 24% in 1986).
Working costs are forecast to increase during 1986-1991 period by about 60%
mainly due to dredging. From 1991 AGP is expected to pay for the cost of
maintenance dredging which would represent about 30% of the 1991 working
costs. The personnel remuneration, which remains the most important single
cost item, and material and administration costs would increase by about 13%,
10% and 12%, respectively, from 1986 to 1991.
9.        AGP's cash generating capacity would increase until 1990 when the
working ratio is forecast to be 74 as compared to 79 in 1985 and 82 in 1986.
However, in 1991, when AGP is expected to start paying for dredging, unless
tariffs would be adjusted to recover the dredging costs, the working ratio
would deteriorate to 1.05. Between 1986-1991, AGP's internally generated
cash surplus would still be substantial, equal to about 30% of its five years
investment program. AGP, after covering its working expenses and debt
obligations, would need about A.S104 million infusion of funds to be able to
complete its investment program. For the purpose of projections, it has been
assumed that the Government will make this amount available as capital
contribution.
10.       While cash generation would be reasonable, AGP is projected to
incur operating losses at an increasing scale due to the higher depreciation
charges and in 1991 due to dredging costs. By 1991 the gross values of AGP's
assets would increase by some 37% to A.$853 million due to the investment
program (A.$140 million) and asset revaluation (A.$90 million). Providing
the investment program is undertaken as currently planned (para. 2.15), even
if the existing assets would not be revalued, AGP's annual depreciation would
increase to A.$14.6 million compared to A.$9.6 million in 1986. An
appropriate revaluation of the existing assets is estimated to increase the
annual depreciation by A.$8.1 million; with the investment program,
depreciation costs in 1991 would be about A.S23 million. As a result of this
and because of the introduction of dredging costs, AGP in 1991 would incur an
operating loss of about A.$25 million which could be offset either with about
51% increase in operating revenues or by about 48% reduction in the working
expenses. However, it would be difficult to expect the port users to absorb
such a large tariff increase over a relatively short (5 years) period.
Therefore, it is considered that AGP should aim at an overall cost recovery
(i.e., working costs including dredging plus depreciation and interest) by



- 65 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 7
1995 and as an interim measure, gradually adjust its tariffs to maintain in
1991 a working ratio of .84 and operating ratio of 1.23.  The projected
Financial Stateuents of AGP are shown in Tables I to 4 of this Annex.
11.       Separate financial projections have been prepared for the Port of
Bahia Blanca on a limited basis since in the absence of cost accounting,
common costs such as Head Office expenses could not be appropriated.
Operation at Bahia Blanca, in 1985, generated about A.$4.7 million net
income, which in 1986, due to the reduction in traffic and the absence of
tariff adjustments, dropped to A.$.7 million. The overwhelming bulk of the
revenues were, and in the future are expected to remain, grain traffic
related. By 1991 total operating revenues are expected to be A.$6.1 million,
an increase of 67% compared to 1986. By 1991 the 1986 working expenses
(A.$1.5 milJion) expected to nearly treble (A.$4.2 million) mainly because of
the dredging costs which previously did not feature in AGP's books. Dredging
in 1991 is expected to represent almost 60% of the working costs. Between
1987 and 1991 the Bahia Blanca Port is expected to generate some A.$15
million cash surplus available as a contribution to finance part of AGP's
investment program, and to meet the Head Office expenses and debt service.
12.       The sensitivity of AGP's financial performance to higher working
costs, to increases in project costS and to lower-than-expected traffic has
been tested. Since AGP would be expected to adjust charges to maintain its
financial targets, the results are expressed as tariff increases that may be
necessary to offset adverse impacts upon finances. For example, if in 1991
working costs were 15% higher than forecast, then 66% additional revenue
would be necessary to achieve break even. With 15X lower than expected
traffic and no increased costs, the additional revenues would have to be
77%.
(iv) APG's Financial Forecast Assumptions
13.       The financial forecasts are in constant 1986 Australes and for the
purpose of comparison, the operating results for 1981-1985 are also shown in
the same values. For the next five years' forecasts, the following major
assumptions have been considered in addition to AGP's past financial
performance and its 1986 budget.
14.       Traffic projections are discussed in Annex 2 which summarizes the
rationale for developing the traffic forecast. For cargo and ship related
revenue calculations, the existing tariff structure produced average revenues
have been applied separately to the forecasted traffic of Buenos Aires, Bahia
Blanca and the "other" AGP ports. Storage revenues have been forecast to
increase by 1Z p.a. and for the projection of other revenues, which basically
represent income from equipment rental, the 1985 relationship to direct
revenues have been maintained.
15.       The cost projections are based upon operating conditions related to
the traffic forecast. Where past costs were the basis for (or materially



- 66 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 7
Influenced) the projections, adjustments were introduced to avoid possible
distortions due to past budgetary constraints (e.g., deferred maintenance).
(a) Personnel Costs. An annual increment of 2.5Z has been projected to
reflect increases due to merit and longer service and also to
reflect, to a lesser extent, overall salary adjustments. No change
in the number of employees was forecast.
(b) Spare Parts, Materials and Fuel Costs - were projected in direct
relation to the -Other Cargo- traffic because port activities
related to 'Other Cargo' have the largest incidence in the
consumption of spare parts, materials and fuel.
(c) Administrative Costs - were projected to increase from 1985 at the
same rate as spares, materials and fuel costs.
(d) Dredging Costs - have been projected on the assumption that from
1991, AGP would have to reimburse DNCPVN for maintenance dredging
works carried out in its ports. The basis of the cost estimates
are recent (1985) dredging cost analyses for similar work3
developed by consultants (Delft Hydraulic Laboratory - Guayaquil
Hydraulic Study); and dredging volumes determined by same
consultants under the Bahia Blanca Channel Study.
(e) Depreciation Costs - were projected on the assumption that AGP's
asset revaluation will be completed by 1989; for adjusting asset
values, the difference between past inflation rates and the indexes
used in AGP's books for adjustments, on the average estimated to be
15% were applied. For new investments the following annual
depreciation rates were applied:
Civil Works - 2.5Z
Equipment   - 6.6Z;
(f)  For financial planning purposes, it was assumed that AGP will
finance its next five years' investment program to the extent that
its internal cash generation would permit; any necessary additional
financing will be made by the Government as capital contribution.
(v) National Grain Board (JNG)
16.       The National Grain Board (JNG) was established in the early 1930s,
during the depression, to promote the production of wheat, corn and linseed
by offering support prices to farmers. Over the years, JNG underwent several
changes and now its basic functions, as an autonomous agency of the
Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries (SAG), includes the
establishment of grading systems and marketing regulations for grain trade,
administration and mauagement of public grain elevators and storage
facilities, and the participation in the domestic and foreign (grain) trade.



- 67 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 7
Accordingly, JNG's organization is divided to manage two distinct types of
activities, viz. trading and operation of grain handling facilities, the
latter being the more important from the point of view of facilitating grain
export movements.
17.       The financial arrangements between the Government and the Junta
basically have all the characteristics of a commercial enterprise, and the
accounting procedures are generally In line with commercial practices. The
Government as the owner provides the Junta with capital for asset
acquisitions and in lieu of dividends, receives operational surpluses
whenever available. The Junta's charges (tariffs) for handling and
inspection services are to recover system-ivide operating costs. While the
tariffs are not designed to generate resources for new asset acquisition, the
Junta has to generate sufficient funds to cover the cost of the renewal of
its existing assets. Surpluses after meeting operating and asset renewal
expenses have to be transferred to the Government. The tariffs are not
uniform. At various locations (theoretically), depending on the quality of
services that the particular JIG facility can offer (which influences
productivity) the charges are different and as a result cross subsidization
between the various facilities exists.
18.       In 1985 JNG's revenues were about A.$51 million, the total
operating costs were A.$30 million and the ope_ating surplus was about
A.$21 million. The 1985 surplus represented about 40% of the gross revenues
compared to 18% in 1984 and almost 45Z in 1983. The 1985 working ratio was
.57, almost as good as in 1984 (.50) and about 28Z better than in 1984. In
Bahia Blanca the JNG handles about 5 million tons of grain with a relatively
low (600 tons per hour) productivity. In 1985 the revenues for handling and
inspection were A.$16.1 million (A.$3.46 per ton), the working costs were
A.$6.8 million (or A.$1.14 per ton), and the cost of asset renewal was A.$1.3
million (or A.$0.28 per ton). With a throughput of 4.7 million tons of
grain, the operation yielded a surplus of A.$9.2 million which were used to
meet common costs such as Head Office expenses and/or to support financially
less viable operations at smaller facilities. (Details of the financial
results are shown in Table 5 of this Annex).
19.       The proposed project facilities would become operational only in
1991. Therefore, to meet the anticipated demand of the next five years
(about 6 million tons p.a.), the Junta has to implement some temporary
facilities at a cost of A.$2.1 million. The operation of these facilities
would attract an annual cost of A.$.5 million in addition to some A.$1
million increase in general working costs caused by the additional volume to
be handled. However, revenues would also increase by some A.S4 million and
the Junta's annual operating surpluses at Bahia Blanca would be in the region
of A.$10 to 12 million during the next five years.
20.       After 1991, the proposed project investment of about A.$50.6
million, would attract annually a cost of A.$3.2 million. In this case, even
if the annual throughput would remain at 6 million tons, the Junta's



- 68 -
ANNE 3
Page 7 of 7
operating surplus in Bahia Blanca Is expected to be about A.$9.8 million.
However, the project is designed to Improve productivity and Increase
throughput; therefore, the annual volumes to be handled are expected to
increase and improve the financial situation of JNG. It is estimated that
every additional one million tons of grain throughput would Improve the
Junta's annual surplus by about A.$2 to 2.5 million. Therefore, should the
total annual throughput at Bahia Blanca increase to about 8.5 million tons,
the project investment would be recovered within ten years.
April 7, 1987



- 69 -
ANNEX 3
Table 1
ARGENTINA
Blabla BlnCa I Port Project
Gpts Incom  Statoments
(A$ '000)
1992    1933    1994    1935    1986    1987    1988    19I3      1990    199
WORTIN  REVEMUES
Port dues     13562   15312   15716   1763    13025   14036   14477   15254   1603!   16509
Grain      5312    9129   9000   105S    5143    6229    7315    8401    9486    9925
Liquid bulk       274     255      216     463      159     163     165      169     170      173
other caruo     10470   10035   13140   14536   12367   12544   12793   13047   13306   13492
Stor|e       9246    6524    6039    4600    4082    4123    4164    42M        4247    4290
Other      4626    3n      4092    5113    4429    3622    3799    4010    4222    1333
TOTAL OPETING REEIlES            43490   45397   49002   S23    39202   0716   42713   45035   47466   43711
I11N1  EiPsEIS
Naterials, spares. fuel    10797    5354    6311    0550    6590    6674    6907    6942    7060    7173
Maes and salarin       13477   16659   22366   22990   1769    19136   19590   19055   19531   20019
Administration      7226   8941    9335   10190    79    0023    8212    906    9604    973
Dredino                                                                                  15341
TOTAL NIORKIINS EXPENSES       31500   30954   39012   41739   32123   32933   33609   34402   35215   51326
RECIATlO9 8493    9310    9494    9541    9626   12039   13529   14560   22392   22996
OTHE  PRVISIIJUS             3462    1519  -4351    3117   -2131        447     455      464     474      480
TOTAL OPERATINI EXPENSES        43455  4133  44145   596   39618   45319   47593   4427   59591   74791
NET OPERATIIG INCONE                35    3714    3957  -1460    -416   -46U02   -4160   -442  -11115  -26090
lET ton operatin  incose            5875    2095      813    1750    2426    1771    1771    1771    1771    1771
Interest     212Z    2222    13B0    1344      874      66b     666      784     607     470
MET INCONE (L059S            3093    3537    3290   -1054    1136   -3497   -3775   -3355   -99SI  -24779
MOI1IN RATIO                 72      68      e1       79      92       91      79      76       74     105
OPERATING RATIO              0OO      92      92      103     101      liI     111     110      123     154
Source: AGP and ms8loin estimates
April 1987



- 70 -
ANX 3
Table 2
Bahia Blanes I Fort Project
Acr Fund Flow statmuta
1962    1933    193      1995   16    1967    1968    1999    299o             II
EOURCES
Net Operating Revenue ILcsf               35    3714    357   -1460    -416   -4602   -4U0    -4342  -21115  -26000
Net non operating ruvenae           5675    2095      113    1750    2426    1771    1771    1771    1771    1771
Depreciatoft          8493    9310    9484    9541    9626   1203    13529   14560   22892   229M
Other Provisions          3462    1519  -4351    3117   -2131          447     455      464      474     490
Chanqes in valutisi reerve           -1569    -1229    3645    63    -3073
Total Internal Cash qeeration            2170   15410   13M       1041    1427    96        10617  12454   14022    -544
Loans
Las Governt                            2344   15000
Other                      2260                               32    1130        234       21
Capital contributin                        52             3852            27670   46416   36077   20575
Net Sale of Assets                        115     353       U         9               15       15       IS      i5       IS
Decrease/(Incruuse) in Cash               544     191      478    -422    -747   -1248       205      250   -595    5556
TOTAL SOURCES                  5211   1M    3734   18623   32332   55967   47457   33315    9092    4727
APPLICATIONS
Investunt-Proict                                                      2695      604       27
-  Other       18497   11203    4214    5292   230   520    44500   31060    5930    2950
Interest        22       2222    1330    1344       874     666      666     784      607      470
Loan Redmpt IIn
-60ovt.                          3U4    7451
-other         843    4837    4527    5924       961    19    1467    1179    1299    1277
Change in Other Assets 11          -1041    -175   2643        -14                .3
Chanqe in Working CaPital /         -15910      211   -1119   -1369    2267   -1230        220      265      266     130
TOTAL APPLICAT11                5211   18292    3 4   18628   32332   55967   47457   33315    6092    477
I/  included in 1984 A$ 26.519 millilon Governnt receivables.
2/ Ezcluding c"a
Source: AGP and misioU estimtes
April 1987



- 71 -
ANNEX 3
Table 3
ARGENTINL
Bahia Bisca I Port ProJect
AGP's Balance Sheets
(AS '000)
1982    1983    1904   195    19,6    1997    1989    1999    1990    1I9
ASSETS
Cash      1211    1020      542      964    1711    2959    2754    2504    8449    2993
Receivables      93K      8322    9847    5777    N011    5020    526         5559    5952    6005
Short term investments       1199       14    654      5531    4326    3500    3500    3500    3500    3500
Otherlincl. inventoryl       2973    4060    439       1155    1964    2500    2500    2500    2500    2500
Total Current Assets           14771   13416   20331   13477   16012   13979   14020   14062   20301   1499
Fixed Assets(inc.s. in prour)    575945  586795  590961  596244  623474  678654  723743  754815  850136  852971
less Depreciation    132142  141452  150936  160477  170103  182141  195170  210231  233123  256108
Net Fixed Assets            443803  445343  440025  435767  453371  496513  529073  544594  617013  596863
Other Assets       223       49       17       3        3
TOTAL ASSETS              458797  45B907  460373  449247  469386  510492  542093  559647  637315  611761
LIABILITIES and CAPITAL
Current Liabilities
Accunts payable        3608    2395    3319    3738    3549    1209    1234    1261    1289    1312
Other current liabilities        201       39    7627    1301    1011    1301    1301    1301    1301    1301
Net Long -term Debt(Govmt) 1/    22871   25215   11360    3909    3909    3909    3909    3909    3909    3909
Other Provisions              8674   10193    5942    8959    6329    7275    7730    9195    8669    9148
Other long term debt           22926   17999   13462    7539    959    9350    9167    7009    5720    4443
Equity
Capital incl.Govmt. contrib.          56       56     909   8909   36579   8294  119"71  139646  139646  13964
Cumulative ProfitlLossi    1738   181971  195261  184207  195343  181846  178071  174716  164766  139997
Reserves    2171  220949  224594  230687  222609  222609  222609  222609  312015  312015
Total Equity              400617  402976  418763  423802  444530  497450  519752  536972  616427  591649
TOTAL LIABILITIES and EQUITY    458797  459907  460373  449247  469386  510492  542093  559647  6715  611761
Debt/Equity Ratio (ir21             15      14       10        6       6        5       4        4        3       3
1/  Includes frot 1984 AS 26.519 million receivables.
Source: AGP and mission estimte.
April 1987



- 72 -
ANNEX 3
SNTIN
Bahia Blanc' I Port Project
Bahia Blanca Income Statements I/
(A$ '00o)
1992    1983    2994    1985    1996    197    19    1999    19,90    29I
OPERATING REVENUES
Port dues      1210    2717    1934    2763    1724    1969    1942    2045    2249    2457
Grain      100    2513    1909    3309    1393    1693    1993    2292    2592    2901
Liquid bulk          I      14       26       13      12       12       13      13       13       13
Other cargo       275      314      350     232      196      199      200     202      204      206
Storage        16       19      22       41        0        0       0        0        0       0
Other       377     469      589      444      325     371      395      444     494      545
TOTAL OPERTING REVENUES            3167    6045    4730    6803    3650    4251    4442    4997    552    6122
VOIINS EXPENSES
laterials and Fuel        334      455     612      528      649     655      662      669      675     682
-aros and salaries        264      365     513      4W8      S9      614      629      645     661      678
Adainistration        134     179      241      233     287      292      297     302      307      312
Dredginq                                                                                    2541
TOTAL WOING EXPENSES               732     999    1366    1249    1535    1561    158        1615    1644    4213
DEPRECIATION                 931    1434    1421    1450    1450    1517    1532    1533    1533    1533
OTHER PROVISIONS                                                   13       13       13      13       13       13
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES           1663    2432    2787    2699    299        3091    3133    3161    3190   575
NET OPERATING INCOME                1304    3613    1943    4104       653    1160    1309    1836    2362         362
NET non operatinq incom                 99      67       92      624       69     294      214      294     294      294
NET INCOWE                    1593    3690    2035    4728        722    1444    1593    2120    2646        646
MORING RATIO                  23       17      29       IS       42       37      36       32       30      69
OPERATING RATIO                53       40      59       40       82      73       71       63       57      94
1/  Excluding share of 11/O expenses
Source:  AGP and  issilon estimates
April 1987



- 73 -
ANNEX 3
Tablea
ARGENTINA
BAHIA BLAICA I PORT PROJECT
JNG's Operating Results (1983-1985)
Bahia Blanca
Total JNG                      1985
1983     1984      198S     1985                  an Z of
(as 2 of Total Op. Ilv.) -(A$ all)   (A$  111) Op. Rev.
Revenues
operat mg revenues related
to grain handling            98.0      95.7      92.0      46.9         16.0      99.3
Other operating revenue          2.0      4.3       80        4.1           .1        .7
Total Operating Revenues         100.0    100.0     100.0       51.0        16.1     100.0
Expenses
Salaries, Wages                33.5      53.9      34.7      17.7          2.9      18.0
Grain Handling/conservatlon      9.0     11.7      11.6        5.9         2.2      13.7
AdMnistrative                    8.2     10.8       9.2       4.6           .6       3.7
Oatenance                        1 .5     1.      t 3.1        1.2         11
Mncher a6 1c9 1t 3.
52.8     81.3    ;74;2
Amortization and financial
expenses                       2.2      1.0       2.0        1.0          .1        .7
Total Expenses                    55.0     82.3      59.6      30.4          6.9      42.9
Net Operating Inc-m               45.0     17.7      40.4      20.6          9.2      57.1
Source: AGP and Mission estimates
April 1987



- 74 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 4
ARGENTINA
BAHLA BLANCA I PORT PROJECT
Bank Assietance to the Transport Sector in Argentina
A. Highways
1.        The First Highway Project (Loan 288-AR, US$32.0 million after
cancellation, June 1961) was completed in 1968 and Included financing for:
(i) 40X of the construction cost of various road sections totalling about
2,600 km; (ii) the cost of imported maintenance equipment, and (iii)
consultant's fees for assistance in engineering and supervision. The
original Closing Date, December 1965, was postponed several times, until the
final closing of December 1968. Progress on the project was slow, and
worsened from early 1962 through mid-1965 owing mainly to a shortage of local
funds which resulted In arrears In payments to contractors, and to various
changes in Government and the management of Vialidad which caused confusion,
lack of continuity, and poor relations with the consultants. Moreover,
continuous devaluation of the peso combined with late submissions of
disbursements applications seriously delayed loan disbursements.
Consequently, US$16.5 million of the loan was cancelled in August 1965.
Afterwards, the project implementation considerably improved, and although
with substantial delays, project objectives were reasonably achieved with the
construction of about 2,000 km and the acquisition of maintenance equipment.
A Project Completion Report was not prepared for this project.
2.        The Second Highway Project (Loan 619-AR, US$25 million, June 1969)
was completed in 1978 and included construction and construction supervision
of 1,602 km (796 km. at appraisal) of highways; technical assistance for
preinvestment studies, highway planning and administration, and transport
coordination; and procurement of equipment. The project as appraised was
completed with a delay of one year and a total cost underrun of 14Z. The
underrun, which resulted from devaluation of the Argentine peso and lower
than expected contract prices, made the Bank to propose inclusion of
additional 266 km of highways, but it took two years to reach agreement on
using the surplus loan funds. This delay in turn resulted in the additional
work being affected by sharp price increases. Completion of the additional
work took two years longer and cost 99% more than expected. Overall the
expanded project required nine years to complete successfully and experienced
a 9Z cost overrun. The audit economic rate of return is a weighted average
of 19% for the four sections constructed under the original project, compared
with the 12Z appraisal estimate. Higher traffic volumes and VOC more than
offset higher construction cost and longer implementation time. The audit ER
for one of the two additional sections was 27%, two percentage points less
than at appraisal. The particular issues which arose in connection with the
project were: (a) the underdisbursement of the loan; (b) the underestimation
of traffic growth; (c) the problems of highway management; (d) the delay in
implementation of vehicle weight and dimension regulation; and (e) the major



- 75 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 4
effort required for transport coordination. A long-term achievement has been
Institutional development: Vialldad haa Improved lts capaclty to plan and
adminlster the changing needs of the network as a result of the experience
gained under the Second Highway Project. All feasibillty and engineering
studies have been completed and the results have formed the basis of the
Thlrd and Fourth Highway Project.
3.        The Third Highway Project (Loan 734-AR, US$67.5 million, May 1971)
was completed in 1980 and included 18 high-priority road sections totalling
bout 1,128 km for upgrading or construction, and consulting services for
updating the iational road reconnaissance survey and for feaslbility and
engineering studies which subsequently identified and prepared the Fourth
Highway Project. After the substantial progress mAde under the First and
Second Highway Projects, no further direct assistance for institutlonal
development was included in the Third Highway Project. Although done through
ICB, all civil work was awarded to Argentlne flrms, because International
contractors showed no interest due to extensive local competition. The total
cost of road works was about US$197 million, an Increase of 41Z over the
appraisal estimate. Time overrun was 190Z because the project closed 6-1/2
years after the appralsal estimate. The overall ER was less than expected at
'appraisal (17Z versus 24Z) mainly due to the extended construction time with
consequent inflation, and the resulting below-expectations traffic growth.
The Third Highway Project was successful despite cost overruns and long
delays in completing certain of the road sections. The project met its
principal objective of upgrading key sections of the national highway network
and reducing transport costs.
4.        The Fourth Highway ProJect (Loan 1384-AR, US$105 million, May 1977)
was completed in June 1986 and included improvement and construction
supervision of 1,285 km, technical aesistance for studies and equipment for
the Pavement Overlay Study. The project was amended in 1983 to allocate
US$15 million for emergency repair of flood damage. There has been no cost
overrun, but the time overrun was 150x. The preparation of PCR is delayed
because of lack of traffic data for certain sections which we-e transferred
to Provinces. Consequently no ex-post ER is available. The Fourth Highway
Project achieved its objectives, despite long delays in the implementation.
All civil works, including emergency works, have been completed, as well as
technical assistance for the National Transport Plan, the Pavement Overlay
Study and the Traffic Safety Program and procurement of equipment.
5.        The Fifth Highway Project (Loan 2296-AR, US$100 million, January
1984) is under execution and provides assistance in the implementation of a
series of programs included in the 1983-1986 Road Investment Plan. The
components of the Plan supported by the project are: (a) civil works for the
national highway system, which includes a wide variety of works from road
marking and signing, to reconstruction or new construction of roads or urban
beltways; (b) civil works for the provincial networks, including betterment
and reconstruction projects, as well as selected construction works; (c)
procurement of traffic counters; and (d) technical assistance to DNV and
Sub-Secretariat of Transport Planning (SSTP). After a slow start, when the



- 76 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 4
Sector Lending concept had not been applied, the progress of project
implementation has been Improving, especially for national roads. The
implementation of the provincial component had to overcome a number of
difficulties, and although still unsatisfactory, starts showing aose
improvements. Presently, all civil work allocations have been committed and
estimated completion dates for national roads is December 1987 and for
provincial roads June 1989. The technical assistance component Is behind
schedule, but DNV and SSTP are making efforts to accelerate the
implementation of these components as well.
B. Railways
6.        The First Railway Project (Loan 733-AR, US$56.3 million after
cancellation, April 1971) was completed in July 1980 and was based on FA's
Investment Plan for the five-year period 1971-1975 and comprised the first
two years (L971-1972) of the Investment Plan, together with a program of
action to improve the operations and financial position of the Argentine
Railways (FA). Investment of the equivalent of US$368 million were proposed
during the project period 1971-1972 of which the foreign exchange component
was estimated at US$172 million equivalent. The Bank loan of US$84 million
was to finance 23% of the ;roject or 49Z of the foreign exchange
requirements. The implementation of the project ran into trouble almost from
the start. As the action taken in implementation of the agreed program was
grossly inadequate, the Bankt decided to stop disbursements in July 1972.
After an agreed project amendment, the project implementation resumed. By
February 1974 it was apparent that no progress was achieved, and US$27.5
million were cancelled. Main features of the project implementation were:
(a) the project was completed in 1980 instead of 1972; (b) lack of adequate
Government funds; (c) there was a cost-overrun of 11%; (d) concerning the
1971-1975 investment program, only 31% of the Investment expected to be made
by 1975 were actually made by the end 1975; (e) hardly any action was taken
by FA to seriously implement the plan of action agreed with the Bank at Loan
negotiations.
7.        The Second Railway Project (Loan 1677-AR, US$66.4 million after
cancellation, March 1979) was completed in December 1984. The project was
intended to strengthen Argentine Railway (FA) through the redimensioning of
its system, the rehabilitation of its track and equipment; and the
improvement of its management and services. Also, through technical
assistance and studies, the project aimed to review various aspects of FA and
to develop its planning and project evaluation capabilities. The objectives
were only partially achieved despite a two-year extension of the loan
period. Frequent changes in top management (five presidents between 1979 and
1985), uncertain political conditions, deteriorating economic conditions and
accelerated monetary depreciation were significant negative factors.
Positive accomplishments included reasonable progress on main line
rehabilitation and improvement, freight car turnaround time and box car
modification. Negatively, the overall increase in freight ton-kilometers in
1984 was only 2.5% over that in 1979, diesel locomotive availability was
about the same in 1984 as in 1979, and staff numbers in 1984 were about 4%



- 77 -
ANNEX 4
Yagz4of 4
over those in 1979. nritical study elements of the project, uneconomic lines
and manpower were nev. properly carrled out despite a series of Government
comicounts to do soo The PCR of this project is under preparation.
February 1987



- 78 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 2
ARGENTINA
BARIA BLANCA I PORT PROJECT
Project Description and Implementation Details
General
1.        The proposed project is addressed to rehabilitate existing
facilities at the grain export terminal at Ing. White in Bahia Blanca,
reconstruct and modernize installations damaged during the 1977 and 1985
accidents and serviclng larger vessels. However, as the terminal's
ship-loading capacity was serlously affected after the 1985 accident, the
project would also include emergency works to partially restore the lost
capacity. Another important aspect that would be covered under the project
is silo safety, not only at Bahia Blanca, but at other selected JNG's
grain-handling terminals. The project would also assist: (a) JNG in the
improvement of grain transport and handling efficiency of the Bahia Blanca
system and maintenance services at selected terminals; and (b) the Government
in strengthening DNCPVN's and AGP's administrative and financial capabilities
and DNCPVN's maintenance services.
2.        Following the March 1985 accident, an emergency plan to maintain
Argentina's grain exports at levels required to fulfill the country's
comitments was undertaken by the GOA through the MOSP. This plan included
among other things: an emergency ship-loading gallery at berth 9,
rehabilitation works and dredging alongside berth 5 at Galvan; and temporary
conversion by private investors of a coal berth (DEBA) to allow grain
vessels' loading operations. The emergency ship-loading gallery which
includes the construction of a temporary truck reception station, is part of
tLe proposed project.
Project Items
3.        The emergency ship-loading gallery that would be included in the
proposed project was designed to partially restore the truck reception
capacity and recuperate the ship-loading installed capacity prior to the 1985
accident. This component would enable to receive 800 ton/hour by truck and
transfer and elevate grain and load ships in a mechanized manner, reducing
the need of manual direct delivery. The emergency system will continue in
operation until the elevator 5 reconstruction and modernization is completed.
4.        The maritime works component would consist of the partial
demolition of an existing out-of-service iron wharf and the construction of
two mooring dolphins to facilitate large vessels' approach and berthing at
berth 9 and the removal of a sunken dredger to restore the use of a mooring
basin in the proximity of the grain terminal.
5.        The most important project item would be the rehabilitation and
modernization of the grain bhadling systems addressed specifically to the
damaged elevator 5. This item would include the construction of new truck



- 79 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 2
weighing and reception facilities, transfer and ship-loading galleries and
required additional structures; the reconstruction of the machinery tower and
silos, and all the elevator equlpment and instrumentation. This component
would restore the terminal's capacity prior to the 1977 and 1985 accidents
and introduce updated modern technology.
6.        The silo safety program component would consist of civil works,
equlpment and Instrumentation to bring the Bahia Blanca grain terminal and
other selected JNG terminals up to acceptable safety standards. The
amount allocated in the proposed loan for this component is based upon a
general inspection of the grain terminals and preliminary cost estimates
prepared by JNG as reviewed and revised by Bank staff. JNG is in the process
of retaining independent silo safety experts to carry out a thorough
inspection and prepare a diagnostic that would provide sufficient information
and recommendations to enable JNG to carry out all detailed engineering
design and undertake the necessary actions to upgrade safety procedures. The
abovementioned experts will be financed by the ongoing Loan 1521-AR. Further
details of the silo safety program are given in Appendices A and B and an
analysis of JNG's efficiency and productivity targets is given in Appendix C
to this Annex.
7.        The railway works component would improve railway-port interface
operations (convoys' forming and breaking, wagons' classification and
transfer to and from the terminal's reception station, etc.) through the
rehabilitation of the Bahia Blanca marshalling yard.
8.        The technical assistance and the engineering study that would be
included in the project are described in Annex 7.
Implementation
9.        The Government would establish a PC and a PCU to monitor,
coordinate and supervise the implementation of the project. An outline of
the terms of reference for the PCU is given in Appendix C to this Annex.
April 7, 1987



- 80 -
ANNEX 5
Appendix A
Page 1 of 2
ARGENTINA
BAHIA BLANCA I PORT PROJECT
Silo Safety Program
General
1.        Elevator safety in Argentina has been a major problem; old
facilities together with less than adequate maintenance, obsolete and/or
inefficient dust collection systems, inappropriate and incomplete safety
regulations and the lack of suitable mechanisms to implement them, have
caused a relatively large number of accidents. The latest serious accident
occurred in March 1985 at Bahia Blanca and it prompted JNG to establish a
Central Silo Safety Committee (CSG) in Buenos Aires and regional safety
committees (RSC) at all JNG's districts. In November 1985, and in compliance
with Labor Law 19587 and Decree 351/79, JNG created a Uygiene and Safety
Services Department (SSD) to develop and Implement a Silo Safety Program
described in the following paragraphs. The objectives of the CSC and the SSD
are to: (a) reduce working risks to protect the health and life of JNG
personnel; and (b) protect the JNG's assets and avoid high operating costs
caused by accidents.
2.        The CSC is responsible for ensuring the improvement of JNG hygiene
and safety conditions, developing safety policies, and approving the
necessary actions and means for their implementation through the SSD.
Responsibilities at the regional level have been assigned to the RCSB which
have to report to and are responsible before the Central Committee. Staffing.
SSD is currently being pursued by JNG and it should be completed before
loan effectiveness.
Plan of Action
3.        JNG is in the process of retaining experts to be financed by Loan
1521-AR to further define a silo safety program and provide JNG with
sufficient information and recommendations to develop a plan of action which
would include, among other, the following: (a) preparation of detailed
engineering to upgrade some selected JNG terminals by June 30, 1988; (b)
preparation of safety codes and regulations not later than December 31, i988;
and (c) implementation of safety codes and regulations, not later than
December 31, 1989. The supervision of the execution of worke and equipment
included in this project component, would be carried out directly with JNG's
personnel and to that effect JNG would prepare a plan of action satisfactory
to the Bank for such supervision prior to the award of corresponding
contracts.



- 81 -
ANNEX 5
Appendix A
Page 2 of 2
Preliminary Assessment of Present Conditions
4.        JNG carried out a preliminary assessment of the safety conditions
of elevators located in the following districts: Buenos Aires, Bahia Blanca,
Rosarlo, Villa Constitucion, Necoches, Barranqueras and Diamante. This
assessment indicated that investments required to bring the elevators up to
acceptable safety standards would amount to over US$25.0 million; the tasks
involved would include: (a) civil works for remodeling the elevators' head
houses; (b) mechanical works to upgrade existing ventilation, dust collection
and fire-fighting systems; (c) electrical works to upgrade equipment and
networks; (d) equipment to replace obsolete ventilation, dust collection and
fire-fighting systems and install new ones where required; and (e)
instruments/equipment for monitoring and detection systems. Specific
investments at each JNG teininal would be fully defined by JNG assisted by
safety experts being retained under Loan 1521-AR. Due to JNG's budgetary
restrictions the safety program for all elevators under its responsibility
would be carried out in two phases; the proposed project would include funds
to finance the first phase addressed to upgrade elevator 3 at Bahia Blanca
and other elevators at the JNG's grain terminals mentioned herein above and
at other ports acceptable to the Bank. The second phase covering the rest of
the JNG system would be financed under the Bahia Blanca II Port Project.
Preliminary summary cost estimates for this component are given in Table 1 to
this Appendix and detailed estimates for each of the terminals included in
the project are attached as Table 1 co this Appendix. An outlivze of terms of
reference for the silo safety experts is given in Appendix B to this Annex.
Implementation
5.        Implementation of the safety program component would be monitored
by the CSC.  The physical components would be under responsibility of the JNG
Engineering Services Department with the assistance of independent safety
experts and the rest of items included the plan of action would be carried
out by the recently established SSD.



- 82 -
ANNEX 5
Appendlx A
Table 1
Page 1 of 4
ARGENTINA
BAHIA BLANCA I PORT PROJECT
Cost Estimates for Silo Safety Progras
Cost Estimates
(US$O0O0)
Location              Description                    Local   Foreign   Total
1. Bahia Blanca
(a) Civil Works   - Construction of new
control room                  80        50      130
- Upgrading
- Electricity systems
at truck and railway
reception areas              93         57      150
- Firefighting systems          50        30       80
- Emergency exists              31        19       50
- Remodeling head house        124        76      200
- Miscellaneous (20%)           62        38      100
(b) Equipment     - Alarm systems                 12         28       40
- Dust collection systems      195       455      650
- Monitoring and
detection systems             30        70      100
- Emergency elevators           15        35       50
- Mobile equipment               -       120      120
- Pressurized chambers          30        70      100
- Miscellaneous (20Z)           60       140      200
Subtotal:                                    782      1,188    1,970
2. Buenos Aires
(a) Civil Works   - Upgrading
- Firefighting systems         233       142      375
- Electricity systems           93        57      150
- Remodeling bead house        124        76      200
- Miscellaneous (20%)           90        55      145
(b) Equipment     - Dust collection systems      115        265      380
- Monitoring and
detection systems             30        70      100
- Miscellaneous (20%)           29        67       96
Subtotal                                     714       732    1,446



- 83 -
A=nEX 5
Appendix A
Table 1
Page 2 of 4
Cost Estimates
(US$'000)
Location               Description                     Local   Foreign   Tbtal
3. Rosario
(a) Civil Works   - Upgrading:
- Electricity systems           233       142       375
- Firefighting systems          217       133       350
- Remodeling head house         124        76       200
- Emergency exists               25        15        40
- Miscellaneous (20Z)           120        73       193
(b) Equipment      - Dust collection systems        60       140       200
- MAuitoring and
detection systems              30        70       100
- Miscellaneous (201)            18        42        60
Subtotal                                      827        691    1,518
4. Villa Cobstitucion
(at Villa Constitucion,
San NUcolas and San
Pedro)
(a) Civil Woris  - Upgrading;
- Electricity systems            78        47       125
- Firefighting systems          140        85       225
- Miscellaneous (201)           43         27        70
(b) Equipment     - Dust collection systems        97        228       325
- Monitoring and
detection systems             24         56        80
- Miscellaneous (201)            24        56        80
Subtotal                                       406       499       905



- 84 -
ANNEX 5
Appendix A
Table 1
Page 3 of 4
Cost Estimates
-    US-$ I
Location               Description                    Local   Fo g    Total
5. Necochea
(a) Civil Works   - Upgrading:
- Firefighting systems         310        190      500
- Electricity systems          143         87      230
- Miscellaneous (20%)           91         55      146
(b) Equipment     - Dust collection systems       262        613      875
- Monitoring and
detection systems             45        105      150
- Miscellaneous (20%)           61        144      205
Subtotal                                      912      1 194    2,106
6. Barrsnqueras
(a) Civil Works   - Upgrading:
- Electricity systems          124         76      200
- Firefighting systems          93         57      150
- Head house remodeling        124         76      200
- Miscellaneous (20%)           68         42      110
(b) Equipment     - Dust collection systems       180        420      600
- Monitoring and
detection systems             30         70      100
- Miscellaneous (20%)            42        98       140
Subtotal                                      661        839   1500
7.   Diamante
(a) Civil Works  - Upgrading:
- Electricity systems           31         19       50
- Miscellaneous (20%)            6          4       10
(b) Equipment    - Dust collection systems       195        455      650
- Miscellaneous (20%)           39         91      130
Subtotal                                     271        569      840
8.   Other Ports
(a) Civil Works                                  686        352    1,038
(b) Equipment                                    386        932    1,318
Subtotal                                   11072     1,284    2,356



- 85 -
ANNEX 5
Appendlx A
Table 1
Page 4 of 4
Cost Estimates
(USS '000)
Location               Description                    Local   Foreign   Total
Supplementary
9.   Equipment         Preventing automatic
systems (Bahia Blanca &
Rosario)                      60        140      200
Automatic dhist collection
systems (Bahia Blanca)        27         63       90
Dust collection at ship
loading gallery (B. Blanca) 210         490      700
Subtotal                                         297        693      990
TOTAL                                      5,942     7,689   13,631



- 86 -
ANNEX 5
Appendix B
Page 1 of 2
ARGENTINA
BAHIA BLANCA I PORT PROJECT
Silo Safety Diagnostic
Outline of Terms of Reference
Obiectives
1.        JNG has decided to undertake the rehabilitation and improvement of
the safety features of its grain terminals, assIgning priority to those
located at exporting ports. To define civil, *echanical and electrical
works, equipment and instruments needed at each elevator, to such detail as
it may be necessary for the preparation of final engioeering and procurement,
JNG intends to retain Independent silo safety experts. These terms of
reference describe the task to be carried out by such experts, consisting
basically of a detalled dlagnostic followed by specific recommendations.
Scope of the Works
2.        The following JNG's grain terminals are to be covered under these
terms of reference: Buenos Aires, Bahia Blanca (elevator 3), Rosario, Villa
Constitucion, Necochea, Barranqueras and Diamante. The execution of the
works will be divided in three phases:
Phase One. This phase will consist of: (a) a diagnosis of the
physical characteritices and conditions of all mechanical and
electrical components of each of the elevators, in relation to the
overall safety conditions; (b) an assessment of JNG's maintenance
practices; (c) an aosessment of existing safety measures (in the
absence of safety regulations) and their use/application by J4G's
staff; (d) preparation of a plan of action that can be immediately
implemented with no other resources that the ones already avallable
at the grain terminals. This plan of action should include
specific recomendations related to safety concerning minor
repairs/remedies to existing plant of equipment, changes to
maintenance practices, and general guidelines to improve JNC's
personnel performance and behavior that when implemented would
diminish risks of accidents.
This phase is expected to require about one week (two experts) per
facility, totalling about 70 man-weeks and at the end of it the
experts will produce an Inception Report with thelr findings and
specific recommendations to Improve safety procedures. The report
should highlight actions required on part of management at local
and central levels to enable them to-assist JNG to I=plement such
recomendations during the Phase Tvo of tte works.



- 87 -
ANNEX 5
Appendix B
Page 2 of 2
Phase Two. This phase will consist of: (a) implementation of the
plan of action developed during Phase One; (b) a detailed
lnspectlon of each one of the elevators to clearly identify and
define: (i) major repalrs required to existIng mechanical
equipment, power supply and electrical systems to bring them up to
reasonable levels of safety; (CI) equipment that needs to be
replaced and/or added to the existing plant; (tll) civil works
required to allow key operational areas to be protected from dust
(pressurized chambers, motors' isolation, ventllatlon, etc.); (lv)
existing detection systems that need either upgrading or
replacement and additional detection systems to be installed; and
(v) civil works to provide emergency evacuatlon of persoonel; and
(vi) detailed cost estimates for each grain terminal based upon the
results of the detailed Inspection and recomended works and
equipment; (c) preparation of preventive maintenance of all safety
systems, including regular ve&ification of electrical conditions,
detecting devices, fire alarm and fire-fighting systems; and (d)
preparation of general procedures and safety regulations to be
enforced by JNG to all Its staff and people other than JNG's
participating/visiting grain terminals. Based upon the results of
this phase, JNG should be able to prepare final engineering
designs.
The duration of this Phase In terms of man-weeks Is estluated as
follows: implementation of the plan of action - three man-weeks
per terminal; detailed Inspection - six man-weeks (mechanical,
electrical and civll works safety experts); preventive maintenance
- three man-weeks for all elevators; general procedures and safety
regulations - two man-weeks. Total manpower estimated - 103
man-weeks. At the end of this Phase Two the experts will submit a
draft final report containing separate reports for each grain
terminal, including itemized work and equipment and corresponding
cost estimates; general maintenance and procedures, general
procedures and safety regulations manuals for the whole JNG's
system.
Phase Three. This phase will consist of technical assistance to
JNG's Engineering Services during the initial stages of engineering
design, totalling about two man-months by selected experts in the
areas of equipment and detection systems.
At the end of this Phase, the experts will submit their final
report incorporating all JNG's comments. Elements to be provided
by JNG to the safety experts team, in terms of counterparts,
transportation, offices: communications, etc., will be defined by
JNG.
General conditions and contract documents to be prepared by JNG in
accordance with Bank procedures. It is suggested that P)IC
documents be used as the basis for the preparation of final
documentation to request proposals. JNG would sr1eapre and send to
the Bank a short list of firms/experts to be inssIeG to submit
proposals.



- 88 -
ANNEX 5
Appendix C
Page 1 of 5
ARGENTINA
BAHIA BLANCA I PORT PROJECT
JNG Efficiency and Productivity Targets
General
1.        Grain production has increased by about 1002 during the last 14
years. This has been achieved through agricultural plans that included the
increase of the production areas, extensive use of fertilizers, introduction
of more modern harvesting technologies, coupled with higher international
prices and very active Government and private sector efforts to widen the
participation of Argentine grains in the international markets. From 1970 to
1985 grain exports grew from 11.4 million to over 25 million tons, imposing
tremendous pressure on the grain transport and handling infrastructure. Some
alleviation has come through investment of the private sectors in grain
terminals, but JNG currently handles about 66% of all exports through
facilities with an average age of about 35 years. This situation and the
1985 accident at Bahia Blanca and others less severe affecting either JNG's
and private terminals, have led JNG to seriously review the operatlon and
design of its grain elevators. As a complement in the modernization effort
JNG is currently engaged in analysing its operations to improve the
efficiency at Bahia Blanca.
2.       The objective of the analysis mentioned in the preceding paragraph
is to increase productivity and efficiency of the Bahia Blanca grain
terminal. Following is a brief analysis of the current situation. The JNG
terminal at Bahia Blanca will consist of the following installations:
(a) Actual
System Capacity (in terms of facilities)
Elevator       Storge             Reception            Ship-loading Berths
('000 ton)       Railway  Truck                          No. of
No. of   No.of  Berth  Length  Draft  Loading
Total  Effective   Wagons   Ramps    No.    (m)   (ft)   Points
3       140      125          350     No     5/6    230    37-0        4
7/8    206    37-0       4
4         2      1.8           No                    No      No
5        out of service        No      2       9     250    37-6       4
(b) After completion of the project 1/
5      65,000   60,000         No      4       9     250    38.6       4
1/ This system capacity, as shown, does not reflect the fact that berth 9 is
the only deep-water berth capable of receiving vessels up to 45' draft



- 89 -
ANNEX 5
Appendix C
Page 2 of 5
Characteristlcs of the terminal operations
3.        The operations of the Bahla Blanca grain terminal differ from
conventional terminals in Argentina and elsewhere for the following reasons:
(a) a large volume of the grain exports of the country are loaded Into
ships at river ports with draft limitations; thls physical
constraint imposes partlcular shipping arrangements and procedures
limiting either the slze of vessels and/or the size of shipments
that call at such shallow-water ports (between 28' and 30' draft);
the size of shipment at these river ports varies from 20,000 to
30,000 ton, and consequently large vessels have to be completed
either at Punta Alpha (a transhipment terminal In the Montevideo
bay), Bahia Blana or other foreign ports (i.e., Paranagua In
Brazil);
(b) public grain terminals operated by JNG, handle grain dlrectly
purchased by JNG to producers (representing about 10% of total
exports) and grain from private exporters (representing the
remaining 90%); to facilitate exports from the latter, the
Government authorized JNG to lend grain of its own stored at its
terminals, when available, to private exporters and load the
corresponding shipments on their behalf. This lending system is
carried out through formal lending agreements. The lent grain Is
returned later to JNG. Although the system is aimed at
facilitating exports, when JNG does not have either the volume nor
the type of grain required and its storage capacity is full,
congestion of the land transport and ship-waiting times occurs.
Bahia Blanca is particularly sensitive to this situation as hauling
distances are large and the storage capacity is somewhat limited;
(c) an important function of Behlia Blanca is to complete vessels, but
having only one deep-water berth (berth 9), large vessels have two
options, the first one being to wait in the mooring outside the
port until berth 9 is available, and the second one to start
completion at the shallower-water berths (5-6 and 7-8) and finish
it at berth 9;
(d) the commercialization arrangements mentioned in para. (b) above
prevent proper joint planning of JNG, AGP and FA in terms of grain
reception and storage, ship berthing and loading, because private
exporters, for commercial reasons, do not provide their export
contract arrangements in a timely manner.
4.        The above reasons make Bahia Blanca operations unique and different
from the rest of its terminals, those of private exporters and conventional
bulk-terminals elsewhere.



- 90 -
ANNEX 5
Appendlx C
Page 3 of 5
5.        Other factors affectiig Bahia Blanca operations, but cowmon to all
other terminala are:
(a) the seasonality of graln exports;
(b) lack of proper Inland storage capacity;
(c) lack of appropriate truck and railway wagons' loading facllitle at
the production areas;
(d) shortage of trucks during peak seasons, *nd
(e) shortage of railway wagons and locomotives.
Because of the long hauls, the above factors affect the effleiency of the
railway system, especially the one serving Babia Blanca.
Analysis of current productivity at Bahia Blanca
6.        The situation of the terminal was extremely critlcal folloving the
1985 accident that completely destroyed the truck reception facllitles and
seriously damaged elevator 5 and the ship-loading gallery at the deep-water
berth 9. At present some of the lost exporting capacity has been recuperated
with the completion of the emergency truck reception station and ship-loading
gallery. While these emergency facilities were under construction,
operations for grain arriving by truck were conducted through direct delivery
(truck to ship). However, although the ship-loading capacity was restored,
operatlons as a whole are affected because the buffer effect of elevator 5 is
not available, the maIn effect 5eing congestion at the berth working area and
inefficient use of the truck f eet.
7.        Productivity Is measured in terms of grain at receptlon and
ship-loading rates at the terminal. The tables below show Bahia Blanca
productivity prior to the 1985 accident (actual productivity after the
emergency works became operations is the same):
(a) E:fective storage and reception cspacities:
Elevat6;    -  gEgLe Capacity                Reception
--T'0OO ton)        Truck       Rallway     Total
-  ('000 ton/day)  --
3              125               No           12          12
4                2                3           No           3
5                0                6          No            6
Total     127                9          12           21



- 91 -
ANNEX S
Appndix C
Page 4 of 5
tb; Effective ship-loadiag capacity:
Berth          S! .a of Shibent           Loading Rate
No.              (000 ton)                 0ton/day)
5/6               10 or less                    12
10 to 20                     14
20 or move                   15
9               10 or le                      7
10 to 20                      8
20 or more                    9
All Port           All shlp.                  23.8
Productivity Targets. Productivity targets were determined under the
following assumptions:
(a)  the recomendations of an International comuittee engaged in the
analylis of JNG's operations to improve the efficlency of the Bihia
Blanca system would start tr be Implemented in 1988;
(b)  efficiency improvements would take place gradually; and
(c) the Blaia Blanca Port Project - Phase I would be completed in 1992.
Effective Reception Capacity Targets
('000 ton/day)
-1988               - 1990---              -1992--
No.     z  I/       No.       S  1         No.         1
Truck              10      11           11       22            17      89
Railway            15      25           16       33            17      42
Total     73 rf 77    
Effective ShIXZ!e&dinS Capacity Target.
('000 ton/day)
Size of          -1988-            --1990---          -1992-
Berth        (O DNo.                    2  1/    No.       Z  I/   No.       Z   /
5/6           10 or less       15       25        16       33        17      42
10 to 20         16       14       17        21        18     29
20 or more       17       13        18       20        19      27
9           10 or less        9       29        11       57        24    242
10 to 20         10      25        12        50        26    225
20 or more       11       22       13        44        28    211
Total                        26.8       13      29.8        25     45.3      90
17 Percentage of improvement mith respect to actual capacities



- 92 -
ANNEX 5
Appendix C
Page 5 of 5
Reception capacity would be considerably increa3ed in 1992 due to additional
truck reception to be provided through the proposed projecu. Ship-loading
capacity would also be significantly augmented in nominal terms from 800
ton/hour to over 3,000 ton/hour when the proposed project is completed in
1992.



- 93 -
ANNEX 5
Appendix D
Page 1 of 2
ARGENTINA
BAHLA BLANCA I PORT PROJECT
Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
Outline of Terms of Reference
General
1.        The Government has decided to undertake the Bahia Blanca Port
Project-Phase I consisting on the rehabilitation and modernization of
existing facilities, the implementation of JNG's silo safety program and
technical assistaLce to improve operational and financial capabilities of the
agencies related with port activities.
Objectives
2.        The basic objectives of the PCU would be to coordinate and
supervise all project-related activities and in particular:
(a) procurement procedures to be followed by each executing
agency, in accordance with the source of financing;
(b) furnishing to the Bank all required documentation and
obtaining Bank replies/positions/confirmations as required;
Cc) monitor and coordinate execution of the project items in
accordance with the project implementation schedule;
gd) monitor and supervise selection of consultants/experts
included in the project, including clearances with the Bank of
TOR and contract awards;
(e) establish an information system on the progress of the project
to maintain the PC duly informed, and coordinate the
preparation of quarterly progress reports to be submitted to
the Bank;
(f) establish and maintain a Project Account;
(g) obtain PC decisions when and if required to expedite project
implementation;
(h) prepare, in coordination with the executing agencies, a
project completion report.



- 94 -
ANNEL7 5
Appendix D
Page 2 of 2
Organization
3.        The PCU' will be integrated as follows: a PCU Chief, assisted by
professional staff from AGP, FA and JNG, an accountant and a systems expert.
In addition to the above, the PCU should be supported by cLerical staff as
required. The staff assigned to the PCU will work on full time basis, except
professionals who would participate in the PCU regular meetings and would
assist the unit's chief when required. The PCU will be directly responsible
before the PC.
Fjnctions of the Ch-ief of PCU
4.        The Chief of the PCU will: (a) coordinate all executing agencies
and ensure that activities under their respective responsibilities are timely
carried out in accordance with agreed procedures; (b) maintain the PC
informed on the progress of the project on a bi-veta.kly basis and submit to it
proposed solutions to problems raised during implementation; (c) prepare
timely quarterly reports to be uubmitted to the Bank based upon individual
reports of each of the executing agencies; (d) review and process all project
related correspondence and reports and maintain a complete Project File; and
Ce) establish and maintain a Project Account and submit request for
withdrawals from the Special Account, based upon information and data
prepared by the executing agenciles.
5.        The professional staff assigned to the PCU will assist the Chief in
these tasks.



- 95 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 4
ARGENTINA
BAHIA BIANCA I PORT PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
1. *A summary of the methodology and basic assumptions used to evaluate
the proposed project components, a brief evaluation of the results and a
sensitivity analysis are provided below. In addition Tables 5 to 13 in this
Annex present the flow of benefits and costs for the main project
components. Further details on the economic evaluation are provided in the
project study report: 'Evaluacion Economica de las Obras Inmediatas en el
Puerto de Bahia Blanca, Fase I - which could be found in the Project File.
A. Methodology
2.        Economic analyses were carried out for a number of selected
components on a marg'nal basis and for the project as a whole. For this
purpose, it was necesas5y to analyze individual components in investment
increments which represe.it a meaningful sub-system from the operational
viewpoint. The analyzed components are the following:
(i) emergency works;
(ii) construction of an anchorage place through removal of a sunken
dredger and navigation aids;
(iii) partial removal of an existing iron wharf and construction of two
mooring dolphins;
(iv) grain handling system's rehabilitation and modernization;
(v) silo safety program; and
(vi) railways works.
3.        Fcr the unit of analysis from (i) to (iv), benefits were measured
in terms of the cort difference in vessel waiting time in ports -wit,,out and
with- the improvement. A Poisson-Erland I queuing model was used to estimate
ship waiting time.
4.        Principal, elements and basic assumptions used in the evaluation
were:
(a) Traffic Projections: grain exports will not exceed 6 million tons
per year at Bahia Blanca. In 1985 (silo 5 was unavailable for most
of the time) grain exports amounted to 4.9 million tons but
incurred considerable costs in ship waiting time which averaged
15.9 days per ship per year. Similar values for previous years
were: 1984: 4.5 million tons and 4.5 days/ship (bad grain harvest)
and 1983: 5.8 million tons and 26.6 days/ship (normal grain



- 96 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 4
harvest). With the proposed improvements ship waiting time is
expected to be reduced to a minimum. Additional traffic above 6
million tons would require additional elevator and berth facilities
if a substantial rise in ship waiting costs is to be avoided;
(b)  -Topping-off': ships carrying 3 million tons of grain from the
fluvial system would be topped off in Bahia Blanca. In 1985 ships
carrying about 3.8 million tons of grain from the fluvial system
were topped off in Bahia Blanca. Some reductions in topping-off in
Bahia Blanca were projected because of possible improvements in
other topping-off facilities at Punta Alfa and other areas at the
mouth of the Plata River which private entrepreneurs are pursuing;
the possibili,y of off-shore Lopping off facilities at Bahia Blanca
was disregarded because of the results of the report mentioned in
paragraph 7 below;
(c)  Destination Ports: Argentina's grain trade was projected to become
more diversified. In 1985 Russia was one of the main grain
recipients of Argentina's grain (31Z of total exports) and over 30%
of the vessels leaving Bahia Blanca were destined to Russian
ports. However, Russian participation declined substantially in
the first nine months of 1986, because they bought grain from other
sources. In the future (Table 1) it is projected that Russia will
become more self sufficient in grain production and therefore buy a
smaller proportion of Argentina's grain export. Exports to ports
in Far East, South America and Europe were projected to increase.
(d)  Vessel Depreciation: the resale value of a vessel was used to
calculate ship depreciation. Ship depreciation costs are the
largest cost item in calculating average cost per ship-day (Table
2). Presently there is over-supply in the bulk shipping market and
thus the opportunity cost of ship's depreciation was considered to
be the fair market resale value.
(e)  Ship Size Distribution: Table 3 illustrates the evolution of ship
sizes assumed at the Port of Bahia Blanca during the period
1985-1995.  In all cases, the largest ahip size remains the same,
but there is an increase in the participation of bigger ships,
which reflects a world trend.
(f)  Benefit Distribution: benefits are assumed to be shared equally
between Argentina and other countries. The sharing of benefits
from the improvement of ship turnaround time would depend on the
elasticities of supply and demand curves. In the absence of a
detailed analysis the benefits were assumed to be she-red 50/50
between Argentina and its trading partners. This is a conservative
assumption as it is expected that benefits will be captured by
Argentina through lower freight rates and higher FOB export prices.



- 97 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 4
(g)  Safety Program: the project would finance a package of elements,
which would represent the first step toward a bigger program to
improve silo safety. For the purpose of the economic analysis, it
is assumed that without this component the history of accidents
which occurred during the last 10 years will happen again in the
same places and with the same intensity, during the first 10 years
of the project, which is assumed to be the average economic life of
this component. The economic value of an accident is estimated
only by the historical cost of repairing the damaged facility.
Lost lives and operational impact of the accident in the national
system have been disregarded because of lack of relevant data,
although both could amount to several times the repair cost of the
accidents.
(b) Railway Component: it is assumed that the improvement of the
railway yard at Bahia Blanca would improve the reception from a
current 420 wagons!day to 480 wagons/day.
(i   Construction Costs: physical contingencies were added to the base
costs as explained in para. 3.08, and taxes deducted from
construction costs in order to derive the economic costs.
(j) Maintenance Costs: The difference in maintenance costs 'without and
with- the improvements were included in the analysis. Based on
estimates provided by JNG, it would cost an additional US$2 million
per year for the operation and maintenance of the rehabilitated
grain elevator.
(k) Analysis Period: The period of analysis is for 25 years.
B. Evaluation
5.        The economic evaluation of the project was carried out in eight
different cases described in Table 4, and Tables 5 to 13 represent the main
results. The economic rates of return were high for the individual units of
analysis as -ell as for the project as a whole, ranging from about 20% for
the reconstruction and modernization of silo 5 to about 100% for the
emergency works, the removal of a sunken dredger and the removal of the iron
wharf and construction of mooring dolphins. This is normally the case for
rehabilitation projects where improved use is being made of existing
facilities. The rehabilitation and modernization of silo 5, which represents
about 60% of the total project cost, would bring a significantly faster
loading of ships, since the improvement more than doubled the ship loading
rate bef..re the explosion, to an expected value of over 20,000 ton/day. This
would have a dramatic effect on the average time ships should have to stay in
the port from about 20 days/s'.ip without the improvement, to approximately
4 days/ship with this project component.



- 98 -
ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 4
6.        The very high returns obtained for the different components reduce
the need for carrying out elaborate sensitivity analyses to test the
solutions. Nevertheless, a sensitivity case was run increasing by 20Z the
investment costs, reducing by the same percentage the benefits, and a
combination of both cases, and, as expected, ERRs remain acceptable (Table
13) above 30% for all cases.
7.        As part of the next step of development of the port (Babia Blanca,
Phase II), which is also proposed to be partially financed by the Bank, the
Government has prepared, in consultation with the Bank, an economic
evaluation of a major component of Phase II: dredging the channel to an
optimum depth. Because of its relevance to the proposed Phase I, It follows
a brief description of the analysis and its main results. Several
alternatives were considered, including different dredging depths of the
access channel, and the establiehment of floating terminals either in Bahia
Blanca ot Rio de la Plata. A comprehensive computer model (Annex 1, Appendix
A, paras. 2 and 3), which simulates the operation of the grain movement from
the production zones to the final destination abroad, w6s utilized in the
analysis. Th- result is that the best solution to provide deeper outlets in
the Argentinu port system is to deepen the access channel to Bahia Blanca to
45'. The ERRs for the incremental investment which this would require over
Phase I, is 20x. Sensitivity analyses confirmed the economic feasibility of
the proposed solution.
April 1987



- 99 -
ANNEX 6
Tab=e I
ARGENTINA
BAHIA BLANCA I PORT PROJECT
Grain World Market for Bahia Blanca during 1983-1995
(thousands of tons)
Destination                          1983       1995
South America                         378       698
USSR - Northern Europe              2,779      1,705
Mediterranean - Middle East         1,322      1,973
Far East                            1,322      1,624
TOTAL                5,801      6,000
Sources:
(1) MOSP - Evaluacion Econoaica de las Obras Inmediatas
en el Puerto de Bahia Blanca (Fase I), December 1984
(2) MOSP - Evaluacion Economica del Proyecto de Ampliacion
del Puerto de Bahia Blanca (Fase II), December 1985
April 1987



- 100 -
ANNEX 6
Tabre 2
ARGENTINA
BAHIIA BLANCA I PORT PROJECT
Assumed Average Cost per Ship-Day
(US$/day)
DWT            In Port        Navigating
15,000           8,300          12,300
25,000           9,970          15,320
35,000          11,210          17,880
45,000          12,310          19,130
55,000          13,180          21,900
65,000          14,140          23,640
75,000          15,110          25,360
Source: IBRD vessel and Voyage Costing Model
for Project Appraisal - Shipcost
April 1987



- 101-                                                            ANN= 6
Table 3
Page 1 of 2
AROEtTIM
BANIA 8WICA I POT PROECT
Evoluton ot Ship SIRg In "ba pn ot 1heia al . br             isa   led  19S5-1i9
ShiSip       -                        1Sz                                      - I  _ aI 9 9                                 _
ODT        - l.  Ot Slip. (S-    --ft. et LoAded TOe  oSI-    -t fShip  ($-    - . of Loadel Tae (
D.tia.tioe         ftilamad    To amt shiLps   Tewlng off   To me" sips   TeP ino otf   To amtv ships   Toggle off   To eM     ships   Togain. oft
1.  mt.ra          m1s tll20            30              -                12             -                10              -                3                -
Soul             20 to 30            40              -                41             -               30                               23                -
AIca             30 t  40            20              -                29              -              30                               32                -
cant             40 to sO            to              -                i               -               30              -               42                -
so to                --                                                                      -                        -                -
60 to 70
70 tol8              -              -                -              -                -               -                -                -
TOTAL             100              -               100             -              100               -              100                -
2. Eostwr         Im_   thn 20          60              -                32              -               20              -                7                -
Sous             20 to 30            20              -                26             -               30               -               26                -
_ric             30 to 40            10              -                I8             -               30               -               36                -
Cest             40 te0              10              -                24             -               20               -               31                -
so0to M              -              -                 -             -                -               -                -                -
60 to 70             -              -                 -             -                -               _                _                _
7oto ao                              -                       -                       -0
TOTAL             loG             -                100             -              100               -              t0o o
3. USs            I ass then 20          -                       -                        -
Baitic See       20 to 30
30 to 40             -                                              -                -               - _                               -
40  to so           60             2                 55            17               40              10               33                8
So to 60            40            s0                45             13               60              9065                              92
60 to 70             -                                -             -                - _-                                              -
709.60               -              -                                                -                -                       -
TOrAL             100            100              tOO            100              100             1O              100              IW0
4. USSR           less than 20                                   -               -                       -                -                        -
Black            20 to 30             -              -                 -             -                -               -                -                -
se               30 to 40            20             30                14            22               10              15                7               10
40 to so            20             20                18             19              20              20               Is               Is
0o to 60           60              so               Go             39               70              65               75               72
609.o 70             -              -                 -             -                -               -                -                -
70to80               -              -                 -             -                                                 -                -
TOTAL             100            100               100           100              100             1o0              100              100
5. Middle E4 t    eog then 20            -              -                 --                             -                                -                -
ISaudl          20 to 30            10                               7              -                -               -                -                -
Aralia  d        30 to 40            70              -                as            67               60              60               54               34
Iran)           40 to 50            20             90                25             15               40              40               46               46
50 to 60            -              10                -              -                -               -                -                -
60 to 70             -              -                 -             -                -               -                -                -
709t60               -             -                                                 -                                -
TOTAL             100            100               100           100              too             1o0              100              100
6. Japan          less tlhn 20                                   -               -                -               -                                -
20 to 30             -              -                 -             -                -               -                _                -
30 to 40            30             20               23             15               Is             l                10                7
40 te 50            30             30                29            21                13             15               13               13
50 to 60           40              50               48             57               70              75               77               ao
60 to 70             -              -                 -             -                -               -                -                -
709.o so                                             -              -                        -                                         -
TOTAL             100           lOo                lO           100              100             100             0t                100



- 102 -
ANIIEX 6
Table 3
Page 2 of 2
WMA 3a^   I PM rs'
EyI.tIur to shitp SIM  In tin Pul of Bobo a0s Obrim  tlb Purled II-U
shlipSoin                     --I II                                                           'I-149    
-410.of Ships (S)-                -01. of LoMOd Ton Blo-   - -4 la. of blps W2-     -4.. of Lmd Tem  (U-
O.utl.otlm        t femss     To olpt  uhipo  Toping off  Toat  M            Tappigl off  To apty Olpw   Topping off  TosiVai     Tmplfg off
T. Far Eot       kw t..m 3                         -               -             - _                 -                        - 
gala..s 310                   3sl -                         3                           U- 
Km_ou          U te                            S _             13            _              U              _              3              U
It    D            to) 401        0            So 3                          St       D                    4U             a              S
lama)          40 be             a 3D                          2D           2;              3                     31      U 
a   1to5           -            -                -            _               _             _              _
mama.          D1U tS                          -              IN                    -              -              -                      -
(SPIN.         D   tO            D             !               IS           41              10 1                           6             J
Itoly)         40 t 0            a             a               3            21              D             3U                             a
so to a      D                  0               s O          a                             a              p 
55.0 to-                                         - -                  -                     -              -
70I8                            - -                      - 
TIL             10            1H              1             IS             o              100U
S. Uwth ofdk so                _                   -               -             -              -              -              -
frepD 25 3t                       -             -               -             -              _              -              _              _
30 to               -                            -            -              - _                           - _
40 o511           so           so                            45              45            45             31              35
50 to a           so           5D               5            U                             a              6 a
so t57o            -                             -            - _                                          _               _
751. 5             -            -                -            -               -             -              -
T_A.            U             100 11S0                      bS             US             Soo            IS              N
April 137



- 103 -
AXX 6
Table 4
MNIA A.M I PIAT VWPCT
Cam  for Eammdl oi tin   of Project Compons_ts
cm       WIth Proecut libatl                Withot Pr.j..t Slbtlon                 To Prow FossbilIty.fs                    bourks
I    Existing *lbtln with            Existing sibrtl  wlt diroot           lbwpny lirk                               lgrilnl mils
lodingS at bert 9
2    ExistIng miattim with             Exieting sibatl   with  _rmnpy        Suih    odpr r_ml                         lbrhini mlyals
mrpny wwk   d ro reovi           wrs
3    Existing sitatimn with            Existing libtl   with arpecyq         Iron  da   remool  nsiluding the          NqI  I ammlysi
arpPcy works. romusI of          works and rmosi of amus                instrlto  of be mring diphins
mom drodgr, and reoval .odpr
of iron  rh   including Us
construction of ba mwrng
dolphins
4    Exliting sitbtin with             Existing Slbtlon wlth mrgency        Ir     s of awim  4- dr and in       1     Ciil_md molysis
mrgncy works md remosil          worA _urt lnciudin osnsbtIn of ha
of  _I  dra dgr ad Ire                                                  dolphins, sitcl   r
whort including construction
of bo dolphlms
5    Existing sltatlon with            Exlting sibatlen wlth _rpcq           Reuesntructiman d odornlzlaton of        IrgI.ainlysis
-nmgsq   works, r_lval of        work, and r_ml of  _u                  silo 5
-u_he todpr _d Iro               drdger and Iron Wart lciding
whnrf Including cansbebo          costructl  of ho dDlphlns
of da dolphins, and
reconstruction and
moderniation of silo S
    Existing sItuatlen with           Existing sibsotler wlth mrgmncy        Uool of _an  sd,dr af :ron                Combned omlyes
rwp.y Work. ro_vl of             wwks                                   durf Inclding tnuwtro    d- e A
_1  dredgr _d Iro  Wrt                                                  dolphins, ad reconstruction ad
including cntructim of ha                                               modernization of silo S, el aWthfr
dolphiu    md rrnstructia
ond _adrnizatin of of l 5
7    St   Pe                           Existlg afty condition                 Safety PrOgro                             Norgimal nslysis
6    Existing raihay atation           Existing railwy sltuitleoI i_r                    oft oslo Ulan  rallay          N.rglil a*lysis
wi th Ilpyvemt of BobI                                                  yid
IUonc ralhy ywrd
olw  In tlo Wlth Project Sltatioe ce_M  tJm  ltad c _ t  Is u1nlor1ilod.
April 1367



- 104 -
AIN    6
Table 
BAHIA UAWA I P    PlWWC
Mmmm!=  Vorks Owalustion - Cue 1
(UM$ m1llion)
Rdernce Case: Direct load at berthl 9
Cost                                           bandits
Chasap of                         Rsduction In
Mainterakne  Salvag                Turn-aroum!   Imputed       Not
Year Iwestumt       onto      Vlu   Total Cost    TSa in Port  SIefits         now
1986    1.60                              1.60            -           -       -1.60
1987                                                     2.22        1.11      1.11
1988                                                     2.22        1.11      1.11
1989                                                    12.38        6.19      6.19
1990                                                    12.22        6.11      6.11
1991                                                    12.06        6.03      6.03
1992                                                    11.90        5.95      5.95
1993                                                    11.75        5.87      5.87
1994                                                    11.59        5.80      5.80
1995                                                    11.44        5.72      5.72
1996                                                    11.44        5.72      5.72
1997                                                    !1.44        5.72      5.72
1998                                                    11.44        5.72      5.72
1999                                                    11.44        5.72      5.72
2000                                                    11.44        5.72      5.72
2001                                                    11.44        5.72      5.72
2002                                                    11.44        5.72      5.72
2003                                                    11.44        5.72      5.72
20o4                                                    11.44        5.72      5.72
2005                                                    11.44        5.72      5.72
2006                                                    11.44        5.72      5.72
2007                                                    11.44        5.72      5.72
2008                                                    11.44        5.72      5.72
2009                                                    11.44        5.72      5.72
2010                                                    11.44        5.72      5.72
NPW (101) -  39.0
NPW (121) - 32.2
ERR      - 129Z
April 1987



- 105 -
AUX 6
ROTA ILAA I PONT P1U=
Anchor, throUih Umval of  mkan a         r
and NaVIiatie Aids UualuatLnn - Cm. 2
(UpS million)
frefs    Casea Bwrgia_   Works
Conto                                         Rnl its
Chatp of                        Reduetion in
Maintenance  Salvage             Tur-Ground        Jut6d        Not
Year  Investment    Costa     Value   btal Oost  Tim In Port        Dsnefits    Flows
1986   0.94                               0.94          -            -          -0.94
1987                                                   0.12         0.06        0.06
1988                                                   O.12         0.Oe        0.00
1989                                                  27.08         13.54      13.54
1990                                                  25.01         12.50      12.50
1991                                                  23.10         11.55      11.55
1992                                                  21.34         10.67      10.67
1993                                                  19.71         9.86        9.86
1994                                                  18.20         9.10        9.10
1995                                                  16.81         8.40        8.40
1996                                                  16.81         8.40        8.40
1997                                                  16.81         8.40        8.40
1998                                                  16.81         8.40        8.40
1999                                                  16.81         8.40        8.40
2000                                                  16.81         8.40        8.40
2001                                                  16.81         8.40        8.40
2002                                                  16.81         8.40        8.40
2003                                                  16.81         840         8.40
2004                                                  16.81         8.40        8.40
2005                                                  16.81          8.40       8.40
2006                                                  16.81         8.40        8.40
2007                                                  16.81         8.40        8.40
2008                                                  16.81         8.40        8.40
2009                                                  16.81         8.40        8.40
2010                                                  16.81         8.40        8.40
2011                           0.94      -0.94                                  0.94
HW (102) - 64.6
NPW (12x) - 54.1
ERR      - 180X
April 1987



- 106 -
ANNEX 6
Table 7
BAHBIA BLANA I POT ICT
Iran Wharf PAeuval and          Oftrction Of
Two moorig DolXhLns Evaluatin  - Case 3
(US$ miLIon)
Ref erence Case: Case 2
costs                                 Benefits
Qiarge of                     Reduction in
Maintenance Salvage            Tarn-eround   rIputed     Net
Year Investoment   COsts    Value  Total Costs Time ln Pnrt  Benefits   Flows
1986    -
1987   2.59                            2.59                            -2.59
1988                                                0.12       0.06     0.06
1989                                                9.65       4.82     4.82
1990                                                9.38       4.69     4.69
1991                                                9.12       4.56     4.56
1992                                                8.87       4.43     4.43
1993                                                8.63       4.31     4.31
1994                                                8.39       4.19     4.19
1995                                                8.16       4.08     4.08
1996                                                8.16       4.08     4.08
1997                                                8.16       4.08     4.08
1998                                                8.16       4.08     4.08
1999                                                8.16       4.08     4.08
2000                                                8.16       4.08     4.08
2001                                                8.16       4.08     4.08
2002                                                8.16       4.08     4.08
2003                                                8.16       4.08     4.08
2004                                                8.16       4.08     4.08
2005                                                8.16       4.08     4.08
2006                                                8.16       4.08     4.08
2007                                                8.16       4.08     4.08
2008                                                8.16       4.0P     4.08
2009                                                8.16       4.08     4.08
2010                                                8.16       4.08     4.08
2011                          2.59   -2.59                              2.59
NPW (10%) - 26.5
NEW (12%) - 21.7
ERR      ' 94%
April 1987



- 107 -                             AMNKZ 6
Table 8
BAHIL BLANAC I PORT PROJECT
Cases 2 plus 3 Evaluation - Case 4
(US$ million)
Reference Case: Eergency Works
Costs                                    -fits
Caenge of                      Reduction in
Maintenance Salvage             Turn-around                 Netedt
Year  Inwestment    Costs     Value  Total Costs TIme in Port   Benefits   Flows
1986   0.94                              C.94          -           -       -0.94
1987   2.59                              2.59         0.12        0.06     -2.53
1988                                                  0.24        0.12      0.12
1989                                                 36.72       18.36     18.36
1990                                                 34.38       17.19     17.19
1991                                                 32.22       16.11     16.11
1992                                                 30.20       15.10     15.10
1993                                                 28.34       14.17     14.17
1994                                                 26.58       13.29     13.29
1995                                                 24.96       12.48     12.48
1996                                                 24.96       12.48     12.48
1997                                                 24.96       12.48     12.48
1998                                                 24.96       12.48     12.48
1999                                                 24.96       i2.48     12.48
2000                                                 24.96       12.48     12.48
2001                                                 24.96       12.48     12.48
2002                                                 24.96       12.48     12.48
20O3                                                 24.96       12.48     12.48
2004                                                 24.96       12.48     12.48
2005                                                 24.96       12.48     12.48
2006                                                 24.96       12.48     12.48
2007                                                 24.96       12.48     12.48
2008                                                 24.96       12.48     12.48
2009                                                 24.96       12.48     12.48
2010                                                 24.96       12.48     12.48
2011                           3.53     -3.53                               3.53
NeW (102) - 91.1
NEW (12Z) - 75.7
ERR      - 1482
April 1987



- 108 -                              AN=EX 6
BABIA BLAWCA. I PORT PROJECr
Reconstructeon and Modernization Silo 5 - Case 5
(US$ million)
Reference Case: Case 4
GOsts                                      Benefits
Change of                         Reduction in
Mainteianlce  Salvage               Turn-around     Imputed       Net
Year  Investment      Costs      Value  Total Costs  Time in Pbrt    Benefits       Flows
1986      -
1987    4.50                                 4.50                                  -4.50
1988   13.80                                13.80                                 -13.80
1989   13.50                                13.50                                 -13.50
1990    8.40                                 8.40                                  -8.40
1991    2.60                                 2-60                                  -2.60
1992    1.10          2.00                   3.10                                  -3.10
1993                  2.00                   2.00         37.38          18.69     16.69
1994                  2.00                   2.00         36.73          18.37     16.37
1995                  2.00                   2.30         36.10          18.05     16.05
1996                  2.00                   2.00         36.10          18.05     16.05
1997                  2.00                   2.00         36.10          18.05     16.05
1998                  2.00                   2.00         36.10          18.05     16.05
1999                  2.00                   2.00      - 36.10           18.05     16.05
2000                  2.00                   2.00         36.10          18.05     16.05
2001                  2.00                   2.00         36.10          18.05     16.05
2D02                  2.00                   2.00         36.10          18.05     16.05
2D03                  2.00                   2.00         36.10          18.05     16.05
2004                  2.00                   2.00         36.10          18.05     16.05
2005                  2.00                   2.00         36.10          18.05     16.05
2006                  2.00                   2.00         36.10          18.05     16.05
2007                  2.00                   2.00         36.10          18.05     16.05
2008                  2.00                   2.00         36.10          18.05     16.05
2009                  2.00                   2.00         36.10          18.05     16.05
2010                  2.00                   2.00         36.10          18.05     16.05
2011                  2.00                   2.00         36.10          18.05     16.05
NPW (10%) -  37.7
NPW (12%) -  24.4
ERR          19%
April 1987



- 109 -
ANNEX 6
Table 10
ARGET1NO
BARIA BLANCA I PORT PROJECr
Cases 2 plus 3 plus 5 Evaluation - Case 6
(US$ million)
Reference Case: Emexgency Works
Costs                                Benefits
ange of                       Reduction in
Maintenance Salvage            Turn-around    Imputed     Net
Year Investment   CODsts     Value  Total CDsts Time in Port   Benefits    Flows
1986  -0.94                            0.94          -           -      -0.94
1987  -7.09                            7.09         0.12        0.06    -7.03
1988 -13.80                           13.80         0.24        0.12   -13.68
1989 -13.50                           13.50        36.72        18.36    4.86
1990  -8.40                            8.40        34.38        17.19    8.79
1991  -2.60                            2.60        32.22        16.11    13.51
1992  -1.10        2.00                3.10        30.20        15.10    12.00
1993               2.00                2.00        65.72        32.86    30.86
1994               2.00                2.00        63.31       31.66    29.66
1995               ._00                2.00        61.06       30.53    28.53
1996               2.00                2.00        61.06       30.53    28.53
1997               2.00                2.00        61.06       30.53    28.53
1998               2.00                2.00        61.06       30.53    28.53
1999               2.00                2.00        61.06       30.53    28.53
2000               2.00                2.00        61.06        30.53    28.53
2001               2.00                2.00        61.06        30.53    28.53
2002               2.00                2.00        61.06        30.53    28.53
2003               2.00                2.00        61.06        30.53    28.53
2004               2.00                2.00        61.06        30.53    28.53
2005               2.00                2.00        61.06        30.53    28.53
2006               2.00                2.00        61.06       30.53    28.53
2007               2.00                2.00        61.06       30.53    28.53
2008               2.00                2.00        61.06       30.53    28.53
2009               2.00                2.00        61.06       30.53    28.53
2010               2.00                2.00        61.06        30.53    28.53
2011               2.00      3.53     -1.53        36.10        18.05    19.58
NPW (10%) - 128.9
NPW (12%) - 100.1
ERR     - 49Z
April 1987



- 110 -
ANNEX 6
Table 11
ARGENTINA
BAHIA BLANCA I PORT PROJECT
Safety Program Evaluation - Case 7
(US$ million)
Reference Case: Existing Condition
Year                 Cbst              Benefit
1                    2.7
2                    4.8                4.2
3                    4.8                1.1
4                    1.2               19.0
5                                       0.05
6                                       0.25
7                                       0.16
8                                       0.08
9                                       9.35
10                                      0.17
11                                     30.36
Present  Worth          (10%)                  11.9               35.5
(12%)                  11.7              32.1
At 10Z opportunity cost of capital, the component would be feasible if it
prevents 11.9 - 34% of the accidents; similarly at 12Z if 11.7 = 37% are
35.5                                               32.1
prevented. Considering that lost lives are not included in the analysis,
neither the operational impact, the component is considered to be
economically feasible.
April 1987



- ill -
ANNEX 6
Table 12
ARGENTINA
BAHIA BLANCA I PORT PROJECT
Improvement of Bahia Blanca Railway Yard Evaluation - Case 8
(US$ million)
Reference Case: Existing Condition
Year                   Cost               Benefit            Net Flow
1987                   2.1                   -                -2.1
1988                   0.15                 1.4                 1.25
1989                   0.15                 1.4                 1.25
1990                   0.15                 1.4                 1.25
1991                   0.15                 1.4                 1.25
1992                   0.15                 1.4                 1.25
1993                   0.15                 1.4                 1.25
1994                   0.15                 1.4                 1.25
1995                   0.15                 1.4                 1.25
1996                   0.15                 1.4                 1.25
1997                   0.15                 1.4                 1.25
1998                   0.15                 1.4                 1.25
1999                   0.15                 1.4                 1.25
2000                   0.15                 1.4                 1.25
2001                   0.15                 1.4                 1.25
NPW (1OZ) - 5.9
NPW (12%) - 4.9
ERR       = 59%
Bsic Assumptions
(1) The  roject will permit the reception of 480 wagons/day instead of 420
wagons/day as at present.
(2) The equivalent of 60 wagon/day during 2 months would be transported by
truck at an average distance of 300 km, without the project.
April 1987



- 112 -
ANNEX 6
Table 13
ARGENTINA
BAHIA BLANCA I PORT PROJECT
Total Project (excluding Safety Program) Evaluation
(US$ million)
Reference Case: Emergency Works
Sensitivity
Year                                                                            Cost + (202)
Total          Total        Net         Cost      Benefit          and
Costs        Benefits      Flow        (+20%)    (-20X)       Benefit (-20%)
1986              0.94                     -0.94        -1.13       -0.94          -1.13
1987             12.59           0.06     -12.53       -15.05      -12.54         -15.06
1988             13.95           1.52     -12.43       -15.22      -12.73         -15.52
j9Ig             13.65          19.76       6.11         3.38        2.16          -0.57
199i              8.55          18.59       10.04        8.33        6.32           4.62
1991              2.75          17.51      14.76        14.21       11.26          10.71
1992              3.25          16.50       13.25       12.60        9.95           9.30
1993              2.15          34.26      32.11        31.68       25.26          24.82
1994              2.15          33.06      30.91        30.48       24.30          23.87
1995              2.15          31.93      29.78        29.35       23.39          22.96
1996              2.15          31.93      29.78        29.35       23.39          22.96
1997              2.15         31.93       29.78        29.35       23.39          22.96
1998              2.15          31.93      29.78        29.35       23.39          22.96
1999              2.15         31.93       29.78        29.35       23.39          22.96
2000              2.15          31.93      29.78        29.35       23.39          22.96
2001              2.15          31.93       29.78       29.35       23.39          22.96
2002              2.00          30.53      28.53        28.13       22.42          22.02
2003              2.00          30.53      28.53        28.13       22.42          22.02
2004              2.00          30.53       28.53       28.13       22.42          22.02
2005              2.00          30.53      28.53        28.13       22.42          22.02
2006              2.00          30.53      28.53        28.13       22.42          22.02
2007              2.00          30.53      28.53        28.13       22.42          22.02
2008              2.00          30.53      28.53        28.13       22.42          22.02
2009              2.00          30.53      28.53        28.13       22.42          22.02
2010              2.00          30.53      28.53        28.13       22.42          22.02
2011             -1.53          18.05       19.58       19.88       15.97          16.27
NPW (10%) -   131.9         122.3      95.9           86.2
NPW (12%) -    M23          93.5       73.1           64.2
ERR       -    45%           38%       36%            30%
April 1987



- 113 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 5
ARGENTINA
BAHIA BLANCA I PORT PROJECT
The Technical Assistance Program
and Engineering Studies
A.   Assistance to JNG
(i) Assistance to improve maintenance services at JNG's Rosario grain
terminals
Background. JNG installations are, in general, old with an average age of
about 25 to 30 years, maintenance and repair is therefore one of the most
important areas in which the JNG is engaged. However, the maintenance
facilities (workshops) are also old and poorly equipped. The organizaticn is
relatively poor despite the fact thaL mechanics and other workshop staff seem
to have the necessary skills. Workshops at some facilities are run by
skilled mechanics and others have good mechanical engineers in charge.
Inventory controls are non-existent and availability of spare parts is less
than appropriate. Administration is poor, cost accounting does not exist and
financial resources allocated to these services are normally scarce. This
situation leads to less than adequate maintenance causing from time to time
disruption of operations of some of the subsystems of the terminals.
Sometimes broken-down facilities remain out of service for months.
Objectives. The main objective of this technical assistance component is to
ensure the efficiency of the grain handling systems at the following
terminals: Buenos Aires, Rosario, Quequen, Barranquara and Parana. More
specifically, the objectives are to organize the main services on a
managerial basis establishing (a) a technical and administrative structure
with clear functions and responsibilities; (b) regular preventive maintenance
procedures; (c) inventory controls; (d) cost accounting systems and budgetary
controls.
Scope. The work would be implementation oriented and include the following
tasks:
(a) assessment of maintenance needs at each of the selected terminals,
taking into consideration the age and conditions of the plant of
equipment;
(b) assessment of the maintenance organization and facilities,
including qualifications of personnel assigned to these services,
at all levels;
(c) based on (a) and (b), preparation of a general diagnostic of the
overall JNG maintenance services and specific diagnostics for each
of the selected terminals included in this technical assistance
component;



- 114 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 5
(d) preparation and Implementation of a plan of action for each
terminal that can be implemented through measures taken directly at
the terminals' management level without additional resources;
(e) development of a revised organization scheme at the main office and
the terminals and design and implementation of cost accounting and
inventory control systems;
(f) implementation of preventive maintenance procedures;
(g) basic design of a project to modernize and properly equip the
maintenance services, using available machinery and tools and
defining additional ones that would be required; and
(h) definition of annual budget allocations required to provide
efficient maintenance services and spare parts at each terminal.
An outline of the terms of reference for this component is given in Appendix
A to this Annex.
Timing and Cost. The consultants would start work by January 1, 1988 and
complete that work by September 30, 1988. Manpower requirements are
estimated at about 40 man-uonths.   As local expertise Is available the
estimated cost of these services is about US$200,000.
B.   Assistance to upgrade the general accounting, costing and information
systems, revise tariffs and user's charges in AGP and DNCPVN
Bacground. The current costing system of AGP does not cover the entire
operation and has problems related to reliable and systematic data collection
and timely reporting. In DNCPVN there is no cost accounting and with a
non-commercially based, unreliable general accounting system, the available
information does not permit the appropriate control and direction of the
operation. In addition, the absence of cost of service-related information,
prevents the establishment of appropriate user charges.
Objectives. To establish appropriate general accounting and
costing/infQ&wLaton systems responding to the needs to improve the
operational, planning and managerial capabilities of DNCPVN and AGP to
facilitate their financially-viable operations, rationalize the development
of their investment, operational, tariff assessments and decisions, to
provide a basis for appropriate management control and to eliminate
distortions in the port sector that may exist due to non-existent or
ill-defined user charges.
Scope. The work would be implementation-oriented and would include the
following main tasks:
- DNCPVN - developing and implementing va) a general accounting
system in accordance with commercially acceptable principles, to
enable the entity to recover from its commercial clients (such as
AGP) the appropriate costs of the services provided; (b) a cost



- 115 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 5
accounting system that would provide cost information for the
Individual activities, to determine optimum operational methods and
efficiencies, to generate sufficient and reliable Information for
cost forecasting, planning and effective management control;
tc) appropriate management information systems for effective
monitoring evaluation decision-making at various management levels;
td) appropriate equipment management strategies and methods for the
establishment of preventive and regular maintenance practices,
equipment utilization controls and retirement of old equipment
policies.
AGP - (a) improving data collection methods with a view to
establish reliable data base for management information and control
systems; (b) training middle management staff in the use of the
said systems; (c) introducing strategic planning and assisting in
the preparation of AGP's corporate plan; (d) establishing a system
to appropriately evaluate investment proposals/alternatives, as
part of the rolling investment plan for five-year periods;
(e) establishing an enterprise-wide cost accounting system to
provide information regarding the costs of the individual services
provided for management control, for effective evaluation of the
operation in a timely manner for decision making, and for the basis
of tariff determination and tariff performance monitoring; and (f)
developing a cost-based, market-oriented tariff structure to ensure
recovery of operating costs, dredging included.
Timing and Cost. The consultants would start to work by January 1, 1988 and
complete their work by December 31, 1989, both at DNCPVN and AGP.
Consultants requirements are estimated at about 143 man-months of which 18
would be foreign and 125 local experts. The estimated cost of these services
would be about US$600,000.
C.   Assistance to improve DNCPVN maintenance services
Background. DNCPVN, the Government department under the SHH of the NOSP
responsible for dredging of maritime, port and inland waterways operates a
fleet of about 140 floating craft units of which 28 are dredgers and the rest
tugboats, barges and service boats. Most of the fleet's major hull repairs
and maintenance and engine overhauls are executed by contract by local
shipyards and/or workshops; however, minor repairs and maintenance other than
hulls, is carried out by DNCPVN with its own personnel. The fleet operating
territory includes all navigable rivers and waterways and some dredgers are
regularly based at specific ports, while others, particularly the
self-propelled ones are allocated to various ports/channels. DNCPVN's main
maintenance facilities are located in Rio de la Plata, Bahia Blanca, Rosario,
Canc del Uruguay, (Provincio de Entre Rios), Parana, Corrientes and
Quequen. DNCPVN's average annual maintenance budget during the past years
amounted to about US$20 million equivalent. This includes funds for
maintenance by contract and spare parts, as well as salaries of about 1,800
people assigned to these services. Being a Government department DNCPVN's
maintenance services are less than adequate.



- 116 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 5
Objectives. The assistance would be addressed to reorganize DNCPVN
maintenance services and rationalize the use of human and material resources
allocated to them.
Scope. The work would be Implementation oriented and include the following
tasks:
(a) assessment of maintenance needs, analyzing the overall capacity of
DNCPVN and private contractors;
(b) assessment of the current organization and qualifications and
functions of personnel asslgned to the services;
(c) preparation of a diagnostic and a plan of action that can be
implemented through administrative and operational measures without
additional investments;
(d)  development of an appropriate organizational structure, design and
implementation of cost accounting and inventory control systems;
Ce) implementation of preventive maintenance procedures;
(f) basic design of a workshops modernization plan; and
(g) definition of annual budget allocation required to provide
efficient maintenance services and spare parts for the whole plant
Of equipment.
Timing and Cost. The consultants would start work by January 1, 1988 and
complete their work by September 30, 1988. Manpower requirements are
estimated at about 40 man-months. The estimated cost of this service is
about US$200,000.
D.  Engineering studies for final design of the Bahia Blanca II Port Project
Background. In 1985, the Government carried out the economic evaluation of
the Bahia Blanca II Port Project, corresponding to the expansion cf the Ing.
White grain terminal. Early in 1986 a short-list of consulting firms and
terms of refexence for the engineering studies were reviewed and found
satisfactory by the Bank, and JNG proceeded to invite the corresponding firms
to submit their proposals, which were received and evaluated by the Bahia
Blanca Technica; Committee, established under Loan 1521-AR.  Following Bank
concurrence with the conclusions of the evaluation report, JNG awarded the
contract in January 1987.
Objectives. The engineering studies will define the scope and cost of the
project for reference, and would enable the Bank to appraise it by mid-1988.
Scope. The studies will include: (a) the analysis of all previous studies
also taking into consideration the possibilities of having some private
facilities being built close to Bahia Blanca; (b) definition of the scope of



- 117 -
ANNEX 7
rage 5 of 5
the proposed project; (c) preparation of final engineering for rallway and
road access to the port, reception and storage and handling facilitles,
additional berths and ship-loading facilities.
Timing and Cost. The study Is expected to be completed in 18 months and not
later than September 1988. Consultants requirements a-e estimated at about
400 man-months. The estimated cost of the study, bssea on contract values
would be about US$4.5 million excluding taxes.
April 7, 1987



- 118 -
ANNEX 8
ADGENTINA
BAIA BLANCA I POLT PRWOSCT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project ill.
The followlng documents and data, obtained from MOSP and its
agencies and JNG, art available In the Project File:
1.  AGP Traffic Statiatlcs and Projections
2.   Bahia Blanca Statistics and Projectlons
3.   Economic Analysis of the Bahia Blanca Port Project
4.  JNG Operational Data and Related Docu ents
5. ASP Past Financial Statements
6.  DNCPVN Past Budgetary Allocatlons
7. iNG Past Financial Statements
8.   Bahia Blancs Port Project - Phase I Basic Engineering Coat Data
9.   Statistical Data on Silo Accidents
February 1987



ARGENT INA
BAHIA BLANA 1 PORT PROJECT
Organization of the Secretariat of Transport (ST)
|      T5-UKcmflAJIAA
aIT
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
l-SUMARIAT          l|w1 
MR                  m~~________                    m               *        in.ciu m
DATIONAL I=L                L   TOAATI                  AL lIUAUSPU       I   MTIII.    -
AMWIM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
(IPA)
.I.__._  _ _ICTAI
DIUC oBn   ~ ~ MTtOUL I luasn                  TI      cllM                L   "
W TIST
_tmy



- 120 -
CHART 2
ARGENTIIA
BAHIA BLANCA I PORT PROJECT
Organization of the Secretariat of Merchant Marine
SmURZAT"
OF
SUBSECWEDACRA
COODHIN4PIONATV                  N I    LE-COAL   E
GRAL                                  OFI  X
IIUORE _       _IR                    DIUECITEEl
- E ~ ~       ~       ~      ~       E
SUPPCI ORAE sVrpiSCZAP ITIEC
j ATIOAL DIRECIRAT                   N       EER DIAL
I    TOL DIRCTORAT                      NAIAL DCTORE
|~~~o smULor
AaIONIAL DIIZCPANNI                        N     A L  
OF 
1eXOIT NDINEC1 MANIN                  DJIN.5IAO (WUIII



ARGENTINA
BAHIA BLANCA I PORT PROJECT
Organizatlon of General Port Administration (AGP)
t v~h  ~ IL ~  IigiO.d  ~ ~ $ ~ NIomAcwI    BudO      l 1
|: E.  |
4     b   91~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h
X               S                     *  t U
f](1f2  + i1m Ft                                                                                   s]FL
ES~~~~~~w



ARGENTINA
BAHIA BLANCA I PORT PROJECT
Organization of National Directorate of
Port and Navigable Waterways  Construction (DNCPVN2
Ieputy
I Decta I
-    I   -
DeUIV
Dwe tla
S1d- -----        WIk             SPMI                  L ogislonc: Ivll                           
9udjels        Conslucwlanlt      9No tvU                    loisale        c:allAlllwlllui
Waterwy               h5lales                                                                   1
.il                     f                  X            LI 1t1 2I I   .  Iro
(i) Wficls                                                        Wo~~~~~~~~~Vddl*-27ibb



- 123 -
CBART 5
ARGENTINA
BIALR BLANCh I PORT PROJECT
Project Implemntation Schedule
| Description                         1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
1. Emergency Works
(a) Civil Works                     +++
(b) Equipment                        +4+
2. faritlae Works
(a) Demolition of Iron
Wharf
(b) Renoval of Sunken                ++++1
Dredger
3.  Grain Handling Rehabiltation
(a) Civil Works                         _      _     _  _  _ 4+++ 44444 1  $1 P+1I4
(b) Equipment, including
Erection                            _        .   -              +sr  +I1 I     I
(c) Electricity and Electronics                             - - D                  FCaCkF  .444I-44- 4-4I44
4. slo Safety Systems
(a) Civil Works                                     _iHH HHHH _
(b) Equipment                                       _   _    _ _ _    1
5.  RalLway Works
6. Technical Assistance                           1+.4- 11111111 4+4-4-44 1414+11
7. Engineering Studies                           44+     Ff
Symbols:             Design
---- - -Procuremnnt
- anufactu



BAlIT S.AWA I POST P?OWFL'
Project Cast Mmary
(A4 '000)                       (US$ '000)                   Z Total
Z Foreig    5s
LWal    7Fozel    Ttal         IDcal    ftea    Ttal          e        Cats
A, 1areney Works                       465.0   1,660.0   2,125.0      372.0   1,328.0   1,700.0      78        3
B, Maritime I4xiw                    2,550.0   1,700.0   4,250.0   2,040.0   1,360.0   3,400.0       40        6
C. Grain HandUrg Rehabiitatim        11,988.1  35,852.5  47,840.6   9,590.5  2B,682.0  38,272.5      75       63
D. SUlo Safety Progran               4,657.5  11,092.5  15,750.0   3,726.0   8,874.0  12,600.0       70       21
E. Teducal Assistanw                   250.0   1,000.0   1,250.0      200.0     800.0   1,000.0      80        2
F. R&UlWB W0*8a                       1,500.0   1,000.0   2,500.0   1,200.0     800.0   2,000.0      40        3
G. ft%ineerlr Stnxies                  500.0   2,000.0   2,500.0      400.0   1,600.0   2,000.0      80        3
Total Baellx aoets                   21,910.6  54,305.0  76,215.6  17,528.5  43,444.0  60,972.5      71      100
$hyidcal Contlngcies             2,844.7   7,458.1  10,302.8   2,275.8   5,966.5   8,242.3      72        14
Price CitJirgencies                 488.5   1,695.7   2,184.1     390.8   1,356.5   1,747.3      78        3
Total Project Ooets                  25,243.8  63,458.8  88,702.6  2D,195.0  50,767.0  70,962.1      72      117
April 2, 1987



f-n>4AAR DEL PLATA
E) NUEN 4                       hoele   t            e           u         q       t
PASO                   p            /             ?IBAHIA BLANCAI
PUYEHUF                          (do
Lago E    jt
EDMA pevut   y    t~40'-
t-t ,4/ ~lo ocobocc,
I  I                              >s ~~~~~~~Modryn
tJ t-_   rRAWSON                           ARGENTINA
BAHIA BLANCA PORT PROJECT
PASOC's 
COYHA?Qui\1              Sorm nro
-LJ         -\/9f ooMoDO                                                     MAJOR CORRIDORS
_~   t        7    ~-2          tRIVADAVIA                                              PAVED  OR GRAVEL  ROADS
k  I       Los~~0 Hero .
_.11 A    (              o        t^,                                 ~       --        EARTH  ROADS
2 ( 5 Fitz Ror S                                              INTERNATIONAL  ROAD CONNECTIONS
.  ..  RAILROAOS
U      I                                      Pic Deseodo                         +       PRINCIPAL  AIRPORTS
,J  /    PRINCIPAL PORTS
RIVERS
INTERNATIONAL  BOUNDARIES
s,                                                                                                                                                                                                   30t  / 
*\ 2e rs   R io GALLEGOS
tt,ebra     _
hiJ map has been wep2aied by
th, WwId Bank's staf evhaus;o)                  ro PUNrA.
tor the coniedence of the                          ARENA
ltadas and is axccsierVy for me 
internal use ol The Worid Bank                                                                           0              200              400              600 _0_
and the hlerinationIl Finarce                                                                                                          IOER
Cowporahon. ^The KeILOMETioRS
used and Ihe botundaies thown
on Ihi map do noth %irr. an Mhe                                                                          0            100          200          300          400           500
pert of rore word Bank eAd the
snte,ragtiool F,arnce Corpooraon,                                                                                                       MILES                              m
>    any jidgmenl on the legal status                                                                                                                                                                        ;
x    or any letalory or err,a
endorsement of acceptance ot                                                                                                                                                                            -
such b:undaieas                                                                                                                                                                                         CD
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a ,                    00dO                                                                                                     5                                        to
-                     ~                              ___  __,L_____...__                             __ ______________________________________                           .0D



_b.  RBOIVIA    -0                                                     -      . 5     .      ;/
-V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
ys       oDo*i%lB%o=  ^RA1                                   * =.*- .*-   ;,              i ~'                     t
*URUGUAY'
(  _Buenas Ares, C
~ARGENTINA
Bahia Bianco                                                                      *',*.I-
-7~~~~~~~~~~~~1
____ . -- _ 60                          /                              \
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
BAHIA BLANCA PORT ACCESS CHANNEL
WON  HARF (           L 
SUNKENREOA
DLsREzrDGE REMOVAL
EXJSTING
TRINIDAD ISLAND                                                     0           100          200
KILOMETERS
0       10      20
Kilometrs



IBRD 20383
ARGENTINA
I I R                 ts-11111111BAHIA BLANCA I PORT PROJECT
U;                X                 sllib  y PROPOSED GRAIN  HANDLING  FACILITIES AT INGENIERO  WHITE
II] s t      PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS
'4,r - ; X   w lltl    i b  <hs  ,                       AREA TO BE PAVED
/ //1          &       4     t                 C,    .  EXISTING PORT FACILITIES
1111                            v                             f aT PRESENT Y.P.F.
/1                                                              BUILT-UP AREAS
CK WFIGH\N ,                                              
*~~~~~~~ ~~~~~ ~ r                                   EXSTN   DEB  POE  PLANT*
/)~~ V /
- 1N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ShC  WIHINP                                             0
SIPLOADINC,
~~~1  ~ A
\  \        ~~~BERTH 9
200          300
KlLOMETERS                                                                    .. '  - pfn. '  by 71. mif    atid   . . ,_star Aw    foe NW
in 'Bd-5 rad . -kw.qkw M B91 ua d we .1 the W * U mie d '3hSV
'-~ Co . Te __._a ed ad Nie hwe  utoe an Ne -  d ea
.'* w V.a PBd f TOW.pIfid d.* t NW B SbOfm F11o Cw hlW pf NW e.
- me 11   s d last.. at _n~ etweie.VS 'B aim' n   .a~  ba fl.
APRL 1987



