Page  1
 CONFORMED COPY
 LOAN NUMBER 2805 AR
AGP Project Agreement
(Bahia Blanca I Port Project)
between
 INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ADMINISTRACION GENERAL DE PUERTOS
Dated February 25, 1988
LOAN NUMBER 2805  AR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated February 25, 1988, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and ADMINISTRACION GENERAL DE PUERTOS (AGP).
      WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Argentine 
Republic (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty million dollars 
($50,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only 
on condition that AGP agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set 
forth in this Agreement;
     (B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
AGP, the proceeds of the loan required for carrying out Part B of the Project will be 
made available to AGP on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement;. and
      WHEREAS AGP, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in .he Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
Page  2
ARTICLE  II
Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. AGP declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and to this end, shall carry out Part B 
of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and ports practices, and shall provide, or 
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for such Part of the Project.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the works 
and consultants' services required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 5 to the Loan 
Agreement.
      Section 2.03. AGP shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of this Project Agreement and Part B of the 
Project.
      Section 2.04. AGP shall duly perform all its obligations under the AGP 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, AGP shall not 
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the AGP Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 2.05. (a) AGP shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the 
Bank with regard to the progress of Part B of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the AGP Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
      (b)   AGP shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of Part B of the Project, the accomplishment 
of the purposes of Loan, or the performance by AGP of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the AGP Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
      Section 2.06. AGP shall, as part of Part B of the Project:  
      (a)   hire consultants to assist in the implementation of Part B (ii) of the 
Project not later than December 31, 1988; 
      (b)   not later than December 31, 1989, put into effect a cost accounting system 
satisfactory to the Bank; 
      (c)  not later than June 30, 1990, develop the cost-based tariff structure 
included in Part B (ii) of the Project in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;
      (d)  not later than December 31, 1990 prepare a plan of action satisfactory to 
the Bank for the implementation of such tariff structure which shall take into account 
the obligations of AGP set forth in Section 4.04 of this Agreement; and 
     (e)  start to implement such plan of action not later than June 30, 1991.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of AGP
      Section 3.01. AGP shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering and ports practices under 
the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) AGP shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition 
including separate accounts and records for the resources and expenditures in respect 
of Part B of the Project.
Page  3
      (b)   AGP shall:
            (i)
have its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
         (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
accounts and financial statements as well as the audit thereof and 
said records, as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
      (c)   For all expenditures for Part B of the Project with respect to which 
withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, AGP shall:
            (i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
separate records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)
retain, until one year after the Bank has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
            (iv)
ensure that such separate accounts are included in the annual 
audits referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report thereof contains, in respect of such separate accounts, a 
separate opinion by the said auditors as to whether the proceeds 
of the Loan withdrawn in respect of such expenditures have been 
used for the purpose for which they were provided.
      Section 4.02. AGP shall: (a) prepare its annual investment program on the basis 
of economic criteria and evaluation methods satisfactory to the Bank; (b) furnish to 
the Bank for comments not later than December 31 of each year, starting on December 
31, 1988, AGP's proposed investment  program for the following year; (c)  exchange 
views with the Bank on each such investment program; and (d) refrain from carrying out 
any investment project estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $10,000,000, 
unless the Bank shall have been given a reasonable opportunity to express its views on 
any such investment project or on the methods utilized for, and the results of, its 
evaluation.
      Section 4.03. AGP shall: (a) not later than December 31, 1989, carry out a 
revaluation of its assets in accordance with methods and criteria satisfactory to the 
Bank; and (b) incorporate the results of such revaluation of assets in its books as of 
January 1, 1991.
      Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, AGP shall maintain: 
(i) for each of the following fiscal years a ratio of total working expenses to total 
operating revenues not higher than 0.85 in 1987, 0.83 in 1988, 0.82 in 1989 and 0.80 
in 1990; (ii) for its fiscal year ending on December 31, 1991 and the three subsequent 
fiscal years, a ratio of total working expenses to total operating revenues not higher 
than 0.84 and ratio of total operating expenses to total operating revenues not higher 
than 1.23. Thereafter, AGP's total operating revenues shall equal at least its total 
operating expenses plus interest and other charges on debt.
      (b)   Before September 30 in each of its fiscal years, AGP shall, on the basis 
of forecasts prepared by AGP and satisfactory to the Bank, ascertain whether it would 
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next 
following fiscal year, and shall furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon 
its completion.
Page  4
      (c)   If any such review shows that AGP would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) for AGP's fiscal years covered by such review, AGP shall 
promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of 
the structure or levels of its tariff rates) in order to meet such requirements.
      (d)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)
The term "total working expenses" means all expenses related to 
operations, including administration, adequate maintenance and 
maintenance dredging, but excluding taxes and payments in lieu of 
taxes and interest and other charges on debt.
            (ii)
The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses related to 
operations, including administration, adequate maintenance, 
maintenance dredging, and provision for depreciation of AGP's 
fixed assets in operation on the basis of depreciation methods and 
accounting principles acceptable to the Bank, but excluding 
interest and other charges  on debt, and taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes.
         (iii)
The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources related to operations.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
      Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of AGP 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify AGP thereof.
      Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
                  Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
     Cable address:                       Telex:
          INTBAFRAD                       440098 (ITT),
          Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
                                           64145 (WUI)
For AGP:
    Administracion General de Puertos
    Av. Julio A. Roca 734-90 Piso
    Buenos Aires
    Argentina
Page  5
                                          Telex:
                                          AGEPUER
                                          012-1879
      Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of AGP may be 
taken or executed by the Administrador General de Puertos or such other person or 
persons as AGP shall designate in writing, and AGP shall furnish to the Bank 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
      Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in  several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original,  and all collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                              RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                         By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
                        ADMINISTRACION GENERAL DE PUERTOS
                        By /s/ Jose Manuel Pedregal
Authorized Representative
