Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
 LOAN NUMBER 2805 AR
 LOAN AGREEMENT
(Bahia Blanca I Port Project)
between
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated February 25, 1988
 LOAN NUMBER 2805 AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 25, 1988, between THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
Parts B and C of the Project will be carried out by Administracion 
General de Puertos (AGP) and Junta Nacional de Granos (JNG), respectively, with the 
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to AGP and JNG the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreements of even date herewith between the Bank and AGP 
and between the Bank and JNG;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"ACP" means Administracion General de Puertos, the General Port 
Administration of the Borrower;
(b)
"AGP Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and AGP of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the AGP Project Agreement.
(c)
"Australes" means the currency of the Borrower.
 
(d) 
"DNCPVN" ,means Direccion Nacional de Construcciones Portuarias y Vias 
Navegagles, the National Directorate of Port Construction and Navigable Waterways of 
MOSP;
(e)
"FA"  means  Ferrocarriles Argentinos, the Borrower's railways company;
 
(f)
"JNG" means Junta Nacional de Granos, the National Grain Board of the 
Borrower;
(g)
"JNG Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and JNG of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes 811 schedules and agreements supplemental to the JNG Project Agreement;
(h)
"JNG Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to he entered into 
between the borrower and JNG pursuant to Sectlon 3.02 of this Agreement, as the same 
may he amended from time to time;
(i)
"MOSP" means Ministerio de Obras y Servicios Publicos, the Ministry of 
Public Works and Services of the Borrower;
(j)
"PCU" means a project coordinating unit to be established by the borrower 
the Effective date within MOSP pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, to 
assist the Project Committee in the technical supervision and coordination of the 
execution of the Project;
(k)
"Prefectura Naval" means the maritime authority of the Ministry of 
Defense of the Borrower;
(l)
"Prior Loan" means Loan No. 1521-AR provided for under a Loan Agreement 
between the Bank and the Borrower dated January 25, 1984;
(m)
"Project Committee" means a committee to be established by the Borrower 
by the Effective Date for the general supervision and coordination of the execution of 
the Project pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) (i) of this
Agreement;
(n)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(o)
"SSD" means the Safety Services Department of JNG;
 
(p)
"ST" means the Secretariat of Transport of MOSP; and
 
(q)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means, collectively, the AGP Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement and the JNG Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount in various 
Page  3
currencies equivalent to fifty million dollars ($50,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule 
may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for 
expenditures made or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the project described in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in Banco Central de la Republica Argentina on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1993 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05 (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum for each Interest 
Period equal to one-half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for 
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
(c)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
Interest Period" means the six-month period commencing on each 
date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, including the 
Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the outstanding 
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, expressed 
as a percentage per annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank. 
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan ln 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
shall carry out the Project as follows: Part A (other than Part A (iii) and (vi)) 
through MOSP; Part A (iii) through MOSP, with the participation of FA; and Part A (vi) 
through the Prefectura Naval, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and ports practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities services and other resources 
required for carrying out such Parts of the Project; and (ii) cause AGP and JNG to 
perform in accordance with the provisions of the AGP Project: Agreement and the JNG 
Project Agreement, all the obligations of AGP and JNG therein set forth, shall take or 
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services 
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable AGP and JNG to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or interfere with such performance.
(b)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
Page  4
the Borrower shall, through MOSP: (i) establish and maintain until the completion of 
the Project, an inter-agency committee, with membership and functions satisfactory to 
the Bank, to coordinate and supervise the execution of the Project; and (ii) establish 
and maintain within MOSP until the completion of the Project, a project coordinating 
unit to assist the Project Committee in the technical supervision and overall 
coordination of the execution of the Project.
(c)
The Borrower shall ensure that the PCU, at all times: (i) is headed by a 
full-time professional, with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank, 
assisted by qualified and experienced staff in adequate numbers; and (ii) carry out 
its activities under terms of reference which shall have been approved by the Bank.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall on lend to AGP and JNG the proceeds of the 
Loan required by AGP and JNG for carrying out Part B and Part C of the Project, 
respectively, under subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between the Borrower 
and AGP, and between the Borrower and JNG under the same terms and conditions as those 
applicable to the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall make available to FA, the amount of the proceeds of 
the Loan required by FA for the purpose of participating, under the supervision of 
MOSP, in the carrying out of Part A (iii) of the Project, under contractual 
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, which shall provide inter alia, for the same 
financial terms and conditions as those applicable to the Loan.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements, and the contractual arrangements referred to in the preceding paragraph, 
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreements and 
contractual arrangements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(b)
As part of the foregoing, the Borrower shall, through MOSP: (i) hire 
consultants for the supervision of the execution of Part A (ii) of the Project prior 
to the award of construction contracts for such Part of the Project; and (ii) hire 
consultants to assist in the execution of Part A (iv) and (v) of the Project not later 
than December 31, 1988.
Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part B of the 
Project shall be carried out by AGP pursuant to Section 2.03 of the AGP Project 
Agreement, and in respect of Part C of the Project shall be carried out by JNG 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the JNG Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained separate 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section,
including the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the report of such audit by the said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested;
Page  5
(iii)
furnish to the Bank monthly certified statements of the Special
Account; and
(iv)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
accounts and the audit thereof and said records as the Bank shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals are requested from 
the Loan Account on the has is of statements of expenditure, the borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, separate records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, or cause to be retained, until at least one year after the 
Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such separate accounts are lncluded in the annual 
audit referred to ln paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report thereof contains, in respect of such separate accounts, a 
separate opinion by the said auditors as to whether the proceeds 
of the Loan withdrawn in respect of such expenditures have been 
used for the purpose for which they were provided.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (a) prepare DNCPVN's annual investment program 
on the basis of economic criteria and evaluation methods satisfactory to the Bank; (b) 
furnish to the Bank for comments, not later than December 31 of each year, starting on 
December 31, 1988, DNCVPN's proposed investment program for the following year; (c) 
exchange views with the Bank on each such investment program; and (d) refrain from 
carrying out any investment project through DNCPVN estimated to cost more than the 
equivalent of $10,000,000 unless the Bank shall have been given a reasonable 
opportunity to express its views on any such investment project and on the methods 
utilized for, and the results of, its evaluation.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall, through MOSP: (a) continue to monitor the 
development of the costs of, and the tariffs charged for, tugboat services in the 
Borrower's ports; (b) furnish to the Bank the conclusions and recommendations arising 
out of such monitoring at least once every year, starting on June 31, 1988; and (c) 
not later than June 30, 1991, exchange views with the Bank on arrangements for the 
provision of tugboat services to be put into effect after the expiration of existing 
concession agreements.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower, through DNCPVN, shall, as part of Part A (iv) of 
the Project, put into effect a cost accounting system, satisfactory to the Bank, not 
later than December 31, 1989.
(b)
The Borrower shall: (i) develop a mechanism for the recovery of dredging 
costs, satisfactory to the Bank, not later than December 31, 1989; (ii) prepare a plan 
of action satisfactory to the Bank for the implementation of such mechanism not later 
than December 31, 1990; and (iii) start to implement such action plan not later than 
June 30, 1991.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
AGP or JNG shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
AGP Project Agreement and the JNG Project Agreement, respectively;
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
Page  6
that AGP or JNG will be able to perform its obligations under the AGP Project 
Agreement and the JNG Project Agreement, respectively; and
(c)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of FA, AGP or JNG or for the 
suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any of the events specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the  
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements and the contractual arrangements referred 
to in Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement have been executed on behalf of the parties 
thereto;
(b)
the Project Committee has been established;
 
(c)
the PCU has been established and the head of the PCU has been appointed; 
and
(d)
the head of SSD, with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the 
Bank, and experts in silo safety in numbers adequate to make SSD fully operational, 
shall have been appointed.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the AGP Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
AGP, and is legally binding upon AGP in accordance with its terms;
(b)
that the JNG Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
JNG, and is legally binding upon JNG in accordance with its terms;
(c)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements and the contractual arrangements 
referred to in Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement have been duly authorized or 
ratified by the parties thereto and are legally binding upon them, in accordance with 
their terms; and
(d)
that any action required on behalf of the Borrower in order to permit the 
procurement of goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in this Agreement has been 
taken.
Section 6.03. The date May 25, 1988 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
Page  7
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economia
Hipolito Yrigoyen 250
Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable Address:
Telex:
 
MINISTERIO ECONOMIA
121952 AR
Baires
For the Bank:
International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Manuel Pedregal
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shah id Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                       Amount of the
                      Loan Allocated        % of
                      (Expressed in     Expenditures
   Category         Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) Civil works           200,000        40%
(2) Goods              29,500,000        100% of foreign
                                         expenditures and
Page  8
                                         100% of local
                                         expenditures
                                         (ex-factory cost)
                                         and 85% of local
                                         expenditures for
                                         imported goods
                                         locally procured
(3) Consultants'        4,100,000        100% of foreign
    services (including                  expenditures and
    supervision of                       80% of local
    construction)                        expenditures
(4) Unallocated         7,000,000
                       50,000,000
    TOTAL
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$2,300,000 in respect of Parts A (i) and B (i) of the Project may he made on account 
of payments made for expenditures before that date but after November 1, 1985.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to facilitate the Borrower's grain 
exports by rehabilitating the grain-handling and shipping facilities of the Port of 
Bahia Blanca; and (b) to improve the institutional capabilities of the Borrower's port 
sub sector.
The Project represents the first phase of the Borrower's program to rehabilitate 
the port's existing grain-handling facilities and to expand the capacity of the grain 
terminal, and consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
(i)
Rehabilitation of the ship-loading gallery at berth 9 and construction of a 
temporary truck reception station.
(ii)
Reconstruction of, and improvements to, the grain elevator No. 5 complex, 
including all ancillary facilities, paving and repaving of operational areas, 
sewerage improvements and lighting.
(iii)
Rehabilitation of the ports railway's marshalling yard.
 
(iv)
Developing and implementing DNCPV's general and cost accounting, and 
management information systems, including the acquisition and utilization of 
equipment required for the purpose.
(v)
Strengthening DNCPVN's capabilities to provide maintenance services.
 
(vi)
Removal of a sunken dredger to restore the use of a mooring basin in the 
vicinity of the port's grain terminal. 
Part B:
(i)
Partial demolition of an out-of-service wharf and construction of two mooring 
Page  9
dolphins to facilitate the approach and berthing of large vessels at berth 9.
(ii)
Strengthening AGP's general and cost accounting, and management information 
systems, and developing a cost-based tariff structure, including the 
acquisition and utilization of equipment required for the purpose.
Part C:
(i)
Improvement of the safety systems of grain elevator No. 3.
 
(ii)
Improvement of grain elevators' safety systems in the ports referred to in 
Section 2.06 of the JNG Project Agreement.
(iii)
execution of a pilot project consisting of the reorganization of JNG's repair 
and  maintenance systems at the Rosario grain terminals.
(iv)
Carrying out the final engineering studies for a second phase of the Project.
 
*    *    *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1993.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
                                         Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                     
(Expressed in Dollars)
 
   On each February 1 and August 1
       beginning February 1, 1991          
2,085,000
       through February 1, 2002
   On August 1, 2002                       
2,045,000
 
Premiums on Prepayment
The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3.04 (b) of the 
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
The interest rate (expressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to the balance 
outstanding
on the Loan on the day of prepayment 
multiplied
by:
Not more than three year                      
.20
before maturity
More than three years but
                  .40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                       
.73
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                    
.87
more than 13 years
before maturity
More than 13 years before                    
     1.00
maturity
SCHDULE 4
Page  10
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term Category means a category of items to he financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
the term eligible expenditures means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Categories in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation means an amount equivalent to $3,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this schedule.
2.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special Account 
shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions 
of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may he made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the  
special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for replenishment of the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. On the basis of such 
requests, the Rank shall withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the special 
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account with 
amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. Each such deposit shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under the respective Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to or at the time of such request, such 
documents and other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably request, showing that such 
payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Bank when either of the 
following situations first arises;
(i)
the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals can he 
made directly by the Borrower from the Loan Account in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement; or
(ii)
when the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to 
Categories for the Project, minus the amount of any outstanding 
qualified agreement to reimburse made by the Bank and of any 
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation. 
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to Categories for the Project shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice have been or will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures. 
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Page  11
Special Account (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so 
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such  payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the Bank into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account and immediate 
cancellation.
SCHEDULE 5
Procurement and Consultant's Services
Section I. Procurement of Works
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Section I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in August 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
Bidders for the works and equipment included in Part A (ii) of the Project shall 
be prequalified as described in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Argentina may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 or less, and 
equipment estimated to cost $300,000 or less, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia, the following:
(a)
foreign contractors shall be allowed to participate in any such bidding;
 
(b)
foreign contractors shall not be required to associate with local 
contractors as a condition for their participation in the bidding process;
(c)
bids shall be evaluated on a CIF basis, taking into account the freight 
costs freely quoted by each bidder; and
(d)
no limitation shall be imposed or importation of goods quoted by bidders.
 
2.
Components and spare parts for mechanical and electrical systems for silo safety 
under Part C (i) and (ii) of the Project may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers 
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of prequalification:
 
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in Part A.2 hereof, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of the Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
2.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost more than the equivalent 
of $500,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Page  12
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 
2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of 
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan 
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in 
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement, Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of the 
AGP project Agreement and Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of the JNG Project Agreement.
3.
The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower, AGP and JNG in carrying out their respective 
Parts of the Project, the Borrower, AGP and JNG, as the case may be, shall employ 
consultants and experts whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants and experts shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the 
basis of the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981.
