Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2805 AR
JNG Project Agreement
(Bahia Blanca I Port Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
and
JUNTA NACIONAL DE GRANOS
Dated February 25, 1988
LOAN NUMBER 2805 AR
JNG PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 25, 1988, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND  DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and JUNTA NACIONAL DE GRANOS (JNG).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Argentine 
Republic (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty million dollars 
(S50,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only 
on condition that JNG agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set 
forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and JNG, the proceeds of the loan required for carrying out Part C of the Project will 
be made available to JNG on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement; and
     WHEREAS JNG, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement with 
the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Page  2
Section 2.01. JNG declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and to this end, shall carry out Part C 
of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, faculties, services and other resources 
required for carrying out Part C of the Project,
Section 2.02. (a) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for Part C of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement.
(b)
As part of the foregoing, JNG shall: (i) furnish to the Bank a plan of 
action satisfactory to the Bank for the supervision of construction of works under 
Part C (i) and (ii) of the Project prior to the award of contracts for such 
construction and works; and (iii) hire the consultants required to assist JNG in 
carrying out of Part C (iii) of the Project not later than March 31, 1988.
(c)
JNG shall, not later than December 31, 1990, implement in the rest of its 
grain terminals, the recommendations made by the consultants hired for the purpose of 
assisting JNG in carrying out Part C (iii) of the Project.
Section 2.03. JNG shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and lane 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of this Project Agreement and Part C of the 
Project.
Section 2.04. JNG shall duly perform all its obligations under the JNG 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, JNG shall not 
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the JNG Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) JNG shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the 
Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under 
this Agreement and under the JNG Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating 
to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
JNG shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by JNG of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the JNG Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. JNG shall, not later than December 31, 1988: (a) carry out the 
recommendations of silo safety experts financed out of the proceeds of the Prior Loan 
in respect of the ports of Buenos Aires, Rosario, Villa Constitucion, Necochea, Bahia 
Blanca, Barranqueras, Diamante and such other ports acceptable to the Bank; and (b) 
prepare and put into effect silo safety codes and regulations, satisfactory to the 
Bank, for all JNG's grain terminals.
Section 2.07. JNG shall complete: (a) the technical specifications for Part C 
(i) and (ii) of the Project, not later than june 30, 1988; and (b) the final 
engineering designs for Part C (iv) of the Project, not later than September 30, 1988.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of JNG
Section 3.01. (a) JNG shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and engineering practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management, assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
(b)
As part of the foregoing, JNG shall take all action necessary to improve 
the operational efficiency of its Ingeniero White grain terminal in the port of Bahia 
Blanca.
ARTICLE IV
Page  3
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) JNG shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition, 
including separate records and accounts for the resources and expenditures in respect 
of Part C of the Project.
(b)
JNG shall:
 
(i)
have its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report such audit by said auditors of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
accounts and financial statements as well as the audit thereof and 
said records, as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures for Part C of the Project with respect to which 
withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, JNG shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
separate records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until one year after the Bank has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such separate accounts are included in the annual 
audits referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report thereof contains, in respect of such separate accounts, a 
separate opinion by the said auditors as to whether the proceeds 
of the Loan withdrawn in respect of such expenditures have been 
used for the purpose for which they were provided.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of JNG 
hereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify JNG thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Page  4
Agreement shall he in writing such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or 
radio gram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at 
such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party 
shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD 440098 
(ITT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For JNG:
Junta Nacional de Granos
Paseo Colon 367
Buenos Aires
Argentina
Telex:
17789
21793
22151
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or  permitted to be executed under this Agreement on behalf of JNG may be 
taken or executed by the President of JNG or such other person or persons as the 
President of JNG shall designate in writing, and JNG shall furnish to the Bank 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed ln their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
JUNTA NACIONAL DE GRANOS
By /s/ Jose Manuel Pedregal
Authorized Representative
Page  5
