                          Document of
                        The World Bank




                                                         Report No: 29900

              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                  (SCL-45200 SCL-45201 TF-23381)

                              ON A

                    LOAN AND A GEF GRANT

        IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 2.5 MILLION AND U$ 3 MILLION

                             TO THE

POLISH NATIONAL FUND FOR ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND WATER
                         MANAGEMENT

                              FOR A

           RURAL ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT




                          May 31, 2004

                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                              (Exchange Rate Effective May 2004)

                                   Currency Unit = PLN
                                       PLN 3.94 = US$ 1
                                       US$ 0.25 = PLN

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                    January 1   December 31

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ARMA                Agency of Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
EC                  European Commission
EU                  European Union
FMP                 Farm Management Plan
GEF                 Global Environmental Facility
HELCOM              Helsinki Commission ­ Baltic Marine Environment Protection Commission
LACI                Loan Administration Change Initiative
LIL                 Learning and Innovation Loan
LIT                 Local Implementation Team
MAFE                Ministry of Agriculture and Food Economy;
                    currently Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
MEP                 Ministry of the Environment Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry;
                    currently Ministry of the Environment
MIS                 Management Information System
MOF                 Ministry of Finance
NEFCO               Nordic Environment Finance Corporation
NFEP                National Fund of Environmental Protection and Water Management
Nitrate Directive   Council Directive on the Protection of Waters Against Pollution caused by
                    Nitrates from Agriculture (91/676/EEC)
NMP                 Nutrient Management Plan
ODR                 Ministry of Agriculture and Food Economy's Extension Organization
                    (Osrodki Doradztwa Rolniczego)
PIU                 Project Implementation Unit
PSR                 Project Status Report
PMR                 Project Management Report
REPP                Rural Environmental Protection Project
SAPARD              Special Accession Programme for Agriculture and Rural Development
SC                  Steering Committee
SOE                 Statement of Expenditures
SOP                 Sectoral Operational Program
WIOS                Voivodship Inspectorate of Environmental Protection
                    (Wojewódzki Inspektorat Ochrony Srodowiska)

                                 Vice President:     Shigeo Katsu
                               Country Director      Roger w. Grawe

                Sector Director  Laura Tuck
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Barbara Letachowicz

                                           POLAND
                   POLAND RURAL ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   2
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 17
8. Lessons Learned                                                               19
9. Partner Comments                                                              20
10. Additional Information                                                       20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             26
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             28
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             33
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             35
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                36
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            37
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                              39
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                            40
Annex 10. Borrower Contribution to the ICR                                       41

Project ID: P050660                                              Project Name: POLAND RURAL ENVIRONMENT
                                                                 PROTECTION
Global Supplemental ID: P059613 (Partially Blended)              Supp. Name: POLAND RURAL ENVIRONMENT
                                                                 PROTECTION PROJECT
Team Leader: Barbara Letachowicz                                 TL Unit: ECSSD
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR                  Report Date: September 30, 2004


1. Project Data
                 Name: POLAND RURAL ENVIRONMENT                             L/C/TF Number: SCL-45200; SCL-45201
                        PROTECTION
   Country/Department: POLAND                                                       Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                             Region

       Sector/subsector: Central government administration (41%); Micro- and SME finance
                         (40%); Agricultural extension and research (19%)
                Theme: Pollution management and environmental health (P); Environmental
                         policies and institutions (P); Water resource management (P)


  KEY DATES                                                            Original              Revised/Actual
          PCD: 03/01/1998                                  Effective: 03/09/2000             03/09/2000
     Appraisal: 08/28/1998                                     MTR: 04/27/2001               04/27/2001
     Approval: 11/30/1999                                   Closing: 04/30/2003              04/30/2004



   Supplemental Name: POLAND RURAL ENVIRONMENT                              L/C/TF Number: TF-23381
                        PROTECTION PROJECT

       Sector/subsector: Central government administration (41%); Micro- and SME finance
                         (40%); Agricultural extension and research (19%)
                Theme: Pollution management and environmental health (P); Environmental
                         policies and institutions (P); Water resource management (P)

  KEY DATES                                                            Original              Revised/Actual
  GEF Council: 03/01/1998                                  Effective: 03/09/2000             03/09/2000
     Appraisal: 08/28/1998                                     MTR: 04/27/2001               04/27/2001
     Approval: 11/30/1999                                   Closing: 04/30/2003              04/30/2004

   Borrower/Implementing Agency:       NATIONAL FUND FOR ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTI/NATIONAL FUND
                                       FOR ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND WATER MANAGEMENT
                    Other Partners:    EU Phare Large Scale Infrastructure Facility, Nordic Environment Finance
                                       Corporation

STAFF                      Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:            Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:          Roger W. Grawe                                 Basil Kavalsky
Sector Director:           Laura Tuck                                     Kevin M. Cleaver
Team Leader at ICR:        Barbara Letachowicz                            Julia Bucknall
ICR Primary Author:        Justyna Giezynska


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                                           Rating                             Rating (Supplemental GEF)
                           Outcome:        S                                  S
                      Sustainability:      L                                  L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M                                  M
                 Bank Performance:         S                                  S
            Borrower Performance:          S                                  S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
         Global environmental issues have significantly grown in importance in the last two decades. In
Europe, individual countries developed various measures to ensure environmental protection, also in
agriculture, while the European Union proposed a number of directives reflecting the common goals for the
continent. In Poland, the prospective European Union (EU) membership, which now is a fact, demanded
compliance with these directives. The willingness of Poland's government, the development of
environmental protection and the functioning of such institutions as the National Fund of Environmental
Protection and Water Management (NFEP), which co-funds environmental projects, provided good grounds
for expanded action in environmental protection in agriculture. The Government was interested in activities
leading to an improved environment, not only as an element of preparation for the integration with the
European Union, but also as a support to its own policies adopted in the National Environmental Policy
Strategy of 1990 (this Strategy Policy plans to reduce the pollution of the Baltic Sea by 80 percent by
2020). The concept behind the Rural Environmental Protection Project (REPP) reflected these conditions,
as did several other projects carried out prior to REPP.

         With the national and international priorities in the background, since the early 1990s the Polish
government has implemented several pilot and test environmental interventions similar to those proposed by
REPP (funded by foreign governments and international institutions) as well as various investments to
improve the rural infrastructure. On the basis on these experiences, Government decided on a national-scale
intervention yet such program has not been feasible due to lack of appropriate administrative mechanism,
indeterminate economic and financial impacts of such intervention and changes in local government
structures (at the time of project design, Poland was undergoing an administrative reform changing the
number of provinces from 49 to 16 and restructuring the provincial and local administrative structures,
finally adopted as of January 1, 1999). Other solutions, such as microloans to farmers and targeting farms
with well over 10 large animal units, were also rejected. REPP was designed as a first step of a
national-scale plan to reduce pollution of the Baltic Sea from agriculture through considerably increasing
the frequency of environmentally responsible practices among farmers.

         The REPP Development Objective directly addressed the goals of the 1997 Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) for Poland. One of the goals in the CAS was to improve environmental quality through
increased focus on non-point source pollution. The project was to facilitate progress towards meeting
Poland's obligations under the Helsinki Convention to reduce pollution to the Baltic Sea, especially the
non-point pollution from agriculture and rural settlements. The Baltic Sea Joint Comprehensive



                                                           - 2 -

Environmental Action Program, to which the project activities are directly linked, reflects these policies. At
the same time, project activities aimed to assist in the process of integration with the European Union
through increased compliance with its directives, especially the Nitrate Directive (non-compliance carries
financial penalties or refusal of funds). The Project Development Objective was "to significantly increase
the prevalence of environmentally responsible practices among eligible farms in target project areas". The
ultimate goal is to reduce discharge of organic matter, which is a major cause of environmental problems in
the Baltic Sea. The project will help farmers develop environmentally responsible farm management plans
and will fund the related environmental benefits from the practices and investments as well as farm
equipment in some cases. While the farmers will receive some benefits from the practices and investments,
most of the benefits will come from improved environmental quality of Polish surfaces and groundwater
and the Baltic Sea (Project Appraisal Document, Report No.19868, November 4, 1990, p.2).

         The project objective was a challenge because of institutional conditions in Poland at that time.
Several institutions were involved: the Ministry of the Environment Protection, Natural Resources and
Forestry (MEP) with NFEP, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Economy (MAFE) and the Ministry of
Finance (MOF); the representatives of the European Commission Delegation in Warsaw and the Office of
European Integration added yet another dimension to project structure and the potential for achievement of
the objective. There were seven cofinanciers, including EU Phare Large Scale Infrastructure Facility,
Global Environment Facility (GEF), World Bank, Nordic Environment Finance Corporation (NEFCO),
National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management (NFEP), the Government and the
beneficiaries. Additionally, the project required a comprehensive action by MAFE and MEP which proved
difficult due to differing perspectives on environment protection in agriculture. MAFE and MEP had to
learn cooperation on the grounds of a new project and try to adjust their policies and practice accordingly
to achieve the objective. It has to be noted that the Mid-Term Strategy for Agriculture assigned the
responsibility for environmental protection in rural areas to MEP in 1998. As the loan guarantor, MOF
preferred to see NFEP, a MEP agency, responsible for implementation of the State National Environmental
Policy, as the Borrower. Thus the project design placed the responsibility of project implementation with
NFEP which presented itself as an administrative challenge because of NFEP's structure.

         Despite the limitations explained above, it is fair to say that the objective was clear and realistic.
The two project components were designed appropriately to support the objective. Geographically, both
components pertained to the same area. There was low risk that the farmers upon the completion of project
investments would neglect the environmentally friendly practices because these practices were designed to
be cost-effective for the farms and integrated with its functioning. Additionally, the objective aimed to
coordinate other government programs and requirements with the intervention proposed by the project.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The project included two components, Farm Environmental Improvements and Outreach and
Management, which were directly related to achieving the objective. At the time of design they seemed
adequate to the management and financial capacities of the implementing agency, however, at the time of
implementation they required more effort than anticipated. Nonetheless, they were all completed with the
results discussed below. The components included relevant lessons learned from other projects of that type
in Poland and in the Baltic Sea region.

Component: Farm Environmental Improvements
Cost: estimated US$13.8 million or 87.5% of total cost (this sum includes a planned farmers input



                                                     - 3 -

US$4.6), actual US$15.2 million (US$6.2 million of farmers contribution).
Short Description: This component involved farm environmental improvements, environmental advice to
eligible farmers and financial support for the recommended farm investments. This component comprised
of three activities. Through the first subcomponent, Operational Support and Training for Farmers
(estimated US$0.9 million or 6.0% of total costs, actual US$0.2 million), the Local Implementation Team
(LIT) advisors provided agro-environmental advice in the aspects of Farm Management Plan (FMP) and
Nutrient Management Plan (NMP), crop rotation, etc. through a series of training and individual advising.
This activity reflected a lesson learned in previous projects that direct cooperation with farmers is essential
in order for them to feel responsible for the environment in which their farms operate. Also, the benefits of
farmers' experience were disseminated through local government and by word of mouth. The work of the
advisors was coordinated with other local extension services, which further exposed the project outside the
sphere of direct project activity. The second subcomponent, Farm Environmental Investments (US$12.0
million or 75.7% of total costs, actual US$13.8 million), enabled the financing and carrying out of facility
investments proposed by the NMP in 952 farms in a very high quality way. The third activity, Incremental
Operating Costs (US$0.9 or 5.7% of total costs, actual US$1.2 million), made the work of LITs possible.

Component: Outreach and Management
Cost: estimated US$2.0 million or 12.5% of total cost, actual US$2.8 million.
Short Description: The activities of this component, serving public outreach and project management,
were the following. Public Awareness (US$0.4 million or 2.6% of total cost, actual US$ 0.3 million) was
designed to raise awareness about agriculture and environment issues in Poland beyond the project areas
and beyond the farm families. This activity attempted to educate society about the environmentally positive
project results, as suggested by lessons learned from previous projects, by dissemination of project ideas by
various means. Monitoring (US$0.5 million or 3.2% of total cost, actual US$0.14 million) of the project
performance was to ensure that the project meets client needs in rural Poland and to suggest appropriate
modifications. After the closing of the project, this activity is also designed to ensure that the environmental
results of the project will be monitored in the long-term by competent state authority. The Replication
Strategy activity (US$0.1 million or 0.7% of total cost, actual US$0.2 million) was designed to prepare a
model for a national program of environment protection in rural areas based on project achievements.
Within this subcomponent the NFEP, the Government and the Bank would decide at mid-term review
whether to prepare the next phase of the program and, based on the decision, how to implement it. Project
Management (US$0.5 million or 2.9% of total cost, actual US$0.72 million) subcomponent supported the
PIU management of the project, while Recurrent Costs financed the operating costs of the PIU.

3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
         Quality at Entry was rated satisfactory. The project objective was consistent with the CAS goals
and supported Government's priorities. At the same time, the objective was coherent with the World Bank
safeguard policies.

         The project design was thorough and it addressed the existing sector issues of reducing pollution in
agriculture, cost-effective compliance with international requirements, strengthening of water management
at the local level and cooperation with Regional Water Management Boards on project effects monitoring
and developing farm management practices among eligible farmers. The key performance indicators were
designed together with the project design and they were closely monitored throughout the project life, based
on the Project Status Reports (PSRs) evidence. The indicators of outcome and output allowed continuous
project progress supervision. The project also took into consideration the specific perspective of the social



                                                      - 4 -

group farmers represent by underlining the special relationship between the farmer and the advisor.

         However, the project design assumed that the farmers to which it was addressed would have been
exposed to similar projects, directly or indirectly. The the actual timeframe for project implementation was
shortened by the learning time of a farmer who was never exposed to a similar activity. In the case of this
project, the farmers were interested in the project before they were invited to participate and expressed their
demand by taking a swift decision to partake in the undertaking. Although there were cases where farmers
hesitated (mainly because they had to sign a bill of exchange), only a few farmers declined to participate
and today they regret this decision. Such demand-driven flexible approach employed by the project not only
facilitated the process of acquiring farmers to participate in the project, but also allowed further changes in
project design: the project expanded its geographical coverage thus proving that the overall Learning and
Innovation Loan (LIL) character of the project was appropriate in this mission.

         Project design fostered ownership at the community level by involving farmers in the project
preparation. The farmers participated in financing of the tanks on their property, either through
contributions in kind, cash, or both. The local level authorities were also encouraged to provide support to
LITs and they did so through access to office infrastructure and other practices, such as making the
documents which were required to take administrative decisions available. Such actions greatly accelerated
the project implementation.

         The project assumed financing of the manure storing facility at the ratio level of 30/70 with an
upper limit of US$10,000. This means that the farmer financed up to 30% of the manure storing facility
and the project financed up to 70%. The experience showed that the financing level could be at 55-60%
which is the subsidy level proposed by the EU for similar activities, and the Economic Analysis, developed
by the project, justified thet public financial support may vary from 10% to 90%. The project also assumed
that the equipment should be used commonly by groups of farmers. As the project showed, this preferred
option was not easy to accept by the farmers but it was the only financially viable one in the current
situation of the farmers and agriculture in Poland.

         Initial problems included delays in receiving a loan guarantee. The delay was due to slow
harmonization of the Polish law with EU legislation and lack of Polish regulation translating Law on Public
Financing into operational practice. Also, there was a lack of consensus between MAFE and MEP on the
choice of agency to lead the activities. The Bank saw MAFE as a leader in this undertaking due to the
nature of the project, however MOF objected to Agency of Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture
(ARMA) as an implementation agency of MAFE. Such objection could have resulted from the fact that
MAFE was not deeply interested in the project due to a lack of strategic thinking, especially in respect of
the future role of extension services in agriculture. The level of project ownership appears to have been low
in this Government agency. Thus the Borrower had to be changed and NFEP was invited to work with the
Bank. NFEP demonstrated the good will to implement the project. However, it was not predisposed for
such activity because it had never implemented a similar agriculture oriented project before. Additionally,
its statute requires complicated decision-making procedures which sometimes caused approval bottlenecks
and slowed down project implementation. The NFEP structures proved to be a limitation to smooth and
speedy functioning of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU). Yet, although NFEP was not experienced in
projects with multiple tender procedures, the established team was able to proceed with project elements
due to earlier experiences of team members in project management, financial management and international
bidding procedures. The responsibilities of PIU members were distributed properly, along provisions and
procedures set by the Operational Handbook. Despite the success of this PIU, perhaps it would have been
appropriate to have considered placing the PIU, once the decision that the project needs it had been taken,
outside the jurisdiction of both the MAFE and MEP. For the future, it is worth considering whether the PIU


                                                      - 5 -

could be designed as an independent consulting unit outside of ministerial administration. Perhaps such a
solution would have eliminated such delays.

        The Steering Committee (SC) which supported the project with its expertise was a properly
designed and a well balanced body. The MAFE, MEP as well as the MOF experts well matched the
expertise of the representatives of the Committee of European Integration Office and the European
Commission (EC) Delegation. The representation of the EU was especially interested in the practical
aspects of project implementation in terms of the Nitrate Directive. The LITs, consisting of
agro-environmental advisors trained by the project, were integral with PIU and played the role of observer
to SC.

        The strength of the project objective shows in the fact that it touched upon an important problem:
lack of responsible and environmentally sound practices in agriculture adversely combined with lack of
resources for such activities. To help the situation the project built upon the basic dependence in the
modern countryside life, the symbiosis of a farmer and his advisor, and based its progress on their
cooperation. This dependence, together with a previously obtained knowledge that a farmer would
co-finance manure storing facility on his property, led to a solid and realistic project design. The
assumptions about such cooperation and the possibilities of farmer co-financing were based on former
interventions on the subject and suggest that previous experiences and findings were seriously taken into
consideration. These experiences also suggested that facilities for storing liquid animal waste needed to be
constructed by specialized contractors if they were to be effective. Yet previous projects did not elaborate a
mechanism which would move the project from a demonstration stage to national scale implementation
stage. The GEF grant specifically aimed at developing a tactic which could be replicated in Poland, the
Baltic Sea region and Central and Eastern Europe. Earlier projects helped to break barriers and REPP was
a fourth environmental pilot project of such nature in Poland. In other regions, where projects were not
implemented before, the time allotted for project preparation needs to be extended to cover the period of
psychological preparations and learning of project beneficiaries/participants, while larger funds have to
follow. The assumption of the project that the region in which it is implemented is not "virgin" changes the
project design requirements. To implement all elements of such project in previously unexposed areas, a
substantial amount of additional work has to be included in the schedule.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
        The project achieved its objective because it significantly increased the prevalence of
environmentally responsible practices among eligible farms in target project areas, and it did so to a high
degree. The project outcome can be rated as satisfactory.

        Poland is now a member of the EU, yet the country is still working on improvements on its
environmental standards. Currently, the farmers in the animal husbandry sector are obliged by Polish law
(harmonized with the EU law) to possess manure storing facilities by 2008. Additional to the legal
requirement of the EU, Poland has it own objectives, compatible with the current CAS. The objective is
relevant also from the perspective of the Bank's current environmental goals.

        The manure storing facilities have been installed and are used continuously, which ensures
sustainability of project effects in this aspect. Those farmers who have not yet had the chance to apply the
slurry on their fields are, according to NMP, eagerly awaiting the anticipated savings on mineral fertilizers.
Those who already saw the benefits are convinced about the effectiveness of their investments (such
declaration was made by about 73% of farmers participating in the project), and in case of farm expansion,



                                                      - 6 -

they have been adding more tanks using EU pre-accession Special Accession Programme for Agriculture
and Rural Development (SAPARD) funds. Thus physical, tangible outputs played an important role in
understanding the processes which secure the intangible outcomes. Without manure tanks and pads
available for demonstration, the idea of environment protection would not be as visible as it has become.
Farmers are able to see now how much manure they do NOT let into the nearest creek, protecting their
environment and the environment as a whole. They also realize that they can save on mineral fertilizers.
This experience clearly shows that the physical aspect is intricately connected to the knowledge-gaining
aspect of the project. Also the farmers' perception on project beneficiaries changed in the course of the
project; now the farmers seem to understand that they are the environmental managers of their own
surroundings. It is thus likely that the farmers will continue the environmentally friendly practices because
of the proven cost-effectiveness and other benefits to the farm. It must be underlined that it was the advisor
who helped the farmer to realize and understand all the benefits of the project. The trust relationship
between the farmer and his advisor was used in the project to break the barrier of a "typical Polish farmers'
mentality" which could be described as conservative, not progressive and distrustful. The chief reason for
such thinking is the low level of farmers' education (farmers usually complete only a vocational school; a
very small percentage of farmers graduate from agricultural universities) combined with a tradition to
manage the farm "like the fathers did". This trust relationship, strengthened in the course of project
implementation, allowed to demonstrate to the farmer that farm management does not have to go against
tradition and that he does not need to learn only from his own mistakes, loosing time and money ­ the
advisor/extension agent, is there to help.

         The project also had to break another barrier: according to the requirements of the project, farm
equipment co-financed by the project could be operated by farmers associated into equipment using groups
or producers groups, which proved to be a problematic practice because there continues to be a historically
determined lack of desire to cooperate, especially in commune-type arrangements, and a lasting expectation
that services of all kinds will be free. The groups were reluctant to pay one farmer to be the group's
manager; similarly there were some problems with the maintenance and use fees. In most cases, however,
problems were solved and in some cases the cooperation was exemplary and worth outside support.

         The standards for implementation of similar project have not changed significantly since the time
of this project's design. The output targets were met and exceeded. Additional savings allowed project
geographical expansion and testing new approaches to local implementation arrangements. The SC, which
provided an opinion on all project matters, extensively discussed the possibility of expanding the project to
the Bug river catchment region. The options were to either put more resources into the existing regions of
project operation or try to implement the project with changes in a fourth area. The second option,
preferred by the WB, prevailed because of the advantage of testing a new administrative solution. From the
perspective of time it seems to have been a good choice. At the same time, the discussion touched upon the
issue of whether to expand construction and thus build more cheaply or to build less but more thoroughly.
Since the farm technical standards had to be adjusted to the EU standards during the course of the project,
the additional gain to the beneficiary has been the appropriate concentration of efforts and resources and a
creation of a base which can be utilized in future undertakings. The project was extended once by a year
due to the prolonged construction period caused by unexpectedly severe weather. The output targets were
met, and they were met within the time envisaged, and even exceeded (see Annex I for details).

4.2 Outputs by components:
Farm Environmental Improvements: highly satisfactory. The project design appropriately fit the issues
tackled by this component and its activities surpassed the expected outcome. This shows in the interest the
activities generated among the beneficiaries in terms on knowledge-acquisition and the model
implementation of physical outputs.



                                                      - 7 -

a. Operational Support and Training for Farmers. The project professionally prepared the advisors for
work. Besides training, they received an Advisors Guide which contains merit information, most pertinent
legal acts and standard contracts with the farmer. This Guide could be updated, yet the question remains as
to who should update it. The advisors also had the Nutrient Management Plans (NMPs) and Farm
Management Plans (FMPs) software which gave them the tools to facilitate a comprehensive look at a
farm. Additionally, they were equipped with a laptop, cell phone and were reimbursed for expenses related
to farm visits. It is worth mentioning that the usual budget of Osrodki Doradztwa Rolniczego - Extension
Organization Ministry of Agriculture and Food Economy's (ODRs) for such activity placed under this
category allowed an advisor the purchase of about 7 liters of gasoline per month so the possibilities of
advisors participating in the project were incomparably greater. The cost of advisory services in the project
was about US$1,750 per month per advisor. The services were at a required, "normal" and at the same
ideal level in the Polish reality. Nonetheless, these conditions enchanted the advisors as they were able to
work as they should. The experience shows that the private advisory firm employed by the project had at
their disposal not only qualified advisors but ones with project and often Western experience. A private
firm was very operative, less weighted by administrative constraints of their home institutions. Overall,
human capital (possibly strengthening Poland's institutional development) has been created and should be
included in future operations; project management team has been educated and should be used for
replication of the project in other regions. So far the expertise of the LIT advisors has been already used by
the World Bank funded Distance Learning Course activity of Agriculture Pollution Control Forum.

         The activities within this subcomponent included: working with farmers (informing about the
project, advising and training to reduce non-point source pollution from their agricultural activity,
preparing FMP and NMP incorporating environmental consideration, such as necessary investments,
planning of buffer strips, and so on); coordination with MAFE (coordinating technical advice with the
Ministry, involving ODR, local farmers' chambers and other farming organizations); involvement of the
community. In general LIT advisors made almost 29,000 visists to participating farms (30 visists per farm
on average) and provided with more than 28,000 hours of training. See Annex 10, Table D1 for detailed
information on outputs of this component.

b. Farm Environmental Investments. The project was to invest in medium size farms, so called "family
farms", with development perspectives, rather than in large or small farms. Large farms can usually afford
financing of environmental activities related to agriculture, while small farms cannot. Yet small farms are
not perceived as a future of today's European agriculture. At the same time, small farms (2-3 cows) do not
produce enough manure to threaten the environment ­ the scale of nutrient concentration is low. Small
farms are usually located in the South East mountainous region of Poland and are concentrated in compact
villages; a separate tactic should be designed to manage non-point pollution of this kind. The activities of
this component, supporting the physical objectives of the project, included construction of tanks and pads.
The technology used in the project was professional and state of the art. It is not advisable that the farmer
himself builds a tank if strict technical standards are to be met; he may provide work input into the project
only through the construction of manure pad, still guided during construction and supervised by local
certified civil works supervisor. The farmers who participated in the project constitute a group aware of
their development possibilities and most of them are eager to use the external funds. The activities also
included supervision of cooperation between farmer and contractor and support of investment activities by
LITs. In the general project this component outputs are: construction of 952 manure tanks and 655 manure
pads (which were developed as farmers contribution to the project), NMPs developed for 893 farms
covering a total area of 23,295 ha which are implemented by 730 farmers on area of 17,819 ha. 749 farms
obtained FMP, and more than 600 farmers organized into 34 farmers' groups were equipped with
environment friendly equipment for agriculture production. To protect water bodies and streams located in


                                                      - 8 -

the project areas, buffer strips were developed on land of 41 communities where 500 thousand seedlings of
trees and shrubs were planted according to plans prepared by these municipalities and consulted by the
project. It is estimated that total nitrogen emissions from participating farms will be reduced by 800 tones
per annum as a final result of the project. See Annex 10, Table D1 for detail information on outputs of this
component.

c. Incremental Operating Costs. This subcomponent did not produce any specific outputs. See Annex 2 for
discussion on costs.

Outreach and Management: Rating is satisfactory. This component was a complex mix of services to be
carried out to the benefit of the project. Although some subcomponents did not perform as well as expected,
the overall outcome is satisfactory. The weakness of this component stems from the time of subcomponent
application rather than project design.

a. Public Awareness. It is difficult to assess the public awareness campaign efforts as fully satisfactorily.
The outreach was to promote the issue of combating agricultural pollution outside the project areas, not the
project itself. The public relations consultants realized during project implementation that perhaps they
would need more time; this confusion resulted from the fact that the scope of their activities was not
specifically determined. It may even be the result of the activity being implemented later in the project than
it could have been. The PR consultants prepared a brochure for local leaders and prepared and distributed
more than 2000 leaflets on manure pad construction, developed and published a calendar promoting Code
of Good Agriculture Practices, opened a discussion list (the list comprised 30 persons, which is not a large
number), organized meetings for local representatives and involved the Catholic Church. They provided an
internet page, provided logistic support to organization of an international conference giving a forum for
cross-country exchange of project experience, wrote a few press articles, delivered several TV and radio
interviews but it does not seem that the message reached all potentially interested in the project ideas. This
activity attempted to propagate sector policies. Yet, propagation of the idea is truly possible only when
there is an intensive exchange of farmers between gminas, organizing training and seminars, production and
dissemination of professional level materials, and most of all, when an example can be presented as a proof
of project success.

b. Monitoring. This subcomponent includes project performance monitoring, social assessment (this
element was to be used throughout the entire project operation as a baseline for other activities) and
environmental monitoring. To ensure monitoring of the environmental results of the project, the following
agreement has been elaborated. It has been decided that Voivodship Inspectorates of Environmental
Protection - Wojewódzki Inspektorat Ochrony Srodowiska (WIOS) will provide monitoring of the project
environmental results for 3 years after the project completion in the 3 original project regions in exchange
for lab equipment; the 4th, the Bug river region, is not included in environmental monitoring activities).
After 3 years the equipment becomes a property of the WIOS if the agreement conditions are fulfilled.
As designed, the monitoring system consists of surface and groundwater measuring points (25 sampling
and monitoring points located in the three original project areas, one small representative watershed in
each) and flow meters on streams, from which samples are taken to perform standardized analysis of
samples of surface and ground including, among others, compounds of nitrogen and phosphorus. The
location of sampling points was decided on the basis of farms' concentration, hydrological conditions and
the willingness of farmers to have the sampling points located on their farmyards or fields. Sampling and
analyses are conducted by the three WIOSs on the basis of agreements signed with the NFEP. The
environmental results of the project, in terms of measurable reduction of nitrogen compounds in ground
water, will not be visible until a few years from now, 5 to 10 years. Monitoring of project results will be
useful if the results are included in a broader database of environmental indicators (such data bases are


                                                     - 9 -

publicly available through WIOSs and WIOSs' publications) be further used in environment quality
analysis and in new projects.

c. Replication Strategy. Economic assessment and replication strategy ­ these two evaluations were to be
carried out separately but, surprisingly, there were no qualified candidates to perform the economic part;
the call for tenders had to be repeated on a different basis. The economic assessment was first and foremost
to provide information if the funds were placed properly, would the project be viable in the future, and at
what level of subsidies to the farmer. The analysis of costs was not performed at the negotiations stage. See
section Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return for a more detailed discussion. The Replication
Strategy is discussed later in this report.

d. Project Management component allocated coordination and monitoring activities to national level and
implementation to local level. The SC to the project with representation of state administration was
established at project preparation stage, made strategic decisions in regards with selection of project target
areas, eligibility criteria for farms, provided advice and addressed issues reported by PIU as critical for
project implementation or replication.       PIU coordinated project implementation: established effective
project management at local level including provision of relevant training for LITs, approved applications
from farmers to be included in the project scheme in a timely manner, procured in a timely manner and
thoroughly supervised civil works. Consulting firms responsible for development of public awareness,
environmental monitoring design, social assessment and economic assessment studies and replication
strategy were successfully contracted and guided through their activities. Comprehensive monitoring of
project activities was possible thanks to the development and maintenance of MIS implemented by PIU.
SC, PIU and LIT activities were supported by efficient communication.

e. Recurrent Costs subcomponent were not designed to produce outputs. See Annex 2 for cost discussion.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
         The costs incurred under the project were to facilitate providing gains for individual farms and a
new experience for NFEP, as well as environmental protection in rural areas and the possibility to replicate
good results. The economic impact of the project on a farm allowed determining the subsidy level for future
projects reducing non-point pollution from agriculture. On a national level the project was designed to show
the volume of reduction of a nitrate run-off from farms, improve the quality of water and help reduce the
pollution of the Baltic Sea while supporting Poland's efforts in achieving its commitments under various
international agreements.

         Neither the NPV nor ERR were calculated for the project thus this report analyses the
cost-effectiveness of the actions undertaken. Although REPP, being a pilot project, did not foresee
cost-effectiveness as its main criterion, it proved cost effective within the estimated budget thanks to several
procedural solutions. The successful tender procedures greatly decreased costs because the prospective
contractors (in this case they were companies just entering the Polish market) fought for contracts and
lowered their prices in some cases to only cover costs. Savings accrued thanks to this tender procedure
allowed the project to expand into the fourth region. Similarly, a successful tender for buffer strip trees and
shrubs permitted the purchase of a larger amount of seedlings than originally envisaged (according to the
market research, seedlings were 5 to 10 times more expensive than later estimated by bidders who were
interested in selling a larger amount of seedlings at a lower price rather than a smaller amount at a higher
price). The project maintenance was cost effective, although it was higher than envisaged. The maintenance
turned out to be 8.2% of investment cost as opposed to 1.6% calculated at appraisal (this is 5 times higher
than at appraisal). However, higher costs were necessary to achieve the desired effects. It needs to be noted
that these costs were incurred over a period of time longer than the actual investment period.



                                                     - 10 -

         To determine whether the resources were used as effectively as possible to support the benefits, a
Cost Effectiveness Analysis of Nutrient Reduction through Improved Manure Management has been
performed. It examines the cost effectiveness of two project interventions related to nitrogen leakage
reductions into the environment: (1) introduction of nature storing facilities (manure tanks and pads as well
as slurry tanks), and (2) improvements in the timing of slurry application on cultivated fields. Cost
effectiveness ratios were computed for each of the four project regions, Lomza/Ostroleka, Torun, Elblag
and the Bug River Catchment Area, and for all regions together. The cost of averting the leakage of one
kilogram of nitrogen is compared with the results in similar projects elsewhere and it proves that the cost
effectiveness ratios achieved in REPP are well within the range. The cost of reducing nutrient leakages is
calculated as the total cost incurred by the society to reduce the leakages from the project area over a
period of 12 years, i.e. up to 2011. This period has been chosen to be consistent with a period used with
reference ratios in the Chesapeake Basin. The estimated CE ratios vary between about USD 20.70/kg N
and USD 24.77/kg N among the regions reflecting mainly differences in costs incurred, distribution of farm
types that benefited from the project and soil characteristics. It should be noted, that these ratios somewhat
underestimate the actual cost effectiveness of the project as they take into account only N reductions
achieved through better storage of manure and improved application as fertilizer, but ignore the positive
impact of other practices, such as buffer strip development, the cost of which is also included in the
denominator of the CEs. Comparing these ratios with ratios achieved in the Chesapeake Basin of the USA,
where there is a long term, coordinated effort to reduce nutrient pollution of the Chesapeake Bay, on can
conclude that the Poland Rural Environmental Protection Project may be considered to be cost effective.
The full analysis of the project cost-effectiveness is attached in Annex 3.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
The Financial Rate of Return was not calculated for this project. However, it was estimated that an average
farmer would save US$150-200 per year on the purchase of fertilizers. Since not all farmers had a chance
to use the benefits of the project because their manure storing facilities were completed only this year, the
savings remain a probable estimate.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
         Overall institutional development impact of the project has been assessed as modest. This rating
unifies separate specific ratings of institutions participating in the project; which are presented below.

         The institutional development in terms of NFEP financial resource management is substantial. The
project was cost-effective, although being a pilot program it was not necessarily designed to be so. Yet the
Borrower was able to manage the resources made available by several different financiers to the fullest,
making savings at some point and thus creating further possibilities for project expansion and impact.
NFEP developed and effectively managed project specific Management Information System (MIS), a
management tool to produce comprehensive reports providing information on physical outputs,
procurement status and financial aspects including actual disbursements and disbursement prognosis for all
project financing sources in a way satisfaying all of project financiers as well Polish auditors. Equally
importantly, Poland has developed its absorption capacity of EU funds, specially those for
agro-environmental programs for which only farms with proper manure management are eligible. The
project increased the ability of NFEP to use its human resources. Specialists employed in the project
greatly expanded their professional knowledge about project management in general, project financial
management, or international procurement methods which showed in a satisfactory project implementation
progress, successful tenders and timely disbursements. The team was well able to adjust to stringent
international requirements. These specialists have become even better fit to participate in similar high level
undertakings. However, the agricultural knowledge-base of NFEP, strengthened by the project, might not



                                                      - 11 -

find much use in projects with similar substance because after EU accession all agriculture related projects
will have to be financed through ARMA and NFEP will not play the role of implementing agency. The
institutional development in terms of NFEP's ability to make use of its human and financial resources is
substantial and in terms of future, post-EU accession agro-environmental projects is low.

         Project experience, however, has transferred to ARMA with the sectoral operational program to
utilize post-accession funds oriented on farms modernization. The operational program was drafted by
MAFE, with a significant contribution of its representative being a member of SC. The document discusses
program objective and sets expenditures qualified for structural funds along with results of accession
negotiations between Poland and EU. Then presents eligibility, selection and technical criteria, application
process, reporting procedures and monitoring indicators which were developed based on rural
environmental project experience.      During the lifetime of the project, MOE and MAFE worked on
development of a Code of Good Agriculture Practice and developed legal framework and outlined
requirements for nutrient management in agriculture. Admitting the importance of agriculture pollution
control, MOE and MAFE drafted a Law on Ferlilizers translating project experience into sections of both
documents. Institutional development impact of MOE and MAFE has been modest.

         The project was a very special experience for the LITs and especially for the advisors. Their
services in the project were acquired based on the professional experience of institutions in which they were
employed (through a tender procedure). Working with farmers on project-provided basis enabled the
advisors to increase their professional qualifications by learning new approach and sophisticated
techniques, strengthen the trust relationship with the local community of farmers (without which their work
would be impossible) by frequent visits and personal involvement in their farm management, and
participate in a local and national network of experts (such network was created during common training
and work). As a result of the project, the advisors were able to perform their jobs as they should be carried
out. They were supported throughout the project life with proper equipment, allowances and wages. Yet,
with the end of their contract, some advisors returned to their previous jobs and they no longer have funds
for farm visits and cannot give proper care to the farms. Farmers visited during the Implementation
Completion report preparation were surprised and sad that the advisor, almost a family member, had
stopped visiting so suddenly. These signals clearly indicate that the advisory services are needed and that
the advising for this project finished too early. Other advisors found positions in agriculture-related
employment but no longer advise the farms. The network of project advisors disintegrated due to lack of a
clear strategy on how to use the wealth of their knowledge. Lack of appropriate funds is only a result of a
non-existent system, not a cause of it. Although the LIT members strengthen the institutions in which they
currently work with their skills, the overall institutional development in terms of agro-environmental
advising is low. One should remember that the three LITs gathered about 20 people, 12 individuals
represented state extension services of the total number of 4,500 state extension agents, and 2 leading
ODRs out of 23 ODRs in the country.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The Bank was flexible in its approach to the initial stages of implementation especially that it was very
pleased to see highly satisfactory progress. There was a slight delay in receiving funds from one of the
co-financiers, EC's Phare Program but the situation was soon resolved, and resources contracted. GEF
grant re-denomination procedures took a few months more than anticipated, but finally NFEP was able to
disburse the extra resources received thanks to re-denomination of SDRs into USD before the Closing
Date. Also, the tender procedures for the Economic Analysis had to be repeated due to lack of interest of
technically responsive consultants, slightly delaying the implementation of these tasks. There was also a



                                                     - 12 -

delay because of the severe weather (early winter did not allow the commencement of construction),
eventually causing a one year extension.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
There were some difficulties at the initial stages of the project in designating the PIU due to a project
ownership problem, which was low at MAFE, and MOF objections to ARMA involvement. Once these
problems were sorted out, implementation proceeded smoothly, and the project enjoyed the support of
MOF, MOE, MAFE, Committee of EU Integration Office through the SC, and the outcome was
satisfactory.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The implementing agency was committed from the very beginning of the project and the PIU made sure that
the project was well exposed. Project management was seriously applied; all project participants including
LITs, the SC, farmers and others were informed about the project progress and their tasks on a professional
level and timely basis. The NFEP's fiscal management allowed proper project implementation and use of
project funds for eligible expenditure in accordance with project description with due attention to economy
and efficiency. Although there were some problems with the reliable operation of MIS they were eventually
solved thanks to the cooperative attitude of the PIU. The overall impact of its operations was positive,
while staffing was appropriate. The staff occasionally used additional training, for example the
procurement officer was trained in World Bank procurement procedures (5-week course at ILO, Turin,
Italy). The beneficiaries (farmers) participated willingly and their input should be rated as highly
satisfactory. NFEP made use of the opportunity to apply for grant re-denomination, and utilized the extra
resources equivalent to about 2% of the initial grant amount for project purposes. These combined factors
allowed the project to successfully reach its objective.

5.4 Costs and financing:
         The loan and GEF grant were fully disbursed before the Closing Date, although disbursements
experienced some delays in the initial phase of project implementation due to NFEP primary focus on
contracting EU Phare resources. There were no significant changes in project costs. However, the project
was plagued by shifts in the exchange rates, which were frequent and drastic. At the beginning of the
project, these shifts influenced the project financing (EURO falling in relation to USD and PLN, then USD
to PLN exchange rate falling dramatically) and since bulk of the disbursements took place during the time
of largest changes, the situation was unstable. Once the exchange rate stabilized, the situation eased
although NFEP had to spend more to accommodate for the difference between the amount contracted in
USD and that paid in PLN (NFEP was able to pay thanks to its status of a large financing institution). Of
course, the problems would have been be eliminated if the funds had been in the currency of the country,
which additionally allows the cost comparison. During the life of the project, the differences were not great.
The savings, which the project generated, were not due to favorable exchange rates which did occur at
some point, but primarily due to successful tenders.

         During the life of the project the funds were re-allocated among the expenditure categories. This
was due to the fact that LIT costs proved to be higher than expected because the rate of inflation was not
taken into account (during the project design the inflation was 10%, dropped to 5% and then to 3% so the
wage contracts had to be adjusted). The additional funds came from the "unallocated" category. The
project scope was changed during the course of the project. Savings were generated from properly and
competitively executed tender procedures and the project was able to use them to expand its geographical
coverage. Investments only, costs much simpler ­ and cheaper. In addition a new expenditure category was
introduced into the GEF grant agreement to allow the financing to purchase seedlings to implement buffer
strips. Again, resources from the unallocated category were utilized for this purpose.



                                                     - 13 -

The loan and the grant were disbursed using the traditional disbursement method based on Statement of
Expenditures (SOEs). The Management Information System (MIS) implemented by NFEP and PIU
especially for the project was an extremely useful tool although its implementation required significant
recourses in terms of time, money and staff involvement. As it was required in the loan and grant
agreements; signed in the period when the World Bank introduced Loan Administration Change Initiative
(LACI);    NFEP      acquired    and    implemented     MIS   including   financial, physical    output   and
procurement/contract monitoring data and able to produce quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs)
ready for report based disbursement. Management of NFEP and PIU paid special attention and provided
substantive efforts in order to fulfill these financial management requirements. However the designing and
implementation of such complex MIS was not an easy tasks especially in the context of planned changes of
the overall NFEP management information system. Since the World Bank policy does not envisage the
provision of ready project software to the PIUs the entire system had to be designed from scratch based on
the requirements which were challenging. In practice the MIS was designed, tested and improved even
during the implementation since many aspects and recommendations came out from PIU financial specialist
operating the MIS on daily basis. Some function were not included in the system e.g. automatic generation
of SOEs, import of data from NFEP accounting system. As a result the project did not fully utilize the
advantages of the MIS in practice the project still required manual entering and reconciliation of data in the
reports and system. Additionally although the World Bank suggested to switch to report based
disbursement NFEP and PIU decided to stay with the already tested and familiarized traditional
disbursement method since the potential benefits were not so obvious.

The World Bank team recognized NFEP and PIU attitude and efforts towards building effective financial
management of the project as highly satisfactory. In the course of the project implementation the World
Bank performed a worldwide review of the client feedback on LACI. As a result the World Bank changed
its approach replacing its fixed PMRs formats with an approach that allows for more flexible reporting
formats derived if possible from existing IT/accounting systems.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
        It is likely that the farmers will continue the use the environmentally responsible practices learned
during the course of the project. This is so because manure storing tanks and pads were properly
constructed and unless the farmer significantly increases the number of farm animals, the facilities will be
sufficient for storage. Also, about 83% of farms (on more than 77% of arable land covered by NMP) use
NMP and FMP, according to PIU. So, there is the likelihood that they will continue to do so, provided they
have access to advising/extension services specially if any NMP upgrade or modification are needed due to
restructuring of production or initiation of new production activities. Farmers participating in the project
were subject of intensive individual and group training in addition to accessibility of advice of extension
agents. Farmers participating in the project formally committed themselves to continue environmentally
responsible farm management practices.

          The sustainability of the project concept greatly depends on farmer's access to professional
advice. Advisory services, being an essential, integral part of success in agriculture, provide a
region-specific and farm-specific diagnosis of farm needs. In the course of the project, the advisory services
have become essential to the functioning of the farm. As a result, the farmers not only saw the scope of the
advisor's capabilities but also realized advisor's significance for the farm. Conscious advising on a larger
scale would promote, as it did for the project participants, independent thinking in farm economics and
there are many systems which could be used to elaborate a system fitting the Polish reality. It seems that a



                                                      - 14 -

paid advisory system would work in Poland because the awareness that advising opens doors to other levels
of farm management has been awakened in regions of similar projects operation. The state
counterargument that extension services should not be only private might of course be that such services
are a form of control over a state agriculture policy. One has to inquire, however, whether such policy is
firmly in place in Poland. The fact is that the state is not able to carry the financial burden of maintenance
of such centers and they become administratively rigid, useless, and unappreciated formations while the job
of the advisors becomes an office occupation. The creation of LIT proved that there is human potential in
the local centers of agricultural advising which is worth the investment. The Polish farmer is not likely to
seek and find advice outside of these local centers. For example, FMP and NMP are available only from
the advisors who are also a source of information about much more basic farmer knowledge, such as the
Code of Good Agricultural Practice. This document should be known to every farmer, but it is not and it
remains insufficient due to inconsistencies of its merit content (there are no immediate plans to improve it).
The Code should be obligatory in those areas which are sensitive for environmental protection.
Unfortunately, the Code demonstrates a lack of real cooperation between theory and practice, i.e. scientists
and farmers), only the advisor clarifies its content. One should not expect positive results in the
development of the Polish agriculture if the extension service is not improved and properly financed.
Additionally, despite the fact that much money was spent on extension services, there continues to be little
interest at the ministerial level in using former experience in working on a proper system. In the past
MAFE demonstrated little interest in the achievements of other successful interventions. The example of a
Turosl project shows that a totally backward area can be converted into an excellently prospering farm area
where production rose 10 times. This project did not seem to have raised enough interest at the Ministry of
Agriculture to continue its achievements in terms of promotion of importance of extension services to
farmers.

         The project's largest long-term gain is the fact that investment has been carried out, as a result of
which technical norms have been developed. The appropriate subsidy level has been determined to be at
55-60% (EA shows 10-90%) of investment cost. ARMA also has been developing several programs
treating the issues touched upon by the project. However, lack of a coherent Government system of
extension services might hamper success of future projects of this kind. Additionally, there is no official
way to transfer knowledge of this kind project implementation to ARMA. Such a transfer may be visible in
the programs attempting to utilize structural funds through the Sectoral Operational Programs drafted by
MARD (Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, as it is called today) to utilize structural funds.
According to the information provided by NFEP (NFEP note about the preparations to use the EU
Structural Funds, March 30, 2004, p.1), ARMA has used materials related to REPP and perhaps will also
utilize the NFEP document summing up its experience. For details see NFEP summary of the project and
its achievements in Annex 10.

         In terms of economic, technical, financial and environmental viability of the project, several issues
have to be mentioned. Communal use of agricultural machinery is the best known way to lower costs of the
farm; although such machinery use has been widely accepted in the end, distrust toward this method exists
because of its resemblance to communist era arrangements. The project and the Replication Strategy have
placed an emphasis on producers groups which are encouraged due to the economic advantages they
present and the cooperation they promote. Technically, the facilities have been constructed using the best
available technology and future projects have an excellent base to build upon, also because the project
helped in the emergence of relevant professional firms. The issues of the environment will remain important
for Poland because of its own laws and the obligation toward the EU. In terms of financial viability, the
cost of investment in manure storing facilities in individual small and medium farms well exceeds their
financial possibilities if no external support is considered. Only the few "agricultural magnates" could
afford such facilities without outside support. Therefore, there is no possibility for the project ideas to be


                                                     - 15 -

developed beyond the project financial support without Government subsidies to physical investments and
investments into the system of modern and professional extension services, while level of O&M costs is
affordable to medium, family farms. The concept of public support follows solutions implemented in EU
countries including structural funds option. Public support in this case reflect public compensation to
farmers for adjusting intensity of production which secures benefits to society by reducing burden of
nutrient pollution load discharged into environment.

         The Social Assessment and other knowledge about the farmer lifestyle demonstrate that
information reaches the farmer best through a trusted venue, such as the soltys or the advisor. The
information is further confirmed by an example which can be demonstrated to farmers. Thus explaining
new solutions, including environmental ones, becomes a responsibility of the local authority. Such
responsibility grows to be paramount in a situation when in the farmer's perspective the importance of
environmental protection diminishes together with his deteriorating living conditions. In times of diminished
investment local authorities should take care of keeping up the environmental awareness. In REPP, gminas
were extremely interested in the undertaking and were usually helpful. The local officials helped in faster
acquiring of construction permits and other necessary documentation, such as maps, etc. The fact that the
advisors, although local, were associated with a project "coming from the capital" might have facilitated
passage through the administrative maze. Gminas, and powiats in the Bug region, also demonstrated good
will to give own resources (rooms, phone access, geotechnical works, construction inspectors). This
commitment is based on the high local ownership of the project; in most cases, the representatives of local
government such as the wójt were proud members of the community and extended their full support to the
cause. They also believed that grant- based funding, once offered, will be available again.

         The incentive for participants to sustain the project results is an economic gain. A more
cost-effective operation of a farm thanks to savings on fertilizer is the best example of an economic
incentive. Another incentive has been the EU requirement that each milk-producing and each
pork-producing farm has to have an appropriate certificate of food safety. For milk producing farms, the
possession of the certificate constitutes not only a permit for operation but also results an increased sales
opportunity: better prices for better quality milk (similarly, for pork farms). Through continuing incentives
the project proved to be a good investment into the future development of a farm.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
         A well balanced Replication Strategy, as proposed by a consultant, is a comprehensive approach to
a farm. It should incorporate advisory services before, during, and after the pro-ecological investments,
financial aid for manure storing facilities, financial aid for pro-ecological equipment for common use have
been completed (emphasis on NMP and the Code of Good Agricultural Practice, at least for a year and a
half after the project completion). To be replicable outside of areas where the project was carried out, these
valid assumptions must be placed in an administrative framework of the country, and correspond with the
widely understood capacity of the implementing agency. The Strategy must fulfill legal requirements on the
local and government levels and accept the limitations stemming from such legal provisions.

         The Replication Strategy produced within the project presents a perfect strategy to replicate the
project activities as implemented by NFEP onto the regions selected through the strategy. Yet it does not
offer a concept for the reproduction of project ideas. The Replication Strategy, as proposed at the moment,
provides a step-by-step guide on how to implement in conditions prevalent before the EU accession without
giving solutions for the period after accession. The above-mentioned flaw in understanding what the
Replication Strategy is (it should replicate the idea, not the process), poses difficulty in deeming it a
successful output of the project. The approach of replicating a project resulted in several improper
conclusions about the organizational arrangements in future projects. The most important is that the



                                                     - 16 -

Strategy assumes that NFEP will implement future projects. However, NFEP cannot manage any future
projects related to agriculture because as of the EU accession, all funds directed to action in agriculture
have to be implemented by ARMA. When this first condition is fulfilled, various administrative steps
proposed by the Strategy are no longer valid. Perhaps, if the Strategy had been written later, it would not
have reflected the pre-accession confusion Poland experienced. The Strategy contains important comments
about tank construction and raised a concept crucial to the success of such projects, namely
agro-environmental advising. It would be beneficial to rework the Strategy so it reflects the project ideas
and the role of an implementing agency without naming the agent. Additionally, the Strategy should be
re-packaged in a manner absorbable by higher level administration agencies so it results may be
disseminated.

         The Replication Strategy in its current form is considered by NFEP a transition arrangement for
regular operation. The presented strategy had raison d'être until May 1, 2004. The allocation of PLN 18
million into additional regions in Poland until the accession into the EU was planned and discussed already
in February 2003. Finally total allocation of PLN 6.2 million was made by NFEP which mobilized about
PLN 9.8 million of resources from Regional Environmental Funds in six additional regions during 2003
and 2004. "The proposed project expansion should be completed by May 1, 2004" (please see Aide
Memoire from the February 2003 supervisory mission), because already then it was known that ARMA
would provide support for farm investments after accession by channeling EU structural funds. In terms of
project continuation, contract signing in three other regions has been accepted by the NFEP Management
Board. These contracts are compatible with the rules of SOP (Sectoral Operation Programs) and will result
in less than a hundred tanks. However, it is important that, similarly to the project, they are to inform about
ways to protect the environment from the negative effects of agricultural activity and to demonstrate the
advantages of tank possession. As mentioned earlier, the Replication Strategy indicated the regions so this
project is to be implemented according to the Strategy. The currently implemented project based on REPP
will use public funds from NFEP and the three Voivodship Funds for Environmental Protection. On the one
hand, the use of local public funds while the EU funds will have to be used anyway seems a waste of public
money. On the other hand, the NFEP has in this way the possibility to implement the project very similarly
to how it was implemented in REPP. The long-term results of project continuation through the cooperation
with the Voivodship Funds remain questionable while ARMA shall be the only implementing agency in
agriculture; how will its development benefit from the current NFEP undertaking? One has to note that the
project as proposed by NFEP would have had to be at least contracted if not completed by Poland's
accession to the European Union on May 1, 2004. Perhaps the reason for such decision is that this is the
last moment for NFEP to continue a successful project, while the implementation capacity of ARMA in
projects such as REPP is not known. One has to remember, however, that the team which worked on REPP
no longer exists and its members have been shifted to other departments after the closure of project
operations. One should consider whether NFEP is using the human resources it produced for the project.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
         The Bank lending performance is satisfactory. This Bank loan was a response to the need of the
Borrower in the field of environment protection in agriculture and was built upon previous experiences of
the Borrower with similar undertakings. The Bank suggested a demand-driven flexible approach which
proved an excellent choice. The project, consistent with Government priorities and Country Assistance
Strategy, was thoroughly prepared and its components adequately addressed the priority sector issues
identified at the inception phase. The project was prepared with the professional assistance from the Bank
differentiated group of experts and the Bank's assistance can be described as very helpful during the



                                                    - 17 -

preparation and appraisal. However, the objective, as expressed through the project's components, was only
just adequate for the Borrower's implementation capacity, so the Borrower (the implementation agency)
had to intensify efforts to achieve the objective, which it did successfully. The project's closing date was
extended, which did not require neither project restructuring nor changing objectives. The project was
appropriately supported by the Bank's office in Poland as well as headquarters, which positively affected
its implementation. The Bank provided appropriate support to the forming PIU, although some expressed a
wish that the replies to inquires could have been a bit swifter at the beginning of Bank and Borrower
cooperation.

7.2 Supervision:
         The supervision performance by the Bank was satisfactory. The Borrower sees the cooperation
with the Bank as constructive and fruitful because it was professional, cooperative, fast, direct and to the
point. During implementation, the Bank addressed the very few problems with implementation and
development impact in a timely fashion. Especially worth noting is the Bank's proper behavior in relation
to financial aspects of project management. The Bank paid particular attention to fiduciary aspects of the
Project to ensure appropriate financial management. Audits were performed regularly and the evaluation of
the financial management by the PIU continuously added to the quality of project implementation. As a
result, the financial progress has been well documented. The Bank has been flexible in expanding the
geographical coverage of the project and extensively offered its advice and opinion backed by experience in
similar cases.

         In terms of expertise, the turnover of the Bank staff responsible for the project was not very high
thus the possibility to develop a stronger working relationship with the Borrower was utilized. The expert
level of the Bank consultants supervising the project was generally high which is especially visible in the
quality of project design. Bank supervision resources were regular over the life of the project. Supervision
took place every 6 months on average. Supervision reporting of the project has been even and of high
quality; formal documentation of supervision is complete.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank performance is satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
         The performance of the Borrower during the preparation stage was satisfactory. The Borrower was
well prepared to discuss the project nuances during the preparatory stage, as the Borrower was very
interested in implementing this project. The Borrower offered all possible expertise available at the time.
The Borrower performance in the first half of the project was highly satisfactory while it later declined. The
initial problem with choosing the implementation agency was quickly solved and the NFEP, although
lacking somewhat the implementation capacity due to its nature, performed its function successfully.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
         Government had initial difficulty assigning the Borrower as there were discrepancies regarding
which ministry would preside over the project implementation. The PIU was the nest for project ownership;
both MAFE and MEP slowly warmed up to project ideas displaying little project ownership on the
beginning of project implementation. Even today, the policies of both Ministries are not constructed to
complement each other; one could even say that they tend to be rivals. Regardless of this problem, the
Government Implementation Performance was satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
         The implementing agency, NFEP, played a very positive role in the project; it is partially thanks to


                                                    - 18 -

the commitment of the PIU that the project achieved such good results in the field. The professionalism of
PIU is to be particularly noted. Despite some bottlenecks for approvals due to the structure of NFEP, the
PIU team was able to carry out the project without major delays. The cooperation with the Bank was
fruitful. The changes at the ministerial level did not hamper the project implementation perhaps because the
PIU remained almost unchanged throughout the project life with core PIU staff - project director, financial
officer and project engineer remaining unaffected. The cohesiveness of the PIU carried it through the
potential problems with changes at higher administrative levels. In addition, PIU initiated project
geographical expansion in one more region during the lifetime of the project, creatively proposed testing of
other option of providing advice and support to beneficiary farmers, and effectively advocated for
implementation of both. Even the PIU members had previous experience with international projects in
varying degree (also outside of NFEP) which accelerated the necessary training, the team grew to be
knowledgeable, effective and responsible adding value to overall institutional capacity of NFEP and its
ability to manage similar projects in the future. The Borrower learned to responsibly comply with project
agreements and covenants which improved the level of achieved objectives. Its performance was highly
satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower is satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

1.        Defining the subsidy level not only describes the cost-effectiveness of a project but also allows
measuring the scale of necessary future intervention. In cases such as this one where it is obvious that
the project will not sustain itself financially without state support, it is necessary to define the level of
support needed.Possibly this level should be kept at a minimum to encourage farmers to engage their in
contributions in kind - which seems to be prefered option, or in cash. It is crucial to provide society with a
clear justification that public support is needed to obtain public benefit.
2.        Politicization of project procedures should be minimized. There needs to be a detailed
discussion on the form of the implementing agency for a given project. Should such an agency be
necessary, a unit outside of the Ministry's administrative constraints should be considered. That way, the
PIU becomes a team of technical consultants rather than politically involved Ministry employees.
3.        The project confirmed a deep necessity for the improvement of extension services in Poland.
These services are seriously underdeveloped making progress of Polish agriculture questionable. It seems
that the start of a discussion on modernizing extension services cannot take place without a sound
discussion on development of funding mechanism of such activities.
4.        Privately managed advisory firms are more effective than state ones. Similarly, the experience
of LIT showed that team members independent of central institutions such as a Ministry perform their job
better because they are not weighted by the administrative constraints of their home institutions.
5.        Previous exposure to similar interventions influences project progress.
6.        Flexibility of a demand-driven approach has a positive impact on project outcomes.
7.        Convincing farmers about the necessity of certain technological solutions is possible through
displaying a demonstration farm on the local scale. The farmer has to see that improvements are possible
in his area, not in abstract places abroad. Such demonstrations awaken interest and hope that development
is possible making the propagation of the idea a success.
8.        It would be beneficial to encourage farmers to gather in groups to lower costs through joint
tender procedures. Use of the tender procedure is the only way to assure cost-effectiveness of purchases
for a project. The particularly low cost for construction of of manure tanks was due to the fact that the
companies participating in the tender were trying to enter the market and made their offers really
competitive, in some cases even below costs.



                                                      - 19 -

9.       Gathering farmers into producers and equipment-using groups is financially beneficial to
them. This proven concept needs to be supported with examples presented to the farmers as they are not
easy to convince.
10.      To assure sustainability, projects should consider designing a mechanism to transfer the
experience of the project management into other body which may implement these projects.
11.      Implementation of MIS. Development of project specific MIS requires allocation of significant
resources. In the future, if possible, the system should be based on the existing systems allowing for
flexible utilization and encompassing required and useful functions to avoid manual checks and additional
staff work during the project implementation.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Please see Annex 10 for Borrower comments.

(b) Cofinanciers:
None

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None

10. Additional Information

It may be noted and gratefully acknowledged, that GEF involvement and its funding allowed to develop and
implement demonstration of replicable mechanism to reduce agriculture non-point source pollution load
discharged into the Baltic Sea, and contributed significantly to scaling-up demonstration investments in
farm improvement to achieve these reductions. GEF has undertaken a risk to finance activities which have
not been experimented in such a scope and such a scale elsewhere before. Activities funded by the GEF
grant covered a significant portion of tank construction costs, the entire task for the development of buffer
strips, and purchase of equipment for farmers. The development of buffer strips encouraged specially
involvement of communities through careful preparation of buffer strips design, inclusion of them into local
zoning plans, and then in selection of appropriate trees and shrubs species. Co-financing for the purchase
of equipment revitalized the idea of cooperative farmers' work.




                                                     - 20 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix




                      Component 1: Farm Environmental Improvements

Component Description:         This component involved farm environmental improvements, environmental advice to eligible farme
                               for the recommended farm investments.
Expected cost:                 US$13.8 million of which US$1.5 from Bank loan
Actual cost:                   US$ 15.2 (US$4.6 million and EUR3.5 million) of which US$1.125 from Bank loan, US$ 0.66 millio
                               funding and US$ 7.2 million from co-financiers. In-kind and cash contribution received from particip
                               to US$ 6.2 million.



Objective and description      Outputs Expected               Outputs Achieved                Outcomes/Impacts Expected
Subcomponent A:
Operational Support and
Training for Farmers
To support advice and          n/a                            n/a                            KEY PERFORMANCE
training for farmers to reduce                                                               INDICATOR:
non-point polution from                                                                      High percentage of
agriculture. LIT provided                                                                    participating farmers
agro-environmental advice in                                                                 implementing NMP properly
aspects of Farm Management                                                                   two years after joining the
Plan (FMP) and Nutrient                                                                      project. The expected
Management Plan (NMP),                                                                       percentage was to be 50% in
crop rotation, etc. through a                                                                CY (Calendar Year) 01 and
series of training and                                                                       CY 02.
individual advising. This was
done in coordination with
extension agents and MAFE.
The local community was
extensively involved. Results
measured by Project MIS,
Social Assessment, Economic
Assessment.

THIS OBJECTIVE WAS
MET WITH DISTINCTION.

                               n/a                            n/a                            KEY PERFORMANCE
                                                                                             INDICATOR:
                                                                                             High percentage of
                                                                                             participating farmers aware of
                                                                                             financial impacts of adopting
                                                                                             environmentally-responsible
                                                                                             practices. The expected
                                                                                             percentage among interviewed
                                                                                             farmers is to be 50% in CY 01
                                                                                             and CY 02.
Subcomponent B: Farm




                                                   - 21 -

Environmental Investments
To finance and implement      NMP to be developed in        23,295 ha for the two years  n/a
facility investments proposed 3,250 ha in CY 00; 5,200 ha
by the NMP in selected        in CY 01; and 3,250 ha in
farms. Results measured by    CY 02.
MIS, LIT Investment
Completion Reports, Social
Assessment.

THIS OBJECTIVE WAS
MET WITH DISTINCTION.
                              Number of farms that have     952 of total 952 farms       n/a
                              built, bough, or secured      implemented slurry tanks,
                              access to recommended         which is 100%.
                              investments and equipment:    672 of total 952 farms
                              264 in CY 00, 422 in CY 01    implemented manure pads,
                              and 369 in CY 02.             which is 70%.
                                                            125 of total 952 farms
                                                            purchased appropriate
                                                            equipment, which is 13%.
                              Percentage of participating   76.7%                        n/a
                              farms meeting technical
                              performance standards: 70%
                              for CY 00 through CY 02.




                                                     - 22 -

                             Component 2: Outreach and Management

Component Description:         This component supports complementary measures for increased awareness of the importance of envi
                               agriculture, monitoring, a replication strategy and project management.
Expected cost:                 US$ 2.0 million of which US$ 1.0 from Bank loan
Actual cost:                   US$ 2.5 million of which US$ 1.375 from Bank loan, US$ 1.15 from counterpart funding



Objective and description;     Outputs Expected                 Outputs Achieved                Outcomes/Impacts Expected
Measuring device
Subcomponent A: Public
Awareness
To raise awareness about       n/a                              n/a                            KEY PERFORMANCE
agriculture and environment                                                                    INDICATOR:
issues in Poland beyond                                                                        Increased knowledge of
project areas and beyond                                                                       non-participating farmers of
farm families ­ through                                                                        the environmental issues in
educating about the                                                                            agriculture and of the
environmentally positive                                                                       potentially available
project results by                                                                             assistance.
dissemination of project ideas
by various means. Results
measured through Public
Awareness surveys and
Social Assessment.

THIS OBJECTIVE WAS
MET PARTIALLY.
Subcomponent B: Monitoring
To ensure that project         n/a                              n/a                            KEY PERFORMANCE
performance meets client                                                                       INDICATOR:
needs in rural Poland and to                                                                   High satisfaction rates among
suggest appropriate                                                                            participating farmers. 75% of
modifications. After the                                                                       participating farmers were to
project closing, this activity                                                                 be satisfied with investments
is also to ensure that the                                                                     in CY 00 through CY 02: 60%
environmental results of the                                                                   of participating farmers were
project will be monitored in                                                                   to be satisfied with the
the long-term. Results                                                                         advisory services in CY 00
measured through Social                                                                        through CY 02.
Assessment.

THIS OBJECTIVE WAS
MET.
                               Development of Social            This document has been          n/a
                               Assessment measuring             prepared.
                               project social needs and
                               responses.
                               n/a                              n/a                             Environmental monitoring
                                                                                                will be undertaken through
                                                                                                design, development



                                                     - 23 -

                                                                                     (training for specialists, data
                                                                                     collection, lab tests and
                                                                                     intercalibration, quality
                                                                                     assurance, reporting) and
                                                                                     transfer of the Environmental
                                                                                     Monitoring System (the
                                                                                     technical and financial
                                                                                     responsibility will be
                                                                                     transferred to local/national
                                                                                     authorities).
Subcomponent C:
Replication Strategy
To prepare a model for a     A Replication Strategy         This document has been   n/a
national program of          designed on the basis of       prepared.
environment protection in    project implementation
rural areas based on project experience with appropriate
achievements. This           modifications.
subcomponent also included
the preparation of Economic
Assessment.

THIS OBJECTIVE WAS
MET.
                             A document entitled            This document has been   n/a
                             Economic Assessment which      prepared.
                             discusses the economic
                             underpinnings of the project
                             and suggests the subsidy level
                             for future operations.
                             n/a                            n/a                      Cost-effectiveness of project
                                                                                     relative to similar projects in
                                                                                     other countries as projected
                                                                                     in Economic Assessment.




Subcomponent D: Project



                                                   - 24 -

Management
To successfully manage a       n/a                        n/a    PIU and LIT develop and
high class project. Results                                      meet administrative
measured by LIT and PIU                                          performance standards,
quarterly progress reports                                       cooperate with SC.
and Bank reporting.

THIS OBJECTIVE WAS
MET.


There were 6 general activities in total, of which:
Ø       2 met their objectives with distinction
Ø       3 met their objectives
Ø       1 partially met their objectives
Ø       0 did not meet their objectives




                                                   - 25 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
I. Farm environmental improvements                          13.80           15.20              110
Operational Support and Training
Farm Environmental Investment
Incremental Operating Costs
II. Outreach and Management                                  2.00             2.80             140
Public Awareness
Monitoring
Replication Strategy
Project Management
Recurrent Costs

Total Baseline Cost                                         15.80           18.00
                        Total Project Costs                 15.80           18.00
                  Total Financing Required                  15.80           18.00


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00              3.14         0.03          8.02         11.19
                                  (0.00)           (3.12)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (3.12)
2. Goods                          0.00              0.00         0.96          0.09         1.05
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.52)          (0.00)       (0.52)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         1.76          0.41         2.17
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.35)          (0.00)       (1.35)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.92          0.46         1.38
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.48)          (0.00)       (0.48)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
    Total                         0.00              3.14         3.67          8.98         15.79
                                  (0.00)           (3.12)      (2.35)          (0.00)       (5.47)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          2.89             4.13         0.11           6.81        13.94
                                  (2.89)          (3.12)       (0.11)         (0.00)       (6.12)


                                                - 26 -

    2. Goods                                                                     0.68             0.37              1.05
                                           (0.00)               ()              (0.68)            (0.00)           (0.68)
    3. Services                                                                  0.10             0.00              0.10
                                           (0.00)               ()              (1.35)            (0.00)           (1.35)
    4. Miscellaneous                        0.00                                 1.69             1.20              2.89
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.69)            (0.00)           (1.69)
    5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
    6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                2.89               4.13              2.58             8.38             17.98
                                           (2.89)             (3.12)            (3.83)            (0.00)           (9.84)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
I. Farm Environmental           1.50         0.60         7.60        1.13         0.66       7.20       75.3     110.0     94.7
Improvements, incl.
-- Operational Support and      0.50         0.10                     0.10         0.02                  20.0      20.0
Training
-- Farm Environmental           0.50         0.40         7.60        0.41         0.50       7.20       82.0     125.0     94.7
Investment
-- Incremental Operating        0.50         0.10                     0.62         0.14                  124.0    140.0
Costs
II. Outreach and                1.00         1.02         0.00        1.38         1.15       0.00       138.0    112.7      0.0
Management
-- Public Awareness             0.30         0.07                     0.32         0.07       0.11       106.7    100.0
-- Monitoring                   0.40         0.09                     0.14         0.03       0.35       35.0      33.3
-- Replication Strategy         0.10         0.02                     0.20         0.07       0.20       200.0    350.0
-- Project Management           0.20         0.04                     0.72         0.15       0.36       360.0    375.0
-- Recurrent Costs              0.00         0.83                                  0.83                   0.0     100.0
TOTAL                           2.50         1.62         7.60        2.50         1.81       7.20       100.0    111.7     94.7

    Amount of US$ 0.41 million recorded as Bank's actual financing of Farm Environmental Investment
    includes US$50,000 and EUR 48,000.
    The Economic Assessment and Replication Strategy were developed under the same component, thus the
    sum is doubled.




                                                           - 27 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Ms. Tijen Arin, Economist, ECSSD, is the author of the below analysis.

Introduction
The analysis aims at examining the cost effectiveness (CE) of reductions of nitrogen leakage into the
environment that were achieved in the project regions as a result of two main interventions:             The
introduction of manure tanks, manure pads and slurry tanks; and improvements in the timing of slurry
application on cultivated fields (the analysis does not include buffer strips and other measures that reduce
nutrient flows to water bodies, due to lack of data on such reductions). Cost effectiveness ratios the cost of
averting the leakage of one kilogram of nitrogen were computed for each of the four project regions,
Lomza/Ostroleka, Torun, Elblag and the Bug River Catchment Area. The ratios are compared with the
results achieved in the Chesapeake Program in the United States which had a similar objective of reducing
nutrient pollution of a near closed water body, the Chesapeake Bay.
The analysis consists of two main parts. Estimating nitrogen losses achieved thanks to project interventions
and estimating the cost of these interventions. This is explained in detail below.

Definitions, Estimation Methodologies and Assumptions
Cost of reducing nutrient leakages is defined as the total cost incurred both by the farmer and the state that
supported the project through loans and grants from the World Bank and grants from the EU Phare LSIF,
GEF, and NEFCO, over a period of 12 years (because of two years of farm selection, installation and
technical assistance period and 10 years of operation of the installed facilities during which nutrient
reduction was achieved; with the exception of the Bug River Catchment, where the selection, installation
and technical assistance period was only one year). The 10 year period was chosen for consistency with
reference ratios in the Chesapeake Basin. The cost elements included in the analysis are:

a)       Capital investment costs of manure and slurry storage tanks and manure pads in a total of 951
farms in four project regions, namely Lomza/Ostroleka, Torun, Elblag and the Bug Catchment Area. The
facilities in Lomza/Ostroleka, Torun and Elblag were completed during 2001 and 2002, whereas those in
the Bug Catchment were completed in 2003. Table 1 presents a breakdown of facilities by completion year
and region. The total cost of the investments in these facilities by region were estimated by multiplying the
number of facilities by their average unit costs. Cost of time and family labor used to build the facilities
were not included mainly due to lack of appropriate data, leading to an underestimation of total costs;
b)       Annual cost of maintaining and operating the facilities. These were assumed to be equal to 1% of
the investment cost, to start during the first year after the facility was put in place and to recur annually
during the entire period of analysis. These costs are assumed to include the cost of electricity, cleaning,
repair and other type of maintenance.

Table 1: Completion of manure management facilities by year.
Year                         2001      2002       2003       Total
Lomza/Ostroleka              168        167         0          335
Torun                        149        150         0          299
Elblag                       105        107         0          212
Bug River Catchment            0         0         105         105
Total                        422        419        105         951


c)       Cost of project management, including selection of farms and technical assistance provided to them
by the local implementation teams (LIT) during the period 2000 ­ 2003 (Table 2.).



                                                    - 28 -

Table 2. Project Management Costs (USD)
                  Year       2000       2001        2002       2003       Total
LIT costs
Lomza/Ostroleka            106,407    150,691     119,172     14,645      417,218
Torun                      117,413    130,870     148,885                 425,176
Elblag                      79,574    141,197     188,901                 435,735
Bug River                        0           0          0     18,430       18,430
Catchment
Total                      303,394    422,758     456,958     33,075 1,296,559


d)         Additional annual costs are incurred as part of proper manure management. These include: (i) the
cost of energy for pumping liquid manure to the tank, estimated at about USD2.8 /farm/year; (ii) cost of
mixing manure in the tank prior to application on the field, estimated at USD 30 / farm/year; (iii) cost of
disposing of additional effluents from the manure tank, estimated USD 15 /hour/6 m3. These costs and
relevant average manure and slurry quantities were estimated based on a survey conducted among 90 farms
in the project region done by Agro-Consult company, as part of their study on "Replication Strategy and
Economic Assessment Program for Rural Environmental Protection Project". In this analysis, it was
assumed that farmers started incurring these costs in the first year following the installation of the facilities.


A summary of the cost flows over the period of analysis is provided in Table 3.

Table 3. Annual costs related to improved manure management activities during the project life (USD)
                  Year    2000        2001          2002          2003        2004           2005       ...   2011
Capital Investment
       Lomza/Ostroleka           0    2,038,008     2,046,057            -           0              0    0              0
                  Torun           0     1,325,206    1,341,792            -           0              0     0             0
                  Elblag          0      972,448     1,049,169            -           0              0     0             0
    Bug River Catchment           0             -            -    1,349,018           0              0     0             0

M&O
       Lomza/Ostroleka           0                     20,453       42,918      42,918         42,918   ...        42,918
                  Torun           0             0       13,299       28,026      28,026         28,026     ...      28,026
                  Elblag          0             0        9,759       21,243      21,243         21,243     ...      21,243
    Bug River Catchment           0             0            -            -      13,490         13,490     ...      13,490
Project Management
       Lomza/Ostroleka     187,005      308,459      262,888        74,005           0              0    0              0
                  Torun     199,547      291,646       295,342       60,492           0              0     0             0
                  Elblag    163,748      305,967       338,995       61,995           0              0     0             0
    Bug River Catchment                                                               0              0     0             0
                              3,560        6,969         6,348       21,052
Additional Manure
Management Costs
       Lomza/Ostroleka           0            0        38,617       78,026      80,929         80,929   ...        80,929
                  Torun           0             0       52,994      111,810     111,810        111,810     ...     111,810
                  Elblag          0             0       42,458       89,995      89,995         89,995     ...      89,995
    Bug River Catchment           0             0            -            -      37,010         37,010     ...      37,010




                                                     - 29 -

Nutrient Leakage Reduction is defined as the decreased in the amount of nitrogen filtering into the ground
from two sources prior to project investments: storage of manure as heaps on the ground and of slurry in
small tanks. In the former case, it was estimated that during 177 days of storage about 100 liters of liquid
manure with a nitrogen content of 0.7 g / l ran off from one cubic meter (these data were provided by
Appendix 2, page 2 in First Periodical Report of Agro-Consult). In the latter case, small tanks forced
farmers to spread the slurry on their lands during seasons and at frequencies that were inappropriate from
an agro-technical point of view. Through the introduction of proper tanks for manure storage, of manure
pads, and of properly sized slurry storage tanks, the above run-offs into the ground were reduced in
participating farms.

The reduced amount of run-off was estimated using soil hydrological models. Loss reductions were
predicted for different types of farms and for each of the main interventions. These are presented in Table
4.

Table 4. Nitrogen loss reductions (kg N/farm/year)
Farm Type                          Loss reduction due Loss reduction due        Total
                                    to proper manure    to better timing of
                                         storage         slurry spreading
on mineral soil
cattle, manure                             86.1                   0              86.1
cattle slurry                               0.0                 94.8             94.8
cattle, manure + slurry                    38.5                 39.1             77.5
pigs, manure                               49.5                  0.0             49.5
pig, slurry                                 0.0                 60.1             60.1
pig, manure+slurry                        32.8                  37.6             70.5
cattle + pigs, manure                     61.0                   0.0             61.0
cattle + pigs, slurry                       0.0                 68.2             68.2
cattle + pigs, manure + slurry             36.6                 49.0             85.6
on organic soil
cattle                                    544.0                                  544.0
pigs                                      257.0                                  257.0
cattle and pigs                            363.0                                 363.0


Total nutrient loss reductions by region and year were estimated by multiplying the figures in Table 4 by
the number of farms on which investments were completed (Table 5). It was assumed that reductions in
losses occurred in the first year following the completion of the facilities.

Table 5: Nutrient loss reductions by region over the project period (kg N)
              Year    2002        2003      2004   .....  2011
Lomza/Ostroleka      14,462      28,837    28,837        28,837
Torun                12,826      25,738    25,738        25,738
Elblag                9,038      18,249    18,249        18,249
Bug River               0          0        9,038        9,038
Catchment
Total                36,326      72,824    81,863        81,863




                                                    - 30 -

Cost Effectiveness Ratios
The present value of the costs of manure management activities was calculated as of 2000 for
Lomza/Ostroleka, Torun and Elblag, and as of 2003 for the Bug River Catchment. An annual discount
rate of 10% was used for this purpose. These present values were then annualized over a 12 year period
also at r=10%. Cost effectiveness ratios were computed by dividing the present value of the total cost in
region or overall, by the sum of nutrient reductions. They are presented in Table 6.

Table 6: Cost Effectiveness Ratios (USD / kg N)
                Lomza/Ostroleka          Torun            Elblag        Bug River
                                                                        Catchment
Cost                   22.07              18.52           20.70            24.77
Effectiveness


The CE ratios are found to vary between about USD 20.70/kg N and USD 24.77/kg N among the regions
reflecting mainly differences in costs incurred, distribution of farm types that benefited from the project and
soil characteristics.   It should be noted, that these ratios somewhat underestimate the actual cost
effectiveness of the project as they take into account only N reductions achieved through better storage of
manure and improved application as fertilizer, but ignore the positive impact of other practices funded by
the project, such as buffer strip development. This is because the cost of these is also included in the
denominators of the Ces, but the nutrient reductions thanks to them are not reflected in the numerators.

The cost effectiveness ratios are compared with those achieved in the Chesapeake Basin of the USA, where
a long-term, coordinated effort to reduce nutrient pollution of the Chesapeake Bay has been carried for the
past three decades. A special report that analyzed financial cost effectives ratios of various nutrient
reduction measures in the basin found the results presented in Table 7 (Source: Camacho, Rodolfo. 1992.
"Financial Cost Effectiveness of Point and Non-point Source Nutrient Reduction Technologies in the
Chesapeake Bay Basin". Chesapeake Bay Program Nutrient Reduction Strategy Reevaluation. Report #8.
ICPRB Report 92-4). The study surveyed farmers that received state support to reduce nitrogen run-off by
installing animal waste management systems and through better nutrient management. The cost estimates
in the report consisted of costs of "installation", of planning and technical assistance, and of operations and
maintenance. The cost effectiveness ratio was calculated as the ratio of the annualized sum of the said
costs divided by kilos of nitrogen per year. As such, these ratios are comparable with those computed for
the Poland Rural Environmental Protection Project.

The Chesapeake study found that those farmers who adopted a combination of both measures managed to
reduce nitrogen run-off at a lower unit cost than those who relied on animal waste systems only. Cost
effectiveness ranges are given for those farms located between the 25th and 75th percentile of the sample of
farms surveyed. The range of ratios for the former group of farms is USD 8 - 22, and for the latter USD
16 - 45. It should be noted that these figures would be somewhat higher if they were adjusted for inflation.


Table 7: Nitrogen reduction cost effectiveness rations achieved in the Chesapeake Basin (USD/kg N
removed)
                                       25 percentile              Median              75 percentile
Nutrient Management and                        8                     15                     22
Animal Waste Systems
Animal Waste Systems                          16                     30                     45
Source: Adapted from Camacho (1992), p.38



                                                      - 31 -

The main emphasis of the Poland Rural Environmental Protection Project was the construction of manure
management structures in addition to improved timing and doses of manure application to the field (nutrient
management). As such, the cost effectiveness ratios achieved in that project are within the range achieved
in the Chesapeake Basin and may be considered acceptable.




                                                  - 32 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)       Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                      Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              June 1997                 3    Task Team Leader
                                             Water Resources Specialist and
                                             Peer Reviewer
                                             Sr. Environmental Advisor

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              October 1998              9    Task Team Leader
              January 1999                   Deputy Team Leader
                                             Sr. Environmental Advisor
                                             Environmental Engineer
                                             Sr. Financial Mgt Specialist
                                             Social Fund Specialist
                                             Financial Mgt Specialist
                                             Legal Advisor
                                             Procurement Specialist

 Supervision

              06/12/2000                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);               HS              S
                                             DEPUTY TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             ENGINEER (1)
              09/29/2000                1    TEAM LEADER (1)                     HS              S
              01/02/2002                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);               S               S
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             ENGINEER (1); FINANCIAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1); SR.
                                             COMMUNICATION SP. (1)
              07/03/2002                5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);               S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); SR. ENV. SPECIALIST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MGT (1); SR.
                                             PUBLIC INF.OFFICER (1)
              03/10/2003                3    TTL (1); PROCUREMENT                S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                             MGT SPEC. (1)
              10/17/2003                3    TTL (1); PROCUREMENT                S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                             MGMT. SPEC. (1)


 ICR
              May 2004                  2     TTL (1); STC (1)




                                              - 33 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
                                      No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                     7
  Appraisal/Negotiation                         11                       261.7*
  Supervision                                   29                        237.2
  ICR                                           11                          16.0
  Total                                         58                        514.9
* USD 261.7 thousand represents total costs of BB and BB-GEF for phases of identification through
negotiations.
Total supervision and ICR costs are: USD 253,222 and cover BB and BB-GEF.




                                                 - 34 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating                         Rating (Supplemental GEF)
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA

  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating                              Rating (Supplemental GEF)

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU            HS     S      U      HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU            HS     S      U      HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU            HS     S      U      HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating                              Rating (Supplemental GEF)

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU            HS     S      U      HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU            HS     S      U      HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU            HS     S      U      HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU            HS     S      U      HU




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

BOARD DOCUMENTS
        Country Assistance Strategy 1997 and 2002
        Memorandum of Understanding IBRD, EC, EBRD, EIB ­ April 1998, amended March 2000 and
        June 2003

PROJECT DOCUMENTS
        Project Appraisal Document, Report No. 19868
        Aide Memoires
(i)     Identification Mission, June 1997
(ii)    Preparation Mission, October 1998 (no AM; instead, BTO and Memorandum of Understanding
between IBRD and NFEP)
(iii)   SPN June 2000
(iv)    SPN June 2001
(v)     SPN December 2001
(vi)    SPN June 2002
(vii)   SPN March 2003
(viii)  SPN October 2003

        Back-to-Office Report: Regional Workshop on Agriculture Non-Point Pollution Control,
        September 17-20, 2002, Przysiek, Poland
        Project Status Reports (11 pcs):
(ix)    Initial Summary, March 2000
(x)     Site Visit, June 2000
(xi)    Site Visit, November 2000
(xii)   Update, January 2001
(xiii)  Mid-term Review, June 2001
(xiv)   Update, November 2001
(xv)    Site Visit, January 2002
(xvi)   Site Visit, July 2002
(xvii)  Update, February 2003
(xviii) Site Visit, April 2003
(xix)   SPN, November 2003

        Documentation on loan and GEF grant extension
        Documentation on amendment to Loan Agreement to allocate funds among expenditure categories
        Documentation on amendment to GEF Grant agreement to add expenditure category
        Documentation on GEF grant re-denomination

OTHER DOCUMENTS
        Replication Strategy and Economic Assessment, December 2002
        RFP for Replication Strategy and Economic Assessment, NFEP
        Social Assessment, December 2002
        Operational Handbook, January 2000

Podstawowe zasady realizacji inwestycji w zakresie ochrony srodowiska w rolnictwie i
zagospodarowania odchodów zwierzecych [The basic assumptions behind investments in environmental
protection in agriculture and manure management] ­ a NFEP brochure authored by Andrzej Dobkowski


                                                - 37 -

and Bohdan Skopiec, November 2003




                                     - 38 -

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results

Rural Environmental Protection Project: 2004 Beneficiary Survey. A Summary.

The survey of project beneficiaries, called the Social Assessment, was carried out by an external evaluation
firm specializing in social evaluation and presented in December 2002. The survey's purpose was to
evaluate the degree to which the project objectives were achieved as perceived by its beneficiaries: the
farmers and other stakeholders. The survey participants appraised the tangible (mainly the manure storing
equipment) and intangible (mainly training) help received through this World Bank project. The
measurement was done among the farmers in the three original project areas in the summer of 2001 (434
farmers responded), in the winter 2001/2002 (279 farmers) and in the summer of 2002 (361 farmers). An
additional measurement among 174 non-participating farmers was performed in the winter 2001/2002.

The study showed a very low level of ecological awareness among the farmers participating in the project
on the beginning of project implementation and demonstrated how this level rose during the project
implementation. It needs to be noted that the level of awareness among non- participating farmers was even
lower. Yet it also showed that farmers may consider employing a pro-ecological activity potentially
beneficial to their farm. The study clearly demonstrated that the awareness of project benefits was related
to the level of farmer's sophistication as well as the stage of project progress. It was also clear that a more
advanced level of education about the project helped in perceiving barriers to the project success as less
severe. In general, however, farmers were satisfied with extension services; the relationship between the
farmer and his advisor was strengthened through better access to knowledge. Training and seminars, in
addition to individual visits, served to farmers as important source of further information about the project
ideas. Additionally, training financed by the Bank loan was perceived as significant to individual
professional development of the Local Implementation Team members. Thus, investing in the human
capital of local advisors proved at least equally important as the usual investment into physical outputs.
Yet, equipment was generally perceived as very appropriate to the needs of the farm. Major problems with
use were not reported. In terms of similar operations in the future, the Social Assessment helped in
establishing the level of financial participation acceptable to the farmer.

In general, the Social Assessment showed or confirmed the following. Projects implemented in the
conditions of a Polish countryside must be supported by the cooperation of the farmers, their
representatives and extension agents by the means of open information and example, not only substantial
funds. Training is essential in proper preparation of the farmer to receive aid and to develop fruitful
cooperative relationships. In sum, the percentage of average satisfaction among farmers was 99.7%, 99.4%
of farmers were satisfied with advisory services, 100% of participating farmers were satisfied with
investments and the awareness of financial impacts of adopting environmentally sound practices was at
96%.




                                                     - 39 -

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results

         The workshop entitled "Agricultural Non Point Source Pollution Control in Black Sea and Baltic
Sea Riparian Countries" provided a forum for exchanging experiences on agricultural pollution control
measures in the region. In particular, the workshop discussed the reduction of nutrients discharge from
agricultural sources to water bodies. Thus the meeting focused on the promotion of environmental
considerations in the mainstream agriculture which presents implications for improved agricultural
productivity, income, health and biodiversity of the region. The workshop was organized by the Polish
National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, the Project Implementation Unit of
the World Bank co-funded Rural Environmental Protection Project (REPP) and the GEF-supported Black
Sea Danube Strategic Partnership Program. The workshop was also a response to a growing concern over
the deteriorating conditions of the Black Sea waters and their adverse effect on the region.
         The Black Sea has suffered severe environmental damage over the last few decades mainly due to
coastal erosion, eutrophication, pollution from sewage, conversion to wetlands, run-off from agriculture
and inadequate resource management. The biggest problem proved to be excessive nutrient discharge into
the Black Sea and the Strategic Partnership Program on the Black Sea and Danube Basin has been
established in response. Projects in Poland (and in other countries) constitute efforts to mainstream
environmental considerations into agriculture by promoting environmentally friendly practices in
agriculture which mitigates nutrient flows onto the Baltic Sea and the Black Sea.
         The workshop gathered about 80 participants from the Black Sea and Baltic Sea riparian countries
(Albania, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Georgia, Latvia, Lithuania, Macedonia, Moldova, Norway, Poland,
Romania, Russia, Sweden, Tajikistan, Turkey, and the United States), the Bank staff, representatives of the
Polish government, and the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
Development. The meeting had a character of a conference where each of the countries presented the status,
methods, successes and weaknesses of their non point source agricultural pollution control projects and
subsequently discussed them. Common issues were identified and possible solutions discussed. A World
Bank representative presented an overview of appropriate actions undertaken in the region. The Polish side
discussed the Project achievements and shared knowledge gained. The presentations on computer soil
testing, farm advisory services, the Code of Good Agricultural Practices, public awareness campaign and
replication methods were very well received.
         The workshop also hosted several technical presentations supplementing the discussions by the
riparian countries. The topics included: policy and regulatory mechanisms necessary for promoting nutrient
management plans and for developing a proper Code of Good Agricultural Practices; agricultural pollution
control mechanisms in Western Europe; U.S. experiences in Chesapeake Bay watershed management
practices. On a base of these presentations, discussions were held in relation to the Black Sea and the Baltic
Sea riparian countries.
         The satisfaction with the workshop was very high, especially that the participants were able to visit
some of the farms partaking in REPP. Voices of appreciation suggested more of similar activities in the
future.




                                                    - 40 -

Additional Annex 10. Borrower Contribution to the ICR

The text below is a summary of Borrower's contribution. The summary is followed by a Borrower's
project implementation report prepared to be included in this ICR.in the exact wording of the Borrower.

(i)      Assessment of the project objective, design, implementation and (if any) operation experience;

The project was well prepared which was a result of several preparatory World Bank missions to Poland
and thorough consulting between the international and Polish experts at the design stage. Field
reconnaissance was also performed through meetings with local government representatives. Most
importantly, however, personal engagement of Bank experts benefited the project development. Project goal
were clear and, after several sessions of consultations, achievable; for example, the project financing was
adjusted from 50%-50% to maximum 70% minimum 30% and some of the performance indicators were
adjusted as well. The project fit well with the needs of Poland regarding the non-point pollution problem;
the level of environmental awareness in various groups in Poland at that time was also a challenge to the
project designing team as well as, later, to the PIU. Also the fact that the future PIU Director and MEP and
MAFE representatives were able to visit similar undertaking in the US did not remain without impact on
the project implementation. All project goals have been achieved, both the investment part and the
post-investment activities. The quality of manure storing facilities is very high while the equipment is used
with success. It is important to note that the facilities and equipment are used according to the Code of
Good Agricultural Practice. The implementation process itself can also be judged as very good. The most
important experience from this project element is convincing skeptics that the investment part is as
important as the post-investment aspect of the project, chiefly the advisory services. The Borrower rates the
project as very good.

(ii) Evaluation of the borrower's own performance during the evolution and implementation of the
     project, with special emphasis on lessons learned that may be relevant in the future;

There were some organizational problems (such as changes in the PIU and the reduction of its members).
The common idea among the potential project beneficiaries about the project purpose (that it serves to build
tanks and pads) evolved to the understanding of true project purposes which include agricultural and
environmental knowledge besides appropriate investments. It is thus necessary to underline that future
project must contain the advisory service element, as well as proper investment and equipment on the
farms. Making the farmers and, surprisingly, the decision makers aware of this fact was a huge challenge
for the PIU. This is why so important were the preparation and implementation of training for advisors and
farmers, as well as seminars and media presence during the course of the project.

(iii) Evaluation of the performance by the Bank, any cofinanciers, or other partners during the evolution
     and implementation of the project, Borrower's including the effectiveness of their relationships, with
     special emphasis on lessons learned.

The main problem of this project was the necessity to conduct multiple bids financed by one financial
source, i.e. without the possibility to cumulate available sums for investment activities even in the same
project area. Summing the amounts from various financing source together with appropriate decision about
the bidding procedures would make the farmers recruitment easier and would lower the bidding costs and
simplified the accounting. It would most of all allow to avoid a situation when different prices were quoted
for exactly the same size and kind of a tank by the same company in different bids. Such requirements were
difficult to explain to the farmers. NEFCO, World Bank and GEF used World Bank procurement



                                                    - 41 -

procedures and reporting on these activities, which was a good example of inter-institution cooperation.
PHARE-LSIF demanded separate procedures which were very different from the World Bank ones.
Simplification of the procurement and financial management procedures in project with multiple financing
is truly necessary. This aspect of project implementation is rated as average.

Large dispersion of project investments presented itself as a challenge and demanded good management.
Another good experience was testing of the new project management practice together existing ODR
(without establishing new LIT); this exercise required much flexibility and organizational skill from the
PIU. All experiences of the project, presented at the international workshops in Przysiek (17-20.09.2002)
and Bucharest (30.09-3.10.2003), show that the REPP experiences in Poland are worth considering when
discussing future projects in the Baltic Sea and the Black Sea regions which experience similar
environmental problems.




                                                   - 42 -

Summary of achievements of the project "Rural Environmental Protection Project" (co-financed in the
period of 2000-2004 by the World Bank, NEFCO, GEF, PHARE and National Fund for Environmental
Protection and Water Management)

A. Introduction
Poland has taken the obligation to implement ecological directives of the EU, among them the Nitrates
Directive (No 91/676/EU of Dec. 12, 1991). Poland has also ratified Helsinki Convention which includes
decisions concerning required capacity of tanks for storing animal wastes and their design. The act on
fertilizers and fertilization of July 26, 2000 (Gazette No 89, item 991) puts farms specializing in animal
production under the duty to have equipment for liquid manure storage starting from October 24, 2008. The
lack of equipment for storing and management of animal wastes can disqualify farms soliciting for EU
support funds and also prevent production of goods (e.g. due to the lack of certificates allowing to sell
milk).

B. Project "Rural Environmental Protection Project"(co-financed by the World Bank, NEFCO, GEF
and PHARE).
According to the loan agreement with the World Bank, and to the agreements on grants from GEF,
NEFCO, PHARE including contribution of NFEP&WM, a pilot project has been realized in about 1000
individual farms in Poland.

C. Financial structure of the Project (together about 16.0 million USD)
NFEP&WM contribution               (means from statutory funds             3.45 million USD
                                  together with means available as credit
                                  provided by the World Bank equal to
                                  1.25 mln USD and 1.10 mln EUR)
Grant of Global Environmental Facility (GEF)                              3.00 million SDR
Grant of Nordic Environmental Finance Corporation (NEFCO)                 1.00 million USD
Grant of PHARE ­ Large Scale Infrastructure Facilities (LSIF'99)          3.50 million EUR
Contribution of farmers (Project beneficiaries)                           4.00 million USD
Contribution of Polish government and local self-government               0.76 million USD

The Project included 24 000 large animal units (LAU) and about 29 000 ha arable land (target livestock
population in the region of Project implementation is to reach about 47 000 LAU).

The following communes (gminas) were selected to participate in the project:
In the region of Elblag:                  Nowy Dwor Gdanski, Elblag, Sztutowo, Stegna, Nowy Staw,
                                          Stare Pole, Gronowo Elblaskie, Markusy, Paslek Tolkmicko
In the region of Torun                    Lubicz, Obrowo, Ciechocin, Kowalewo, Lubianka, Chelmza
In the region of Ostroleka/Lomza          Zbojna, Lysee, Kadzidlo, Baranowo, Lelis, Myszyniec, Turosl,
                                          Sniadowo
and additionally three administrative districts: Wegrow, Sokolow and Ostrow (the Lower Bug catchment
                                          area).

D. Achievements of the Project "Rural Environmental Protection Project"
The results of economic and sociologic-social studies confirm that the Project is seen as a success. This is
due not only to the specific pro-ecological additions created within the project, but also to stirring rural
communities to activity. The farmers are glad to have participated in the Project (the results of the polls
indicate that 86.8% declare that they are very satisfied, 10.8% rather satisfied). Agricultural advisory
service has been also positively judged, because 82.8% of farmers were decidedly satisfied with it, 13.5%


                                                    - 43 -

rather satisfied, and only 0.3% of farmers were rather dissatisfied.

D1. Main effects of the project (status on April 30, 2004)
Area of     # of     # and area    # and area      # of        Numb     # of          # of constructed
activity    PUG*     [ha]          [ha]            visits      er of    constructe    manure pads/ # of
                     of farms      of farms        of          man-h    d tanks/ #    commissioned
                     for which     implementing    adviso      ours of  of            pads
                     PN** were     PN              rs in       traini   commission
                     developed                     farms       ng       ed tanks
LZW-          243 299 farms per 200 farms per      5 755       7188        299              298
Torun              area of       area of                                             (one farm without
                   7836 ha       5741 ha                                                  bedding)
LZW-          181 171 farms per 160 farms per      4 631      7 366        212              183
Elblag             area of       area of                                               (174 formally
                   6121 ha       5315 ha                                                 received)
LZW-          325 327 farms per 327 farms per      15 293     11 132       336               85
Ostroleka/         area of       area of                                               pads accepted
Lomza              6049 ha       5453 ha                                              (while the total
                                                                                         number of
                                                                                      investments was
                                                                                          219)***
Ostrow         -   31 farms per  15 farms per       1 436       746        31                24
district           area of       area of 550 ha                                         (21 formally
                   1050 ha                                                               received)
Wegrow         -   31 farms per  13 farm per area   877         936        31                23
district           area of       of 365 ha                                              (23 formally
                   1019 ha                                                             received ­the
                                                                                      remaining farms
                                                                                        are without
                                                                                          bedding)
Sokolow        -   34 farms per     15 per area     867         956        32+               42
district           area of         of                                  additional       (41 formally
                   1220 ha       395 ha                                    11        received (one farm
                                                                                     without bedding))
Total         749 893 farms per 730 farms per      28 859     28 342       952              655
                   area of       area of                                               (642 formally
                   23295 ha      17819 ha                                                received)
* - Farm Management Plan (PUG)
** - Nutrient Management Plan (PN)
*** Comment: In the region of Ostroleka/Lomza there is a majority of without bedding farms,
therefore no manure pads are needed, and the contribution of the farmers consists in buying pumps,
mixers for slurry, and in financial outlays directly for the companies under contracts to install tans
within the Project.

D2. These effects should be supplemented with the list of targets achieved, in particular:
·       Training and preparation for work of specialized advisors both from the standpoint of factual
knowledge and methodological approach, including development of the Advisor's Handbook;
·       Development and validation of procedures of selection of farmers for participation in the Project;
·       Gathering experience in the area of administrative procedures such as selecting contractors or
consulting firms by bidding according to international procedures, such as ICB (International Competitive
Bidding), LCS (Least Cost Selection) or QSBS (Quality and Cost Based Selection) , principles of



                                                   - 44 -

supervision and accounting of construction investments and procedures of purchasing pro-ecological
equipment for joint use.
·        Non-investment tasks of the project, in particular: Programme of Environment Monitoring,
Programme of Economic Assessment and Replication Strategy, Programme of Social Assessment, Public
Awareness and Outreach Programme, as well as development and implementation of Management
Information System.
·        Systematic ecological advice provided to about 1000 farmers over four years, not only concerning
farming in agreement with the principles of good farming practice, but also in the area of investing and
proper choice of economic solutions at the level of a farm.
·        Development and dissemination of exemplary standards of equipment for animal waste storage
(such as tanks for liquid animal waste and manure slabs);
·        Development of exemplary Nutrient Management Plans (PN) and their preparation by advisors for
893 farms on an area of 23.2 thousand ha and implementation of 730 fertilization plans on an area of 17
000 ha.
·        Development of exemplary Farm Management Plans (FMP) and implementation of 749
pro-ecological plans in 24 communes in three regions of Project implementation;
·        Creation of over 100 groups of farmers utilizing jointly pro-ecological equipment;
·        Carrying out bidding procedures for selection and purchase of 112 machines for joint utilization
(which means that among the farms involved in the Project these machines will be used in every third farm);
·        Purchase of over 500 000 seedlings of trees and shrubs, and 180 000 guards for 41 communes in
four regions of Project implementation for the total sum of 828 000 PLN.
·        Development of instruction materials useful in advisory work (films, Advisor's Handbook, leaflets,
Internet page www.OSTW.pl, participation in international agricultural fairs etc.)
·        Enlargement of territorial reach of the project to include three administrative districts (powiats
-Wegrow, Sokolow and Ostrow) in the region of the Lower Bug catchment area while testing
simultaneously another, more cost efficient method of project implementation basing on agricultural
advisory services of existing local Agricultural Advisory Centres in Poland (instead of creating expensive
Local Implementation Units);
·        Creation in the area several exemplary farms, which can be utilized in instruction work and are
models to be followed by other farmers;
·        Widening understanding of ideas and principles of the Project and pro-environmental activities in
the sphere of agricultural production.

D3. Closing remarks
Public opinion polls made several times by the Centre of Public Opinion Studies (CEBOS) for the needs of
the Project have shown an improvement of awareness in this sphere in Poland from the level of 23% to
30%. In the regions of Project implementation more than 90% of farmers participating in the Project are
aware of negative environmental side effects of agricultural activities and understand the need to counteract
such effects. This awareness has also grown among their neighbours who have not participated in the
Project and reached the level of 55% during the implementation of the Project.

In the regions of Project implementation, the actions realized in the Project resulted in the decrease of
nitrates emissions from each ha of arable land to the environment by 17 kg on the average (recalculated to
elementary nitrogen). After completion of all Project activities including implementation of Good
Agricultural Practices the ecological effect expressed as the reduction of nitrate loss to the environment will
increase to 28 kg N/ha. This corresponds to the reduction of overall emission of nitrogen to the environment
by 800 tons per year from the farms involved in the project, or prevention of contamination of 136 million
cubic metres of water.



                                                     - 45 -

The calculated unit cost of the Project determined as the cost of reducing nitrogen losses to the environment
by one kg/year was - depending on assumed bank rates ­ from 9.20 NPL to 12.30 NPL and was lower than
the unit costs of similar projects in the European Union.

Questionnaire polls among farmers indicate that the expected level of co-financing of pro-ecological
projects from public funds, being the condition of realization of such projects (without loss of financial
liquidity of the farms specializing in animal production) should be within the range of 50-70% of total
costs. What is equally important, it has been found out in a representative sample of the whole Polish
society that there is wide public approval for such support from public funds, since actions contributing to
the improvement of the state of environment in Poland serve the whole society.

Long term effects of the Project can be considered from various standpoints, including the point of view of
the farmer and the social aspects. In the long term the pro-ecological investment realized within the Project
can be important for improving competitiveness of Project beneficients. Having modern buildings and
pro-ecological equipment not only improves aesthetic aspects of the farm, but also has psychological and
marketing importance.
It is significant that the activities conducted within the Project are understood and accepted both by the
farmers and by their families. Another important activity within the Project were joint purchases of
equipment for application of organic fertilizers. This has both economic significance (large reduction of
costs of purchase and utilization of this equipment, and therefore of costs of agricultural production) and
technological (precise application of fertilizer) and social ­ being an incentive to further joint actions of
farmer groups. Also important both in social scale and for individual farmers is widening the understanding
of principles of good agriculture. This is aimed to implement recommendations of EU Nitrates Directive
concerning water protection against nitrate contamination from agricultural sources, which has become
obligatory after Poland accession to the EU.




                                                    - 46 -

- 47 -

