Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19868
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LEARNING AND INNOVATION LOAN IN THE AMOUNT OF
US$2.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT
AND A GRANT FROM THE GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST
FUND IN THE AMOUNT OF
US$3.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE NATIONAL FUND FOR ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND
WATER MANAGEMENT
WITH A GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF POLAND
FOR A
RURAL ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
November 4, 1999
Rural Development and Environment Sector
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of November 4, 1999)
Currency Unit = PLN
US$1 = PLN 4.25
FISCAL YEAR POLAND
January 1 - December 31
FISCAL YEAR WORLD BANK
July I - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAAP                     Baltic Agriculture Run-off Action Program
Baltic 21                Baltic 21 Process for an Agenda 21 for the Baltic Sea
Region
CAS                      Country Assistance Strategy
CCB                      Coalition Clean Baltic
ECU                      European Currency Unit
EU                       European Union
EU (Phare)               European Union Program for Assistance to the Countries of
Central and Eastern Europe
FMS                      Financial Management System
FRR                      Financial Rate of Return
GEF                      Global Environment Facility
IELCOM                   Helsinki Commission - Baltic Marine Environment
Protection Commission
Helsinki Convention      Convention on the Protection of the Marine Environment of
the Baltic Sea (1974 and 1992)
LACI                     Loan Administration Change Initiative
LIL                      Learning and Innovation Loan
LIT                      Local Implementation Team
MAFE                     Ministry of Agriculture and Food Economy
MEP                      Ministry of Environmental Protection, Natural Resources
and Forestry
MIS                      Management Information System
MOF                      Ministry of Finance
NEFCO                    Nordic Environment Finance Corporation
NFEP                     National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water
Management
NGOs                     Nongovernmental Organizations
Nitrates Directive       Council Directive on the Protection of Waters Against
Pollution caused by Nitrates from Agriculture
(91/676/EEC)
ODR                      Ministry of Agriculture and Food Economy's Extension
Organization
PIU                      Project Implementation Unit
PMR                      Project Management Report
PSC                      Project Steering Committee
RWB                      Regional Water Management Boards
SAP                      Strategic Action Program
STAP                     Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel of the Global
Environment Facility
WWF                      World Wide Fund for Nature
Vice President: Johannes F. Linn
Country Director: Basil Kavalsky
Sector Director: Kevin M. Cleaver
Task Team Leader: Julia Bucknall



Poland
Rural Environmental Protection Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective ............................................................2
1. Global and project development objectives and key performance indicators ...2
2. GEF  program   objective addressed by the project  ....................................                            , 3
B. Strategic Context ................3
1. Country Assistance Strategy  (CAS) goal supported by the project ..................3
2. Main  sector issues and government strategy ................................................4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and  strategic choices                                       ..        . 4
C. Project Description  Summary .....................................................4
1. Project components ...... ...............................................4
2. Key policy  and  institutional reforms supported by the project ........................7
3. Benefits and target population .....................................................7
4. Institutional and  implementation  arrangements ...............................................8
D. Project Rationale .....................................................9
1. Project alternatives considered  and reasons for rejection  ................................9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other
development agencies .....................................................                                         .9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                                           . .    10
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .                                       ................................... 11
5. Value added of Bank  and GEF  support in this project  .................................. 11
E. Summary Project Analyses .....................                                                                               12
1. Economic                            ..................... 12
2. Financial                           ..................... 12
3. Technical                           ..................... 12
4. Institutional                          ..................... 13
5. Financial management                               ..................... 13
6. Social ......................                                                                                      13
7. Environmental assessment                               ..................... 13
8. Participatory approach                             ..................... 14
F. Sustainability and Risks .....................                                                                              15
1. Sustainability                           ..................... 15
2. Critical risks                          ..................... 16
3. Possible controversial aspects                             ..................... 17



G. Main Loan Conditions ...........................................                                                                  17
1. Condition  of negotiations ...........................................                                                 17
2. Conditions of board  presentation ..........................................                                            17
3. Effectiveness conditions ..........................................                                                     17
4. Other covenants ..........................................                                                              17
H. Readiness for Implementation ...........................................                                                         18
I. Compliance with  Bank  Policies ..........................................                                                       18
Annexes
Annex 1.  Project Design Summary ..........................................                                                         19
Table A.    Annual Benchmarks for Indicators ....                                     ....................................... 21
Annex  2.    Detailed Project Description  .......................................... 22
Annex  3.    Estimated  Project Costs ..........................................                                                    30
Annex  4.    Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary ........................................... .31
Annex 5.  Financial Summary ...........................................                                                             32
Annex  6.    Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ........................................ 33
Table A. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements .                                             ........_____36
Table B.    Allocation  of Loan Proceeds                                  ....................................... 36
Table C.    Allocation  of GEF  Financing                                  ...................................... 37
Annex  7.    Financial Management Assessment ...........................................                                            41
Annex  8.    Project Processing  Budget and  Schedule ..........................................                                     57
Annex  9.    Documents in Project File .......................................... 58
Annex  10.  Statement of Loans and  Credits ...........................................                                             59
Annex 11. Country at a Glance ...........................................                                                           60
Annex  12.  Environmental Data Sheet ..........................................                                                     61
Annex  13.  Incremental Cost Analysis ..........................................                                                    63
Annex 14. Transboundary Analysis ..........................................                                                         70
Annex  15.  STAP  Technical Review  ...........................................                                                     73
Map IBRD 29983



Poland
Rural Environmental Protection Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
Rural Development and Environment Sector Unit
Date: November 5, 1999                           Task Team Leader: Julia Bucknall
Country Manager/Director: Basil Kavalsky         Sector Manager/Director: Kevin M. Cleaver
Project ID:           Sector:                    Program Objective Category:
PL-PE-50660/          Environment               Environmentally Sustainable Development
PL-PE-596 13
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan  Program of Targeted    [] Yes  [X] No
Intervention:
Project Financing Data                     [X] Grant   [XI Loan        [] Other
GEF Grant Amount (US$m equivalent): 3.0
IBRD Loan Amount (US$m equivalent): 2.5
Proposed terms:                  1]  Multicurrency    [X]  Single currency, in two equal tranches,
EURO and US$
Grace period (years):  5         [ ]  Standard Variable  [ I  Fixed      [X]  LIBOR-based
Years to maturity:    15
Commitment fee:     0.75%
Service charge:     N/A
Financing plan (US$m equivalent):
Source                          Local       Foreign       Total
Government                                              0.7          0.0          0.7
Beneficiaries                                           3.8          0.2          4.0
NFEP                                                    0.8          0.1          0.9
GEF                                                     3.0          0.0          3.0
EU (Phare) proposed                                     3.7          0.0          3.7
NEFCO                                                   1.0          0.0          1.0
IBRD                                                    1.8          0.7          2.5
Total    14.8         1.0          15.8
Borrower: National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management (NFEP)
Guarantor: Republic of Poland
Responsible agency: NFEP
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m equivalent):          1999   2000   2001   2002
Annual  0.2    0.9    0.8    0.6
Cumulative   0.2    1.1    1.9    2.5
Project implementation period: 35 months from 15 December, 1999
Expected effectiveness date: 15 December 1999
Expected closing date: 30 April 2003
I



A: PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE
1. Global and project development objectives and performance indicators (see Annex
1):
Project Development Objective. The project's objective is to significantly increase the
prevalence of environmentally responsible practices among eligible farms in target project
areas. The ultimate goal is to reduce discharge of organic matter, which is a major cause of
environmental problems in the Baltic Sea. The project will help farmers develop
environmentally responsible farm management plans and will fund the related environmental
investments as well as farm equipment in some cases. While the farmers will receive some
benefits from the practices and investments, most of the benefits will come from improved
environmental quality of Polish surface and groundwater and the Baltic Sea.
Global Environmental Goal. The long-term goal is to demonstrate effective mechanisms for
improving environmental practices in agriculture by reducing nutrients entering the Baltic
Sea from agriculture in Poland. Project activities are directly linked to the implementation of
the Baltic Sea Joint Comprehensive Environmental Action Program.  The project also
supports Poland's move towards compliance with its national policies, European Union (EU)
directives and international agreements. Funding from the Global Environment Facility
(GEF) will help remove institutional, financial and knowledge barriers that currently serve as
disincentives to farmer adoption of environmentally sustainable agricultural practices.
Demand-Driven, Flexible Approach. The project is modeled on the approach taken by social
investment funds, which are flexible funding mechanisms that respond to requests from
communities or local groups. Thus the project will respond to demands from eligible farmers
for support, rather than targeting specific farms or farmers. It will be flexible, so that project
design can be adapted during implementation according to feedback from beneficiaries and
local communities. In this way, it takes a highly participatory approach by involving farmers
and farmers' representatives in decision-making processes.
The project is a learning and innovation loan (LIL), which emphasizes flexibility, testing and
learning with the aim of scaling up the project into a larger program in the future. The
Government and the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management
(NFEP) intend to expand the activities funded under this project into a nationwide program.
This project will test the mechanisms for scaling demonstration activities up into a
comprehensive program. It will also test the beneficiaries' willingness to pay for services and
investments to improve their agricultural management practices. The financial and economic
impact of the adoption of new farming and other agricultural practices will be closely
monitored and results will feed back into the program design. The NFEP, the Bank and the
co-financiers will consider that this LIL has been successful if the NFEP has a functioning
system in place to scale the project up into a national program.
Extensive Field Testing. This project is based on several years' experience from pilot
operations. Some of these originated and were financed in Poland, while others have
international sponsors. They have taken place in several parts of the country with a number of
institutional counterparts. The most successful of these found that farm environmental
infrastructure (facilities for storing liquid animal waste) were technically effective when
2



specialized contractors were used, and that they were popular with farmers, who used and
maintained the facilities well. The pilots focused on testing efficacy of the technologies in the
context of Polish farming and did not fully evaluate the economic impact on the farmer nor
did they try to establish an administrative system for scaling up such support. The earlier
experience did, however, find that farmers were willing to contribute a limited amount to the
costs of the infrastructure, principally through an in-kind contribution. The proposed levels of
subsidy in this project are therefore based on these earlier experiences.
Key Performance Indicators:
*  Increased awareness of environmental issues related to agriculture among farmers and
communities outside the project areas.
*  High satisfaction rate among participating farmers.
*  High percentage of participating farmers implementing the farm management plan
properly, two years after joining the project.
*  High percentage of participating farmers aware of the financial benefits to them of
adopting environmentally responsible practices.
2. GEF program objective addressed by the project:
The Baltic Sea Joint Comprehensive Environmental Action Program, developed under the
leadership of the Helsinki Commission, provides a sound basis for a project under GEF
Operational Program Number 9, "Integrated Land and Water Multiple Focal Area
Operational Program," which supports "more comprehensive approaches for restoring and
protecting the international waters environment." Proj ects in this program area address the
"types of measures needed to ensure that the ecological carrying of the water body is not
exceeded."
This project will address such issues by supporting innovative activities and working directly
With farmers to protect Polish watercourses, coastal zones and the marine environment. The
project provides an opportunity for the GEF to be a "catalyst for action to bring about the
successful integration of improved land and water resource management practices on an area
wide basis." GEF support will buy down the cost or barriers to farmers of adopting
innovations. It will also help develop a mechanism to move from demonstration level
activities to operational projects to reduce pollution from agriculture. The project has been
designed specifically to provide a model activity, which can be replicated at other locations
in Poland, the Baltic Sea region and Central and Eastern Europe. It is anticipated that
experience gained from this project can be applied in the ongoing GEF supported programs
for the Danube River Basin and the Black Sea, in which pollution from agriculture is a major
transboundary issue. Therefore, the proposed project also provides an opportunity to assess
the usefulness of the Strategic Action Program (SAP) concept and to derive lessons learned,
which can be applied in other locations (see Annex 14 for transboundary analysis).
B: STRATEGIC CONTEXT
1. Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 16484 - POL Date of latest CAS discussion: April 14, 1997; CAS
Update was discussed September 16, 1999. Document number R99-167 (IFC/R99-148).
3



One of the CAS's four overarching objectives is to achieve environmental sustainability.
Specifically, the CAS describes the Bank's objectives of helping the Government to increase
the focus on reducing pollution from dispersed (or "non-point" sources) and to move towards
compliance with EU directives and international agreements in a cost-effective manner. This
project directly addresses each of those objectives.
2. Main sector issues and government strategy:
At the international level, Poland has an obligation under the Helsinki Convention to reduce
pollution of the Baltic Sea from both point and non-point sources, and the Helsinki
Commission has recently identified actions to reduce pollution from agriculture and rural
settlements as a high priority. In addition, the Polish Government is working hard to move
into compliance with EU environmental directives. The EU has a directive specifically aimed
at reducing nitrate pollution from agriculture (the Nitrates Directive). The draft Framework
Directive for Community Action in the Field of Water Policy is also relevant as it includes
measures for classifying the quality of water in certain water bodies and will require reducing
pollution from agriculture.
At the national level, the Government, in its National Environmental Strategy of 1990, set an
objective of reducing pollution entering the Baltic Sea from Polish rivers by 80 percent by
the year 2020. In order to realize these objectives, the Government has actively sought
international cooperation to help develop agricultural non-point source pollution programs
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
This project will address the following sector issues:
* Assisting integration of environmental concerns into agricultural practices in order to
reduce nutrient pollution entering Polish surface and ground waters.
*  Moving towards compliance with both the Helsinki Convention and the EU Nitrates
Directive in a cost-effective manner.
*  Strengthening water management at the level of the river basin, through a basin-based
approach to the replication strategy and by working with the Regional Water
Management Boards (RWBs) to monitor the environmental effects of the project.
*  Helping eligible farmers develop and implement modern farm management plans that
incorporate environmental considerations.
C: PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 6 for a
detailed cost breakdown):
The project has two components. The first involves farm environmental improvements and
consists of environmental advice to eligible farmers and financial support for the
recommended farm investments. The second involves public outreach and project
management.
Component 1. Farm Environmental Improvements (US$13.8 million or 87.5 percent of
total cost).
4



Operational Support and Training for Farmers (US$0.9 million or 6.0 percent of total cost).
The Local Implementation Teams will have specially-trained agri-environmental advisors
who will work with local farmers to demonstrate the benefits of environmentally responsible
management on farms. The agri-environmental advisers will then help eligible farmers
develop management plans for their farms. These plans will consider options for cropping,
tilling, manure spreading, fertilizer application practices, and constructed wetlands, as well as
investments such as manure storage facilities, buffer strips, etc. The agri-environmental
advisers will explain the terms of investment support offered under the project and help the
farmer develop detailed application. They will coordinate their technical advice with the
other local agricultural extension agents.
Farm Environmental Investments. (US$12.0 million or 75.7 percent of total cost). The sub-
component will channel financial support to eligible farmers to invest in facilities
recommended by the farm management plan. The project will fund contractors to provide
materials, detailed design and labor as necessary. The farmers will contribute in kind and, in
some cases, also in cash. At the outset, the project will cover up to an estimated 70 percent of
total project cost and up to a total estimated value of US$10,000 equivalent per farm.
Eligibility criteria for farmers include single family ownership, possession of at least ten
cows or equivalent sized animals (large animal units) and financial viability. Both the level of
project support and the eligibility criteria are set out in detail in the Operational Handbook
and can be changed in the course of implementation, in agreement with the World Bank and
other co-financiers. The project will also fund up to 50% of the cost of a limited amount of
environmental agricultural equipment for groups of farmers as recommended by their farm
management plans. Where protective buffer strips on the edge of sensitive waterways are
recommended, the project will cover 100 percent of the costs of planting.
It is expected that investments and equipment will be funded for approximately 1000 farmers
during the project.
Incremental Operating Costs (US$0.9 million or 5.7 percent of total cost). The project will
finance the operation and maintenance costs for the farm environmental facilities and
equipment recommended by the farm management plan, and the operating expenses of the
LITs (transportation, utilities, office supplies, office rent).
Component 2. Outreach and Management (US$2.0 million or 12.5 percent of total cost)
Public Awareness (US$0.4 million or 2.6 percent of total cost). This sub-component will
support a public awareness program to widen understanding of the importance of agriculture
and environment issues in Poland beyond project areas and beyond farm families. The
program will work with local groups to promote environmentally sound agricultural practices
and to highlight the critical role of the farmer as an environmental manager. It will include
information on the agronomic and economic benefits of improved practices. Through farm
visits, videos, leaflets, the Internet, etc., the program will disseminate good practices, results
from demonstrations, new approaches and information about incentive programs.
Monitoring (US$0.5 million or 3.2 percent of total cost). The NFEP's PIU will be responsible
for monitoring project performance. This will involve a social assessment, including ongoing
beneficiary assessment, to ensure that the project meets the needs of its clients in rural Poland
and to suggest modifications to project design and implementation. It will also involve a
5



financial and economic assessment to quantify the impacts on Polish farmers of adopting
environmentally responsible practices and in order to assess the cost-effectiveness of the
project. Local environmental inspectorates and authorities, in collaboration with the MEP and
RWBs, will monitor the long-term environmental benefits from reduced discharges of
pollutants to surface and groundwater.
Replication Strategy (US$0.1 million or 0.7 percent of total cost). The project has been
designed as a model for a national program in Poland and therefore includes provisions for
preparing a national strategy to replicate the activities. This sub-component will hire
consultants to work with the Project Steering Committee (PSC) and other stakeholders to
take the results of project monitoring activities and draw lessons for the rest of Poland. The
consultants will pay particular attention to possible farmer reactions to changes in levels of
support, and to potential areas for future activities. At the mid-term review, the NFEP, the
Government, the Bank and the other co-financiers will decide whether to prepare the next
phase in the national program.
Project Management (US$0.5 million or 2.9 percent of total cost). The NFEP will establish a
PIU to manage the project. In the project areas, LITs will screen expressions of interest from
farmers, manage the technical assistance program, forward farm environmental investment
applications to the PIU for approval and undertake technical supervision of farm
environmental investments.
Recurrent Costs (US$0.5 rmillion or 3.2 percent of the total cost). The project will finance the
operating costs of the PIU (salaries of staff and office rent) and the expenditures incurred by
the Steering Committee.
As the project focuses on learning and testing approaches, it is designed to be flexible and to
adapt to experience during implementation. Detailed plans, eligibility criteria, etc. are laid out
in an Operational Handbook. As implementation proceeds, these can be changed in
agreement with the implementing agency, the World Bank and co-financiers.
Component                     Categor      Cost Inci.     % of     Bank-      % of
Contingencies   Total   financing   Bank-
(US$m)                (US$m)  financing
1. Farm environmental       Training &       13.8         87.5%     1.5       58.7%
improvements                Investment
* Operational Support and                    (0.9)        (6.0%)   (0.5)      (18.6%)
Training
. Farm Environmental                        (12.0)       (75.7%)   (0.5)      (21.2%)
Investment
* Incremental Operating Costs                (0.9)        (5.7%)   (0.5)      (18.9%)
2. Outreach and Management   Leaming &        2.0         12.5%      1.0      41.3%
Adaptation
* Public Awareness                           (0.4)        (2.6%)   (0.3)      (12.8%)
* Monitoring                                 (0.5)        (3.2%)   (0.4)      (15.2%)
. Replication Strategy                       (0.1)        (0.7%)   (0.1)       (3.6%)
* Project Management                         (0.5)        (2.9%)   (0.2)       (9.7%)
* Recurrent Costs                            (0.5)        (3.2%)    n.a.        n.a.
Total           15.8         100%       2.5      100%
6



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Reducing pollution from agriculture and rural communities is key to the Govemment's
agricultural and environmental strategies. Thus, rather than seeking policy changes, this
project will assist the Government to develop an effective mechanism to implement existing
policies.
3. Benefits and target population:
National and international/global benefits:
*  Demonstration of an effective mechanism for channeling investment for environmental
protection in rural areas.
*  Quantification and demonstration of benefits to farmers of integrating environmental
concerns into their activities.
*  Reduction of nitrates reaching Poland's water bodies from approximately 1000 farms,
with long-term improved quality of local streams, lakes and ultimately rivers, coastal
lagoons and the Baltic Sea.
*  Progress towards meeting Poland's water quality targets, its obligations under the
Helsinki Convention, and compliance with EU directives
Benefits to participatingfarms:
*  Farms investing in manure storage can use the manure as fertilizer and thus could save
$150-200 per year on chemical fertilizer.
*  Farmers may also see productivity improvements from better cropping, tilling and
fertilizer application practices.
*  Better storage of animal wastes will reduce odor and inconvenience and improve
hygienic conditions on participating farms.
*  Soil erosion on stream banks will be reduced in farms that invest in riparian buffer strips.
*  Eventual reduction of nitrates in groundwater will help to protect health of farm families
who drink from shallow wells.
The target populations for this initial activity are families and rural communities in three
areas-around Elblag, Torun and the Ostroleka/Lomza area (see attached Map). These areas
were chosen because they have all undertaken successful demonstration projects and because
their local governments expressed strong interest in participating in and contributing to the
project. These areas are sensitive to nitrate pollution, representative of different farm and soil
types in Poland, and are well distributed within the country. Elblag borders the Vistula
Lagoon, which is shared by Poland and Russia and is a highly sensitive international water
body. Because of the administrative reforms underway in Poland at the time of preparation, it
was agreed at appraisal that the PIU staff would negotiate with the local administrations on
exactly which municipalities (gminas) would be included at the start of the project in each
local area.
In the light of implementation experience, it may be necessary or desirable to move the
project activities to other areas as agreed by the Borrower, the PSC, the Bank and co-
financiers. In any case no more than three areas will be active at any one time.
7



A STAP (Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel of the GEF) roster expert prepared an
independent technical review of the project (see Annex 15). The reviewer endorsed the
project in positive terms and noted that it was of "substantial importance." The reviewer
made a number of constructive suggestions for further strengthening of the proposal. His
chief concern was that the link was not clear between the technical assistance to farmers on
the one hand, and the financial and economic impact of the adoption of new technologies on
the other. We fully agree that this link must be made-clearly, precisely, and with solid
analysis-and that it is critical to project success and replicability. Since receiving these
comments, we have clarified the link, specifying, for example, that the project will only fund
investments that have been recommended by the farm management plans developed with
technical assistance from the project.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
NFEP will implement the project through its PIU, and will establish decentralized
implementation teams in the participating project areas. The institutional arrangements
include:
• Project Steering Committee (PSC). At the national level, the PSC will coordinate the
project. This will be chaired by the NFEP, and include representatives of the Ministry of
Finance (MOF), Ministry of Agriculture and Food Economy (MAFE), Ministry of
Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry (MEP), Office of the
Committee on European Integration and representatives of the Chambers of Agriculture
in each of the project areas. It will meet on a rotating basis in Warsaw and in each of the
project areas.
*  Project Implementation Unit (PIU). The NFEP will establish a PIU to manage the
project; promote project activities; approve batches of farm environmental investment
applications; procure necessary services and equipment; disburse funds and maintain the
account; monitor project impacts and propose improvements; and prepare quarterly and
annual reports. The financial management arrangements are considered adequate, once
the agreed changes have been made (see Annex 7). The project is expected to convert to
Project Management Report-based disbursement arrangements under the Loan
Administration Change Initiative (LACI) by June 30, 2000.
* Local Implementation Team (LIT). The project will form LITs. These will consist of a
LIT director, hired by the project, and agri-environmental specialists who will either be
local agricultural extension agents seconded to the LIT or hired by the project depending
on local conditions. They will promote the project to local farmers; screen expressions of
interest for eligibility; help eligible farmers prepare farm management plans and make
formal applications; forward applications to the PIU for approval; work with gmina
construction supervisory engineers to ensure civil works are approved and supervised
adequately; prepare project reports and accounts, visit the project sites prior to approval
and disbursements, and coordinate work with the MAFE's extension agents (ODRs) and
other technical services.
A mid-term review is scheduled for June 2001 and an ICR will be prepared six months prior
to the expected final closing date in April 2003. The monitoring and evaluation results will be
used to decide on the potential follow-on project.
8



Annex 1 contains monitoring indicators, and Annex 2 contains details of the implementing
arrangements. The Operational Handbook spells these out further.
D: PROJECT RATIONALE
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
*  Full-Scale National Program. While the demonstration projects have generated
significant experience in technical and social aspects, the administrative mechanism for
delivering support for the investments is less developed. In addition, the financial and
economic impacts of adopting the environmental practices have not been fully
documented. Further information is needed to establish the minimum level of subsidy
required. In addition, massive changes in local government structures are causing
significant uncertainty at the local level. Therefore, a full-scale program would not be
justified at this stage. This project will be the first phase of a national program and will
allow for development and testing of management, financing and outreach systems,
which could be expanded in geographical coverage over time. A phased approach will
also allow for a more precise calculation of the direct and broader social benefits of the
interventions, which will be an important element in generating support for a larger
program of interventions.
* On-lending to farmers for environmental investment. We considered passing a proportion
of the funds to the farmers as loans, in order to test the farmers' willingness to borrow for
investments of this type. This option was rejected for the first stage of the program for
three reasons. First, the environmental investments bring very little private benefit to the
farmer, but rather benefits that are mostly regional, national and international. Thus a
large grant component will be necessary in any case, as it has been throughout western
Europe. Second, the administrative costs of managing large numbers of small loans
($1,000-3,000) are likely to be very high and cause delays in the project. Third, the
project can test willingness to pay (or borrow) by cost sharing with the farmers and
varying the proportion of project funds versus the farmer contribution. The possibility of
passing loans to farmers will be considered as the project develops.
* Targeting larger farms. The team decided against targeting larger farms, since they are
more financially viable and need fewer subsidies. This project aims to create a model that
will allow efforts to reach a majority of Polish farmers, and that can be applied to
financially-viable small farms.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
(completed, ongoing and planned):
The Environment Management Project, completed in 1997, supported various activities to
strengthen environmental management capacity, including environmental monitoring in
several areas of Poland.
Several field-based studies and demonstration projects have addressed management of
pollution from agriculture since the early 1990s in Poland and the Baltic Sea region.
9



The proposed Baltic Sea GEF project to address non point source pollution from agriculture
has been specifically designed to fit with the Rural Environmental Protection Project, and
includes funds to take the experience from this project and apply the lessons to other Baltic
countries.
The Rural Development Project, under preparation, will among other things reduce discharge
of organic material from villages through its rural infrastructure component.
Sector issue                           Project       Latest Supervision (Form 590) Ratings
(Bank-financed rojects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Strengthen environmental         Environment                HS               HS
management at central and local levels  Management Project
Other development agencies
US Government, EU (Phare) and other                  The Polish, US,
bilateral government financed                        Danish and
demonstration activities of farn                     Swedish
environmental improvements                           Governments and
the EU considered
____________________  _____  the pilots successful
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Key lessons leamed from agricultural and environmental projects in Poland, as well as
regional initiatives to protect the Baltic Sea include:
* The need for a long-term commitment to address agriculture and environment issues
through phased programs of interventions and a broad-based partnership.
* The need to work directly with farmers to encourage them to think of themselves as
environmental managers at the farm level.
* The importance of calculating and disseminating the benefits of improved environmental
management in rural areas at local and national levels in order to sustain support for the
program.
* The high capacity of local and national Government officials for innovation and effective
management.
* The importance of adequate counterpart training and specialized support for procurement,
disbursement and supervision.
* The benefits from working within the existing policy environment rather than using the
project to push for major policy reforms.
In addition, the Bank's experience with social funds in over forty countries worldwide has
generated important lessons for the mechanism for implementing this project. These include:
* The importance of agreeing in advance on clear, flexible approaches to administrative
procedures such as procurement and disbursement.
10



*  The benefits of establishing a framework for project management in the form of an
Operational Handbook that can be updated on the basis of implementation experience.
*  The benefits of project quality associated with careful attention during the early phases of
innovative projects to the provision of specialized support for implementation activities.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
NFEP has worked actively to prepare the project. It established an inter-ministerial steering
committee that met several times during the course of project preparation. Before appraisal,
NFEP applied for Phare funds to co-finance the project, hired a consultant to work on project
preparation, appointed key PIU staff, and consulted with local governments and other
stakeholders. During the appraisal mission, NFEP hosted a press conference to announce
agreements, and began the process of applying for a MOF guarantee.
MEP and MAFE have been working throughout the 1990s on farm environmental pilot
initiatives in cooperation with EU (Phare), Denmark, Sweden and the United States. Both
MEP and MAFE recognize the success of the farm-level demonstration projects and have
expressed repeatedly the need to broaden these successful pilots into larger programs. As an
indication of this, when US Government funding ended for the first pilot operation, MAFE
independently applied for EU (Phare) funding to enable it to continue that program.
In addition, the Government is committed to demonstrating its seriousness in moving towards
compliance with EU agricultural and environmental policies and directives and its pollution
reduction goals for the Baltic. The Government is aware that significant pre-accession
resources will become available for environmental and infrastructure activities and wishes to
develop a mechanism to ensure that these resources are used efficiently and equitably.
5. Value added of Bank and GEF support in this project:
The principal value added of GEF support for this project comes from providing additional
funds to address the top priority transboundary water problems in the Baltic Sea. GEF funds
will specifically help reduce the barriers to farmers' adoption of environmentally sensitive
practices and will allow the Govemment of Poland to consider expanding early pilot
operations into a larger program. Without GEF support to coordinate these activities, Poland
would undertake a series of small activities in different parts of the country to address these
issues. It would lack a mechanism to coordinate the financing, approaches and geographical
targeting of activities. Without support from the GEF, the project would lack sufficient
resources to accelerate the program, to demonstrate measures on a wide range of farm types
and to undertake a public outreach program. The GEF is thus leveraging funds from other
donors and stimulating a program to coordinate activities, increase coverage and generate
larger impact.
Because of their international scope, the World Bank and GEF can provide funds and finance
the incremental costs for replicating such activities both within Poland and in other countries
in the region. This is particularly important, as agricultural pollution is a major local and
transboundary problem in most countries in the ECA region, particularly those in the Baltic,
Danube and Black Sea drainage basins. Some level of financial support from the public
sector and the international community will continue to be necessary, particularly in lower
11



income countries, because these activities address externalities, affect transboundary
pollution and involve an element of public good.
In addition, the World Bank has considerable experience with a demand-driven mechanism
that can usefully be applied to the problem of agricultural pollution, which requires a blend of
outreach, technical assistance and investment for a large number of small polluters. This
mechanism, applied in social funds, links technical assistance, outreach, and beneficiary
assessment with small grants for investments in social infrastructure.
E: SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSIS (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 4)
1. Economic:
Given the emphasis on learning and innovation, the project has included resources to review
economic evaluation of the farm investments and the changes in farming practices. The
investments are unlikely to generate positive rates of return, because the benefits will only be
seen in the long term, will be diffuse and are extremely difficult to quantify. Project analysis
will focus on the cost-effectiveness of the project compared to similar schemes in other
countries. Terms of reference for the financial/economic analysis are included in the
Operational Handbook.
2. Financial:
This LUL will review financial implications of the farm environmental improvements during
project implementation. Experience in other countries indicates that improved manure
storage, together with changing fertilization, tilling and cropping practices, can generate
positive financial rates of return for the farmer from his or her share of the investment,
although some level of subsidy is always necessary. The project will specifically assess the
conditions in Poland under which these positive FRRs can be established and what the
returns are likely to be. Preliminary estimates suggest that proper storage of manure will save
the average farmer participating in this project $150-200 per year in reduced need to purchase
fertilizer, which is more than the cost of operating and maintaining the manure storage
facilities.
3. Technical:
Most of the technology that this project will use is simple and well tested in Poland and other
countries in the Baltic Sea region. The emphasis will be on the use of low cost farm
investments. The project will pay special attention to developing technical guidelines for the
liquid manure storage tanks and construction guidelines to ensure that the tanks do not leak.
The key variable is whether a farmer can build the tank alone or whether a contractor is
needed to provide technically skilled labor. The team has reviewed the experience of
demonstration projects using both approaches and has concluded that the project also will use
both approaches, based on expert opinions, with close attention paid to supervision and
control of technical quality of construction.
12



4. Institutional:
The NFEP will establish a PTU to manage the project. This will have key staff consisting of a
project director, a chief engineer, and a chief financial officer appointed before negotiations
to work full time on the project. Other staff will include an agri-environmental specialist, a
procurement officer, and possibly a budget officer, and an assistant to the project director. At
the local level, the project will establish LITs in each of the project areas. These will consist
of a LIT director, hired by the project, and agri-environmental specialists either seconded
from local extension services or hired by the project. The agri-environmental specialists will
report to the LIT director for the duration of the project, and the LIT director will report to
the PIU director. The World Bank will approve staff appointments and any changes in
staffing.
5. Financial management:
Financial management arrangements for the project are detailed in Annex 7. The project
complies with relevant Bank policies (OP/BP 10.02).
At the outset, disbursements under the project will be based on traditional disbursement
procedures and will be converted to disbursements under the LACI framework based on
quarterly project management reports (PMRs) by June 30, 2000. A project financial
management system (FMS), conforming to the LACI guidelines, will be completed during
the first year of implementation. The financial management reports will be generated from
the FMS. The internal audit wing of NFEP will be strengthened to perform effective internal
control functions for the project, and an independent and competent firm of public
accountants will audit the project accounts. The project also provides for the design and
implementation of a Management Information System (MIS) which will include key aspects
of the FMS, such as proper budgeting.
6. Social:
While there has been no systematic social assessment during project preparation, evaluations
of the pilot projects showed positive social results. Farm families, particularly farmers'
wives, were highly supportive of the activities, because of both increased farm productivity
and reduction in odor and inconvenience associated with improved manure storage. In some
areas, communities lobbied local governments for funds to extend the programs to other
farms.
The project includes systematic social assessment throughout implementation, to evaluate
social impacts of the farm-based activities and the outreach program, and to feed potential
modifications back into project design. Terms of reference for the social assessment are
included in the Operational Handbook.
7. Environmental assessment:    Environmental Category [ A [X] B []C
The project will support a series of complementary measures to improve environmental
management in rural areas, with a focus on reducing pollution of surface and groundwater,
leading to a beneficial impact on inland water, coastal water and the Baltic Sea. The primary
13



environmental issues will be addressed in the Operational Handbook and include (a) adoption
of guidelines for design and construction of manure pads and slurry tanks and for the use of
their contents; and (b) guidelines for the development of buffer strips. The activities
supported under the project will be subject to review by local environmental authorities. The
Environmental Data Sheet is provided in Annex 12. The PRU will need to have in place
agreed technical guidelines for liquid animal waste storage as a condition of effectiveness.
8. Participatory approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The project is based on demonstration proj ects conducted throughout the 1990s with highly
participatory approaches. They included field-based demonstrations, field days for farmers
and farmers' wives, participatory water quality monitoring with farmers and their families,
outreach programs and extensive farmer-to-farmer visits. The project has been prepared
jointly with officials involved in implementing these programs and in consultation with
provincial (voivodship) and municipal (gmina) govemments, extension agents, contractors,
participating farmers and other members of rural communities. The team has also consulted
extensively with the Water Supply Foundation, a major Polish nongovernmental organization
(NGO), which has an extensive record in cooperative development of rural infrastructure,
including the construction of manure storage facilities. It has also collaborated with the
Foundation for Development of Polish Agriculture and the National Association of Farmers.
During implementation, the project will be highly participatory, with a social assessment
providing a mechanism for incorporating the views and experiences of local communities and
farmers on an ongoing basis.
b. Other key stakeholders:
The United States Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Agriculture, which
were involved in designing and supervising the first pilot phases of this operation, have been
key members of the project preparation team and participated in project missions. The co-
financing bodies, EU (Phare) and Nordic Environment Finance Corporation (NEFCO),
have also been involved in the project design processes, with NEFCO participating in project
missions. The team has consulted with the Governments of Denmark and Sweden concerning
their experience in field-based demonstration programs in Poland.
The team has prepared the project in close collaboration with representatives of the MAFE
and its technical institutes, who are active participants in the PSC.
The team has consulted with the representatives of the Helsinki Commission and the Baltic
21 Secretariat, both of which are involved in supporting measures at the regional level to
improve environmental management in agriculture to reduce the degradation of rivers,
wetlands, coastal zones and the marine environment in the Baltic Sea region. Finally, the
team benefited from ideas generated through discussions with representatives of the Coalition
Clean Baltic (CCB) and the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF).
14



F: SUSTAINABILIrY AND RISKS
1. Sustainability:
The farm investments will use field-tested designs that require limited operation and
maintenance. The team estimated that the annual cost to the farmer for operation and
maintenance of the environmental infrastructure and equipment will average approximately 2
percent of the total cost. The farmer will also get a benefit in terms of liquid fertilizer with a
value of approximately 1.5 -2 percent of the total cost. We therefore believe that farmers will
have an incentive to operate and maintain the investments properly. Demonstration projects
in Poland have borne this out. Nevertheless, social assessment and follow-up visits built into
the technical assistance program will assess sustainability issues explicitly. Terms of
reference for the social assessment are included in the Operational Handbook.
15



2. Critical risks (reflecting assumptions in thefourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                 Risk                 Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
Annex 1, cell 'from Outputs to
Objective "
Participating farmers will         N      Costs to farmer are very low and almost entirely offset by
implement farm management                direct immediate benefits. Technical assistance will pay
plans and use investments                specific attention to sustainability. Social assessment will
properly after project-financed          check two years after completing project to ensure that
interventions are completed.             investments are sustainable and investigate reasons if they
are not.
Other government programs do       N     A steering committee is established that involves all
not contradict objectives of this        relevant ministries and is explicitly charged with
project.                                 coordinating with other government programs. Extension
agents involved at the local levels, as are local governments,
farmers' chambers, NGOs etc. Cooperation with Brussels to
ensure that the importance of this issue to the EU is clear to
all ministries. Mechanisms in place, especially through
outreach program. to ensure that MAFE, MEP and local
governments, farmers' chambers etc. receive public
recognition for their contributions to the project.
Annex 1, cell 'from Components
to Outputs"
Local governments remain            S    Establishment of clear agreements with local governments
committed and continue                   at the outset specifying their contributions to the project.
contribution to the project              Outreach activities give public recognition to local
(particularly to the LITs).              governments' contributions. Outreach program will report
widely the direct benefits to the farmers. Project will
involve key stakeholders, such as National Farmers' Union,
Chambers of Agriculture, extension agents, and NGOs to
broaden support for initiatives of this type. If local support
does dry up, project can move to different areas.
Govemiment, Bank and co-           M      Substantial efforts in project preparation and start-up phase
financiers cannot streamline             for simplifying procedures. Key aspects in Operational
procedures for project                    Handbook rather than loan agreement, so that they can be
implementation.                           adapted during implementation.
Phare co-financing approved and    M      All Phare funds used for component 1, so if they are not
available at appropriate time            available, it will not hold up the rest of the project. Search
for other potential co-financiers for the project.
Project incentives are sufficient to    N  Regular reviews during implementation. Because details are
motivate farmers to participate in       outlined in the OH, if problems occur, it is possible to
the project.                             increase the portion of project dedicated to outreach and
training. It is also possible to increase the proportion of
investment costs covered by the project.
Overall Risk Rating                M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
16



3. Possible controversial aspects:
It is not anticipated that the project will have any controversial aspects. The proposed
interventions have formally been given high priority by the Helsinki Commission, European
Union, Polish authorities and by international and national NGOs. The only area of
controversy noted to date is whether farmers can or cannot provide the labor for some of the
more technically complex storage tanks for liquid animal waste. We will test both approaches
in the project.
G: MAIN LOAN CONDITIONS
1. Condition of negotiations:
* Key PIU staff (project director, chief engineer, chief financial officer) appointed as full
time project staff
2. Conditions of board presentation:
* Remaining PIU staff (agri-environmental specialist, and procurement officer) appointed.
* A work plan satisfactory to the Bank, for reaching agreement with at least one LIT
detailing geographic coverage of project in that area and local government contribution to
LIT, has been prepared by the Borrower.
3. Effectiveness conditions:
*  The Operational Handbook, satisfactory to the Bank, has been adopted.
*  The grant from the GEF is effective.
*  The grant from NEFCO is effective.
*  The NFEP has prepared and the Bank has approved a shortlist of potential firms to
conduct the annual audit of the project.
4. Other covenants:
*  The NFEP will carry out the project in accordance with the requirements in the
Operational Handbook.
*  The NFEP will maintain the PIU with resources, composition and under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank until completion of the project.
*  The NFEP shall maintain the Project Steering Committee until completion of the project,
with terms of reference and composition satisfactory to the Bank.
*  By January 30, 2000, the borrower shall ensure that the MIS has been prepared, in
accordance with terms of reference agreed with the Bank, and is put into operation by the
PIU.
*  The NFEP will establish and maintain a financial management system in accordance with
accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, and by June 30, 2000
carry out an agreed action plan for strengthening the financial management system.
17



B; RXA0w1SS FOR IMPLZMENTATION
[X] T'h enginseuing design documents for the first year's activites are complete and redy
for th start of project implementsion.
[XI The procurement documents for e first year's acwivities Are wmplate and ready for the
stat of proect iinplementation.
[XJ The Opermionin  Handbook has been appraised and found to be realstic and of
satisfactory qual.
1: CoMPLiANCE WIR BANC POUCIJKS
[X] This pro)e%t omplies with all applIcable Bank policies.
Tagk Team Leader         ucia  aicl
Sectr Director:
County Director, Basil Kavalsky
Is



ANNEX 1
POLAND: RURAL ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
Narrative Summary         Key Performance          Monitoring and       Critical Assumptions
Indicators              Evaluation
Sector-related CAS                                                      (Goal to Bank Mission)
Goal:
* Improve environmental  * Gradual improvements in    Government's annual    EU membership is
quality through         ambient water quality    State of the           likely to increase
increased focus on     measures.                 Environment Report.    average incomes.
non-point source
pollution.
* Assist process of     * Progress towards       * Government's           EU ensures that Poland
integration with the    meeting environmental    periodic reports to EU    enforces environmental
European Union.         compliance targets with  and periodic EU         standards according to
EU and Polish            assessments.           agreed schedule.
legislation.
HELCOM reports.
Project Development                                                      (Objective to Goal)
Objective:
* To substantially      * Increased awareness of   Report from non-user  * Government
increase the prevalence    environmental issues in  survey (part of social    negotiations with EU
of environmentally      agriculture among        assessment).           continue on track.
responsible practices  farmers outside project
among eligible         areas.                                          * Project-developed
farmers.              * High satisfaction rates  * Social assessment.   interventions are
among participating                             replicated on a wide
farmers.                                         scale.
* High percentage of     * Social assessment and
participating farmers    NFEP evaluations.
implementing plan
properly two years after
joining the project.
* High percentage of       Economic and
participating farmers    financial assessment.
aware of financial
impacts of adopting
environmentally
responsible practices.
19



Narrative Summary         Key Performance          Monitoring and        Critical Assumptions
Indicators    T         Evaluation      I
Outputs:                                                                (Outputs to Objective)
* Farm management       * Percentage of hectares in  Quarterly reports from    Participating farmers
plans developed and     target areas where      LITs and PIU; social    implement farm
investments made on    nutrient management      assessment; supervision  management plan and use
participating farms to  plans have been         mission report(s).     investments properly after
control pollution from  developed.                                     the investments are
agriculture.          * Percentage of farms in                         completed and technical
target areas that have                         assistance is finished.
built liquid animal waste
storage.
*Percentage of farms in
target areas that have
built, bought or secured
access to other
recommended
investments.
* Package developed and  * Cost-effectiveness of  * Economic and        *Support from local and
management system in    project relative to similar   financial assessment.    national Government
place that motivates   projects in other                                 (MAFE, MEP, MOF)
farmers to adopt        countries.                                       continues.
environmentally       * Percentage of farms     * Social assessment and  * Other Government
responsible practices.  meeting technical        LIT investment         programs do not conflict
performance standards.   completion reports.    with project goals.
*PIU and LITs develop    *LIT and PIU quarterly  - Investments meet
and meet administrative  reports.               technical standards.
performance standards.
Project                Inputs: (budget for each                          (Components to
Components/Sub-        component)                                        Outputs)
components:
1. Farrn Environmental   1. US$13.8 million      LIT and PIU progress    -Local governments
Improvements:                                    reports (quarterly).     maintain staff and office
* Operational and                                                         support contributions to
Training Support                                                         LITs and project
(Advice to Farmers);                                                    supervision as expected.
. Farm Environmental                                                     * Financing from PHARE
Investments.                                                            is approved and
available on schedule.
2. Outreach and         2. US$2.0 million                                * Government, World
Management:                                                               Bank and co-financiers
* Public Awareness;                                                       can streamline
* Monitoring;                                                             procedures for project
* Replication Strategy;                                                   implementation.
* Project Management.                                                    * Project incentives are
sufficient to motivate
farmers to participate in
the project.
20



TABLE 4: ANNUAL BENCHMARKS FOR INDICATORS
INDICATORS OF IMPACT           WHAT IS MEASURED                  CY 99:     CY 00           CY 01:       CY 02:       HOW
0% of all  25% of all      40% of all  35% of all
Farms      Farms           Farms        Farms
Increased awareness of         Increased knowledge of non-                                  %TBD         %TBD         Public Awareness Surveys and
enviromnental issues in        participating farmers:                                                                 Social Assessment
agriculture among farmers      of the issue
outside project area-          of the potentially available
assistance
Satisfaction rate from         % of participating farmers satisfied         75%             75%          75%          Social Assessment
participating farmers          with investments
% satisfied with the advisory                60%            60%          60%
services
High percentage of participating   % of participating farmers with                          50%          50%          Social Assessment and Project
farmers implementing plan      NMP prepared satisfactorily and                                                        MIS
properly two years after joining   implemented satisfactorily two
project                        years afterjonng
High percentage of participating   % of farmers interviewed that are                        50%          50%          Social Assessment and
farmers aware of financial     aware of impacts to them                                                               Economic Assessment
impacts of adopting
environmentally-responsible
practices
...OF OUTPUT
Percentage of hectares in target   # of hectares in target areas where    0  3,250          5,200        3,250        MIS
areas where NMPs developed     NMPs developed                                %TBD           %TBD         %TBD
Percentage of farms in target  Y of farms                        0           264            422          369          MIS
areas that have built, bought or                                            %TBD            %TBD         %TBD
secured access to reconunended
investments and equipment
Cost-effectiveness of project  Judgement of consultants based on                                         +/-          Economic Assessment
relative to similar projects in  comparative study
other countries
Percentage of participating farms                                            70%            70%          70%          LIT Investment Completion
meeting technical performance                                                                                         Reports, M:IS, Social
standards                                                                                                             Assessment
PIU and LITs develop and then    PIU service standards                       +/-            +/-          +/-          MIS, Economic assessment
meet administrative performance  LIT service standards
standards
21



ANNEX 2
POLAND: RURAL ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A.   OVERVIEW
1.    Project Goal and Objectives. The project's objective is to significantly increase the
prevalence of environmentally responsible practices among eligible farms in the target project
areas. The global environmental objective is to demonstrate effective mechanisms for improving
environmental practices in agriculture by reducing nutrients entering the Baltic Sea from
agriculture in Poland.
2.     The project will test the administrative structure for providing environmental advice and
investment support to farmers. It will also test the beneficiaries' interest in, and willingness to pay
for, improving their environmental management practices. The project will assist farmers to lower
both the risks and the barriers that currently hinder them in adopting new practices, and is based
on successful demonstration projects in Poland.
3.     The project supports Poland's move towards compliance with national policy and
international agreements. These include the Helsinki Convention and the environmental
legislation of the European Union (EU), which Poland needs to implement as part of the process
of joining the Union.' The Government plans to use the experience gained under this project to
develop a national program to integrate environmental concerns into agricultural and rural
development practices.
4.     Project Components.
*  Component 1 - Farm  Environmental Improvements. This consists of environmental
operational support and training for eligible farmers and financial support for recommended
farm investments and equipment. The component will consider options for cropping, tilling,
manure spreading, fertilizer application practices and constructed wetlands, as well as
investments in manure storage, silage storage, buffer strips, etc.
i  Component 2 - Outreach and Management. This will include (a) a public awareness
program on issues concerning environmental management and pollution control in
agriculture; (b) monitoring; (c) a strategy for replicating the project; and (d) project
management.
These components have been identified in collaboration with the National Fund for
Environmental Protection and Water Management (NFEP), the Ministry of Environmental
Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry (MEP) and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food
I  The most directly relevant requirement is the Council Directive on the Protection of Waters Against
Pollution caused by Nitrates from Agriculture (91/676/EEC), known as the Nitrates Directive. This aims to
reduce or prevent the pollution of water caused by application and storage of fertilizer and manure on
farnland, and is intended to safeguard drinking water supplies and to prevent ecological damage from
eutrophication. The directive requires member states to designate areas that are sensitive to pollution from
nitrates and to establish plans for reducing that pollution. It includes requirements for storage of livestock
manure and for application of fertilizers.
22



Economy (MAFE), as well as Polish NGOs, technical institutes, farmers' organizations and
farmers themselves.
5.     Sites for Field Level Activities. The project will be implemented in three rural areas
around Elblag, Torun and Ostroleka/Lomza. Elblag borders the ecologically sensitive
transboundary Vistula Lagoon that is shared by Poland and Russia. They were chosen because
they have all undertaken successful demonstration projects and because their local governments
expressed a strong interest in participating in and contributing to the project. Local farners are
already sensitized to the issues and interested in participating in ongoing activities and many have
already prepared preliminary applications. Because several farms in the area have already begun
adopting environmental practices and have invested in manure storage facilities, these areas
provide excellent possibilities for site visits to see project interventions at the field level. These
areas were also chosen because they are sensitive to nitrate pollution, representative of different
farm types and soil types, and well distributed within the country. During implementation,
depending on demand and local government support, the project may move to other areas in
agreement with the World Bank, the Government of Poland and co-financiers, but at no time will
it operate in more than three areas.
6.     Operational Handbook. Project implementation will be based on an Operational
Handbook, containing details of eligible areas, eligibility criteria for farm selection, levels of
investment support, precise responsibilities of implementing agencies, guidelines for technical
assistance, arrangements for project supervision and monitoring activities, procurement
arrangements, disbursement arrangements and environmental procedures. This Handbook can be
modified during project implementation, in agreement with the World Bank, the Government of
Poland and the co-financiers. Experience with demand-driven, community-based projects, such as
social funds, has shown that using a handbook of this type is an effective mechanism for learning
from experience and maintaining flexibility during implementation.2
7.     Developing a National Program. The Government of Poland intends this project to be
the basis for developing a national program to improve environmental management in agriculture
and to control non-point source pollution. Therefore, the project includes activities to support
replication. At the mid-term review of the project, the Government and the Bank will decide
whether to proceed with preparation of a national program and the principles on which such a
program will be based.
B.    PROJECT COMPONENT 1: FARM ENVIRONMENTAL IMPROVEMENTS
(US$13.8 MILLION)
8.     Approach. This component links specialized technical assistance and training with farm
investments to support improved environmental management at the farm level. The component
focuses on encouraging farmers to think of themselves as managers or stewards of the
environment. It uses a participatory approach that includes the direct involvement of farmers in
identifying environmental problems, developing site-specific solutions, evaluating new farming
2  Social funds aim to provide funding to local organizations such as community-based groups, NGOs,
and local governments in a flexible, transparent, and rapid manner. They are "demand-driven funding
mechanisms." They do not identify projects in advance but instead respond to requests generated by local
organizations. Social funds do not implement projects. They promote specific activities, appraise projects
or subprojects for funding using strict selection criteria, supervise implementation, and monitor project
effectiveness. They typically aim to meet basic social priorities for communities. This project is modeled
on the social fund approach, but with environmental rather than social aims.
23



practices, and monitoring environmental quality. The farmers express their commitment to
project objectives through participation in training activities and by their contributions in labor
and cash for farm investments.
9.     Eligible Farms. Eligibility criteria include ownership of a farm by a single family,
financial viability, and possession of at least ten large animal units of stock. In addition,
participating farmers will need to make a formal commitment to undertake measures to
implement Good Agricultural Practices3 and operate and maintain small-scale infrastructure
investments for at least five years. To be eligible, farmers also will have to agree to participate in
follow-up surveys, social assessments and monitoring activities. Eligibility criteria are set out in
detail in the Operational Handbook and can be changed in the light of implementation experience,
in agreement with the World Bank and other co-financiers.
10.    Farmers will first submit expressions of interest in participating in the project. If they are
eligible, they will attend several training activities and work with agri-environmental advisors to
develop a management plan for their farm. They will then complete an application form for
support from the project, which will include preliminary design for environmental investments
consistent with the plan.
Subcomponent A - Operational Support and Training for Farmers
11.    Working with Farmers. The subcomponent will support advice and training for farmers
to reduce non-point source pollution from agriculture. Farm environmental advisors will discuss
with potentially eligible farmers the options for and economic and other benefits of improving
environmental management at the farm level. They will also inform the farmers about the terms
of the support offered by the project. An important activity will be regular farm field days for
neighboring farmers to review activities and for outside parties to become familiar with the types
of activities supported by the project.
12.    Once farms have expressed interest in participating and have been considered eligible,
they will receive various forms of technical assistance relating to environmental management on
their farm. This will include reviews of the health risks to the farm family associated with organic
pollution, and assessment of options for improving environmental management, including
potential economic benefits. The farm environmental advisors will work with the farmer to
prepare a farm management plan that fully incorporates environmental considerations. This plan
will include an outline of necessary environmental infrastructure, recommendations for buffer
strips along sensitive water bodies and constructed wetlands as appropriate, and equipment
needed to implement the plan.
13.    Coordination with MAFE. The project will coordinate its activities with the MAFE and
its extension agents, the ODRs. This will include coordinating technical advice, particularly on
methods, rates and timing for the field application of liquid and solid wastes. The project will
ensure ODR participation in project-related training courses. The project will also coordinate with
local farmers' chambers and other farming organizations.
14.    Community Involvement. The subcomponent activities will directly involve farmers
and rural communities within the project areas. The environmental advisors will focus their
efforts on working directly with farmers, farmers' families and rural communities.
3  These include new methods for cropping, tilling and manure spreading.
24



15.    Sources of Expertise. The farm environmental advisors will be from the project's Local
Implementation Teams (LITs). The NFEP will contract the director of each LIT on a competitive
basis from Government institutes, private sector firms, universities, farmers' chambers andl/or
nongovernmental organizations. A number of Government institutes and nongovernmental
organizations have provided such support services under EU (Phare), Swedish and United States
funded programs, and from their own resources. This means that there is an established base of
experience within Poland to assist in implementing the proposed project. In addition, the Polish
private consulting sector, university-based technical service organizations and revitalized farmers
associations have rapidly developed, constituting important new sources of expertise. The LIT
staff members will mostly be agricultural extension agents seconded to the project. In some cases,
the project may contract other LIT staff, also on a competitive basis.
Subcomponent B - Farm Environmental Investments
16.   Investment Activities. The project will channel financial support to eligible farmers to
invest in facilities recommended by the farm management plan. These will include investments
such as manure storage facilities, buffer strips, and specialized equipment. The project will
provide such infrastructure through a contractor and will pay up to an estimated 70 percent of the
total investment costs for each farm, up to an estimated total of US$10,000 equivalent. The
farmer's contribution is expected to contribute approximately 30 percent of the project cost in a
mix of labor, materials and direct payments in some cases. The amount and terms of support will
be detailed in the Operational Handbook and may be changed, in agreement with the World Bank
and the co-financiers, over the course of project implementation. The project will cover up to 50
percent of the costs of specialized equipment to be owned, maintained and operated by groups of
farmers. These levels of support are based on the experiences of previous demonstration projects.
17.    Farmer and Contractor Obligations. The NFEP will adopt guidelines for small-scale
infrastructure investments that are included in the Operational Handbook. Obligations of farmers
and contractors will be spelled out in the agreement between the farmer and the NFEP, in the
bidding documents and in the relevant contracts. The LIT will encourage farmers to group
together and use the same contractor.
18.    Role of LITs. Interested farmers will present expressions of interest to the LIT in their
area. The LIT will screen these expressions of interest, and, if the farm meets the eligibility
criteria, the LIT will instruct the environmental advisors to work with the farmer to develop a
farm management plan and fill in an application for investment support. The farmer will then
submit to the LIT a subproject application containing technical details, levels of support and
contractual agreements. LIT staff will send the subproject applications in batches to the PIU. The
PIU will assess the applications, and approve the subproject. Once they have approved it, the PIU
or the NFEP will sign a legally binding subproject agreement with the farmer. The LIT staff will
work with local government engineers to supervise civil works and their commissioning. LIT
staff will inform the PIU when contractors have completed their work and the PIU will pay the
contractors.
25



C.   PROJECT COMPONENT 2: OUTREACH AND MANAGEMENT (US$2.0 MILLION)
19.   Approach. This Component supports complementary measures for (a) increased
awareness of the importance of environmentally sound agriculture; (b) monitoring; (c) a
replication strategy, and (d) project management.
Subcomponent A - Public Awareness
20.    Public Awareness. The subcomponent will support the design and conduct of a public
awareness program to broaden understanding of the importance of agriculture and environment
issues in Poland. It will target both farmers and the general public and will focus both on project
areas and other parts of the country to increase public support. The program will promote
environmentally sound agricultural practices and highlight the critical role of the farmer as an
environmental manager. These activities will be used to disseminate good practices, results from
demonstrations, new approaches and information about incentive programs, through a variety of
media including site visits, videos, leaflets, webpages, etc. The program will also disseminate
lessons leamed from the implementation process and facilitate project replication. The outreach
program will be conducted at the national level by targeting farrmers' organizations and the
media. In the project areas, the outreach program will coordinate with the LITs to develop
activities specifically designed to support local information needs. The program will stress the
economic benefits of adopting environmental practices in agriculture and will acknowledge the
contributions that each project stakeholder (local governments, agricultural extension agents,
farmers' chambers, NGOs, etc.) has made to the project.
21.    Development and Implementation. Public communications specialists will implement
the outreach program, to ensure effective targeting and dissemination of information through a
variety of traditional and new media available in rural Poland. This has proved an important
factor in the success of recent Bank-supported projects involving environmental outreach in the
Baltic Sea region. The communications specialists will coordinate design and conduct of the
outreach program with representatives of the MEP, MAFE, Chambers of Agriculture and other
Polish governmental and nongovernmental organizations concerned with agriculture and
environment issues. Community-based groups in rural areas will take an active role in all stages
of public awareness and environmental education activities.
22.    Coordination with Regional Initiatives. The activities under this subcomponent will
also be coordinated with the ongoing activities of the Working Group on Public Awareness and
Environmental Education of the Helsinki Commission, which works at the regional level to
support development of outreach programs concerning the use of Good Agricultural Practices and
increased awareness of the need to control non-point source pollution from agriculture. This
cooperation could include the use of printed and video materials prepared by the Working Group.
The Working Group plans to share the experience from the project-supported outreach program
with other countries in the region.
Subcomponent B - Monitoring
23.    Scope. The NFEP will be responsible for monitoring and reporting on project
performance, with support of the LITs, and short-term local and international consultants as
appropriate. The project will include activities to evaluate project performance, assess the social
impact and response of beneficiaries, and undertake detailed environmental monitoring.
26



24.    Project Performance Monitoring. The project will be tracked against agreed indicators,
such as awareness of the issues outside the project areas, farmer satisfaction, number of farmers
implementing farm management plans properly two years after joining the project (see Annex 1).
The information gathered under the performance monitoring program will be used to develop
improved information concerning costs for typical services and infrastructure investments, which
will form the basis for the cost-effectiveness analysis (see Annex 4).
25.    Social Assessment. The project will include a social assessment to provide information
about the needs and responses of beneficiaries and other community members regarding project
initiatives. It will also conduct a baseline survey and assess progress against that baseline. The
social assessment will continue throughout implementation, to provide feedback on project
design, management and implementation. It will also evaluate project impacts on farmers and
farm families, the roles of various cooperating parties in supporting beneficiaries, and the effects
of outreach and training programs from the perspective of both the beneficiaries and the broader
community. Project managers, consultants, contractors and stakeholder groups will all use this
information. The social assessment will broaden participation of social scientists in environmental
projects in Poland and allow for improved integration of social issues into the project design
process. Terms of reference for the social assessment are included in the Operational Handbook.
26.    Environmental Monitoring. The project will support environmental monitoring in each
of the three project areas. This will include monitoring of representative small watersheds and
support for farm monitoring at a selected number of locations. Given the planned extension of the
project to other areas at a later date, monitoring will emphasize cost-effectiveness and potential
for replication on a national basis. The environmental monitoring system activity will be
undertaken in three phases:
* Design of the Environmental Monitoring System.
- Development of the Environmental Monitoring System. For a two-year period support will
include: (a) training for environmental monitoring specialists; (b) data collection; (c)
laboratory testing and intercalibration services; (d) quality assurance; and (e)
environmental monitoring reports.
= Transfer of the Environmental Monitoring System. At the end of the two-year period,
consistent with agreements negotiated by NFEP during the project implementation
process, technical and financial responsibility for operation and maintenance of the
environmental monitoring system will be transferred to national and/or local authorities.
Subcomponent C -Replication Strategy
27.    The project has been designed as a model both for Poland and elsewhere. It is anticipated
that, with adaptation based on implementation experience, the project will be expanded on a
phased basis to cover the entire country. The project therefore includes funds to support
preparation of a national strategy for replicating the activities.
28.    The PIU will hire a consultant to review the experience of project implementation, with
particular emphasis on the findings of the social and economic assessments, to understand the
likely response of farmers if modifications are considered concerning the levels of grant support
necessary for investment activities. The consultant will also assess potential areas for extension of
the project during the next phases of implementation. The consultants will prepare a draft report
that would be the subject of broad-based review meetings, including meetings with the
27



cooperating international funding organizations. On the basis of this consultation process, the
consultants will prepared a revised report for further review and discussion by the NFEP, the
Steering Committee and PIU.
Subcomponent D - Project Management
29.   NFEP, a well-established specialized environmental finance institution, will manage the
project, in coordination with MEP and MAFE. At the field level, LITs will be responsible for
project coordination, including appraisal of subproject applications, supervision of
implementation and performance monitoring. The project will finance preparation, advertisement,
evaluation and awarding of contracts for procurement; management of project disbursement;
maintenance and auditing of project accounts; consolidation of project reports; and monitoring
and evaluation of project activities. In order to have an effective management structure, the
project will finance staff training, particularly in areas such as program planning, monitoring,
procurement and disbursement procedures, and the purchase of limited amounts of equipment.
Institutional Arrangements for the Project
30.   The institutional arrangements are based on a decentralized approach that combines
national level coordination and monitoring with local level implementation. The Operational
Handbook for the project provides a detailed overview of the implementation arrangements and
procedures. Project implementation will include the following multi-stakeholder structures:
e Project Steering Committee. At the national level, a Project Steering Committee (PSC) will
coordinate the project. This will be chaired by the NFEP, and include representatives of
the Ministry of Finance, MAFE, MEP, the Office of the Committee on European
Integration, and representatives of Chambers of Agriculture from each of the project
areas discussed below. The PSC will guide project management and coordinate project
activities with related activities in Poland and other countries in the region.
* Project Implementation Unit. The NFEP will form a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to
manage the project. This will include a full-time project director, financial officer, project
engineer, agri-environment specialist, procurement specialist, and possibly a budget
officer and an assistant to the project director. They will benefit from short-term local and
intemational expertise as necessary, particularly to help develop the technical assistance
and training programs, and the project monitoring system; and to strengthen the existing
MIS and accounting system. The PIU's main tasks will be to:
0  Establish and administer the Rural Environmental Protection Project
0  Appoint and supervise the LIT
0  Create technical training program for LIT supervisors and appoint trainers
0  Approve farm applications submitted in batches by the Local Implementation Team
(LIT)
0  Procure civil works and award tenders, and train LITs staff in procurement issues
0  Develop modifications as needed to eligibility criteria and levels of support, in
consultation with the World Bank, and submit these modifications for approval by
the Steering Committee
0  Monitor project impact in cooperation with the MEP, and submit improvements to
the Steering Committee for approval
28



0 Disburse funds, maintain accounts and records and prepare quarterly and annual
reports.
* Local Implementation Team. In each participating project area, the PIU will contract a LIT
director who will work with agricultural extension agents seconded to the project. In
some areas the PIU may also contract agri-environmental specialists to work in the LIT.
Their main functions will be to:
0  Establish and administer the Rural Environmental Protection Project at the local level
0 Provide information about the project to farmers, in collaboration as appropriate with
the public relations firm appointed by the PIU
0  Arrange field days on farms participating in earlier demonstration activities
0  Review farmers' expressions of interest in participating in the project, and, on the
basis of the eligibility criteria, include eligible farms in the project
0  Help eligible farmers prepare farm  management plans and develop formal
applications, in collaboration with ODRs and following guidelines from the PIU
0  Receive formal applications from farmers and forward them in batches to the PIU for
approval
0  Process approved applications
0  Work with the gmina construction supervisory engineers to ensure effective field
supervision of ongoing construction activities in the gmina, or ensure that the PIU
hires an engineer for those farms
0  Work with the farmer after the investments are completed to help him or her adopt
the environmental practices included in the project.
Potential Administrative Changes
31.    During the life of the project a new structure for regional and local government will be
forming. In this case the composition and responsibilities of the various proj ect management units
may require adjustment. At any time the Operational Handbook may be revised to reflect these
administrative changes with prior consensus of the Bank and other co-financiers.
29



ANNEX 3
POLAND: RURAL ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS (EXCLUDING TAXES)
(in millions of US$)
Project Component                               Local       FOREIGN           Total
------------    Us $------ ------------
1. Farm Environmental Improvements              11.3            0.4          11.7
2. Outreach and Management                       1.0            0.6           1.6
Total                                           12.3            1.0          13.3
Total Baseline Cost                             12.3            1.0          13.3
Physical Contingencies                           1.2            0.1           1.3
Price Contingencies                              0.9            0.0           0.9
Total Proiect Cost                              14.4            1.1          15.5
30



ANNEX 4
POLAND: RURAL ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
COST-EFFECTIVENESS ANALYSIS SUMMARY
[For projects with benefits that are measured in monetary tenns]
(Indicate currency, units, and base year)
Present Value of Flows              Fiscal Impact
Economic       Financial
Analysis      Analysis'       Taxes           Subsidies
Benefits
Costs
Net Benefits:
IRR:
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Main Assumptions:
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Note: During implementation, the project will evaluate the cost effectiveness of
its interventions, including comparisons of similar projects in other countries
in the region. Terms of reference for this analysis are included as an annex of
the Operational Handbook
4 If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be
explained by taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g., "The value of
financial benefits is less than that of economic benefits because of controls on electricity tariffs."
31



ANNEX 5
POLAND: RURAL ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
FINANCIAL SUMMARY
In millions of US$
Implementation Period                                           Operational Period
1999        2000        2001         2002         Total        2002        2003         2004        2005        Total
Proiect Costs
Investment Costs                0.3         5.2          5.6          3.3          14.4
Recurrent Costs              0.2         0.5          0.5          0.2           1.4           0.2         0.2          0.2         0.2        0.8
Total                           0.5         5.7          6.1          3.5          15.8
Financing Sources (% of
total project costs)
rBRD                          47.9%        15.9%       13.6%         14.9%         15.7%
Co-financiers
GEF                      0.0%        0.0%        19.4%        50.9%          19.0%
NEFCO                    0.0%        0.0%        16.4%         0.0%           6.3%
EU(Phare)                0.0%        48.7%       15.3%         0.0%          23.4%
NFEP                    40.6%        6.1%         5.2%         1.2%           5.7%
Government                    11.5%        5.1%         4.1%         4.1%           4.7%        40%         40%         40%          40%        40%
Beneficiaries                  0.0%        24.2%       26.1%        29.0%          25.3%        60%         60%         60%          60%        60%
(cash and in-kind
contributions)
Total                          100%        100%         100%         100%         100%         100%        100%         100%        100%       100%
32



ANNEX 6
POLAND: RURAL ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Procurement Responsibility
1.    Implementation of the project will require procurement of goods and works, and the selection and
employment of consulting firms and individuals to carry out consulting and other technical assistance services.
The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) within the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water
Management (NFEP) will be responsible for procurement. The PIU has gained substantial experience in Bank-
financed procurement through the implementation of the Environment Management Project. The PIU will have
a procurement specialist familiar with bank-financed procurement, additionally he/she will undergo training in
Bank procurement guidelines, policies and procedures, if necessary. The main responsibilities of the
procurement specialist will be to prepare and submit to the Bank all procurement documents for the Bank's
prior review; carry out all procurement related activities; and prepare and submit to the Bank a detailed
procurement schedule every year. The project launch workshop will be held at a date close to effectiveness and
will dedicate adequate time to procurement to ensure that all implementation staff understand Bank
procurement requirements. A General Procurement Notice was published in Development Business of the
United Nations in May 1999.
Procurement Methods
2.    The procurement of goods and works under the project will be conducted in accordance with the
Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published in January 1995 and
revised in January and August, 1996 and September 1997. The project components not financed by the Bank,
GEF and NEFCO will be procured in accordance with national regulations or the co-financing institutions'
procurement regulations. The selection of consultants will be conducted in accordance with the "Guidelines -
Selection and Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", dated January 1997, as revised in September
1997. The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for Goods, Small Works, and Letters of Invitation as well as
Standard Form of Consultants' Contracts will be used. The project procurement arrangements are shown in
Table A, and briefly summarized below. Details are included in the Procurement Plan.
3.    Goods (US$0.96 million in the aggregate). Off-the-shelf goods, estimated to cost up to US$0.10
million per contract, will be procured through National Shopping (NS), based on comparison of quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers. The project includes fourteen NS packages (US$0.96 million in the
aggregate).
4.    Civil Works (US$3.18 million in the aggregate). The project includes six NCB contracts for works,
estimated to cost up to US$0.7 million each (US$3.142 million in the aggregate). Works estimated to cost
US$0.3 million equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
US$0.033 million, may be procured under lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations
obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The Invitation shall
include a detailed description of the work, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic
form of agreement and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall include a detailed description of
the work, including basic specifications, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to
successfully complete the contract. The project includes one MW contract (US$0.033 million in the
aggregate).
33



5.    Consultants' Services (US$1.76 million in the aggregate). Consultants' services will be procured
through the Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) procedure. Such contracts will be advertised in
Development Business and in a national newspaper for expressions of interest, from which a shortlist will be--
drawn. The project includes two QCBS assignments at a total estimated cost of US$0.59 million. For contracts
estimated to cost less than US$0.2 million, the shortlist may consist entirely of national qualified firms, at least
three. Foreign firms, if interested, will be allowed to participate. The project will include five QCBS
assignments based on national shortlists (US$0.60 million in the aggregate), and eight contracts (US$0.199
million in the aggregate) that will be selected through the Consultants' Qualification (CQ). Consultants'
services for the assignment of auditing (estimated at US$0.110 million in the aggregate) will be procured
through the Least Cost Selection method (LCS).
6.    Individual experts for Operational Support and Training for Farmers in the LITs (US$0.262 million in
the aggregate) will be selected in accordance with Part V of the Consultant Guidelines. Candidatures will be
advertised, and selection will be made on the basis of comparison of qualifications and experience.
7.    The utilization of funds allocated to meet various incremental operating costs, i.e. mileage, utilities and
communication charges, maintenance of office equipment, etc. (US$0.476 million in the aggregate) will be
incurred in accordance with an annual budget subject to the Bank's prior approval.
Bank Review of Procurement
8.    Procurement documents for the first NCB contract (draft bidding documents, evaluation report before
contract is signed) will be subject to the prior review of the Bank. With respect to each consultants' contract
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$0.2 million or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other
than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
With respect to each consultant contract for firms estimated to cost less than US$0.2 million but more than
US$0.1 million each, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. With respect to each contract for
the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $0.015 million or more, the
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be fumished to
the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall
have been given.
Disbursement Arrangements
9.    The project is expected to be disbursed over a period of three years. The anticipated completion date is
October 2002, and the closing date, April 2003. Disbursements will follow normal Bank and co-financiers'
procedures and will be made against eligible expenditures.
10.   Allocation of Loan Proceeds: Disbursements shall be made against the categories of expenditures
indicated in Table B and C. The proceeds of the proposed loan and grant are expected to be disbursed over a
period of three years.
11.   Special Account: To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, the NFEP will establish in
a commercial bank three Special Accounts (SA), one for each tranche of the loan and one for the GEF grant, to
be operated by the PIU under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. While the Bank is disbursing
under traditional disbursement methods under the loan, the Authorized Allocation will be set to US$300,000
(equivalent). Initially the combined allocation will be limited to US$200,000 (equivalent) until disbursements
reach US$600,000 (equivalent), at which time the full Authorized Allocation could be claimed. Under the
grant, the Authorized Allocation will be set to US$300,000 (equivalent). The initial deposit will be limited to
US$200,000 (equivalent) until disbursements have reached SDR430,000. Applications for the replenishment
34



of the Special Account will be submitted monthly or when 1/3 of the initial deposit has been utilized,
whichever occurs earlier. The replenishment application will be supported by the necessary documentation, the
Special Account bank statement, and a reconciliation of the bank statement.
12.    Use of Statements of Expenditures: Withdrawal applications will be fully documented, except for
expenditures under: (a) contracts for goods valued at less than US$0.1 million each, (b) contracts for works
less than US$0.7 million each; (c) contracts for consulting firms costing less than US$0.1 million equivalent,
and contracts for individual consultants, including training, costing less than US$0.015 million equivalent; and
(d) expenditures under incremental recurrent cost. Full documentation in support of SOEs should be retained
by the PIU and LITs for at least two years after the closing date of the loan.
13.    Retroactive Financing. Retroactive financing of less than 10% of the Loan and Grant will be made
available for expenditures incurred after February 1, 1999.
35



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
US$ million equivalent
(figures in parentheses are IBRD and GEF contribution)
Expenditures               NCB       Other    Notes   N.B.F.      Total
A. Civil Works                      3.14      0.03               8.02      11.20
(3.12)    (0.03)     a                  (3.15)
B. Goods                                      0.96               0.09       1.05
(0.52)     b                 (0.52)
C. Consultant Services                        1.76               0.41       2.17
(1.35)     c                 (1.35)
D. Recurrent Costs (LIT O&M                   0.92               0.46       1.38
costs)                                       (0.48)      d                 (0.48)
TOTAL                               3.14      3.67               8.99      15.80
(3.12)    (2.38)                        (5.50)
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed; NCB = National Competitive Bidding; NS  National Shopping
a/ Includes six NCB contracts (aggregate amount US$3.14 million) and one MW contract (aggregate amount
US$0.03 million)
b/ Fourteen NS contracts (aggregate amount US$0.96 million)
c/ Individual contracts (aggregate amount US$0.26 million), two QCBS contracts (aggregate amount US$0.59
million), five QCBS contracts based on national shortlists (aggregate amount US$0.6 million), eight CQ
contracts (aggregate amount US$0.199 million), one LCS contracts (aggregate amount US$0.1 10 million)
dI Amount for recurrent costs not submitted to procurement to be incurred in accordance with an annual budget
subject to Bank's prior approval
Table B: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Tranche of the Loan  Tranche of the Loan   Percentage of the
Allocated          Allocated      Expenditures to be
(expressed in US$)   (expressed in        financed
EUROs)
1. (a) Civil Works under farm contract    0.052               0.040               82%
1. (b) Equipment under farm contract      0.184               0.160               50%
2. (a) Equipment for LIT and               0.054              0.050               82%
Environmental Monitoring
2. (b) Civil Works forEnvironmental        0.014              0.010               93%
Monitoring
3. Consulting Services                     0.360              0.310               76%
4. Audit                                   0.034              0.030               78%
5. Training                                0.062              0.050               78%
6. LIT's Incremental Operating Expenses   0.238               0.200               78%
7. Fee                                     0.012              0.010
8. Unallocated                             0.240              0.240
Total        1.250              1.100
36



Table C: Allocation of GEF Financing
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$            GEF
million          Financing as
Equivalent      Percentage of Total
Project Costs
1. Civil Works                         2.700                100%
2. Equipment
3. Consulting Services
4. Recurrent Expenses
5. Unallocated                         0.300
Total        3.000
37



Project Procurement-Related Information and Plan in US millions (IBRD and GEF)
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   $ect Ioi     1:    Proc i  m t   Rcev ie   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Goods and Civil       ICB           NCB              IS             NS         Minor Works            Other methods            Percentage of loan amount and GEF
Works                                                                                                                     grant subject to prior review
Procurement       n.a            <c0.700       n.a.              <0.100       <0.300           n.a.
thresholds:                       (US$3.12)                      (US$0.52)   (US$0.03)
individual and
aggregate
Prior Review      n.a             first        n.a               n.a.         n.a.             n.a.                            US$0.52 million
(US$0.52)                                                                                    Or 14%
Consultants       QCBS            QBS          Fixed Budget      LCS          CQ               Individual
Procurement       n.a.            n.a.         n.a.              n.a.         n.a.             n.a.
method            (US$ 1. 19)                                    (US$0. 1 10)  (US$0.199)      (US$0.262)
thresholds
Prior Review      All             n.a.         n.a.              All          All              TORs for all contracts equivalent  US$1.76 million
(US$1.19)                                     (US$0.1 10)  (US$0.199)       to US$0.015 and above           Or 100%
I _______ I__  I_______________   ___________  ______________   (U S$0.262)
Ex-post Review    Explain briefly the ex-post review mechanism:
All other         All the remaining procurement packages will be subject to ex-post review. Each supervision mission will include a procurement specialist who would conduct
procurement       ex-post reviews and provide his/her findings and recommendations, which will be included in supervision reports. Efforts would be made to achieve ex-post
packages          review up to 80% of the total procurement volume.
. . ..... &eti.~~~~~~~ ~~f~~i~%f.}~~~ii~~ikiii~~~itifig Agency iii Psucurcmcnt and Technical Assistance req  trt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........
The PIU will be responsible for implementing the project, including procurement. The NFEP has acquired some experience in procurement under Bank guidelines by implementing
the Environmental Management Project. The NFEP also has significant experience with EU (Phare) procedures. The PIU staff will include a procurement officer familiar with Bank
procurement.
Country Procurement Assessment Report: March 15, 1996           Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions of the first year ready by negotiations
Yes O No x
Estimated date of      Estimated date of         Indicate if there is    Domestic Preference for Goods    Domestic Preference for Works, if applicable
Project Launch         publication of General    procurement subject to                                    Yes [I No x
Workshop               Procurement Notice         mandatory SPN in       Yes O No x
04/12/99               05/16/99                   Development Business
Yes O No x
Retroactive financingAdae rrnen
Yes x No ti Explain: Retroactive financing of less than 10% of the Loan and Grant Y   0 - - 5  e::i,
will be made available for expenditures incurred after Februar 1, 1999.
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System: Procurement implementation progress will be monitored through progress reports and supervision missions. Each supervision
mission will include a procurement specialist. She/he will be responsible for updating the procurement plan, and conducting ex-post reviews. His/her findings will be included in the
supervision reports for monitoring their implementation.
Co-financing: Explain briefly the procurement arrangements under co-financing: The Bank's procurement procedures will be applied to the civil works procured using the
US$1 million grant financed bv NEFCO.
Indicate Name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible for the procurement in the Project: Name: Naushad Khan, Procurement Specialist, Ext. 32699
38



PROCUREMENT PLAN
(m311ion of USS)
No                   Deseciption                 Type       Number of    Estim. Cost  Method    Estimated dates    (BD/RFP)   Bid              Contract  Contract
sUces /items    US$                 Pre-Qualified/SL                               Signing    conmpletion
sub-packages                       1.  Invit.         Preparation  1. Invitation
2.  GPN/SPN/Local             GPN/SPN/Local
3.  Eval. & Recom             2. Opening
3. Eval. And Recom.
Farm Environmental Improvements
1   Operational Support and Training**            CS          2           0.290     QCBS*  05/16/99             05/20/99    05/25/99         11/15/99  05/31/02
09/01/99
10/30/99
2   Operational Support and Training              CS        Several       0.262    IC                                       10/30/99          11/15/99  05/31/02
3   LIT equipment (PC, printer, software)         G           2           0.051     NS                           11/30/99    12/10/99        01/15/00  02/15/00
12/20/99
01/05/00
4   LIT equipment (phone, fax, copy machine)      G            1          0.020     NS                           11/30/99    12/10/99         01/15/00  02/15/00
12/20/99
01/05/00
5   Farm Environmental Investments (manure pads,  CW          6           3.142     NCB                         03/06/00    04/01/00         05/30/00  10/31/02
slurry tanks, silos with silage tanks)                                                                                 05/01/00
,                                        1                                                                    05/10/00
6   Farm Enviromnental Equipment (manure spreading    G       10          0.817     NS                          08/07/00    09/01/00          11/16/00  10/31/02
machines, no-tillage equipment)                                                                                         10/09/00
10/23/00
Outreach and Management
7   Consulting Scrvices (PR consulting finn)      CS           1          0.413     QCBS    05/16/99            09/30/99    11/02/99         02/15/00  04/31/02
01/15/00
01/30/00            .     .
8   Environmental Monitoring Consulting Services  CS           1          0.176     QCBS    05/16/99            09/01/99    10/30/99          12/20/99  10/31/02
(design of the system, training, data collection, lab                                                                   11/30/99
testing, quality assurance, reports)        ____12/15/99                                                                                  ___   _____
9   Drilling of Groundwater Monitoring Wells     CW            1          0.033     MW                          03/01/00    03/15/00          05/10/00  08/30/00
04/15/00
05/01/00
10  Environmental Monitoring Equipment (water      G           1           0.075    NS                           03/01/00    03/15/00         05/10/00  08/30/00
testing stations)                                                                                                       04/15/00
05/01/00
11  Social Assessment                             CS           1           0.100    QCBS*   05/16/99             10/01/99    10/06/99         02/10/00  04/31/02
12/20/99
_______                                      ___________    ~~~~~~~~~~~~01/15/00     _ ____
12  Economic and Financial Assessment             CS           1           0.100    QCBS*  05/16/99              10/01/99    10/06/99         02/10/00  04/31/02
12/20/99
39



No                     Description                   Type        Nuxnber of    Estim. Cost  Method   Estimated dates  (BD/RFP)    Bid            Contract      Contract
slices iitenis  US$                     Pre-                                    Signing       completion
sub-packages                          Qualifled/SL    1 Preparation  I. Invitation
I.  Invi.                   GPN/SPN /Local
2.  GPN/SPN/                2. Opening
Local                   3. Eval. and
3.  Eval. &                 Recomn.
Recomi
13  Replication Strategy                               CS           1           0.113     QCBS*   08/01/00          08/15/00     11/30/00        02/02/01      04/31/02
12/15/00
01/15/01                     _____
14  Audit                                              CS           I           0.110     LCS                       10/15/99     11/30/99        02/06/00     04/31/03
12/17/99
_______  ____________  __________                       ~~ ~~01/10/00
15  Training and Study Tours                           CS           8           0.199     CQ                        08/15/99    08/30/99         10/30/99      04/31/02
09/15/99
10/15/99
Recurrent Costs (O&M for LIT)                                              0.476
Total                                                                      6.377
Note:
a. Based on the selection of the individuals within the Borrower's country.
b. According to an annual budget pre-approved by the Bank.
QCBS based on shortlists of national consultants
* * For two geographical regions (LIT) covering different periods
CW = Civil Works
ICB = International Competitive Bidding
G = Goods
CS = Consultants' Services
TR = Training
IS = International Shopping
NS = National Shopping
QCBS = Quality and Cost-Based Selection
LCS = Least Cost Selection;
Q = Qualification Based Selection
IC = Individual Consultants.
40



ANNEX 7
POLAND: RURAL ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ASSESSMENT
INTERNAL MEMORANDUM
TO:       JULIA BUCKNALL
FROM:   ZBIGNIEW REKUSZ
SUBJECT:FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REVIEW OF RURAL ENVIRONMENTAL
PROTECTION PROJECT
DATE:   7 NOVEMBER 1998/UPDATE ON 11 DECEMBER 1998
During the period from 14 September 1998 till 8 October 1998 I performed an institutional review
of the National Fund for Environmental Protection ("NFEP," "The Fund") and participated in
finalizing the financial management arrangements for the Rural Environmental Protection Project
("project"). The institutional review included review of the Fund's legal status and constitution,
principal objectives, organization and staffing, operations, financial performance and financial
standing as well as forecasts. The financial management arrangements for the project included
accounting systems, internal controls, budgeting, financial reporting, staffing as well as
independent auditing arrangements. The report below presents the major observations and
conclusions from the review.
1.   Summary conclusions
The objective of the review was to determine whether the project has in place an adequate financial
management system as required by the Bank under OPIBP 10.02. The review was based on the
Bank's guidelines for "Review of Financial Management System" and focused on the assessment
of the project's accounting system, internal controls, planning, budgeting and financial reporting
system, selection of an auditor as well as the format and contents of the Project Management
Report to be submitted by the borrower in support of withdrawal applications.
Based on the review, the project has in place a project financial management system that can
provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the project
required by the Bank.
Based on the discussions with the representatives of NFEP, the Fund is ready and is willing to
accept the financing from the Bank on LACI rules.
However, taking into account the time required to fully implement in NFEP the project's financial
reporting systems under LACI procedures, time required to strengthen internal control functions,
and potential practical problems of implementation of LACI in the early months of 1999, in order
41



to avoid possible delays (due to above factors) of the project it is recommended that the financing
in the first half of 1999 be based on SOE rules, and starting from July 1999 based on LACI. This
proposal has been suggested to NFEP and they in principle have agreed to it, provided that the
transition into LACI would take place no later than I July 1999. They have agreed that the
transition to LACI and the related dates should be included in the loan agreement. The issue has
been further explained in paragraph 3.8 below.
During the review a number of inadequacies in the system have been identified but they are not
serious enough to withhold a certification of compliance of the borrower with the Bank's
requirements. These weaknesses have been described in detail in the report.
2.   Institutional review of the Fund
2.1  Legal status and constitution
NFEP was established on 1 July 1989 based on the Act on Environmental Protection dated 27 April
1989 ("Act"). NFEP was established by a merger of two funds: Environmental Protection Fund and
Water Management Fund. As the Act granted the Fund a legal entity status it has not been
registered in the Court Commercial Registrar of Companies. The Fund's activities are governed by
the following legal acts: Water Law Act, Geological and Mining Law Act and Environmental
Protection Law.
2.2  Principal objectives
NFEP's mission is to execute tasks resulting from the government's environmental protection
policy. These tasks have been defined in the Government Ecological Policy Executive Plan till the
year 2000. The objectives are to improve environmental conditions through direct financing of
specific projects as well as to establish solid foundations for future environmental protection and
development by financing and providing technical assistance to environmental protection projects.
2.3  Organization and staffing
The principal governing bodies of NFEP are the General Assembly of Shareholders, the
Supervisory Board and the Management Board. The Management Board consists of four members
and the chairman. Each of the four members of the Management Board is responsible for the
following departments:
* accounting and administration,
* finance, loan control and settlements as well as electronic data processing,
* environmental protection, research and development,
* international cooperation, capital investments and water protection.
The Chairman of the Board, Mrs. Maria Zajaczkowska, is responsible for strategic planning, legal
department, internal control section, human resources and training departmnent.
2.4  Operations
42



NFEP's activities concentrate on various forms of financial and technical assistance to projects
related to environmental protection and water management. NFEP can finance environmental
projects in the following forms:
* Donations
*  Preferential loans
*  Subsidies to loans
*  Capital investments.
The principal form of financing environmental protection projects is through loans issued at
preferential terms. The preferential terms may take the form of low interest rates, an extended grace
period of repayment or partial write-off of the principal amount of the loan. Donations constitute
another form of financing. They are granted to budget entities and other public organizations to
finance monitoring and education on environmental protection. Subsidies for preferential loans
issued by the Bank for environmental protection cover the difference between the market
commercial interest rate and the preferential interest rate offered by NFEP. The Fund facilitates
financing environmental protection projects also through capital investments. It is a shareholder of
a number of commercial enterprises operating in the sector of environmental protection.
2.5  Financial performance and financial standing
The income statements for the years 1995, 1996, 1997 present a steady increase in profits, both in
zloty terms and in US$ terms, from 185 million zloty or US$75 million in 1995 to 250 million
zloty or US$80 million in 1997. When analyzing the numbers one has to take into account the fact
that the annual audited accounts are significantly distorted by transactions, which are reserve
accounted for in the balance sheet and not taken to income statements first. A better picture of the
financial performance and the financial standing could probably be obtained by analyzing the
increase in net assets value. This has increased from 1,765 million zloty or US$715 million in 1995
to 2,973 million zloty or US$846 million in 1997.
In order to present an impact of the transactions accounted for in the balance sheet instead of the
income statements, the accounts prepared for the period from 1 January 1998 till 31 August 1998
have been adjusted. As a result of these adjustments the profit for the period more than doubled
from 148 million zloty or US$44 million to 305 million zloty or US$90 million. The adjustments
include an increase in provision for doubtful debts in the amount of 237 million zloty or US$70
million, which to a large extent relates to the period before 1 January 1998. To the extent this
provision relates to the periods before 1 January 1998, the profit for the period from 1 January
1998 till 31 August 1998 would be greater. The financial data indicate a stable and sound financial
condition of NFEP in the period from 1995 till the end of the period under investigation.
2.6    Financial reporting
The accounting system currently used by NFEP enables timely weekly and monthly reporting
within ten days after the end of each month. The current reporting system includes weekly
reporting to the Management Board. It contains very basic information about the balance sheet and
the cash position of NFEP. The information it contains can hardly be regarded as an appropriate
43



basis for any decision-making process. The information required by the Management Board for
decision making is usually produced on an ad-hoc basis.
3.   Financial management arrangements for the Project
I have reviewed the financial management system relating to this project. The objective of the
review was to determine whether the project has in place an adequate financial management system
as required by the Bank/IDA under OP/BP 10.02.
My review, which included visits to the project implementing NFEP, was based on the Bank's
guidelines for "Review of Financial Management System." It focused on the assessment of the
project's accounting system, internal controls, planning, budgeting and financial reporting system,
selection of an auditor as well as the format and contents of the Project Monitoring Report (PMR)
to be submitted by the borrower.
Based on my review, I am of the opinion that the project is in the process of establishing a financial
management system that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information
on the financial status of the project as required by the Bank/IDA. The following actions need to be
completed before the financial management system can be considered as adequate and satisfactory:
*  The foreign department and the PIU itself should be included in the scope of investigation of
the internal control function and overall, the internal audit function has to be strengthened by
employing more personnel with appropriate skills and experience.
*  Design and implementation of a satisfactory computerized financial reporting system, as
proposed in appendices to this report, must be completed.
I have detailed below in this report a summary of the proposed financial arrangements.
3.1  Summary statement for Project Financial Management
Financial management arrangements for the project are detailed in paragraphs 3.1 to 3.8 and are
summarized below. The project financial management system ("FMS") conforming to the Loan
Administration Change Initiative ("LACI") benchmarks is being established and could be ready
before commencement of the project. The FMS will cover the following aspects:
* Flow of funds
*  Accounting system and internal control mechanisms
*  Chart of accounts
*  Financial reporting (including formats of financial management reports)
*  Auditing arrangements
*  Budgeting
*  Organization and staffing for financial management functions.
44



Disbursements under the project would be made using LACI procedures. Disbursements would be
made based on quarterly project management reports. The financial management reports would be
generated from the FMS. Actions which need to be completed are listed below:
a)    Appointment of the Chief Financial Officer by March 31, 1999
b)    Appointment of Accounting Assistant by April 30,1999
c)    Completion of the development of the computerized accounting system by June 30, 1999
d)    Completion of testing of the computerized accounting software by July 31, 1999
e)    Commencement of use of the computerized accounting system by the PIU by August 15,
1999
f)    Shortlist of Auditors prepared by March 31, 1999.
3.1  Accounting for the Project
NFEP has a history of successful implementation of a number of projects financed by different
international parties, including the IBRD. It currently manages a few projects, financed by PHARE,
Finnish grants and EPA. It has also successfully implemented an IBRD project in the past. The
experience in managing the projects combined with reasonably well organized controls and
experienced staff indicates that NFEP is adequate to meet the financial requirements to implement
the project.
PROJECTACCOUNTING SYSTEM
NFEP would be responsible for overall project financial management and accounting. NFEP would
maintain books of accounts for the project, prepare and disseminate financial statements and
financial management reports, and ensure timely audit of the financial statements. The overall
principles for project accounting are outlined below:
* Books of accounts for the project would be maintained by NFEP on double-entry bookkeeping
principles. Project accounts would be maintained using the computerized accounting system
that has been presented under a separate heading below. The computerized system is a
networked system connecting all departments in NFEP.
* Project accounting would cover all sources of project funds (including beneficiary
contributions) and all utilization of project funds. This would include payments made to and
expenditures incurred by NFEP. All project-related transactions (whether involving cash or
not) would be accounted for in the books of accounts in accordance with the accrual concept of
accounting. It would also include contributions-in-kind made by the beneficiaries.
Disbursements made by the World Bank and the Special Account would also be included in the
project accounting system. Funds received from different sources-World Bank and
beneficiaries-would be identified separately and reflected in the project accounts and
financial statements.
* Project related transactions and activities would be recorded in separate and independent
accounts. An identifiable Trial Balance for the project capturing all project-related receipts,
expenditures, and other payments under the project would be prepared. This distinction would
be effected at data-capture stage. A chart of accounts for the project has been prepared. The
chart of accounts conforms to the classification of expenditures and sources of funds indicated
in the project documents (Project Appraisal Document). The chart of accounts enables data to
be captured in a manner as to facilitate financial reporting of project expenditures by project
components, expenditure categories, disbursement categories and financing parties.
45



*  Project financial statements would be fully prepared based on the project books of accounts.
All financial management information system reports would also be generated from the
financial accounting system.
COMPUTER SOFTWARE
NFEP currently uses Polish accounting software, "Celand." The software was designed in 1992 and
each year an updated version of the software is prepared and installed in the Fund. The system
maintains ledger accounts, books of prime entries, memorandum accounts and is sufficiently
flexible to set up different main and sub accounts and different financial reports.
The software is not capable to handle the "Year 2000 problem". Based on information from the
chief accountant next year the software company will produce an updated version in which this
problem will be eliminated. Taking into account generally a minor awareness of the significance of
the problem in Poland this issue should be watched closely in the future as a part of the ongoing
process of monitoring the financial performance of the borrower.
The software can maintain multi-currency ledgers appropriate for the accounting for the project. It
is recommended that project accounting be maintained in the software currently used by NFEP and
that it form a part of the accounting system of NFEP. The accounts can be opened in the system
both in Polish and English. Any reports can easily be defined in the software. This can facilitate an
automatic production of the reports in the format required for the project.
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS
Details of the project costs by major category and by each financing party are presented below (all
amounts in US$ million)
IBRD  GEF  NEFCO  PHARE  NFEP    LOCAL             FARMERS  TOTAL
GOVERN-
_____        ~MENT      _ _ _ _       _  _
COMPONENT 1
FARM ENViRONMENTAL
IMPROVEMENTS                       _
L1T                          0.46                                       0.50                 0.96
Farm env. hnvestments        0.13  3.00    1.00      3.7                            3.35    11.18
Farm env. Equipment          0.40                                                   0.41     0.81
Recurrent costs              0.47                                       0.19        0.25     0.91
Subtotalfor Component I      1.46  3.00    1.00      3.7                0.69        4.01    13.86
COMPONENT 2
OUTREACH AND MANAGEMENT
Public awareness             0.32                          0.09                              0.41
Project monitoring           0.38                          0.06         0.04                 0.48
Replication strategy         0.09                          0.02                              0.11
Project management           0.24                          0.22                              0.46
Recurrent costs                                            0.50         0.01                 0.51
Subtotalfor Component 2      1.03                          0.89         0.05                  1.97
TOTAL FUNDS                  2.49  3.00    1.00      3.7   0.89         0.74        4.01     15.8
Flow of funds
46



There will have to be separate bank accounts opened for each financing party, including Special
Accounts in a reputable local bank, acceptable by all financing parties. Separate bank accounts will
facilitate tracking inflows of funds and expenditures from contributions provided by the individual
financiers. The timing of flows of funds from individual financiers has been presented in the table
below.
47



|   Year 1999        Year 2000        Year 2001       Year 2002        TOTAL
Component 1
IBRD disbursements                         0.181             0.391           0.428           0.460            1.461
GEF disbursements                                                            1.181            1.819           3.000
NEFCO disbursements                                                          1.000                            1.000
EU disbursements                                             2.769           0.931                            3.700
NFEP contribution
National and Local Government               0.052            0.241           0.243            0.139           0.684
Fanners contribution                                         1.376           1.592            1.036           4.004
Subtotal                                    0.233            4.786           5.375            3.455           13.849
Component 2
liBRD disbursements                        0.044             0.514           0.399           0.071            1.028
GEF disbursements
NEFCO disbursements
EU disbursements
NFEP contribution                           0.191            0.346           0.317            0.041           0.896
National and Local Government               0.002            0.037           0.009            0.009           0.057
Farmers contribution
Subtotalfor Component 2                       0.238            0.897           0.725            0.121           1.981
Total
IsRD disbursements                         0.226             0.905           0.827           0.531            2.489
GEF disbursements                                                            1.181            1.819           3.000
NEFCO disbursements                                                          1.000                            1.000
EU disbursements                                             2.769           0.931                            3.700
NFEP contribution                           0.191            0.346           0.317            0.041           0.896
National and Local Government              0.054             0.288           0.252           0.147            0.741
Fanners contribution                       0.000             1.376           1.592            1.036           4.004
TOTAL FUNDS                                  0.471             5.684           6.099           3.575           15.830
Based on the information in the table above in the first year of the project, 48 percent of total funds
will be provided by IBRD. In the year 2000, 49 percent of total project costs will be incurred with
EU being the principal financing party in that year, providing half of total funds required. In the
year 2001, 38 percent of total project costs will be incurred. In the year 2002, 23 percent of total
project costs will be incurred.
IBRD. GEF, NEFCO and EU financing will be provided through direct transfer of funds into the
bank accounts opened specifically for each financing party. NFEP, farmers as well as the
government will provide their share of financing through contributions-in-kind or by paying the
costs of the project directly from their own bank accounts. These contributions will be closely
recorded and monitored by the accounting system of the project.
Disbursements of Funds
Disbursement of funds provided by the World Bank, GEF and NEFCO will be made by transfers
into a bank account held with a reputable local bank, acceptable to the financiers. The transfers of
IBRD/GEF funds will be done on semi-annually on the basis of Project Management Reports
following LACI procedures.
Disbursement of funds from EU will have to follow EU procedures and their requirements for
financial reporting.
48



3.2    Arrangements for the Project at the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) level and
Local Implementation Teams (LIT) level
PIU level
* PIU responsibilities would include organization of the project, supervision of LITs, review and
approval of the agreements with the suppliers and farmers, accounting and settlement of
payments of the project.
* PIU costs to a large extent would be financed by the Fund. No separate bank account would be
required to record disbursements of funds by NFEP for the project. To enable an easier form of
accounting and to have better control, it would be desirable for NFEP to provide the project
with dated debit notes and monthly statements showing the amounts charged. This system
should be followed for staffing and for equipment purchases. As regards NFEP's share of
financing of consultancies and studies, the amounts due should be paid in as cash contributions
in the years in which they are due.
* PIU would consist partly of employees of NFEP. Those employees would be delegated by the
Fund to work in the PIU for a specific period of time.
* The basis for PIU use of premises and equipment of the Fund, including rooms, telephones,
photocopier machines should be agreed in writing before the commencement of the project.
The decision should be made whether any of these costs would constitute the NFEP's
contributions to the costs of the project. Any agreements in respect of these issues should be
written down in order to avoid later discussions.
* The equipment purchased by PIU for the project would become the property of NFEP at the
end of the project. This should be agreed and written down in order to avoid later questions
about ownership rights. In exchange the Fund could be obliged to bear insurance and
maintenance costs of the equipment. Such an arrangement could lower the costs of the project.
* Other details of the relationship between NFEP and the PIU to be agreed at negotiations
include: the seconding of NFEP staff for full or part-time PIU work; the participation of some
NFEP staff in a supervisory capacity; the provision of infrastructure facilities by NFEP for the
PIU; and the basis of charging the project for any of the above aspects.
LIT level
* LITs would have separate sub accounts in the accounting system of the project. All
documentation and invoices relating to LITs would have to be placed with the PIU. Each LIT
would forrn a part of the accounting system of the project.
*  People in LITs should be employed on the basis of "special order contract"(umowa zlecenie) as
it could save social security costs related to employment contracts. Alternatively, an
employment contract for a defined period should be considered.
* Remuneration costs should be paid out of grant financing because in such a case they would
constitute tax-exempt remuneration for the employees. This could again lead to substantial cost
savings as the basis for negotiations with the employees would be the net amount of their
salaries.
49



*  No bank accounts would be opened for individual LITs as it would increase banking and
monitoring costs as well as significantly increasing the risk of misappropriation of assets.
*  Costs incurred by LITs could be divided into two categories: salaries of the employees and
other employee related costs. Salaries should be paid by PIU with direct transfers into
individual bank accounts at the end of the month. Other costs incurred by LITs would have to
be either advanced on a monthly basis to the head of LIT (i.e. travel costs, daily allowances,
etc.) or reimbursed subsequently (i.e. mileage) by the PIU after inspection of the legitimacy of
the costs incurred. The head of the PIU would have to settle the advance from the previous
month and get approval from PIU in order to obtain the advance for the following month. The
risks of advancing a lump sum to the head of LIT could be mitigated by limiting the maximum
amount outstanding to zloty equivalent of US$1,000. More expensive items would either have
to be reimbursed subsequent to control by the PIU (mileage) or they would have to be invoiced
to the PIU and paid via bank transfer.
*  The problem of evaluation of the contribution by the farmer could be resolved by the
involvement of outside experts. The protocol should be prepared including the name of the
farmer, timing and description of the work performed by the farmer, then a gmina construction
supervision inspector should assess the value of that work based upon standard rates used in
the construction sector locally. The protocol should be signed by the technical expert, by the
farmer and by the representative of LIT and approved by the PIU.
3.3    Project financial reporting
Under the project NFEP will be required to implement an extensive financial reporting system in
order to accurately and timely monitor information regarding project resources and expenditures.
The formats of the financial reporting system for the project are included in the operational
handbook. The reports will have to be prepared by the CFO of the project on a quarterly basis and
they will have to be sent to the World Bank by the end of month following the end of the relevant
quarter.
3.4   Internal controls
The review of internal controls concentrated on organizational risks of NFEP. It did not cover
country risks. The organizational review concentrated on the assessment of skills and experience of
accounting staff, clear delegation and segregation of duties, authorization and processing
procedures with particular emphasis on cash and bank accounts' reconciliation, planning and
budgeting as well as financial reporting and the internal audit function.
The following weaknesses have been noted in the report issued by Mr. K. Arichandran on Financial
Management Review dated 18 September 1998:
* Accounting treatment of the projects administered by NFEP in the past
*  Unrestricted access to the accounting records
*  Back-up procedures of computer files
*  Processing of bank payment order requests.
50



The above issues have been further investigated during the appraisal phase and the following
conclusions have been drawn:
*  It has been determined during the appraisal mission that NFEP will not at any stage become a
legal owner of assets financed by the funds of the project, i.e. expenditure will not be
capitalized as assets in the balance sheet. This means that all information concerning the
expenditure related to the project should be properly recorded in appropriate headings of the
Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds in a manner facilitating an easy audit trail.
* Currently all accounting staff have unrestricted access to information in accounting software.
This may impose a risk of leakage of confidential information and unauthorized change in the
accounts by an unauthorized person. The recommendation is to differentiate between the
accounting staff to provide access only to the information required to perform their daily
duties.
*  The back-up procedures have been discussed with the head of the EDP (Electronic Data
Processing) department. Every night a copy of all files is made and placed in a safe. A copy
from each Friday is secured till the end of the year. The copy from the last day of each month
is kept for 5 years. These copies are kept in a banking safe. Data from the last day of the year
are recorded on CD and they are kept in a safe. The basic rule is that none of the employees is
allowed to record any information on the hard disk of his computer. All information should be
recorded into the computer network. There is a two level password protection. There are
individual passwords of access to the computer network. Then each user has a password to his
files. All password are changed every six weeks. Generally the back-up and security
procedures can be regarded as appropriate.
*  NFEP processes basically all of its payment transactions through bank transfers. In the current
system five signatures are required on the payment request order, accounting entries are made
when the payment request orders are retumed from the bank stamped and blank payment
request orders are not pre-numbered. These practices followed by NFEP generally could be
regarded as weaknesses as they could be perceived as either over-controlled (too many
signatures), under-controlled (lack of pre-numbering of payment orders) or bad practices
(recording of payment request upon their receipt from a bank). However as they follow the
normal Polish standards and the PIU has indicated that they would feel uncomfortable to
implement changes, taking into account the limited risk involved, the recommendation is to
leave them in place in their current form.
3.5    Staffing
The assessment of staffing requirements should determine whether the personnel proposed for the
PIU have appropriate skills and experience sufficient to perform effectively the tasks envisaged in
the project. The current proposal envisages the employment of six people, including: a Project
Director ("PD"), an Assistant to PD, a Chief Engineer, a Chief Financial Officer, a procurement
specialist and an environmental specialist. As far as accounting staffing is concerned, Mr. Pawel
Witkowski has been identified as a candidate for Chief Financial Officer. Based on the intensive
two week contact with him one can conclude that he possesses sound credentials and an
appropriate number of years experience in accounting of similar projects. He is also experienced in
producing financial reports for projects financed by international institutions. The project would
nevertheless mean a challenge to him because of the complexity of accounting resulting from a
large number of co-financing parties. Taking into account the volume of work to be involved in the
financial part of the project and additional tasks related to inspection of large volume of LITs costs
51



there would seem to be a need to employ a second officer to assist the CFO. A problem of
appropriate segregation of duties may arise as substantially all of the financial aspects of the project
would be concentrated in the hands of the CFO. This issue however could probably not be resolved
by employing a second officer assisting the CFO as he would still be reporting to the CFO. It
would neither be resolved by employing an assistant to the Project Director who occasionally helps
the CFO as by nature that assistant would not be able to exercise any control over the CFO. The
issue of a segregation of duties in this respect is inherent to any small organization with a limited
number of staff and it could only be resolved by proposing a different structure of the team, i.e. the
CFO and two financial officers underneath him or an independent controller reporting directly to
the Project Director. This proposal in turn would mean more administrative overhead costs for the
project. As usual the incremental costs would have to be measured against incremental benefits in
the form of better control.
My recommendation would be that at the beginning of the project an assistant to the CFO should
be employed for a defined period of time, say three or six months. The assistant would help with all
the preparatory work at the initial stage of the project. If during that time the project develops well
and the related work burden increases then a contract with the assistant officer should be extended.
If after the period of those few months there seems to be no need for such a person, then the
contract is not extended. Such a solution would minimize the costs of solving the issue of
assistance to the CFO.
The issue of segregation of duties should be resolved by overall control of the project by the
Project Director, an intemal audit control function within NFEP, external auditors and periodic
inspections by the financing parties of the project.
3.6  External audit
NFEP is subject to audits of various external entities, including the Supreme Chamber of
Supervision and Parliamentary commissions, statutory annual audits of the financial statements and
ongoing supervision of the internal audit division. The audits of the financial statements in the
previous years were completed within three months after the end of the year, for example the audit
report for 1997 was issued on 14 March 1998. Statutory annual audits of the financial statements in
the last few years have been performed by a Polish auditing firm. One of the "big five" firms,
KPMG has been appointed as NFEP's auditor for 1998. Appointment of KPMG may indicate a
greater awareness of the Fund's governing bodies about a better quality audit. Their scope of
engagement covers an audit of the annual financial statements under Polish accounting standards
and preparation of a statutory audit report. The scope of the audit does not cover specifically the
project' accounts. They will be audited as part of the accounting system of NFEP but only to the
extent the auditor would consider them material to the consolidated accounts of NFEP or the
auditor would raise suspicions about the possibility of a fraud in those accounts.
Consequently, although employment of KPMG should increase the value of the financial
information about the borrower, it would probably have limited use to those parties particularly
interested in the project's accounts. Terms of reference for the external auditors are presented in the
operational handbook.
3.7   Internal audit
The internal audit function within NFEP is currently rather weak. At present, an internal audit
section with only one employee reports directly to the Chairman of the Management Board. NFEP
plans to strengthen internal audit functions by employing more qualified staff. This issue has been
52



discussed with the chief accountant of NFEP, Mr. Gajos. NFEP has agreed with the
recommendation. The importance of strengthening the internal audit function, and controlling
every department and all activities of NFEP should be stressed to the President of NFEP, as she is
in charge of the internal audit department. The scope of supervision should be increased by
including the activities of the foreign department as well as the PIU. The following areas should be
covered in particular: the adequacy and effectiveness of the systems, procedures and related
internal controls, the effectiveness and efficiency of the various operations of the project, the
compliance with the Loan/Grant related agreements and Government or institutional policies and
regulations, accounting for the safeguarding and resources of the project.
3.8    Recommendations
The more important recommendations presented extensively above in the report have been listed
below with the suggested actions to be followed in order to implement them.
(i)   It is recommended that in the period till the end of June 1999 the financing of the project
take place on SOE rules. During the first few months of 1999 the full financial, physical
and monitoring reporting system under LACI rules would be developed in NFEP with the
help of the external financial consultant from the World Bank, as suggested by Julia
Bucknall and welcomed by NFEP. During that time NFEP would be able to strengthen its
internal control function by setting up a department and employing appropriate staff. It is
important that the transition to LACI type financing take place no later than July 1999.
Taking into account a large number of small value invoices in the period from
August/September 1999 and the administrative work involved, continuing with the old
SOE type financing in the second half of 1999 would not guarantee timely payments of
those invoices. It would also increase the workload in the World Bank associated with
verification of those small value invoices.
(ii)    An internal audit function should be strengthened in NFEP and the foreign department and
the PIU itself should be included in the scope of internal control. The issue has been
presented in paragraph 3.7 above. The discussion with the chief accountant suggests that
some progress has been made in this respect. A new Team for Controlling and Budgeting
has been established and it is under the process of organization. However, NFEP has not to
date succeeded in employing additional staff experienced in internal audit. It is very
difficult to estimate the time required to establish a strong internal audit function in NFEP,
primarily due to lack of appropriately skilled and experienced personnel, but reasonably
one could expect that the process of hiring staff and organization of an department should
be completed by June 1999.
(iii)   Considering the current weak reporting systems existing in NFEP, implementation of
Project Financial Reporting Completion may prove to be difficult for the CFO of the
project. This task should therefore be discussed with the CFO and if necessary additional
help and/or review of the work done should be performed in order to avoid later
complications. The suggestion from Julia Bucknall about additional help in this respect
from the World Bank's consultant in February 1999 has been welcomed by the
representatives of NFEP.
(iv)   As explained in detail in paragraph 3.2 above a number of specific arrangements on the
PIU and LIT level should be implemented in order to reduce the expenditure related to
project management.
53



(v)    As detailed in paragraph 3.1 above the issue of non-compliance of the current computer
system with the year 2000 exists. Although the management is aware of the problem and
claims it will be resolved in 1999 by replacing the current version of the software with a
new one by the same supplier, this issue should be closely monitored. The accounting
system for the project forms an integral part of the computer system of NFEP and any
failure in it would have a significant impact on the reporting of the project.
54



Report on the Assessment of Project
For PMR-Based Disbursement
Project Title: Republic of Poland - Rural Environment Protection Project
Project ID: PL-PE-50660 and PL-PE-59613
Part I- Financial Management System:
I have reviewed the preparation for financial management system relating to this project.
The objective of the. review was to determine whether the project has in place an adequate
financial management system as required by the Bank/IDA under OP/BP 10.02.
My review, which included reviewing the reports of consultants on preparation of the
project implementation agency, and discussions with the project team leader, was based on
the Bank's guidelines for "Reviewing of Financial Management System" and focused on
the assessment of the steps being taken to establish and implement the project's accounting
system, internal control, planning, budgeting and financial reporting system, selection of
auditor as well as the format and contents of the Project Management Reports (PMRs) to
be submitted by the Borrower in support of Withdrawal Applications.
I confirm that the project satisfies the Bank's mininum financial management
requirements. However, in my opinion, the project does not yet have in place an adequate
project financial management system that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate
and timely information on the status of the project (PMRs) required by the Bank/IDA,
although steps are being taken to introduce such a system during the first year of the
project by implementing the actions recommended in the consultants report.
Signed by:
FPnia 'Management Specialist
Ramendra Basu, TFC
December 10, 1998



Part I - Procurement/Contract Mangement Syst
This project was apprascd before the requirement to uiidertake Procurement Capacity Assessment,
The Project Procurement Specialist wiJl conduct such an assessmnent before the project is approved
for conversion to P?R based disbursements under the LACI guidelines
sPurt l -Phvsicatoninorable Indicators and Overall Assessment
This will be complcced before the project is approved for conversion to PMR based disburscremns
under the LACI guidelinet,
par: IV- Concurrence of LOA for Elirfbilwyr of Proer forE F-ased Disbursements
I have conducted a reasonableness review of te proces followed by the task team in assessing the
project, and I concur with its recornmendation that this project is not yet eligible for PMR-based
disbursements. Final eligibility will be dtermined when the borrower has completed the steps
outlined in the artched Financial Management Review.
Joseph Formoso, Senior Disbursement Officer
December 18, 1998
.~ '5



ANNEX 8
POLAND: RURAL ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
PROJECT PROCESSING BUDGET AND SCHEDULE
A. Project Budget (US$000)                     Planned                  Actual
(At final PCD stage)
GEF and IBRD spent to Dec. 1998                                        $206,000
B. Project Schedule                            Planned                  Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project              19                         29
(months)
First Bank mission (identification)            06/1997                 06/1997
Appraisal mission departure                    10/1998                10/05/1998
Negotiations                                   11/1998                02/02/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  02/1999                 12/15/99
Prepared by: NFEP
Preparation assistance: EU (Phare) for the technical and financial assessment; USDA and USEPA
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Specialty
Julia Bucknall                           Task Team Leader
Jorge Barrientos                     Senior Operational Specialist
Ramendra Basu                      Financial Management Specialist
Phil Brylski                         Environmental Reviewer
Michele de Nevers                      Sector Leader, Environment
Joseph Formoso                        Senior Disbursement Officer
Tony Garvey                 Water Resources Specialist and Peer Reviewer
Katherin Golitzen                          Projects Assistant
Naushad Khan                           Procurement Specialist
Zoe Kolovou                                  Lawyer
Srish Kumar                         Economist/Financial Analyst
Barbara Letachowicz                      Environmental Engineer
Stephen Lintner                    Principal Environmental Specialist
Alexandre Marc                   Social Fund Expert and Peer Reviewer
Dinah McLeod                            Social Fund Specialist
Milena Messori                        Deputy Task Team Leader
Norval Stanley Peabody                         Social Scientist
Kamal Siblini                             MIS Specialist
57



ANNEX 9
POLAND: RURAL ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE*
A. Operational Handbook
Armenian Social Investment Fund, Operational Manual, February 1997.
Farm Waste Storage: Guidelines for Construction. CIRIA, London. Report 126, 1992.
Marcinkowski, Kajetan. Opinion - Review of five sets of technical documentation
consisting on engineering detail design and implementation guidelines of storage tanks
for liquid animal wastes, with focus on issue of farmer's participation in implementation
works.
Milton and O'Loughlin, Report on the Farm Management Plan, September 1998.
Moldova Social Investment Fund, Operational Manual, December 1998.
Rae, Kathryn. Report on On-lending to Farmers, April 1998.
Romania Social Investment Fund, Operational Manual, October 1998.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Hertzman, Clyde. "Environment and Health in Central and Eastern Europe." A Report for
the Environment Action Program for Central and Eastem Europe. 1995.
Poland - Country Procurement Assessment Report, March 15, 1996, The World Bank.
Poland - Environment Management Project, Implementation Completion Report, May 30,
1997 (Report No. 16640), The World Bank.
C. Other
Convention on the Protection of the Marine Environment of the Baltic Sea Area, 1974 and
1992 (Helsinki Convention).
Cork Declaration - A living countryside. The European Conference on Rural Development,
November 1996.
Council Directive (91/676/EEC of 12 December 1991) concerning the Protection of Waters
against Pollution caused by Nitrates from Agricultural Sources.
Council Regulation (EEC) No 2078/92 of 30 June 1992 on Agricultural Production
Methods Compatible with the Requirements of the Protection of the Environment and the
Maintenance of the Countryside.
Draft "Framework Directive for Community Action in the Field of Water Policy."
Logfren, Stefan et al. "Model Analysis of Environmental Impact from Two Hypothetical
Agricultural Production Systems in Sweden, Denmark and Lithuania in the Years 2010
and 2030", Baltic 21 - Agriculture. Swedish Institute of Agricultural Engineering, 1998.
Polish draft legislation for the use of fertilizers.
58



ANNEX 10
POLAND: RURAL ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
STATEMENT OF LOANS AND CREDITS
Original Amount in US$ Millions
Fiscal
Project ID    Year                 Borrower                            Purpose
IBRD         IDA               Cancel.         Undisb.
PL-PE-8582       1991   REPUBLIC OF POLAND                 EMPLOYMENT PROMOTION                       100.00            0.00              20.00            5.38
PL-PE-8576       1991   DISTRICT HEATING ENTITY            HEAT SUPPLY RESTRUCT                       285.00            0.00              82.50           12.10
PL-PE-8571       1991   REPUBLIC OF POLAND                 PRIVATIZN & RESTRUCT                       280.00            0.00              47 .28          63.75
PL-PE-8599       1993   REPUBLIC OF POLAND                 ROADS                                      150.00             0.00              0.00            2.00
PL-PE-8610       1994   GOVT. OF POLAND                    FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT                       146.00            0.00              42.00            2.46
PL-PE-8614       1995   KATOWICE DISTRICT HEATING          KATOWICE HEAT SUPPLY                        45.00            0.00               0.00           24.44
PL-PE-8604       1996   POLISH POWER GRID CO               POWER TRANSMISSION                         160.00            0.00               0.00           96.93
PL-PE-8595       1996   BIELSKO-BIALA AQUA S.A.            BIELSKO-BIALA WATER                         21.50            0.00               0.00           11.79
PL-PE-36061      1997   GOVERNMENT OF POLAND               PORT ACCESS & MGMT.                         67.00            0.00               0.00           50.64
PL-PE-53796      1998   GOVT. OF POLAND                    FLOOD EMERGENCY                            200.00            0.00               0.00          160.51
PL-PE-35082      1998   BISE AND PBK                       MUNICIPAL FINANCE                           22.00             0.00              0.00           19.86
PL-PE-8593       1998   MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT              ROADS II                                   300.00            0.00               0.00          285.63
PL-PE-57957      1999   GOVERNMENT OF POLAND               HARD COAL SECAL                            300.00            0.00               0.00          291.13
PL-PE-55988      1999   GOVERNMENT OF POLAND               WHOLESALE MKT. II                           11.12             0.00              0.00           10.63
PL-PE-8616       1999   POMORSKIE HURTOWE CENTRUM          WHLSLE MARKETS PRJ I                        15.90             0.00              0.00            7.17
Total                                                                                               2,103.52             0.00            191.78        1,044.42
Active Projects        Closed  Projects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                   829.39             2,038.56            2,867.95
of which has been repaid:                  148.20               509.60               657.80
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                 1,763.54             1,582.39             3,345.93
Amount sold                       :                 0.00                 0.00                 0.00
Of which repaid                :                 0.00                 0.00                 0.00
Total Undisbursed                 :             1,044.42                53.43             1,097.85
59



ANNEX 11
POLAND RURAL ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
COUNTRY AT A GLANCE
Europe &    Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Central  middle-
Poland       Asia  income       Development diamond'
1998 
Population, mid-year (millions)                       38.7       473       588   j             Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas nethod, USS)                   3 900     2,190     4,880
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                     150.9     1,039     2,862   |
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population (%)                                         0.1       0.1       1.4
Labor force (%)                                        0.8       0.8       2.0     GNP                              Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1992-98)                              capera                       enrollment
Poverty (% of populacion below national poverty line)  24
Urban population {% of total population)               65         68        77
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       73         69        70
Infant mortaiity (per 1,000 live births)               10         23        27
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                                       |           Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                                      79
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    0          4        11
Gross prmary enrollment (% ofschool-age populaU/on)    96        100       108             Poland
Male                                                 97        101                       Upper-middle-income group
Female                                               96         99             j
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987      1997      1998
Economic ratios'
GOP (USS billions)                            ..        ..    147.9    157.5
Gross domestic investment/GOP                                   24.7      27.0                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP                               25.7      20.7
Gross domestic savings/GDP                                      20.4      18.7
Gross national savingslGDP                                      20.4      22.6
Current account balance/GDP                                     -2.9      -4.4     Domestic                     Ivte
Interest payments/GDP                                            0.9       1.1        Stic                      Investment
Total debt/GOP                                                  27.0      30.5     Savings
Total debt service/exports                                       7.9
Present value of debt/GDP                                       24.2
Present value of debt/exports                                  110.7
|             indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98     1997      1998   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                          3.6       6.8       4.8       5.2               Poland
GNP per capita                               3.5       6.7       5.3       5.0               Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services               13.5      12.2       9.2       8.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987      1997      1998      Growth rates of output and investment 1%/f)
(% of GOP)                                                                         30 -
Agriculture                                              -        .6X
Industry                                                        37S                20 -
Manufacturing                                                  22.5               0          -
Services                                                        56.9             i  ___
Private consumption                                             63.5         -      -1    93   94   99   96   97   98
Generai government consumption                                  16.1         -GDl                            6  GDP
Imports of goods and services                                   30.0
(average annual growth)                  1977-87  1988-98       1997      1998     Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                           -1.0       0.6              30
Industry                                               4.4      10.8
Manufacturng                                                                     20.-
Services                                      ..         .
Private consumption                                    4.2       6.9       4.2
General government consumption                         2.6       3.5         -     2
Gross domestic investment                              8.9      20.8      14 1            93   94   95   96   97   95
Imports of goods and services                         18.8      21.4      17.9                   Exports    -Imports
Gross national product                                 3.7       6.8       5 4   1.
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Poland
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987       1997      1998    1 Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                           iT
Consumer prices                                            ..      14.9      11.8    40
Implicit GDP deflator                            ..        .       14.0      12.0 G   30t
Govemment finance                                                                      10 
(% of GOP, includes curent grants)                                                     0
Current revenue                                  *.        *       24.1      23.0              33    94    95    96    97   96
Current budget balance                           ..       ..       -1.0      -0.7                     GCP derlator    4CP
Overall surplus/deficit                           .        .       -2.7       -2.4                                               1
TRADE
(USS millions)                                1977     1987       1997       1998      Export and import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                               -              25,751    28,229    j       T
n.a.                                            ..00 ...T.                              
n.a.                                            ..       ..         ..             T 40000T000
n.a.
Manufactures                                   ..        ..    20,040    22,905      30,000
Total imports (cif)                               .        .    42.308    47,054       20l000 - 
Food                                            .        ..     2,894     2,968
Fuel and energy                                 .        .      3,710     2,964      10000
Capital goods                                   .        ..     6,485      7,3560
92   93  94  95  96  97  98
Export price index (1995=100)                    ..       ..        122       130
Import price index (1995=100)                    ..       ..        126       129                 3Expons       *lmports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                        ..       ..         97       101
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US5 millions)                                1977     1987       1997       1998      Current account balance to GOP ratio %)
Exports of goods and services                    ..       ..   30,953    33,799
Imports of goods and services                    ..       ..   41,968    48,028
Resource balance                                 ..       ..  -11,015   -14,229 
2-
Net income                                        .        ..      -458      -567
Net current transfers                            ..       ..      1,150     1,942      0
Current account balance                          ..       ..   -4,312    -6,858        -2 -     S    9             -
Financing items (net)                            ..       ..      7,902    12,566
Changes in net reserves                          ..       ..   -3,590    -5,708        61
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)           ..       ..   20,670    27,382
Conversion rate (DEC, local/USS)                  .        ..       3.2       3.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987       1997      1998
(USS millions)                                                                         Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed             ..  42,603      39,889    48.093
IBROD                                                    0      2,078     2,157                  3     A 2.157
IDA                                            ..        0          0         0                                  94
Total debt service                                     2,060      2,562         ..
IBRD                                           ..       0        297        321
IDA                                            ..       0           0         0
Com^^sition of net resource flows
Official grants                                ..        0       431          ..F. te166
Official creditors                             ..    -232       -140                                                 E: 23,018
Private creditors                                    -246        934
Foreign direct investment                               12      4.908
Portfolio equity                               ..        0       945
World Bank program
Commitments                                    ..       0           0        20      A ICAR                        E - Gitateral
Commitments                        a          0        20    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B - IDA  D - Other mnuitilateral   F - Private
Disbursements                                  ..       0        239        153      c - IMF                       0- Short-term
Principal repayments                           ..        0       155        174
Net flows                                      ..        0        84        -21
Interest payments                              ..       0        142        147
Net transfers                                  ..       0         -58      -168
Development Economics                                                                                                     9i22/99
Includes unclassified transactions of $6.011 billion in 1997 and $5.996 billion in 1998.



Annex 12
Environmental Data Sheet
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA SHEET FOR PROJECrS
in the IBRD/IDA Lending Progam
Counay:             Poland                               Pojea D) No:   PL-PE50660
Project Name:       Rural Ewromneal Protection Project   Projea Co=    US$15.6
Appraisal Dame:     October 1998                         Task Team Leader Julia bkJl
Board Date:         Approval by RVP, March 1999          Sor           Evioimt
Managng Divisions:  ECSSD                                Stanza:
T =ding InSaVMxaW   Laning and Innovadon Loan (L
Dame (esm) for receipt of EA by Banl: NIA                De Assiped: i    /q 3
EA Category (AIBiC):    B
DawShked PreareVpdae  Aprid 6199
(Plesc do = leave am iuas bbin use 'NJA' or To be dcvc1oped' when appropnrzc)
Major forjea Coaypon-7= (pre descripion of proMjec caxpo-)
The proposed Project aims to increase the prevalence of environmentally responsible pracdces among
eligible farmers in target project areas. It includes two complementary components (a) Farm
Environmental Improvements; (b) Outreach and Management. The project will provide training and
technical assistance tQ help farmers develop an environmentally-sensitive farm management plan. It will
also provide partial financing for environmental investments consistent with that plan. The Project will
support Poland implement the provisions of the Convention on the Protection of the Marine Environment
of the Baltic Sea (Helsinki Convention), European Union Environmental Directives, especially the
Nitrates Directive (91/676/EEC), and national legislation concerning water quality.
Major womeliusa (dscrtbe mjor ouvimomienw use id&a=f or uqsectd inpojec)
None. The proposed project is focused on measures to promote improved environmental management in
nrual areas.
OherE,wzrvnnwgalI- (desaribes cnviron  is- of laser scope aoc4aud with projea)
The environmental issues concemn: (a) development and adoption of guidelines for design and siting of
manure pads and slurry tanks and for the use of their contents; and (d) development and adoption of
guidelines for the development of buffer strips.
PlopoeAcdow (describe aw proposed in miupma aruimXemai X iwe descrmib I prje)
The Operational Handbook for the proposed project will include technical environmental guidelines for
each of the major types of intervention. All civil works that the project will support will be subject to
review and approval by the local environmental authorities.
The project will train extension workers in preparation of site specific environmental reviews of
environmental rnanagement practices and improvements.
Each farm supported by the project will have help to prepare a farm management plan, which includes a
thorough review of environmental considerations, as part of the application procedues. Project
implementation will focus on the effectiveness of the environmental aspects of the fam management
plans, and this will also be a focus of the mid-term reviews, the replication strategy.and the ICR



2                              Annex 12
ifleIoI4tadcwEdJffrEodAi_ (Cam(rm= fer e2fonmrmA cazgz ,decra & rlazkm of aNW cbq ha inkmi 
The potential environmental impacts associated with the proposed project are limited in their scope and
can be effectively addressed by the use of environmentally sensitive guidelines.
Sa of Caqegy,A Em*'wNdA=aw   (pram EA swp-i da, EA &at drAft. ad amr= s=)
N/A
Ranuf*: (ja a(m of    avozi sim. U_Iw kx, osw bd  local kOe . N aMmwd tah wt_ bm,ia bIx g  pc32zawa
The proposed project is being prepared in cooperation with the National Fund for Environmental
Protection and Water Management; the Mnistry of Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and
Forestry; and the Ministry of Agricultmre and Food Economy. Local NGOs, including the Water Supply
Foundation of Poland, and the Foundation for the Development of Polish Agriculture, have been
consulted concerning the proposed project The United States Environmental Protecdon Agency
(USEPA), the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), and the Swedish Agicultural
University, who have all supported cooperative programs on rural environmental management in Poland,
have been actively involved in project prepamtion. This is a leaming and innovation loan that includes an
ongoing social assessment throughout project implementation to ensure that te project meets the needs
of farmers and ural communities and to suggest changes in project design and management over the
course of implementationL
Signal by:                                           Siged by:
6gram Team Leadee ECSRE                              Michek de Nevas, Envirm Soc=atdcr, ECSRE
da=



ANNEX 13
POLAND: RURAL ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
INCREMENTAL COST ANALYSIS
Global Environmental Goal
1.    The long-term goal of the project is to demonstrate effective mechanisms for improving
environmental practices in agriculture through a project designed to reduce nutrients entering the
Baltic Sea from agriculture in Poland. Project activities are directly linked to the implementation of
the Baltic Sea Joint Comprehensive Environmental Action Program which provides a framework
for regional cooperation for protection of this important international water body. GEF funding will
help remove institutional, financial and knowledge barriers that currently serve as disincentives to
farmer adoption of environmentally sustainable agricultural practices. The GEF alternative would
be US$21.2 million against a baseline without GEF support of US$18.2 million.
Context and Broad Development Goals
2.    Eutrophication. Eutrophication of international water bodies is a major environmental
problem in many parts of the world, including the Adriatic Sea, Baltic Sea and Black Sea. The
common symptoms of eutrophication, which is caused by over enrichment of water by nutrients,
are increased plant biomass in the form of algae, oxygen deficiency in water bodies, the formation
of hydrogen sulfide and remineralization of the biomass. These processes disrupt the balance of
freshwater, coastal and marine ecosystems and cause changes in their structure and function.
Excessive nutrient loads to the Baltic Sea affect the entire ecosystem; the work of the Helsinki
Commission has identified nitrogen as the substance of highest transboundary concern. Impacts
associated with eutrophication in Baltic coastal and marine waters have been a shift in the
composition of marine vegetation in many coastal areas, repeated large scale algal blooms,
disruption of reproductive cycles of some fish species, declines in some fish stocks and increases in
others. Summer algal blooms have periodically necessitated the closing of many bathing beaches
throughout the region with an adverse affect on their recreational use and tourist value.
3.    Important Role of Agriculture. Nutrient pollution from agriculture is a major cause of
this problem. The Helsinki Commission estimates that non-point source pollution from agriculture
contributes 30-40 percent of the current nitrogen, and 10 percent of the current phosphorus loading
entering the Baltic Sea, as well as pesticide residues. This issue is particularly relevant to Poland
because the country has approximately 40 percent of the agricultural land in the Baltic Sea drainage
basin and the largest rural population in the region. The main issues are improper storage and
application of animal waste, rather than excessive application of artificial fertilizers. Less than 10
percent of Poland's two million farms are thought to have adequate facilities for storing manure or
slurry. Reports prepared by the Helsinki Commission and the Polish Ministry of Environment have
identified the following Polish coastal areas as being most subject to impacts from eutrophication:
the Vistula Lagoon which is shared with the Russian Federation, the Gulf of Gdansk adjacent to the
mouth of the Vistula River, and the Odra Lagoon which is shared with Germany.
4.    A Major Challenge. Because agricultural pollution is caused by a large number of
dispersed sources and because the agricultural sector is traditionally conservative, the problem has
been particularly difficult to tackle in most countries. Establishing mechanisms to provide
incentives to farmers to change their agricultural practices and to make farm investments to control
non-point source pollution have proven to be difficult. This is because the benefits of these
63



activities are long-term and because the farmers themselves only reap part of the overall benefits of
their actions. This has been a particular problem in the countries in economic transition in the
eastern and southern portions of the Baltic Sea drainage basin where the restructuring of the
agricultural sector has needed to address a diversity of issues beyond environmental management.
The proposed project will test mechanisms for providing incentives to farmers and the level of
support required to develop effective actions that could be replicated elsewhere within Poland and
in other countries.
5.    Bank Strategy. The World Bank has an established commitment to support improved
environmental management in the Baltic Sea Region. Since 1990 it has worked closely with the
Helsinki Commission and the cooperating countries in the development and implementation of the
Baltic Sea Joint Comprehensive Environmental Action Program. In this context it has supported a
series of environmental projects to address priorities established under this strategic action program
in Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland and the Russian Federation. Consistent with this regional
approach, the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Poland includes a strategy for helping Poland
increase the focus on reducing pollution from non-point sources, and move towards compliance
with EU directives and international conventions and protocols in a cost-effective manner. To
address this issue, the Government of Poland is going to adopt legislation that will require farm
facilities to provide storage for liquid manure with a capacity of at least six months, and has
already supported several internationally financed pilot activities.
Baseline Scenario
6.    Agricultural Sector. Poland has a rural population of about 15 million, representing 40
percent of the whole population, with farmland covering about 65 percent of the total land area.
The agricultural sector provides 25 percent of the country's employment, although only 6 percent
of GDP. Unusual for an economy in transition, Poland has retained a large number of small family
farms, and still has 1.4 million farms with an average size of 12-15 hectares. Some areas of the
country, predominantly to the north and west, were farned as state farms, but 90 percent of this
land has since been privatized or leased out. Livestock accounts for 42 percent of Poland's
agricultural production, mostly cattle and pigs.
7.    Environmental Management. At the national level, Poland is committed to manage and
conserve its water resources and coastal zone, and in the nine years since transition to a market
economy has made significant progress through a sustained commitment to environment as an
integral element of its national priorities. The policy framework is strongly supportive of activities
to reduce pollution from agriculture, for three reasons:
•  Domestic policy. The 1990 National Environmental Strategy states an objective of
reducing pollution entering the Baltic Sea from Polish rivers by 80 percent by the year
2020. As part of this policy, Poland has prepared a draft law aiming to reduce non-point
source pollution that will, among other things, require farmers to invest in proper manure
and slurry storage.
*  European Union requirements. Much of the domestic policy agenda is currently driven by
Poland's need to move into compliance with EU environmental regulations, one of which
specifically addresses pollution from agriculture (the "Nitrates Directive"). In addition, the
64



European Union has published a draft "Framework Directive for Community Action in the
Field of Water Policy" which includes requirements for improving water quality.5
* Helsinki Convention. The 1992 "Baltic Sea Joint Comprehensive Environmental Action
Program" and the 1998 "Recommendations for Strengthening and Updating" of the
Program, which have been adopted by the Contracting Parties to the Helsinki Convention,
identify measures for the management of non-point source pollution from agriculture and
rural settlements as a top priority. For GEF purposes, these constitute the top priority
transboundary water problem in the Baltic. In addition, the proposed "Amendments to
Annex III of the Helsinki Convention Concerning Regulations on Prevention of Pollution
from Agriculture" are currently under review and are anticipated to be approved in March
1999.
8.    Recent Activities. Poland has had an ongoing interest in addressing non-point source
pollution from agriculture. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food Economy (MAFE), the Ministry
of Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry (MEP), and the National Fund for
Environmental Protection and Water Management (NFEP) have actively participated in a series of
recently completed demonstration projects which tested a wide range of technical, education and
investment activities directly with farmers in various parts of the country. These demonstration
activities have been successfully implemented and were designed to serve as the basis for
developing full-scale investment projects. They included the project "Promoting Environmentally
Friendly Agriculture on Individual Farms in the Bug-Narew Basin" supported by the European
Union (Phare) (ECUl.3 million); "Demonstration Farms and Advisory Service Project" supported
by the Baltic Agriculture Run-Off Action Program (BAAP) of Sweden (Phase I US$600,000); and
the "Agriculture and Water Quality Project" supported by the United States ($1,550,000). The
World Wide Fund for Nature also coordinated development of management plans for the Vistula
Lagoon and Odra Lagoon supported by the European Union (Life) and Sweden (US$500,000)
which address non-point source pollution measures for these sensitive areas. The Water Supply
Foundation, a major Polish nongovernmental organization, has also undertaken a small number of
field-based activities in this area with limited funding from domestic and international sources.
9.    Ongoing activities. Ongoing projects include the second phase of the BAAP project which
supports development of extension services for control of non-point source pollution
(US$400,000), the second phase of the management planning process for the Vistula Lagoon and
Odra Lagoon supported by Denmark and Sweden (US$400,000), and the project "Promoting
Sustainable Rural Development in Central and Eastern Europe" financed by the Netherlands
(US$1,500,000). In addition, a number of ongoing activities are being implemented with domestic
and international resources to strengthen the planning capacity of the Regional Water Management
Boards which have a strategic role in addressing non-point source pollution.
10.   Impact of the Odra River Flood. The severe economic and social impacts from the
catastrophic Odra River flood in the summer of 1997 have had broad ramifications for the
investment program of the Polish Government and many activities which were well prepared have
been either delayed or reduced in their scope. Support for investments for improved environmental
management has not been exempted from budget reallocations required for the massive
reconstruction effort in southwestern Poland. However, even under these constraints, the Polish
5 A recent study conducted in the upper Odra basin by Warsaw Technical University
concluded that, however much Poland spent on reducing pollution from point sources, it
would not be able to meet its current standards for water quality without addressing
pollution from non-point sources.
65



Government remains prepared to support development and implementation of a first phase project
to address non-point source pollution from agriculture which would provide the basis for a larger
country-wide project in the medium term. Given these serious short-term constraints, Poland has
adopted a strategy that focuses on provision of personnel drawn from Government agencies to
support the preparation and implementation of such a project, other types of services in-kind, and
use of Government land, while seeking support for investment activities from the independent
National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and from international
sources.
II.   Importance of International Assistance. Without international assistance, Poland is
unlikely to address these issues comprehensively in the next few years. This will cause a disruption
in the progress achieved to date through the successful demonstration projects and delay the
valuable opportunity to proceed with a full-scale investment project that will undertake an
operational program of interventions. In addition, since Poland has the most advanced level of
field-based knowledge in conducting non-point source pollution activities among the countries in
economic transition, the added benefit of having a model project that could be replicated elsewhere
in Central and Eastern Europe will be lost. Identification and dissemination of lessons learned will
also be delayed, an important loss for parties planning to develop similar projects in the greater
region.
12.   Baseline Scenario. Donors previously involved in these activities are phasing out their
funding, and there is no major new donor activity other than that leveraged by this project. It is
assumed that the baseline will include the ongoing activities listed above plus the Rural
Environmental Project, but without GEF support. The total cost of Baseline Scenario investments
for the Government of Poland and the donors is US$18.2 million. This cost includes environmental
advice to farmers on Good Agricultural Practices (US$2.1 million); farm investments to support
storage of manure and slurry, construction of buffer strips and wetlands (US$12.0 million);
incremental costs for the operations of the Local Implementation Teams (US$0.9 million); public
awareness (US$0.4 million); project impact monitoring (US$1.6 million); replication strategy
(US$0.1 million); project management (US$0.5 million); and recurrent costs (US$0.6 million).
Implementation of the Baseline Scenario will result in a limited reduction of nutrients into a small
number of local water bodies in Poland. Reduced coverage on farms would limit the number of
opportunities for demonstration on different types of farms and in different environmental
conditions. Furthermore, there would be no program to estimate and communicate the benefits of
improving environmental practices on farms.
13.    Current Situation. The current situation, the Baseline Scenario, will result in non-point
source pollution from agriculture in Poland and the adjacent countries contributing significant and
excessive loads of nutrients to the Baltic Sea, that will lead to widespread eutrophication and the
ecological damage and economic losses associated with this process. The long-term implication
will be continued degradation of a globally significant element of intemational waters and its
associated biodiversity in the shared coastal and marine environment of the Baltic Sea. The GEF
Alternative would go beyond the Baseline Scenario by allowing the project to establish a
mechanism for coordinating the approach, funding and geographic location of activities designed to
reduce non-point source pollution in Poland. This would overcome the risk of the current course of
action, under the Baseline Scenario, that Poland's effort to reduce nutrient flow in the Baltic Sea
will have limited effect due to a lack of coherence in strategy.
14.    Demonstration of a Replicable Mechanisms. The global environmental objective of the
project is to demonstrate effective mechanisms for improving environmental practices in
agriculture through a project designed to reduce nutrients entering the Baltic Sea. The role of the
66



GEF, the other donors and the IBRD in this project would be to buy down the risks to farmers of
adopting these techniques. It would also be to calculate, demonstrate and disseminate the benefits
of improved environmental practices in agriculture. It would assist in making the intemalization of
costs, which in GEF terms are incremental, broadly recognized over the long term as economically
beneficial to farmers, communities and the global environment. The GEF Alternative would
accelerate, coordinate and expand field-tested technologies and approaches and link them with a
major outreach and communications program. The GEF Alternative would build on the Baseline
Scenario, increase the coverage of the mechanisms to be tested in Poland and provide a model for
potential use in other Central and Eastem European countries. Links with the work of the European
Union, GEF partners, Helsinki Commission, international financial institutions and donors will
assist in sharing and replication of successful practices within the region. Because of the potential
for replication in other countries, and because of its transboundary implications, the GEF
Altemative has leveraged approximately US$5.0 million in grant contribution from other donors
and at least $ 1 00,000 in kind contribution from the US Government.
15.   Scope. The GEF Alternative has been developed to accelerate the opportunity provided by
the project in Poland to become a model which, with adjustment for local conditions, could be
replicated in other countries. The addition of GEF resources would reduce the threshold for the
Polish Government to proceed with a project whose success in turn would reduce the risk of other
countries in undertaking similar initiatives. It would build on the Baseline Scenario in four ways:
-  Allow additional investments in farm infrastructure in selected project areas, all of which
are sensitive to pollution from nitrates and have an impact on the Baltic Sea. The increased
coverage will provide greater environmental benefits and augment the demonstration
potential of the exercise.
*  Expand the public awareness program to effectively explain the benefits of improved
environmental practices at the farm level.
*  Allow the development of a strategy for replication of the project within Poland and
internationally.
-  Help to coordinate the testing and operationalization of a number of mechanisms to address
the challenge of controlling non-point source pollution under the Baseline Scenario.
16.   Participatory Approach. This project builds on the successful demonstration and
planning activities outlined above, which were based on a participatory approach. These activities
were developed and implemented through a range of partnerships between the Polish Government,
local authorities, domestic and international nongovernmental organizations, the European Union,
World Bank and a range of bilateral donors. The project will follow the model of these pilots by
taking a participatory approach, involving farmers and their families in investment planning and
monitoring, and undertaking extensive outreach campaigns. Project implementation will include
the participation of nongovernmental organizations. The project preparation process has been
undertaken collaboratively with the Helsinki Commission and members of its Program
Implementation Task Force, United States Environmental Protection Agency and United States
Department of Agriculture, the European Commission and the Nordic Environmental Finance
Corporation. Project design has benefited from consultations with Coalition Clean Baltic and long-
term cooperation with the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) and the European Commission.
67



Costs
17.    Cost of the GEF Alternative. The total cost of the GEF alternative is estimated at
US$21.2 million, detailed as follows:
* Component ] - Farm Environmental Improvements: (a) Operational and Training Support for
Farners - US$2.1 million (same as baseline); (b) Farm Environmental Investments - US$15.0
million (GEFfinancing US$3. 0 million); (c) Incremental Recurrent Costs for the operations of the
Local Implementation Teams - US$0.9 million (same as baseline).
* Component 2 - Outreach and Management: (a) Public Awareness - US$0.4 million (same as
baseline); (b) Project Impact Monitoring - US$1.6 million (same as baseline); (c) Replication
Strategy - US$0.1 million (same as baseline); (d) Project Management - US$0.5 million (same as
baseline); (e) Recurrent Costs - US$0.6 million (same as baseline).
Benefits
18.   Domestic and International Benefits. Poland's successful experience in serving as a lead
party in work on agriculture and environment issues at a regional level, in the context of the
Helsinki Commission and the pilot initiatives sponsored by the Swedish and United States
governments and EU (Phare), represents a good start for regional cooperation and commitment to
reducing agricultural pollution in the Baltic Sea. Under the Baseline Scenario, over the long term, a
variety of domestic benefits would indeed accrue, such as cleaner surface and ground water, and
improved farm productivity. However, because of the dispersed nature of the benefits and the long
time horizon, the more substantial effort as proposed in the GEF Alternative would be necessary
for the benefits of this first phase project to be realized more broadly within Poland and the region.
The most valuable domestic benefits that will come from the project are associated with increased
public awareness and adoption of improved farm environmental management. Internationally, the
most important benefits will come from development of a replicable model for addressing this
important transboundary issue and the dissemination of lessons learned from project
implementation.
Incremental Costs
19.    Baseline vs. GEF Alternative. The difference between the cost of the Baseline Scenario
(US$18.2 million) and the cost of the GEF alternative (US$21.2 million) is estimated at US$3.0
million. This represents the incremental cost of achieving environmental benefits through adoption
of environmentally responsible practices by farmers. The GEF Alternative would allow the Project
to secure additional co-financing from the implementing agency to cover public awareness;
outreach; and developing, strengthening, monitoring and testing replicability of the project to
improve the quality of the Baltic Sea. Discussions are ongoing with interested donors regarding co-
financing possibilities. It is anticipated that the European Union (Phare) will contribute EUR 3.5
million, the Nordic Environment Finance Corporation (NEFCO) has approved a grant of US$1.0
million, and IBRD is completing preparations for a loan of US$2.5 million. The National Fund for
Environmental Protection and Water Management has agreed to contribute approximately $1.0
million equivalent.
68



Incremental Cost Analysis
Component                  Costa      US$m  |           Domestic Benefit                        Transboundary Benefit
| Catego
1. Farm Environmental Improvements
(a)  Farm                 Baseline      2.1   Long run productivity on participating
Environmental                            farms. Sustainable use of manure storage
Advice                                   facilities
With GEF      2.1                                         Farmers' increased understanding of economic
benefits.from improved practices creates an
economic incentive to take actions that more rapidly
reduce agricultural non-point source pollution.
Incremental    0
(b)  Farm                 baseline     12.0   Improved local quality of surface water
Environmental                            in participating watersheds. Improved
Investments                              quality of groundwater over long run
with GEF     15.0                                        Increased coverage of manure storage in project
areas. Demonstration of effective mechanisms to
reduce pollution from agriculture. Reduced pollution
ofthe Baltic Sea from agricultural sources.
incremental    3.0
(c)  Recurrent Costs      baseline      0.9
with GEF      0.9
incremental    0
2. Outreach and Management
(a)  Public Awareness     baseline      0.4   Limited increased farmer awareness of
importance of environmental
management
with GEF      0.4                                         Wider understanding among Polish farmers and
public of issues involved
Incremental    0
(b)  Project Impact       Baseline      1.6   Provision of information conceming
Monitoring                               response to project supported
interventions at the national level that
allows for establishment oftrends and
more effective national and local level
management actions.
with GEF      1.6                                         Provision of information concerning response to
project supported interventions at the regional level
that allows for establishment of trends and more
effective regional level management actions by
Helsinki Commission, European Union and other
bodies.
Incremental    0
(c)  Replication          Baseline      0.1   Potential for national replication
Strategy
with GEF      0.1                                         Accelerate development of a strategy for replicating
project both within Poland, Baltic Sea region and in
other Central and Eastern European countries.
Incremental    0
(d)  Project              baseline      0.5   Increased capacity for project
Management                               management and awareness of
agricultural pollution
with GEF      0.5
incremental    0
(e)  Recurrent Costs      baseline      0.6
with GEF      0.6
incremental    0
Total                     baseline     18.2
with GEF     21.2
incremental    3.0
69



ANNEX 14
POLAND: RURAL ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
TRANSBOUNDARY ANALYSIS
1.    Strategic Action Program. The management of nutrient pollution from agricultural non-
point sources is a problem common to all the countries in the Baltic Sea Region, with impacts on
the shared coastal waters and marine environment. The need to address agricultural inputs to
international waters has been highlighted as a major priority in the "Baltic Sea Joint
Comprehensive Environmental Action Program (Program)," the strategic action program for the
region, which was prepared under the coordination of the Helsinki Commission by a broadly
representative high level task force. Since the Ministers of Environment adopted the Program in
1992, many field-based demonstration activities have been undertaken in the countries in economic
transition in the eastern and southern portion of the Baltic Sea drainage basin. These activities were
designed to establish a basis for preparation and implementation of operational projects that
support long-term measures required to incrementally reduce non-point source pollution of the
coastal and marine environment. Implementation of operational programs was not possible in the
early 1990s due to political changes in these countries which resulted in a complete reorganization
of the agricultural sector as the shift from planned to market economies took place.
2.    Updated Strategic Action Program. The Ministers of Environment in 1998 adopted the
"Recommendations for Updating and Strengthening" of the Program. This document noted that
agriculture contributes an estimated 30-40 percent of the nitrogen and 10 percent of the
phosphorous loading entering the Baltic Sea and that increased efforts should be made to address
control of non-point source pollution from agriculture and rural settlements. A review, conducted
as part of the "updating and strengthening" process, assessed the status of the demonstration
activities. The review concluded that measures to initiate operational projects to control non-point
source pollution from agriculture in the countries in economic transition would be possible in the
next phase of Program implementation due to increased stability in the sector and resolution of
many issues concerning land ownership. The importance of rapidly proceeding with a
cooperatively based project in Poland was specifically identified in the document. This is justified
by the high level of transboundary impacts from its extensive agricultural sector, the opportunity to
introduce Good Agricultural Practices as part of the restructuring process, and the considerable
potential for success given the commitment of the Polish Government and the positive results from
the cooperatively funded demonstration projects. The report also recognized that a project could be
rapidly developed, given the advanced state of preparation of the Polish Government and
nongovernmental institutions, and their positive experience with the use of participatory
approaches.
3.    Assessment of Transboundary Impacts. The Helsinki Commission, working in
cooperation with the signatory countries, has prepared three Pollution Load Compilations, in 1987
(PLC-1), 1990 (PLC-2) and 1995 (PLC-3). A fourth PLC is currently being prepared. These
compilations have aimed to amass information on the inputs of important pollutants entering the
Baltic Sea from different sources on the basis of harnonized monitoring methods. They have been
complemented by a series of Periodic Assessments that review trends in the Baltic Sea
environment. The PLCs also included special studies on non-point source pollution from
agriculture at the regional level, selected country level studies, and local studies prepared to
support demonstration activities in Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland and Russia. Efforts are
currently underway to upgrade the quality and comparability of monitoring data and to develop a
series of indicators that can be used to assess trends. In addition, regional meetings were held to
review progress in addressing agriculture and environment issues in the eastern and southern
70



portion of the drainage basin in Vilnius (1993) and Warsaw (1996). This issue was also the subject
of the 1996 Royal Colloquium chaired by H.M. King Carl XVI Gustaf of Sweden on "The Baltic
Sea Region: Agriculture and Sustainability."
4.     Eutrophication. Eutrophication of international water bodies is a major environmental
problem in many parts of the world, including the Adriatic Sea, Baltic Sea and Black Sea. The
common symptoms of eutrophication, which is caused by over enrichment of water by nutrients,
are increased plant biomass in the form of algae, oxygen deficiency in water bodies, the formation
of hydrogen sulfide and remineralization of the biomass. These processes disrupt the balance of
freshwater, coastal and marine ecosystems and cause changes in their structure and function.
Excessive nutrient loads to the semi-enclosed Baltic Sea affect the entire ecosystem; the work of
the Helsinki Commission has identified nitrogen as the substance of highest concern.
Eutrophication from nutrients and organic matters is a top priority transboundary water problem.
Impacts associated with eutrophication in Baltic coastal and marine waters have been a shift in the
composition of marine vegetation in many coastal areas, repeated large scale algal blooms,
disruption of reproductive cycles of some fish species, declines in some fish stocks and increases in
others. Summer algal blooms have periodically necessitated the closing of many bathing beaches
throughout the region with an adverse affect on their recreational use and tourist value.
5.    Eutrophication Trends. The symptoms of eutrophication, such as increased plant biomass
and oxygen deficiency in the bottom water, have decreased in some coastal areas while in others
they have stayed the same. Improvements have occurred in some portions of the western and
northem part of the region due to a reduction of nutrient inputs resulting from construction of
wastewater treatment plants and measures to control pollution from agriculture. However, in open
sea areas no clear changes have been observed. With respect to long-term variations, there were no
major differences in the dominance of phytoplankton species reported in the Periodic Assessments
on the state of the Baltic Sea. In fact there are indications that the frequency and spatial coverage of
harmful algal blooms in the Baltic Sea may have increased. This may be partially due to changes in
seasonal availability and relative proportions of nutrients. Information available on
macrophytobenthos strongly suggests that general changes have taken place during the recent
decades along the coasts of virtually the whole of the Baltic Sea area. The depth distribution of
perennial macrophytes, attached to the seabed, has decreased, and short-lived filamentous or thin-
bodied epiphytic or drifting algae have become increasingly prevalent in recent times. These
changes are most commonly explained by the high inputs of nutrients during the early 1 990s.
6.     Massive Blue-Green Algal Blooms in 1997. The summer of 1997 brought about
exceptional blue-green algal blooms in different parts of the Baltic Sea. According to studies by the
Finnish Institute for Marine Research, the surface accumulations of blue-green algae during this
period were the most extensive ever recorded in the whole Baltic Sea area. Toxic blooms were
found in the entire Baltic Sea. Large amounts of blue-green algal biomass drifted ashore,
particularly along the northern coast of the Gulf of Finland and in the Archipelago Sea between
Finland and Sweden. The large-scale blooms have been attributed to the high nutrient load in the
Baltic Sea, with exceptionally sunny weather serving as an effective catalyst for starting the
blooms. In Helsinki, the extensive blue-green algal blooms forced the city to close many of its
beaches for most of the swimming season. During the summer several cases of cyano-bacterial
toxicosis were reported both in humans and animals in Finland. This event caused widespread
demands from politicians and the public for intensified action to reduce nutrient loading to the
Baltic Sea from all types of sources to avoid such large scale transboundary impacts.
7.    Transboundary Pollution in Sensitive Coastal Areas. The eastern and southem portion
of the Baltic Sea includes a number of semi-enclosed bays and large coastal lagoons that are
71



critical elements of the regional ecosystem and require special management efforts. These areas
include portions of the Gulf of Finland (Estonia, Finland, Russia); Haapsalu and Matsalu Bays
(Estonia); Gulf of Riga (Estonia, Latvia); Kursiu Lagoon (Lithuania, Russia); Vistula Lagoon
(Poland, Russia); Gulf of Gdansk (Poland); and the Oder/Odra Lagoon (Germany, Poland). They
provide extensive habitat for aquatic and terrestrial species, support important fisheries and are of
recreational and tourism value. In particular, the coastal lagoons and their associated wetlands
serve as nutrient traps that reduce the impacts on the greater Baltic Sea by concentrating these
substances. The Program has identified the need to take priority actions to strengthen management
of, and reduce the discharge of nutrients to these sensitive areas. Because most of these areas are
transboundary, special measures should be taken through the Helsinki Commission to promote
development of cooperative management plans and to support actions for investments to control
both point and non-point sources of pollution. Special monitoring programs and indicators are
currently being developed for use in the Vistula Lagoon and Odra Lagoons. It is important to note
that while the Gulf of Gdansk is within Poland, the current pattern in the Baltic carries its waters to
coastal areas of Russia (Kaliningrad Oblast) and Lithuania, making its management a
transboundary concern as well.
72



ANNEX 15
POLAND: RURAL ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
STAP REVIEW
GREAT BARIE REEF
',LZ.TE PP2Z ALMAOTY
MrStephan~ TIrer
Worid . a1c
Dear Spephen
Trank you for forwardir  mte the relevant annexes of the Polish Rural
Envirot=eztaia Protecto  Plroject I have had an opporaLnLty to read the materials
and offer ths hastly pre. -red commentary.
Thre roject c6l6ay is one )f substantial imporance in the context of i.nmenadonal
watzrs, and the spedic si Laion applying to the Balic.
Successfully conducted, if is project should make a sig ificant contribuiron which
would have a sigirnTc Ln othef areas suffering the sa=Re widepread problem
Vy mnaicr comment on tl papers are that the Linkage between the coi.plamentary
activ7ities: 
Technical assi3tancer to  xners concerng good  igrituraLI practces and
I 2. Supppozt to .famers to i. vest in the construction of manure and slury storage
facilites is nat Cearly da 'IL
I in&er that the agxona=dc enefita to fa=rers are that by storing slurry for
s.obs;nt1al pertods dtey a. able to withdraw it from storage and apply it to crops at
tmes when there will be  axium benefit in tebs of ccnrersion of nitate and
phosphate to piantz in tEv  crops.
They thus achieve an agri iomic, econtoic benefit and the commtunity at large
receives an envirzn ent. :~enefit because tnose nitrates and phosphates are locked
up and do not reach the t iter courses as non-point sorce pcilution.
It seems to mne that if this ; the case tde project should seek to manitor and
demonstrate the ecoromw ;enedts whch flow to fars fro  dhe adopion of
these practces. This woui provide the greatest probability of *he cosfs which in
CEF ~ters are izcre:iia  becom-ig           IyieognisedTas economiiy
1 t Fioor Matrix icue
2. MOr iSzet
i VrW AC' 261 2
CPO Sax 791 Carbe-ia ACT 2601
rTdephone: (0 6247 O277
Intmattfomt! .;4 2 647 0211
F%Csimrle (023 667 576G
Lntamadonaw .67 2 6247 5767
e-mail? rzWWlPg94VJU
hep/w_bn^gza



bmeficial to the far=ers nd commuits and ahis being intemaLied in the longer
Having said that, I reaffi, n that the project is oe of substantial import=ce. I note
that the PoLish govemnm! .t is in the process of legislating to support this measure
and thus reduce non-poii t source polIulion fom agriculture. I note also that
Polarndi is reprded as th, country in econo-uc transition which has the most
advanced level of field-i ied knowledge in conducting non-point source pollution
aetvities. These a.turz a.  d to the possibility of a successtul outcome,
It is not clear to me from  he material which I have received, to what extent
sI ynietic fertilisen play  role in the nopoxnt sourcepollnton burden flowing
trmSI~ EEital: ids; y eay nto be a siflichtac ar oweveiTrF_
1  aze useece couk.~&    a potential to denonstrate economic substituIaibility if
farmer use stored manu; slurry itead of syietic ferdliser- This may wel be an
attractive demonstration .f cost effident environment management.
With roga d to the increr mntal cost analysis, it seems to me that the trans-boundary
bgeneit ~er  1        -) ioul  oi  fidThe~ mireased coverage of manuze storage to
reflecton of the global b, .eft of reduced pollution reaching the intemational
wat=eX of the Baltic- In ±l: case of outreach and maanag=et, if we assume that the
project will include a der: nstration of the economic benefit to faers of the
adoption of the tedunolog, then the trans-boundary benefit goes beyond v.der
uxnderstanding amorLg far iers to an econoznii: incentive to fa rters to take up the
techn.ol6gy and thus mor, rapidly reduce the flow of non-point source pollution to
the water courses.
The trans-boundary analy s is clear and fzightering in its implicatiorm. It provides
strong support to the case  fr the project to be conducted.
I reiterate that these comi ints aze made in some haste, I hope that they are helpful
to you in prcgressirg the roject to implementation. Please do not hesitate to
contact fie if you require urther information.
YQr sely
R A Kenchington
Executive Director
14 May 1998
2



I



MAP SECTION



I



4  6'  18                    .50   -                                                                                 I>                                                            ERG 29983~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IR 258
RUSSIAN                                                    '-' jPOLAND
QinTfpqdanskFEDERATION/                                                                                    RU     A
4,~ ~~V Lmn                              i                 ''1                                                PROTECTION PROJECT
PoWMORSKIE                    b                    Bnn     ~       
APPROXIMATE GEOGRAPHIC
*  I       -                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COVERAGE OP THE PROJECT
'C              4                        ~~~~~~~~IAZMUXJ AL IE~i''
V                                                                                                          -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~       -    - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ROADS
JTzcoennji  ,' /  (73)"  ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~      24'-                                                                                                            R '-''  AL[ROADS
n-mo           tn-n-   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                               '       PODL45AIr ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                       A'~~~~  AIRPORTS
NIn',ENEQ                               .21'tht90398         A                                                         .1. ~~~~~~~~BEL RU5MAJOR PORTS
3'  Nolon ~~~~~~~~~~  Ti  ~~~~~~n    *   ~~~~~~~~~½O0D                                                                                              *       NATIONAL CAPITA~~~~~~~~~~~ATONL APTA
Nc'   '-i-n-s'   '¾  . -.    TV'tNS'           n(ClemnnniocnMMnn  T'S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TP4jn-H~~~  -  SHiM'       ~~~®                                          TSOV NCR (VROVIVODTHIP( CAIP PITAITAL
ont  E~~~~~~~~~~~~~nn  -'0                            /                                             * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ DISTRICT (POWIAT) CAPITALS
Z  ,     c'ntLis'    in-  ~~~~~~~~~~i    \vstnnnnn  it' '4                                          /                                                    (3      SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS~~~~0 ELETEDCITES ND OWN
9½.  I  ½T'L)p"''""  '  ViTnilowek  -v ~~~~~~~~~~PIon  AZ9$tr'K/W  ~~~~~ (Inn-  ~~~                                                                        MAJOR SMAJO TANB AREASA
>'-~~~'-'¾---  /  ,n                .¾4(ts'-1.                       5c'c¶1"%j MM-ne <                     -        52                 -           CANALS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANAL
(                      ieoo2nR                                                                     'Z//LD- ISTRICT IPOWIATI BOUPNDARIES
ED Tenn1.nttn~.A'                                                                                                       kir(n(                                     .~n--                                         PROVINCE i'OIVOD5HIPI BOUNDARIET
n-n'  \z-            .win ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     A'                                                                            -  -. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
t.r  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ 7-n                                                                       <~~~~~~~~           4    Q     1'>~~~~~~L                             25TED   1100:  TO               MILE  200 KILOMETERS
-                                                                                In"- HORWAS                          -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ISON
V?nnIw  -                    N                S    4OKRZYSKIEI                                                V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T n-
T~~~~~~~~C                    [             -T                                                                                                                                                                            -        OTA
' '   s'OL  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"'.t'~~~~~~~21                                                                              5       5 10 IEnSERETO
Akv-          -          "-z.--               U                TK                                                                                                                                           I        [EI 
NISK.N                                 \'N       <"'                                                                        'Ms D~PIMATRT(                                 >/ 
-'                              ''+4',~                                                                                       ¾-'                                                                          Ti
--  -  ~~~~''"'~~~~~~~                    NA                -          '  p ~~WEDNn                             RU551ANNA
50      CZECH~~~T P-h                                                                                                     PO,PAKE10i--    1-REA
¼                                                                                               2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T 
OPOLS                                        ~~~~~~~~~UKRAINE                               j POlAND    K
Yinnn-n-pnn'npnn-nlLnebn nheSlnyongn Lin,nn-TOC Wc'nintont  N Onnw,  \    'N$  -'             ./                  -'                           GERMA      <nGERK'NY
ISLOVAK(                     R EP U BL IC                 N2.2                                                       WTZnAS                                     RMAI
NOVEMBER n1999



