Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4520-0 POL 
4520-1 POL
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF023381
Loan Agreement
(Rural Environmental Protection Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
NATIONAL FUND FOR ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND WATER MANAGEMENT
Dated January 20, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 4520-0 POL 
4520-1 POL
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF023381
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated January 20, 2000, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and NATIONAL FUND FOR ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND WATER 
MANAGEMENT (the Borrower).
WHEREAS: (A) Republic of Poland (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having been 
satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of the Loan; 
(C)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Nordic Environment Finance 
Corporation (NEFCO) a grant (the NEFCO Grant) in an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 to 
assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement 
(the NEFCO Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and NEFCO; 
(D)
by the agreement of even date herewith (the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement), the Bank, acting as the implementing agency of the Global Environment 
Facility (GEF) has agreed to make a grant (the GEF Trust Fund Grant) to the Borrower 
in the amount of two million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
2,200,000), to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth 
in the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement; and  
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
Page  2
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997), with the modification set forth below (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to read as 
follows:
“(c)  Not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, 
the Borrower shall prepare and furnish 
to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on  the execution and initial 
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be 
derived from 
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations 
under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions, the Preamble to this Agreement and the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“Beneficiaries” and “Beneficiary” mean collectively the individual 
farmers or groups of farmers and individually the individual farmer or group of 
farmers meeting the Eligibility Criteria (hereinafter defined) for assistance under 
Part A(2) of the Project;
(b)
“Eligible Categories” means: (i) categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the USD Special 
Account (hereinafter defined); and (ii) categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in 
the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the EUR Special Account 
(hereinafter defined); 
(c)
“Eligibility Criteria” means the criteria adopted by the Borrower and 
included in the OH (hereinafter defined) for selection of Beneficiaries and FEIIs 
(hereinafter defined) under Part A(2) of the Project;
(d)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(e)
“Euro” and “EUR” each means the lawful currency of the member states of 
the European Union that adopt the single currency in accordance with the Treaty 
establishing the European Community, as amended by the Treaty on European Union; 
(f)
“EUR Tranche” means the amount of the Loan denominated in Euro according 
to Section 2.01 (b) of this Agreement; 
(g)
“Farm Contracts” and “Farm Contract” mean collectively the Farm Contracts 
and individually any Farm Contract to be entered into between the Borrower and a 
Beneficiary pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended 
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to any Farm Contract; 
(h)
“FEII” means a Farm Environmental Improvement Investment meeting the 
Eligibility Criteria; 
(i)
“MIS” means the Management Information System to be established by the 
Borrower in accordance with  the provisions of paragraph 7 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement, to provide computerized monitoring and up-to-date data on Project 
implementation;
(j)
“LITs” means the Local Implementation Teams established by the Borrower 
Page  3
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement to 
assist in Project implementation; 
(k)
“Loan Tranche” means any of the USD Tranche (hereinafter defined) or the 
Euro Tranche of the Loan; 
(l)
“OH” means the Operational Handbook for the carrying out of the Project 
prepared by the Borrower and adopted pursuant to the provisions of Section 7.01(c) of 
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the 
Bank; 
(m)
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit established by the Borrower 
for purposes of Project management; 
(n)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(o)
“PSC” means the Project Steering Committee established by the Borrower to 
provide policy guidance and oversight of Project implementation; 
(p)
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement, and “USD Special Account” and “EUR Special Account” mean the 
Special Account in Dollars and the Special Account in Euro, respectively, referred to 
in said Schedule; and
(q)
“USD Tranche” means the amount of the Loan denominated in United States 
Dollars according to Section 2.01 (a) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II 
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement: (a) an amount equal to one 
million two hundred fifty thousand Dollars ($1,250,000)(the USD Tranche); and (b) an 
amount equal to one million one hundred thousand Euro (EUR 1,100,000) (the EUR 
Tranche).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required under Parts A(1) and B of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) amounts paid (or if the Bank shall 
so agree, to be paid) on account of withdrawals made to meet the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required under FEIIs under Part A(2) of the Project. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be April 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to 
one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
each Loan Tranche withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each 
Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, 
and after the initial period, 
Page  4
each period from and including an Interest Payment 
Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this Agreement. 
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, in respect of each Loan Tranche, for each 
Interest Period, 
the London interbank offered rate for six-month 
deposits in Dollars or Euro for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest 
Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next preceding 
the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, in respect of each Loan Tranche, for 
each Interest 
Period: (A) three-fourths of one percent (3/4 
of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered 
rates, or other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in 
respect of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it 
that include such 
Loan Tranche; as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower and Guarantor of LIBOR Base Rate and 
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to either Loan Tranche 
other than as provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to said Loan Tranche upon not less than six (6) months’ 
notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor of the new basis. The new basis shall become 
effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower or the Guarantor 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to said Loan Tranche.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable June 15 and December 
15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of each Loan Tranche 
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through the PIU with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate financial, administrative, agricultural, engineering, and 
environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan allocated under Category 
1 of the table in paragraph 1 of Part A of Schedule 1 to this Agreement available to 
Beneficiaries under Farm Contracts to be entered into between the Borrower and such 
Beneficiaries, under standard terms and conditions which shall have been approved by 
the Bank, including those set forth in paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under any Farm Contract in such 
Page  5
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, substantially amend, abrogate or waive any Farm Contract or any 
provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, 
all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently 
applied, adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition and to register 
separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) 
and the records and accounts for the 
Special Accounts for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements 
referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section, for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on 
such statements and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts, and 
financial statements, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Bank may from time 
to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditures the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
Page  6
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall  carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph 
(a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than June 30, 
2000, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
Management Reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which: 
(i)
(A)
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and projected sources and 
applications of funds for 
the Project for the six-month period following the period 
covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the 
six-month period 
following the period covered by said report; 
(ii)
(A)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and 
for the period covered by said report; and (B) 
explains variances between the 
actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and 
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, as at the end of the period 
covered by said report. 
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period. 
ARTICLE V 
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs 
in accordance with sound administrative, financial, and environmental practices under 
the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers. 
ARTICLE VI 
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph the right of the 
Borrower to 
withdraw the proceeds of the NEFCO Grant or the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant shall have 
been suspended, canceled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms 
of the 
NEFCO Grant Agreement and the GEF Grant Agreement, respectively.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to 
the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, or 
termination is not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations 
under such Agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent 
with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement. 
Page  7
(b)
The OH shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated or repealed without 
the prior agreement of the Bank.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) (i) of Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (a) (ii) of that Section; 
and 
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE VII 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement or to the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals thereunder, except only 
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement, have been fulfilled; 
(b)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the NEFCO Grant 
Agreement or the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals thereunder, except only the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement, have been fulfilled; 
(c)
the OH, satisfactory to the Bank, has been adopted by the Borrower; and 
(d)
the Borrower has furnished to the Bank a short list, satisfactory to the 
Bank, of auditors required under the provisions of Section 4.01(b)(i) of this 
Agreement. 
Section 7.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VIII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 8.01. The President of the Borrower is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Borrower:
National Fund for Environmental Protection 
   and Water Management 
Page  8
ul. Konstruktorska 3A 02-673 
Warsaw 
Republic of Poland
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the City of Warsaw, Republic of Poland, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Basil G. Kavalsky 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
NATIONAL FUND FOR ENVIRONMENTAL 
   PROTECTION AND WATER MANAGEMENT
By /s/ Kazimierz Kujda
   /s/ Slawomir Skrzypek 
Authorized Representatives
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A.
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the USD Tranche of the Loan and 
of the amounts of the EUR Tranche of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the USD
Amount of the EUR
Tranche of the Loan
Tranche of the Loan
     Allocated
    Allocated
% of 
Expenditures
Category
(Expressed is USD)
(Expressed in EUR)
     to be 
Financed
(1)(a) Works under
   52,000
   40,000
   82% of 
amounts
FEIIs under
   disbursed 
under
Part A(2) of
   Farm 
Contracts
the Project
   (b) Goods under
  183,500
  160,000
   50% of 
amounts
FEIIs under
   disbured 
under
Part A(2) of
   Farm 
Contracts
the Project
(2)(a) Goods under
   54,500
   50,000
   100% of 
foreign
Parts A(1)
expenditures,
Page  9
and B of the
   100% of 
local
Project
expenditures (ex-
   factory 
cost) and
   82% of 
local
expenditures for
   other 
items
   procured 
locally
   (b) Works under
   14,000
   10,000
   93%
Part B(2) of
the Project
(3)(a) Consultants'
  359,500
  310,000
   76%
services under
Parts A(1) and
B of the Project
   (b) Auditing
   34,000
   30,000
   75%
services
   (c) Training under
   62,000
   50,000
   78%
Parts A(1) and
B of the Project
(4) 
LIT's
  238,000
  200,000
   78%
Incremental
Operating Costs
(5)
Fee
   12,500
   11,000
   Amount due 
under
   Section 
2.04 of
   this 
Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
  240,000
   239,000
TOTAL
1,250,000
 1,100,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor;  
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Guarantor;  or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor; and 
(c)
the term “LITs’ incremental operating costs” means expenditures incurred 
by LITs on account of management of Project implementation for local travel, 
communications, office supplies, and such other expenditures as may be agreed upon by 
the Bank but excluding salaries of civil servants. 3. Notwithstanding the provisions of 
paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an 
amount not exceeding $125,000 for the USD Tranche and EUR 110,000 for the EUR Tranche, 
may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
February 1, 1999.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
Page  10
of statements of expenditure, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower, for expenditures for: (a) contracts for works 
costing less than $700,000 equivalent each with the exception of the first contract 
for works, for which withdrawals may be made on the basis of statements of 
expenditures only after it has been reviewed by the Bank in accordance with the 
provisions of Part C.2 of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (b) contracts for 
goods costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (c) LITs’ incremental operating 
costs; and (d) services under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each for 
consulting firms and $15,000 equivalent each for individual consultants, including 
training. 
B.
Special Accounts 
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain two special deposit accounts,  one in 
Dollars (the USD Special Account) in respect of amounts withdrawn from the USD Tranche 
of the Loan, and one in Euro (the EUR Special Account) in respect of amounts withdrawn 
from the EUR Tranche of the Loan, in a commercial bank, acceptable to the Bank, on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement and (ii) a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
3.
Payments out of a Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Accounts:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Accounts or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports. 
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Accounts in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole 
or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Bank 
shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special 
Accounts may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, 
and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the USD or EUR 
Page  11
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, 
or deposit into the relevant Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund 
to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Accounts shall be 
made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as 
the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the USD 
or EUR Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Accounts When Withdrawals Are Not 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
The term “Authorized Allocations” means: 
(a) the amount of $150,000 to be 
withdrawn from the USD Tranche in the Loan Account and deposited into the USD Special 
Account; and (b) the amount of EUR 130,000 to be withdrawn from the EUR Tranche in the 
Loan Account and deposited into the EUR Special Account, pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
this Annex; provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $100,000 and the amount of EUR 
90,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the USD Tranche and the EUR 
Tranche, respectively, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall 
equal or exceed the equivalent of $300,000 with respect to the USD Tranche and EUR 
260,000 with respect to the EUR Tranche.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocations and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Accounts shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocations, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the USD or the EUR Special Account 
of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation 
for said Special Account. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the relevant Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
For replenishment of the USD or the EUR Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposit into such Special Account at such 
intervals as the Bank shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, 
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the USD or 
the EUR Special Account, as the case may be, such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have 
been paid out of the relevant Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such 
deposit into a Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Accounts, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Page  12
Authorized Allocations. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Accounts as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Accounts When Withdrawals Are Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the USD Tranche in the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank 
into the USD Special Account and all withdrawals from the EUR Tranche in the Loan 
Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the EUR Special Account in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit into a Special 
Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the USD Tranche or the EUR Tranche in the 
Loan Account under one or more of the relevant Special Account’s Eligible Categories. 
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the USD Tranche or the EUR Tranche in the 
Loan Account for deposit into the relevant Special Account shall be supported by a 
Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the USD Tranche 
or the EUR Tranche of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the relevant Special Account an amount equal to 
the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank has 
determined, based on the Project Management Report accompanying said application, is 
required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the 
six-month period following the date of such report; provided, however, that the amount 
so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to 
be remaining in the relevant Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of 
$300,000 with respect to the USD Tranche and EUR 260,000 with respect to the EUR 
Tranche.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to test various interventions to improve 
environmental conditions in agricultural land through use of environmentally sound 
agricultural practices and ultimately reduce nutrients entering water bodies.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Farm Environmental Improvements 
(1)
Provision of technical assistance and training to Beneficiaries to help them 
develop and adopt environmentally sound agricultural practices. 
(2)
The financing and carrying out under Farm Contracts of FEIIs meeting the 
Eligibility Criteria.
Part B:
Public Awareness and Management 
(1)
Design and carrying out of a public awareness program to widen understanding of 
the importance of environmental issues in agriculture. 
(2)
Preparation, based on the carrying out of social, economic and environmental 
evaluations and evaluation of Project activities, of a national strategy for 
replicating the Project, with a view to increasing prevalence of environmentally sound 
practices in agriculture, including  development of least-cost approaches to implement 
said strategy. 
Page  13
(3)
Provision of assistance for the operation of the PIU and financing of 
incremental operating costs of its LITs. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by October 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Payment of Principal
      (Expressed in
      (Expressed in
Date Payment due
USD)*
EUR)**
June 15, 2005
65,000
55,000
December 15, 2005
65,000
55,000
June 15, 2006
65,000
55,000
December 15, 2006
65,000
55,000
June 15, 2007
65,000
55,000
December 15, 2007
65,000
55,000
June 15, 2008
65,000
55,000
December 15, 2008
65,000
55,000
June 15, 2009
65,000
55,000
December 15, 2009
65,000
55,000
June 15, 2010
65,000
55,000
December 15, 2010
65,000
55,000
June 15, 2011
65,000
55,000
December 15, 2011
65,000
55,000
June 15, 2012
65,000
55,000
December 15, 2012
65,000
55,000
June 15, 2013
65,000
55,000
December 15, 2013
65,000
55,000
June 15, 2014
65,000
55,000
December 15, 2014
15,000
55,000
_______________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided in 
Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
**
The figures in this column represent the amount in Euro to be repaid, except as 
provided in 
Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement  
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works 
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January,1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
 Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Works estimated to cost less than $700,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $117,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
Page  14
2.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $470,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Procurement of Small Works 
Works estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $31,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to the first contract to be procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in paragraph 1 of Part B of this Section, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply: 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services under Part B of the Project, estimated to 
cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
Page  15
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for assignments of a standard or routine nature under Part B (3) of the 
Project and for audits estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for training and study tours under Part B of the Project estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultants Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $15,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
1.
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the requirements set 
forth or referred to in the OH.
2.
The Borrower shall maintain, until completion of the Project, the PIU, with 
resources, composition and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and 
Page  16
shall assign to it responsibility for overall Project implementation and coordination, 
including: 
(a)
preparation of bidding documents and administration of bidding procedures 
and of contracts under the Project;  
(b)
preparation of disbursement applications under the Loan and the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant;  
(c)
management of the Special account referred to in Schedule 1 to the Loan 
Agreement and the GEF Special Account referred to in Schedule 1 to the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Agreement; 
(d)
maintenance of records and accounts related to the Project, and arranging 
for the audit thereof; and 
(e)
preparation of quarterly progress reports and submission thereof to the 
Borrower, PSC and the Bank.
3.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, by March 31, 2000, the Borrower shall 
ensure the completion of the staffing of the LITs, in accordance with the staffing 
plan agreed upon with the Bank, and shall assign to LITs responsibility for 
implementation and coordination of FEIIs under Part A(2) of the Project in accordance 
with the rules and procedures set forth in the OH, including:
(a)
provision of assistance to Beneficiaries in the preparation of FEIIs 
under the Project;
(b)
verification of fulfillment  of the Eligibility Criteria in respect of 
Beneficiaries and proposed FEIIs under the Project;
(c)
supervision of implementation of FEIIs under the Project; and
(d)
preparation and furnishing to the PIU and the Bank of quarterly progress 
reports on the operations and expenditures of LITs in accordance with guidelines 
satisfactory to the Bank.
4.
Each Farm Contract to be entered into between the Borrower and a Beneficiary 
shall include, inter alia, provisions regarding:
(a)
a description of the FEII to be financed under the Farm Contract and the 
amount to be made available for the implementation thereof;
(b)
the Beneficiary’s contribution to the financing of the FEII;
(c)
the arrangements for implementation of such FEII and the obligation of 
the Beneficiary to furnish the PIU with monthly reports on progress of the 
implementation thereof; and 
(d)
the technical assistance needs, if any, to be provided to the Beneficiary 
for implementation of the FEII. 
5.
The Borrower shall ensure participation by Beneficiaries, in accordance with the 
principles set forth in the OH, in the preparation of FEIIs.  
6.
The Borrower shall maintain, until completion of the Project, the PSC with 
composition and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. 
7.
The Borrower shall ensure by June 30, 2000, that the MIS has been prepared in 
accordance with terms of reference agreed upon by the Bank and put into operation by 
the PIU.
8.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
Page  17
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about April 30, 2001, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Bank, by June 30, 2001, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
