Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF023381
RELATED TO LOAN NUMBER
4520-0 POL 
4520-1 POL
Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Rural Environmental Protection Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility
and
NATIONAL FUND FOR ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND WATER MANAGEMENT
Dated January
20, 2000
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF023381
RELATED TO LOAN NUMBER
4520-0 POL 
4520-1 POL
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January
20, 2000, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank) acting as an implementing agency of the Global Environment 
Facility
(GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain 
members of the Bank as participants of the GEF and NATIONAL FUND FOR ENVIRONMENTAL
PROTECTION AND WATER MANAGEMENT
(the Recipient). 
WHEREAS
(A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No.
 91\03
5
of March
14, 1991, of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of
the global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable
economic development;
(B)
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements are continued 
in place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94\03
2
of May
24,
1994, of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank establishing the GEF Trust Fund;
(C)
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule
2
to this Agreement, has requested assistance
from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund in the financing of the Project, and the Bank
has determined that such assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of
Resolution No.
94-2 referred to above;
Page  2
(D)
by an agreement of even date herewith (the Loan Agreement), the Bank, 
acting in its own capacity, has agreed to make a loan
(the Loan) to the Recipient in 
an  amount equal to one million two hundred fifty thousand Dollars
($1,250,000) and an 
amount equal to one million one hundred thousand Euro
(EUR
1,100,000) to assist in 
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement;
(E)
the Recipient intends to contract from The Nordic Environment Finance 
Corporation
(NEFCO) a grant (the NEFCO Grant) in an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 to 
assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(the NEFCO Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Recipient and NEFCO; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to
extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section
1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Currency Pool Loans of the Bank, dated January
1, 
1985
(as amended through December
2,
1997), with the modifications set forth in 
paragraph
(b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
(i)
Article I; 
(ii)
Sections 2.01, (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), 
(15), (18), (19) and 
(20),  and Sections 2.02 and 2.03; 
(iii)
Section 3.01; 
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09; 
(v)
Article V; 
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i), (k), (l), (
m
), 
(n), (o), and (p), 
6.03, 6.04 and 6.06; 
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b); 
(viii) Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09; 
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.4; 
(x)
Article XI; and 
(xi)
Sections 12.01(c), 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as follows: “the 
term “Special Drawing Rights” and the symbol “SDR” 
mean special drawing rights as
valued by the International
Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles of
Agreement”; 
(ii)
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections
2.01(8), and 6.02(f) thereof and the last use 
of such term in Section
5.01 thereof, 
means the Bank acting as an
implementing agency of the GEF, except that in Section
6.02, the 
term
“Bank” shall also include the Bank acting in its own capacity; 
(iii)
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
Page  3
means the Recipient;
(iv)
the term 
“Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this
Agreement;
(v)
the term “Loan” and “loan”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF
Trust Fund Grant;
(vi)
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GEF
Trust Fund Grant Account, an account opened by
the Bank on its books in the name of
the Recipient to which the amount
of the GEF Trust Fund Grant is credited;
(vii)
a new paragraph (q) is added to Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions, as follows: 
“an extraordinary situation shall have arisen 
in which any further disbursement
under the GEF Trust Fund
Grant would exceed the resources available for
disbursement from the GEF.”; and
(viii) paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is 
modified to read as
follows:
“(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed
for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, the Recipient
shall prepare and furnish to
the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the
execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be
derived from it, the
performance by the Recipient and the Bank of their respective obligations
under the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
GEF Trust
Fund Grant.”
Section
1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions, in the Preamble to this
Agreement and in the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“GEF Eligible Category” 
means category
(1) set forth in the table in Part 
A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
“GEF Eligible Expenditures” 
means expenditures for works referred to in
Section
2.02 of this Agreement;
(c)
“GEF Project Management Report” 
means each report prepared in accordance
with Section
4.02
of this Agreement; and
(d)
“GEF Special Account” 
means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule
1
to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II
The GEF Trust Fund Grant
Section
2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in
an amount in various currencies equivalent to two million two hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights
(SDR 2,200,000).
Section
2.02.
The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn from the
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1
to this
Agreement for amounts paid
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) on account of 
withdrawals made to meet the reasonable cost of works required under FEIIs under Part
A(2) of the Project. 
Section
2.03. The Closing Date shall be April 30, 2003, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.
The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later
date. 
Page  4
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section
3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule
2
to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry
out the Project through the PIU with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, agricultural, engineering and
environmental practices and with due regard to ecological and environmental factors,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule
5
to the Loan Agreement.
Section
3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the works 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund
Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule
3
to this Agreement.
Section
3.03.
For the purposes of Section
9.08
of the General Conditions and
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date as
may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan for the
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Conditions
Section
4.01. (a) The Recipient shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements,
all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently
applied, adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition and to register
separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall: 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements) 
and the records and accounts for the
GEF Special Account for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing
standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months
after the end of each such year,
(A)
certified
copies of the financial statements
referred to in paragraph
(a) of this Section, for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on 
such statements and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts, and
financial statements, and the audit
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the
Bank may from time
to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of GEF Project Management Reports or
statements of expenditures, the Recipient shall: 
Page  5
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account
was made, all records
(contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank
’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to
in paragraph
(b)
of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a
separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure
submitted during such
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals.
Section
4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall  carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph
(a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Recipient, not later than June 30, 
2000, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly GEF Project 
Management Reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which: 
(i) 
(A)
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both
cumulatively and for the period covered by
said report, and projected sources and
applications of funds for
the Project for the six-
month period following the period
covered by
said report; and
(B) shows separately expenditures financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant during the period covered by said report
and
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the GEF Trust Fund
Grant during the six-
month period following
the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and
for the period covered by said report; and
(B)
explains variances between the
actual and previously forecast
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the
GEF Trust Fund Grant, as at the end
of the period covered by
said report. 
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Recipient shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than
45
days after the end of each
calendar quarter a GEF Project Management Report for such period. 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section
5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The Recipient shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
the Loan Agreement. 
(b)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph the right of the 
Recipient to
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan or the NEFCO Grant
shall have been suspended,
canceled or terminated in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the Loan
Agreement or the
NEFCO Grant Agreement respectively.
Page  6
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Recipient establishes to
the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, or
termination is not caused
by the failure of the Recipient to perform any of its
obligations under such Agreement; and
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Recipient from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent
with the obligations of the Recipient under this
Agreement.
Section
5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
(60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Recipient; and
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph
(b) (ii) of that Section. 
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness; Termination
Section
6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement within the meaning of Section
12.01 (c) of the General Conditions: 
(a) the Loan Agreement has been executed and delivered and all conditions precedent to 
its effectiveness or to the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals thereunder,
except only the effectiveness of this GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, have been
fulfilled; and
(b) the NEFCO Grant Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or the right of the Recipient to make
withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of this GEF Trust Fund Grant
Agreement, have been fulfilled. 
Section
6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section
6.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their
obligations hereunder. 
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section
7.01. The President of the Recipient is designated as representative of 
the Recipient for the purposes of Section
11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section
7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818
H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) 
Washington, D.C.
64145
(MCI)
For the Recipient:
Page  7
National Fund for Environmental Protection
and Water Management
ul. Konstruktorska 3A 02-673 
Warsaw
Republic of Poland
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in
the City of Warsaw, Republic of Poland, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT acting as an Implementing Agency of the
Global Environment Facility
By
/s/
Basil G. Kavalsky 
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
NATIONAL FUND FOR ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
AND WATER MANAGEMENT
By
/s/
Kazimierz Kujda
/s/ Slawomir Skrzypek
Authorized Representatives
SCHEDULE
1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
GEF Trust Fund Grant Allocated
%
of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) Works under
1,920,000
100% of amounts FEIIs under Part
disbursed under
A(2) of the Project
Farm Contracts
(2) Unallocated
280,000
TOTAL
2,200,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term 
“foreign expenditures” 
means expenditures in the currency of any
country other than that of the Republic of Poland for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the Republic of Poland; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” 
means expenditures in the currency of the
Republic of Poland or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Republic of Poland. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR
220,000, may be made on amount of payments made for expenditures before that date but 
after February
1, 1999. 
Page  8
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for contracts for
works costing less than $700,000 equivalent each with the exception of the first 
contract for works for which withdrawals may be made on the basis of statements of
expenditures only after it has been reviewed by the Bank in accordance with the
provisions of Part C.2 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
5.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank,
refund to the Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal
to the amount so used or the portion thereof as specified by the Bank. 
B.
GEF Special Account 
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account, in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the GEF Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of amounts
to be deposited into the GEF Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received (i) the first GEF Project Management 
Report referred to in Section
4.02(b) of this Agreement and (ii) a request from the 
Recipient for withdrawal on the basis of GEF Project Management Reports, withdrawals
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule
1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a GEF Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section
4.02(b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Recipient for 
withdrawal on the basis of GEF Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule
1.
3.
Payments out of the GEF Special Account shall be made exclusively for GEF 
Eligible Expenditures. For each payment made by the Recipient out of the GEF Special 
Account, the Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was
made exclusively for GEF Eligible Expenditures
.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the GEF Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any GEF Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section
4.02
of this
Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; or
(c)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section
4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of
(A)
the records and accounts for the GEF Special Account or
(B)
the
records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were
made on the basis of GEF Project Management Reports
.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the GEF Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in whole
or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund
Grant Account pursuant to Section
6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such 
notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further
deposits into the GEF Special Account may be made and what procedures should be
followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Recipient of its
determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the GEF 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not a GEF Eligible Expenditure,
Page  9
or was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Recipient shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may
request, or deposit into the GEF Special Account
(or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the GEF Special Account
shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the GEF 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for GEF Eligible Expenditures
during the six-
month period following such determination, the Recipient shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the GEF Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph
6
shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the GEF Trust Fund
Grant Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE
1
Operation of GEF Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not
Made On the Basis of GEF Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex: The term 
“GEF Authorized Allocation” 
means an
amount equivalent to $300,000 to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account 
and deposited into the GEF Special Account pursuant to paragraph
2
of this Annex;
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the GEF Authorized
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $200,000 until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, plus the total amount of
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 
of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR
430,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the GEF Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the GEF Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the GEF Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the GEF Special Account of
an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the GEF Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the GEF
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested. 
(b)
For replenishment of the GEF Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank requests for deposit into the GEF Special Account at such intervals as the
Bank shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule
1
to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit
into the GEF Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as
shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of
the GEF Special Account for GEF Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the GEF 
Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account
under one or more of the GEF Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the GEF Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant minus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to
Section
5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the GEF Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall follow
such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the GEF Special Account as of
Page  10
the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for GEF Eligible
Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE
1
Operation of GEF Special Account When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of GEF Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Recipient, all 
withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account shall be deposited by the Bank into
the GEF Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1
to this
Agreement.
Each such deposit into the GEF Special Account shall be withdrawn by the
Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under one or more of the GEF Special
Account
’s GEF Eligible Categories. 
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for 
deposit into the GEF Special Account shall be supported by a GEF Project Management
Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust
Fund Grant Account and deposit into the GEF Special Account an amount equal to the
lesser of: (a)
the amount so requested; and
(b)
the amount which the Bank has
determined, based on the GEF Project Management Report accompanying said application,
is required to be deposited in order to finance GEF Eligible Expenditures during the
six-
month period following the date of such report; provided, however, that the amount
so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said GEF Project Management Report
to be remaining in the GEF Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of
$800,000.
SCHEDULE
2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to test various interventions to improve
environmental conditions in agricultural land through use of environmentally sound
agricultural practices and ultimately reduce nutrients entering water bodies.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications
thereof as the Borrower and the bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
Part A:
Farm Environmental Improvements 
(1)
Provision of technical assistance and training to Beneficiaries to help them 
develop and adopt environmentally sound agricultural practices.
(2)
The financing and carrying out under Farm Contracts of FEIIs meeting the 
Eligibility Criteria.
Part B:
Public Awareness and Management 
(1)
Design and carrying out of a public awareness program to widen understanding of 
the importance of environmental issues in agriculture. 
(2)
Preparation, based on the carrying out of social, economic and environmental 
evaluations and evaluation of Project activities, of a national strategy for
replicating the Project, with a view to increasing prevalence of environmentally sound
practices in agriculture, including  development of least-cost approaches to implement 
said strategy.
(3)
Provision of assistance for the operation of the PIU and financing of 
incremental operating costs of its LITs.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by October
30,
2002. 
Page  11
SCHEDULE
3
Procurement
Part A:
General 
Works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January
1995
and revised in January and August
1996
and September
1997
(the
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures 
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than
$700,000
equivalent per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.3
and
3.4 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
1
of Appendix
1
to the
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions
of said paragraph
1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to the first contract to be awarded in accordance with the
provisions of Part B of this Schedule the procedures set forth in paragraphs
2
and
3
of Appendix
1
to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph
2
of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph
4
of Appendix
1
to the Guidelines shall apply.
