Report No. PID6802
Project Name                     Poland-Rural Environmental Protection (@+) ...
Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           ECSSD
Project ID                       PLPE50660
Borrower                         National Fund for Environmental Protection
and Water Management (NFEP) with Government
of Poland guarantee
Implementing Agency              National Fund for Environmental Protection
and Water Management
Environment Category             B
Date This PID Prepared           August 31, 1999
Appraisal Date                   December, 1998
Projected Board Date             This is a LIL. It will be presented to the
Board for no-objection. It is expected to
become effective in November, 1999
1.      Country and Sector Background
Excess nutrients in water bodies cause major environmental problems for two
reasons. First, they lead to eutrophication -- increased algal growth, which
reduces oxygen in water. Second, they pollute shallow groundwater, which is
the source of drinking water for many rural households. In a recent Polish
study, 16t of samples taken from farm wells exceeded recommended levels of
nitrates.
In Poland, nutrients from agriculture are a major source of this problem.
The main reason is improper storage of animal waste and silage (which contain
30 - 100 times more organic material per unit than municipal wastewater).
Indeed, less than 10t of the country's 2 million farms are thought to have
adequate facilities for storing manure, slurry or silage.
The technical solutions to this problem are well-tested. Several government
and private organisations have undertaken demonstration activities in
different parts of Poland, most of which showed that combining simple
investments with changes in farming practices dramatically reduce run-off and
often bring direct benefits to the farmers.
2.      Objectives
This project aims to significantly increase the prevalence of
environmentally-responsible farming practices among eligible farms in target
project areas. It will develop a mechanism for providing incentives to
farmers through a program linking outreach work with investment support.
3.      Description
The project has two components. The first will provide technical assistance
to farmers to help them develop an environmentally-responsible farm



management plan, and to provide financial support for on-farm investments.
The second involves a program of public outreach, developing a strategy for
replicating the project, monitoring and project management.
Component 1. On-Farm Environmental Improvements
Advice to Farmers. The project will provide technical assistance to eligible
farmers to help them develop a farm management plan and to help them
implement the plan. The plan will include nutrient management plans and
evaluating options for changing cropping, tilling, manure spreading,
fertilizer application practices, and establishing riparian buffer strips. To
be eligible, farms must be located in the project areas, must be owned by a
single family, must be financially viable and must have at least ten cows or
equivalent sized animals.
Environmental Investments. The project will fund, on a cost-sharing basis,
environmental investments related to the farm management plan. Most
investments are likely to be for facilities to store animal wastes, but in
some cases the project will also partly fund equipment for groups of farmers.
The project will hire contractors to construct the facilities on the farm up
to an estimated value of 70- of the total cost up to a fixed ceiling.    The
farmers will cover the remaining 309 in the form of labor, materials and
direct payments.
Component 2. Outreach Replication and Management
This will include the following:
Public Awareness. A program to widen understanding of the importance of
agriculture and environment issues in Poland.
Monitoring. This will involve measuring project performance against agreed
indicators. Monitoring tools include: an on-going social assessment survey
with beneficiaries and other stakeholders; a financial and economic study to
assess the project's efficiency and to assess the economic impacts to farmers
of adopting environmentally-responsible practices; and environmental
monitoring to assess the environmental consequences of the project's
interventions.
Replication. A study to assess potential for replicating the project, with
necessary modifications, elsewhere in Poland and in other countries in the
region.
The project will focus on three parts of the country - rural areas around
Torun, Elblag and on the borders between Ostraleka and Lomza. These areas
are all sensitive to nitrate pollution and are representative of different
farm and soil types in Poland. They have also all been involved in earlier
demonstration activities, so demand for interventions of this type are high.
4.      Financing
The project will be funded by a mix of credits and grants from different
sources: a World Bank loan of US$2.5 million; a US$3 million grant from the
Global Environmental Facility (GEF); a US$1 million grant from the Nordic
Environmental Finance Corporation (NEFCO); and an expected EUR$3.5 million
-2 -



grant from the European Union.
5.      Implementation
The National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management (NFEP)
will implement the project, and will establish decentralized Local
Implementation Teams to manage the project in each of the project areas.
6.      Sustainability
The farm investments are expected to be sustainable as the manure stored is
worth more when used as fertilizer than operating and maintaining the
infrastructure. The TA and social assessment will assess sustainability
issues explicitly.
7.      Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Key lessons learned from agricultural and environmental projects in Poland,
as well as regional initiatives to protect the Baltic Sea include:
- The need for a long-term commitment to address agriculture and environment
issues through phased programs of interventions and a broad-based
partnership, encouraging farmers to think of themselves as environmental
managers.
- The importance of calculating and disseminating the benefits of improved
environmental management in rural areas at local and national levels in
order to sustain support for the program.
- The high capacity of local and national Government officials for
innovation and effective management.
9.      Environmental Aspects
Environmental Category: B
10.     Program Objective Categories
The principal program objective category is pollution control.
11.     Contact Points:
Julia Bucknall, ECSSD
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 473 5323
Fax No.:                 (202) 614 5323
Ryszard Jacek Rogowski
NFEP
Ul. Konstruktorska 3A
Warsaw 02-673, Poland
Telephone No.: 48-22-8490079
Fax No.:                 48-22-8492098
The InfoShop
The World Bank
- 3-



1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-5454
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending September 10, 1999.
- 4 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it
is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01,
Environmental Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public
Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.



