Document of             FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2456a-S:
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR THE
SECOND AVIATION PROJECT
February 28, 1979
ThIb doet km a reutt  dtinle  and my be md by mbha.t ely In t  perfomanc of
tir ol5eW 1dde. Its eotabe -y ne otherwise be diclued without World Dak  ubeoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:        CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00         -    CFAF 220
CFAF 1 million  -    US$4,545
FISCAL YEAR OF THE GOVERNMENT
July 1 - June 30
FISCAL YEAR OF ASECNA
January 1 - December 31
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
1 meter (m)                 .      3.28 feet (ft)
1 square meter (m2)         -     10.8 square feet (sq ft)
1 kilometer (km)       2           0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)   -       0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (t)            8      2,204 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
GDP            -      Gross Domestic Product
DSP            -      Directorate of Studies and Programming
ME             -      Ministry of Equipment
ASECNA         -      Agence pour la Securite de la Navigation
Aerienne en Afrique et a Madagascar
DAC            -      Directorate of Civil Aviation
Dakar Airport  -      Dakar-Yoff International Airport
VOR            -    'Very high frequency Omi Range
VASIS          -      Visual Approach Slope Indicator System



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
SECOND AVIATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              Republic of Senegal
Beneficiary:           ASECNA
Amount:                US$7 million equivalent
Terms:                 15 years including 4 years of grace, with interest at
7 percent p.a. The proceeds of the loan would be relent
to ASECNA on the same terms and conditions.
Project Description:  The project is part of Senegal's phased airport develop-
ment plan which aims at maintaining Dakar's attractive-
ness for international air traffic by exploiting its
favoured location as an important staging point for
long-range flights to Central Africa and South America.
The plan also aims at promoting tourism, at improving
utilization of the domestic airline fleet and at offer-
ing better services by providing reliable air navigation
and night flight aids. The project would be executed
over the period 1979-1982 and would comprise:
(a)  strengthening and levelling the main runway and
taxiway and improving the taxiway alignment at
Dakar airport;
(b)  the installation of navigation aids, runway
lighting and related works at Ziguinchor airport;
and
(c)  the installation of visual approach aids at
Cap Skirring airport.
Benefits and Risks:   By maintaining Dakar airport's suitability as a major
transit and stop-over point between Europe and Latin
America and between North-America and West and Central
Africa, the project would contribute to maintaining
and increasing foreign exchange earnings derived from
landing charges, expenditures by crews on stop-overs,
sale of aviation fuel, and other airport-related serv-
ices. It would also ensure growth in employment in line
with the expected expansion of the airport activity and
related services. By rationalizing the financial
structure of the Senegalese airport system, the project
would reduce subsidies against operating losses paid the
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 11. -
Government's Treasury. Finally, it would also contri-
bute to the development of the tourism industry, which
the government is actively pursuing, and thereby add to
foreign exchange earnings. Execution of the project
should be straightforward and no technical risks are
anticipated.
Estimated Cost:
Foreign    Local    Total
…US$ million -------
Category of Expenditures
Dakar Airport                    4.4        1.3        5.7
Ziguinchor                       0.3        0.1        0.4
Cap Skirring                     0.1        0.0        0.1
Engineering/Supervision          0.4        0.0        0.4
Base Cost                     5.2        1.4       6.6
Contingencies
Physical                         0.5        0.1        0.6
Price                            1.3        0.6        1.9
Total Project Cost              7.0        2.1        9.1
(excluding taxes, from which
the project is exempt)
Internal Economic
Rate of Return:        37 percent
Financing Plan:
US$ million
IBRD Loan                                 7.0
ASECNA                                    2.1
Total                                  9.1
Estimated
Disbursements:
FY 80     FY 81      FY 82
…- US$ million ------
Annual                            1.1        4.1        1.8
Cumulative                        1.1        5.2        7.0
Staff Appraisal
Report:                No. 2290-SE of March 13, 1979
Maps:                  IBRD 14038-14039



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR THE SECOND AVIATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Senegal for the equivalent of US$7 million to help
finance the Second Aviation Project. The Loan would have a term of 15 years
including 4 years of grace, with interest at 7 percent per annum. The
proceeds of the loan would be relent to ASECNA on the same terms and con-
ditions.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "The Economy of Senegal" (212-SE) was distributed
to the Executive Directors on September 10, 1973. Since then, a series of
preparatory sector missions, a basic economic mission, and most recently a
public finance mission have visited Senegal to update the macroeconomic data
base and to review the country's development strategy. The following para-
graphs reflect the findings of these missions, whose conclusions will be
included in a basic economic report now being finalized. Updated country
data appear in Annex I.
Economic Structure and Past Developments
3.        Senegal is situated at the extreme western part of the African
continent. In the traditional sector of the economy, the mainstay is millet
cultivation and nomadic cattle-raising for domestic consumption, and ground-
nut cultivation for exports. Soils are generally poor, and variations in
rainfall periodically cause severe food shortages in the months between the
sowing and harvesting of the next crop. The large river basins -- some of
them fed in the tropical rain zone -- have so far been exploited only margin-
ally. Land distribution is fairly even. In the western part of the country
arable land is becoming scarce, but in the extreme south-east some good land
is still available. The modern sector of the economy is concentrated in
Dakar, a well organized city of about 1 million inhabitants. The economic
base of Dakar consists of excellent port facilities, an industrial sector
which is turning gradually toward exports, and a small but fast-growing
tourism industry. Senegal's per capita GNP for 1977 was estimated at US$420,
but average income in Dakar is roughly five times as high as in the country-
side.
4.        During the 1960s, the Senegalese economy experienced virtual stag-
nation as real output increased less rapidly than population growth (the
latter now estimated at 2.7 percent per annum), and per capita GNP declined.
Two factors were responsible for this situation. First, with independence,
Senegal lost its privileged position as the center of French West Africa,



- 2 -
and therefore had to adjust to reduced economic, administrative and political
circumstances. Secondly, in the latter part of the decade, groundnut produc-
tion (representing the principal export factor) fell due to unfavorable
weather and declining export prices.
5.        In the 1970s, a new stage in Senegal's development set in, charac-
terized by a higher rate of private and public investment.  Private invest-
ments, which had hovered around 4 percent of GDP in the late 1960s, rose to
7.5 percent during the period 1970-75, while public investments increased
from around 5.5 percent of GDP in 1972 to almost 7 percent during 1973-75.
In spite of this rise in the rate of investment, output and incomes were
depressed in 1972 and 1973 by the Sahel's most severe drought in over a
century, which brought a decline in real national income. Thereafter, when
weather conditions improved and purchasing power of the rural population was
substantially restored, both agricultural and industrial production increased
markedly. However, in 1977 the country suffered another severe drought, the
magnitude of which is reflected in the variations in groundnut crops. From
a historical record of 1.45 million tons in 1975/76 (more than double the
average for the 1968-73 period) output fell to less than 0.6 million tons in
1977/78; but it recovered to about 1.0 million tons in 1978/79, ushering in
a new phase of economic recovery. Despite these substantial fluctuations in
agricultural production, industrial output (excluding groundnut processing)
grew fairly evenly by about 5 percent a year. GDP in constant prices in-
creased at an average annual rate of 4 percent between 1973 and 1977 thanks
to the recovery from the earlier droughts, but in 1978 it is estimated to have
declined by 14 percent.
6.        The strong physical fluctuations in production were aggravated by
price fluctuations of Senegal's major export and import commodities. In 1974,
terms of trade improved by over 21 percent, mainly due to exceptionally high
prices for phosphate rock, Senegal's second export commodity. However, in
1975 export prices for both phosphate rock and groundnuts declined sharply,
and since then the terms of trade has stayed well below the level of the early
1970s. These wide international price fluctuations had serious consequences
on domestic prices, public finance, and balance of payments.
Public Finance
7.        After some early hesitation, the Government responded with flexi-
bility in adapting its policies to changes in the economic environment. In
1974, Government initially tried to maintain stable domestic prices in the
face of skyrocketing food import prices; however, by the end of that year
when it became clear that the costs of this policy were becoming excessive,
several changes were made. Particularly, in an attempt to reduce subsidies
and put public finances on a sounder footing, Government raised the prices
for rice, sugar, and groundnut oil by 40 to 90 percent. As a compensation,
government salaries were raised on average by 16 percent, with actual
increases ranging from 60 percent for the lower grades to 3 percent for
the higher ones. The minimum wage was increased by 47 percent, thus raising
the entire wage scale of the private sector. Average consumer prices rose



- 3 -
by some 28 percent in six months' tlt'ie, but Government managed to stabilize
prices almost completely in the year thereafter. At the end of 1974, the
Government also increased producer prices for groundnuts to bring them closer
to world prices which were at that time particularly high. The loss of
revenue to the Treasury because of this latter step was expected to be com-
pensated in large part by additional revenues from the phosphate mine in
which Government increased its participation while levying an 80 percent
tax on the excess profits accruing from the quadrupling of export prices
of phosphates in 1972/73. In 1974 and 1975, Government did indeed receive
high revenues from phosphates amounting to roughly US$45 million a year.
8.        These steps led to a net increase in public savings after debt
service from a yearly average of US$23 million during 1971 through 1973, to
US$41 million during 1974 through 1976. This high level of public savings was
doubtless an important factor in stimulating Government to increase public
investment outlays from a yearly average of US$24 million to US$49 million
during the same two periods. In addition, purchases of equity and lending to
domestic enterprises by Government increased sharply from a past average of
US$5 million to US$62 million in FY74, and about US$32 million in 1975 and
1976, mainly because of increased participation in the phosphate mine and
the acquisition of two foreign-owned public utility companies. The combined
capital outlays of the Government were thus substantially in excess of public
savings, and were financed in large part through medium-term foreign bank
loans. As a consequence, foreign debt service carried by the Central Govern-
ment increased from US$8 million in FY73 to US$38 million in 1975/76, repre-
senting about 10 percent of Central Government revenues.
9.        A sudden fall in world phosphate prices in 1976 eliminated Govern-
ment revenues from this source and reduced public savings after debt service
to a negligible level. As a consequence, Government increased taxes in the
following year to derive additional yearly proceeds of about US$37 million;
these tax measures, combined with a substantial restraint on recurrent ex-
penditures, gave Government an opportunity to undertake some new commercial
borrowing for its investment program. When it became clear that the 1977/78
crop would be a complete failure, Government substantially increased current
expenditures to avoid famine in the countryside by importing more cereals
and acquitting farmers' debts; however, the Government did not reduce its
investment program which was kept going through heavy commercial borrowing
US$134 million in 1977 and US$187 million in 1978). As a consequence, in
1980/81 when grace periods are over, debt service obligations to the budget
will reach about US$145 million (or 16.4 percent of Government revenues). To
cover this debt service and still leave a sufficient national contribution to
the public investment program, the tax ratio will have to be increased from
23 percent of GDP in 1976/77 to 25 percent in 1979/80, even if growth of
recurrent expenditures is held, for a number of years, at rates well below
existing trends. This will demand substantial restructuring of current budget
expenditures so as to protect such high priority outlays as road maintenance,
education and public health.



-4-
Balance of Payments
10.       The balance of payments came under heavy pressure in 1973 because
of low groundnut exports and increasing imports of foodstuffs and equipment
goods, and net foreign reserves of the country fell to minus US$15 million.
In the following years the deficit on current transactions was reduced, but
outflows of private capital related to the acquisition of foreign enterprises
continued, and net foreign reserves declined further to minus US$48 million at
the end of 1975. This deficit was financed partly by US$30 million in IMF oil
facilities, and the rest by increasing the indebtedness of the mostly foreign-
owned commercial banks to their parent companies.
11.       Since then, the situation has not improved.  In 1976, the state
marketing board purchased the large groundnut crop at the high producer prices
established in 1974, injecting massive purchasing power into the economy,
while Government continued expansive monetary and budgetary policies. Both
measures substantially increased import demand. However, export revenues
stagnated since groundnut prices were 25 percent below the 1974 peak, and
phosphate prices were down by 35 percent. Even though there were price
declines of the same order in some of Senegal's food imports, the net effect
on the terms of trade was heavily negative. The year 1977 did not bring any
substantial improvement, although the 1976/77 groundnut crop was good. In
December 1977 net foreign assets were down to minus US$53 million.
12.       The 1977/78 drought caused a loss of US$82 million in groundnut
revenues and drove up food imports by US$56 million (partly paid from foreign
grants), creating a deficit on current account of US$228 million as compared
to US$101 million in the previous year. Thanks to the heavy commercial borrow-
ing, the impact of this huge trade deficit on net foreign assets could be
limited to US$34 million, a deficit that was financed by drawings on the IMF
compensatory facility and trust fund.
Prospects and Creditworthiness
13.       The Government's long-range development strategy remains based on
promotion of agriculture and export-oriented activities. The agricultural
program calls for development of areas less affected by rainfall fluctuations
(Casamance and Eastern Senegal) where cash crops other than groundnuts can be
grown. Irrigated cereal production is being developed in the arid northern
part of the country along the Senegal River. This policy will make the
country less dependent on the uncertainties of its climate and world market
prices, and reduce the heavy burden of food imports; but since the majority
of the rural poor remain involved in groundnut farming, Government is con-
tinuing its efforts to promote animal traction, treated seeds, fertilizer
use, and crop rotation to raise the productivity of farmers. The Government
also aims at long-term improvement of the balance of payments mainly through
modest expansion of phosphate mining, and development of light export in-
dustries and tourism; moreover, contracts have been signed for construction
of a ship-repair yard, and plans for a phosphoric acid plant are in an
advanced stage. With chances for export growth in the groundnut sector



limited, and because of relatively high production costs in light industry, no
spectacular improvements in the balance of payments can be expected. Govern-
ment is counting heavily on the implementation of a number of large invest-
ments, either in irrigation to diminish the heavy dependence on rice imports,
or in capital-intensive industrial projects, which is, however, less desirable
from an employment point of view. In view of the risks that Government would
have to assume on the above-mentioned large-scale industrial investments, a
cautious view of the long-term outlook is warranted. Even to achieve an eco-
nomic growth rate of not more than 4 percent a year as compared to an official
objective of 5.8 percent, the resource gap will keep growing, although still
within manageable limits.
14.       In the medium term, Government will need a particularly large pro-
portion of foreign capital in the financing of new projects so as to allow
implementation of a high public investment program in spite of limited public
savings. Such a program is essential for Senegal's future development,
because total investments would have to increase over the next several years
to bring the country back on a satisfactory growth path. Moreover, the share
of the public sector in total investments will have to go up, partly because
of the critical dependence of the economy on acceleration of publicly financed
irrigation, partly because of the increased share in ownership Government has
recently acquired in the most important sectors of the economy, and partly
because of the low propensity of the private sector to invest due to high
production costs in Senegal.
15.       This need for high public investments conflicts with existing trends
in public savings. Despite a fast growth in Government receipts, public
savings after debt service stagnated at a low level in the past, and are
expected to become heavily negative in 1978/79, a period with low receipts due
to the depressed economic condition in the previous drought year. Interest
and amortization on the heavy debt contracted during this drought year will
absorb most of the savings the budget can possibly generate in the next four
to five years. Considering the already very high level of taxation in Senegal,
further increases in the tax burden, while unavoidable, will necessarily
remain limited, so that even under the best of circumstances, public savings
cannot be expected to contribute more than 15-20 percent towards the financing
of new public investment.
16.       To avoid a further increase of the debt service burden, Government
should not, for some years, contract new commercial loans to finance projects
that do not generate sufficient funds for the repayment of these loans.
Higher debt service will necessarily compete with other recurrent expenditures
such as the maintenance of existing infrastructure and of new development
projects, types of expenditures which already provide budgetary problems for
the Government. As a consequence, it is almost certain that a considerable
number of projects presently under consideration which are not directly
productive will have to be postponed. Government will also have to avoid
excessive financial risks on productive projects by being more selective in
its participations and guarantees on loans contracted by mixed enterprises,
and may even have to consider disengaging itself entirely from some of these



ventures. A better economic performance in the parapublic sector should be
a key ingredient in the fiscal program Government is presently designing.
17.       The balance of payments situation is dominated by the need for a
better foreign reserve position. In the short term, Senegal can afford low
levels of foreign reserves through its membership in the West African Monetary
Union which provides for pooling of foreign reserves, and whose currency is
guaranteed by the French Government. Moreover, as the experience in 1978 has
shown, IMF and STABEX facilities provide a sufficient buffer for the periodic
drops in export revenues linked with droughts and fluctuations in world market
prices. However, Senegal's negligible contribution to the Union's foreign
reserves for an extended period may harm this regional institution, whose
existence is a cornerstone for Senegal's creditworthiness. An expected
improvement in the public savings performance, together with continuing
export-oriented policies, is expected to bring about a recovery of this
unsatisfactory foreign reserve position.
18.       The ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor serv-
ices increased rapidly from 6 percent in 1976 to a projected 15 percent in
1979, a level which the Bank considers close to the maximum allowable in
Senegal's present economic situation. This steep increase is mainly due
to an increase of commercial borrowing from about 25 percent of total bor-
rowing during 1973-76 to an average of 64 percent during 1977 and 1978. Only
with much greater reliance on concessionary capital flows will Government be
able to keep the external debt service ratio around the present level. This
might require a certain reduction in foreign borrowing over the coming years,
especially if access to concessionary capital remains limited.
19.       On the assumption that Government takes steps to maintain a balance
between public investments and public savings, Senegal would remain credit-
worthy for some lending on IBRD terms. The Government has demonstrated its
commitment to development by increasing public investments between 1970/71
and 1977/78 by 20 percent per year in current prices. The Government has
also demonstrated its capacity to respond adequately to the problems which
its vulnerable economy is bound to encounter periodically. In August 1978,
the National Assembly was called from summer recess to approve a new fiscal
package amounting to US$20 million, and Government is presently working (in
cooperation with IMF and the Bank Group) on a new set of fiscal measures to
redress the public finance situation. Government has committed itself to
bring the level of public savings after debt service to at least 15 percent
of public investment over the next few years. Senegal has reasonable pros-
pects for long-term diversification and growth. Its access to short-term
financing facilities and membership in the West African Monetary Union also
reduce the risks associated with economic fluctuations. However, lenders
(including the Bank Group) should provide a large part of their assistance
on concessionary terms in order to avoid a further rapid buildup of debt
service.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
20.       The Bank Group has had 39 operations in Senegal to date.  Total
outstanding lending amounts to US$193.6 million, including twenty IDA credits,
thirteen Bank loans, two blends of Bank and IDA funds, three IFC operations,
and one blend of Bank and IFC funds. Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of January 31, 1979, and
notes on the implementation of ongoing projects. Execution of these projects
is progressing reasonably well, except that some operations particularly
in highways and education have been affected by the shortage of counterpart
funds due to the Government's continuing difficult public finance situation,
as well as by lack of qualified local staff for key positions. The Govern-
ment is well aware of the need to reduce delays caused by these problems,
and particularly of the importance of assuring good management supervision
of projects in all sectors. In this respect, the Para-Public Sector Technical
Assistance Project approved by the Executive Directors in January 1978 is
designed to initiate the measures necessary to resolve on a sectorwide basis
some of the issues regarding the general situation of the country's finances
and Government control of public enterprises and mixed companies, particularly
those which are channels for Bank Group assistance. In addition, the Govern-
ment created a few months ago an interministerial committee, attended by
representatives of foreign aid donors, designed to step up investments and
identify bottlenecks in project execution and take remedial action. This has
already produced some positive results.
21.       The Bank Group's share in total external aid disbursements to
Senegal over 1977-81 will stay at around 16 percent, of which roughly 45 per-
cent in IDA financing. The Bank Group's share in outstanding disbursed debt
was 17.6 percent in 1978, and will slowly start to surpass that level after
1981, to an expected level of 19.4 percent in 1985. The Bank Group's share in
public debt service is expected to increase from 4.5 percent in 1978 to about
8.9 percent in 1985, a rise which is mainly due to the increase in IBRD loans
from 5.8 percent of Senegal's outstanding disbursed debt at end-1978 to about
10 percent by 1985.
22.       The objectives of Bank Group lending in Senegal fall under five main
headings. Firstly, we continue to give priority to rural development, includ-
ing development of irrigation in the Senegal River Valley Region and intensi-
fication of groundnut production and diversification into new crops and new
regions. As in the past, we would expect our agricultural lending over the
next few years to exceed one-third of the total. Secondly, we have supported
diversification of the economy by lending to the growing industrial sector
through the Societe Financiere Senegalaise pour le Developpement de l'Industrie
et du Tourisme (SOFISEDIT), a development finance company established with
Bank Group assistance in 1974, and through an ongoing tourism project.
Thirdly, we have supported modernization and expansion (where economically
desirable) of the country's transport infrastructure. We are preparing an
engineering project aimed at paving the way for Bank involvement into the
water supply and sanitation sector by financing studies for a water supply
project in secondary centers. Fourthly, Government has asked us to help



re-orient and expand the country's education system at all levels, by meeting
in particular the needs for trained high- and middle-level technicians and
managers in the modern sector and in agricultural development activities, and
by increasing access to primary education, particularly in rural areas. We
remain conscious of the need to support projects in the social services
sector, within the limits of the Government's ability to bear the recurrent
costs involved, and we have started preparing a nutrition project. Finally,
we are helping Government increase its absorptive capacity for planning,
executing, and managing development projects through institutional support
within individual Bank Group projects, and through broader efforts such as
the Technical Assistance Project for the Para-Public Sector. Several Bank
operations, which fit into the overall objectives of the Government's economic
strategy, notably in tourism, telecommunications, port infrastructure, and
loans to SOFISEDIT as well as the proposed aviation project, have the addi-
tional merit of generating revenues for the Senegalese Treasury.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
23.       The transport system consists of a 1,034 km railway; a 13,300 km
road network, including 2,600 km paved and 3,300 km all-weather roads; a deep-
water, protected port at Dakar (the only one with such characteristics in the
Sahel zone) and three secondary ports; and an international airport at Dakar
and a network of smaller domestic airports. All components of the system,
except the road network, serve an important international function and
reflect the country's role as a regional center and transit point.
24.       Government's transport strategy focuses on:  (i) developing local
transport infrastructure in support of overall economic growth, particularly
in the agriculture and tourism sector; (ii) promoting regional integration,
especially within rural areas, and in particular with the Casamance region;
and (iii) maintaining the already extensive investments within the sector.
Transport planning and coordination is shared by three ministries: the
Ministry of Planning assumes overall responsibility for preparation of devel-
opment plans; the Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs specifies amounts
to be invested, determines the structure and level of taxes levied on trans-
port services and maintains financial supervision of state-owned transport
enterprises; the Ministry of Equipment proposes and executes Government's
policy in the transport sector. With the assistance of the Bank, the Govern-
ment has undertaken the execution of a National Transport Plan as a first step
in strengthening permanent transport planning institutions.
25.       To make up for its chronic shortage of funds to finance transport-
related investments, the Government has relied heavily on external assistance
from both multilateral and bilateral sources. In addition to the Bank, which
has provided about US$83 million over the past twelve years in all transport
subsectors, major sources of funds were: (a) FED, West Germany and commercial
banks for road construction; (b) France for railways investments; (c) France
and Banque Arabe pour le Developpement Economique en Afrique (BADEA) in ports;
and (d) France in aviation.



-9-
Roads
26.       The road network, generally well developed relative to the size of
the country and growth of the economy, is concentrated in the coastal regions
and the groundnut-producing areas near Dakar. It is the principal mode of
domestic transport, carrying about 75 percent of commercial inter-urban
passengers and freight traffic excluding phosphates. Since independence in
1960, Government's strategy in the highway sector has been to extend roads
throughout the country, especially in remote areas with agricultural potential,
and to date some 2,000 km of roads have been built since the first four-year
development plan. The Bank Group helped that strategy through the First High-
way Project (Credit 198-SE, 1970) and more recently through a Feeder Roads
Project (Loan 1222-T-SE, 1976). As many of the paved roads were built before
independence and were not designed for present traffic, they have suffered
substantial deterioration. The Second (Credit 366-SE, 1973) and Third Highway
Projects (Loan 1221-SE, 1976) were designed to meet these needs and to improve
road maintenance, which has been somewhat neglected in the past. The Bank has
recently appraised a fourth Highway Project which further concentrates on road
maintenance organization and on training of road maintenance personnel.
Railways
27.       The railway comprises about 660 km of mainline between Dakar and
the Mali border and 374 km of branch lines. It is operated by the Regie des
Chemins de Fer du Senegal, a public enterprise. In FY78, the Regie carried
about 1.7 million tons of freight, the bulk of which is phosphates from the
Taiba and Thies mines to Dakar port and transit traffic to Mali. The railway
has traditionally been the dominant carrier of domestic freight, but due to
deteriorating service and efficiency, it has recently lost its position to the
road transport, particularly for shorter hauls. The Bank Group has financed
three railroad projects (Credit 96-SE, 1966; Credit 314/Loan 835-SE, 1972 and
Loan 1518-SE, 1978). The first two projects concentrated on improvements in
physical infrastructure, while the third project, now under execution, lays
emphasis on improving the Regie's organizational and financial management
and on technical assistance and training programs. As a result of this new
approach, the railway has started to regain freight traffic, mainly phosphates
and international traffic to Mali. Increased railway phosphate traffic has
relieved congestion on the heavily utilized Thies-Dakar road corridor and
increased international traffic to Mali has prevented diversion of Mali
imports and exports to the more expensive Ivory Coast route.
Ports
28.       Senegal's port and waterway system consists of major port facilities
at Dakar, supplemented by secondary ports at St. Louis, Kaolack and Ziguinchor.
The Port of Dakar, which is the only deep-water port, is managed and operated
by the Port Autonome de Dakar (PAD), an efficient and profitable public enter-
prise. Cargo through Dakar doubled in the last ten years and now totals about
6 million tons per annum. Traffic consists mainly of petroleum, phosphates,
general merchandise and international traffic for Mali and Mauritania. The



- 10 -
Port's managerial and financial performance is good. The first Port Project
(Loan 493-SE, 1967) extended the port's facilities and was successfully com-
pleted. The Second Port Project (Loan 1405-T-SE, 1977) now under execution,
consists of the construction of a new fishing wharf with ancillary facilities
at Dakar port. A third port project, under preparation, is designed to meet
the increasing requirements of container traffic.
The Aviation Subsector
Organization
29.        Civil Aviation in Senegal is the responsibility of the Ministry of
Equipment (ME) and of the Agence pour la Securite de la Navigation Aerienne
en Afrique et a Madagascar (ASECNA). ME carries out its responsibilities
through the Directorate of Civil Aviation (DAC) which supervises the operation
of the state-owned airline, Air Senegal, approves its investments and tariffs,
sets Senegal's air transport policy, negotiates agreements on the establish-
ment of new air routes to Senegal, supervises and regulates air charters and
approves ASECNA-proposed landing fee schedules. The organization of the
aviation sector in Senegal is sound and is working quite efficiently.
30.       ASECNA is an international organization created under a 1959 Conven-
tion between 14 African countries and France. The ASECNA Convention was
revised in 1974 to reflect a decrease in France's involvement and some changes
in ASECNA's structural and administrative organization. ASECNA's headquarters
is in Dakar, and there is a representative of ASECNA in each member country
who is responsible for operations in his country; he is assisted by a tech-
nical staff.  ASECNA's main tasks are:  (i) to control air navigation over the
territories of the African member states under Article 2 of the Convention;
and (ii) to design, construct, manage and operate ground facilities of member
states' airports in accordance with Articles 10 and 12 of the Convention and
under bilateral agreements (Contrats Particuliers) between individual member
states and ASECNA. It is supported, directed and manned by a competent and
efficient African staff assisted by a small team of French technical assis-
tants. A training school is maintained at Niamey in Niger.
31.       ASECNA carries out the management, operation and maintenance of
Dakar-Yoff International Airport (hereafter called Dakar Airport) and of most
of Senegal's domestic airports under the "Contrat Particulier" with the Gov-
ernment of Senegal. ASECNA performance under this agreement is very good.
Financial Structure
32.       ASECNA's financial organization and accounting procedures reflect
the two basic functions it performs in Senegal, i.e., international navigation
under Article 2 of the Convention, and management and operation of domestic
airports under Articles 10 and 12.



33.       Accounts for the flight information centers and other air navigation-
related activities under Article 2 are kept on a multinational basis. As only
a small part of the services provided by the centers relate to air operations
over Senegal, only part of the costs is charged to Senegal; this cost of the
Article 2 operations of ASECNA is offset by the benefits that the Senegalese
economy derives from the location of ASECNA's headquarters in Dakar.
34.       Under the special agreement between the Government of Senegal and
ASECNA, the financial management of the Senegalese airport system is regulated
by Articles 10 and 12 of the ASECNA Convention. Under these articles, part of
the gross operating revenues generated by Senegalese airports, after deducting
operating expenses, are to be used for investments in the airports and to
service the resulting debt.
35.       While Dakar airport operates at cash surpluses, domestic airports
experience a heavy loss due to their low level of traffic. Under present
procedures, Dakar airport's cash surpluses are fully used to cover part of
the loss with the Government providing the balance. Measures to improve this
unsatisfactory system are part of the proposed project (see para. 47).
36.       ASECNA's planning and studies department prepares the airport's
budget and its accounting department is responsible for the accounts. Both
departments are staffed with qualified and competent personnel. A financial
controller, appointed by the Administrative Council of ASECNA with the agree-
ment of the Committee of Ministers, is responsible for internal auditing.
During negotiations, the Government and ASECNA agreed to have ASECNA's
accounts audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and to furnish
such audits within six months after the end of each fiscal year (Section 4.02
of the draft Project Agreement).
Air Services
(a) Dakar International Airport
37.       International air transport services to and from Dakar, the only
airport equipped to handle long-range aircraft, are provided by 22 airline
companies, including Air Afrique, a multinational airline which serves as
Senegal's primary international carrier. Dakar is a well-placed, convenient
transit stop for flights between Europe and Latin America and between North
America and Western and Central Africa. Dakar's pleasant climate, excellent
hotels and good general business and airport services make it an attractive
stop-over rest point for crews and a suitable place to provide required air-
craft transit services. With the introduction of very long-haul aircraft in
the early 1970's, Dakar lost part of its advantage as direct flights started
operating between Rio de Janeiro and Paris. However, although attractive
to passengers, very long direct flights require bigger or duplicate crews,
subject them to longer flying hours, require more fuel and thus cause payload
restrictions, all of which are likely to limit the number of new direct
flights. The Dakar stop will continue to be attractive for Europe-Buenos
Aires flights as aircraft on this longer distance would face particularly
severe payload penalties in case of non-stop flights.



- 12 -
38.        In 1972, the Bank financed a First Aviation Project (Loan 867-SE,
US$3.0 million) consisting of the extension of the runway of Dakar airport,
expansion of aircraft parking aprons and related works. The project was
aimed at making the airport suitable for large aircraft which were being put
into service, thus enabling Senegal to maintain its position as staging point
for long-range flights. As stated in the Project Performance Audit Report of
December 1977, the project was successfully completed in 1976 by ASECNA:
physical execution met with few delays while financial performance, traffic
forecasts and economic return were very close to appraisal estimates.
(b) Domestic Airports
39.       The two busiest domestic routes are the ones connecting Dakar with:
(i) Cap Skirring (271 km), a tourist resort on Senegal's southern coast which
has attracted growing traffic since the construction of tourist facilities in
1973, and (ii) Ziguinchor, the capital of the Casamance region in the south
of the country, separated from the rest of the country by The Gambia. The
tourism-oriented activities of Ziguinchor and particularly of Cap Skirring,
provide Dakar airport with a substantial incremental transit traffic. The
traffic of the other domestic airports is minimal; however, most of them
represent the only convenient communication link between Dakar and some of the
more remote regions.
(c) Air-Senegal
40.       Air-Senegal is the national domestic airline.  It provides scheduled
services to 15 domestic airports, and limited international service to
nearby Mauritania, Cape Verde and Guinea-Bissau. It operates piston and
turbo-prop aircraft, covers a domestic network of 4,080 km, and carries about
60,000 passengers annually. The Government has subsidized Air-Senegal's
operations in the past, but the airline is expected to break even in 1978.
Traffic
41.        Commercial air traffic, mainly international, through Dakar airport
has increased substantially over the past 10 years; annual growth rates have
averaged 14.8 percent for passengers, 13.4 percent for freight and 7.9 percent
for aircraft movements. During the same period, and despite an increased
number of direct flights by-passing Dakar, the number of transit passengers
between Europe and Latin America has continued to increase because of the
privileged geographical location and the quality of services at Dakar. On the
basis of ASECNA's analysis of the trends in passenger, freight and aircraft
movements at Dakar, the following forecasts are envisaged for the period
1978-1984: (i) passenger traffic is expected to grow at a 12 percent annual
average rate, as travel by business passengers and local residents should
continue to grow as in the past while traffic of tourists will probably not
be able to continue its past growth rate; (ii) air freight traffic, consisting
mostly of Senegalese exports of fruits, vegetables and fish to Europe, is
expected to grow at 13 percent per year; and (iii) aircraft movements are
expected to grow at the somewhat lower annual rate of 6 percent until 1980



- 13 -
as a result of stagnation of Europe-Latin American transit flights, and at
8 percent thereafter, when planned direct Europe-Dakar flights are introduced.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.       During appraisal of the first aviation project, the deterioration
of Dakar airport's main runway was recognized and a strengthening overlay was
included in the Government's investment program. However, a careful evalua-
tion at the time of project implementation led to the conclusion that rehab-
ilitation of the runway could be deferred. The lengthening of the runway
under the first project has meant much heavier allowable take-off weights and
this, plus increased traffic movements, has contributed to an acceleration
of the deterioration of the runway. As a result, the Senegalese Government
requested the Bank in early 1978 to finance the resurfacing of Dakar's main
runway and taxiway and to look into the possibility of improving navigation at
Cap Skirring and Ziguinchor airports. The project was prepared during the
first quarter of 1978 and an appraisal mission took place in June/July 1978.
Negotiations were held in Paris in February 1979; the Senegalese delegation
was led by His Excellency Louis Alexandrenne, Minister of Plan and Coopera-
tion. A report entitled "Republic of Senegal" - Staff Appraisal Report -
"Second Aviation Project" No. 2290-SE dated February 2, 1979 is being distri-
buted separately. Maps IBRD 14038 and 14039 show the location of Senegal's
airports, and Annex III provides the timetable of key events in project
preparation and processing.
Project Objectives and Description
43.       The project objectives are to help Dakar airport keep its attrac-
tiveness for international air traffic by exploiting its favorable location
as a staging point for long range flights to Western and Central Africa and
South America. In addition, it aims at stimulating growth by generating
increased foreign exchange earnings and greater job opportunities. At Cap
Skirring and Ziguinchor airports, the project aims at better utilization,
lower costs and higher levels of service for Air Senegal's fleet by providing
reliable air navigation and night flying aids. A further objective of the
project is to rationalize the financial structure of the Senegalese airport
system so that (i) Government subsidies to cover the operating deficit of
secondary aiports would decline in real terms; (ii) the transfer of Dakar
airport surpluses would be limited in such a way as to provide a reasonable
return to the Government on its investment in the Dakar airport infrastructure
and at the same time permit Dakar airport to make adequate provision for future
investments and debt service; and (iii) all secondary airports, particularly
Ziguinchor and Cap Skirring, would generate a minimum of revenues to further
reduce their dependence on Government subsidies. The project would be carried
out over the period 1979-1982 and would consist of the following components:
(i) strengthening and levelling the main runway and taxiway and
improving the taxiway alignment at Dakar airport;



- 14 -
(ii) installation of navigation aids (VOR), runway lighting and
related works at Ziguinchor;
(iii) installation of visual approach aids at Cap Skirring (VASIS).
Project Cost and Financing
44.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$9.1 million, of
which US$7.0 million or 77 percent is foreign exchange. The latter would be
financed by the proposed Bank loan. The loan would be made to the Government
of Senegal which would on-lend it to ASECNA under the same terms and condi-
tions. The local cost requirements of US$2.1 million equivalent would be met
by ASECNA's internal cash generation. The Government would exempt all equip-
ment, materials and services required for the project from all taxes and
duties, and these are excluded from the project cost estimates.
Project Implementation
45.       ASECNA successfully executed the first project.  It is competent
to execute the proposed project, and would be responsible for implementing it
under the terms of a Project Agreement entered into with the Bank. In addi-
tion, the Government and ASECNA would enter into a special contract providing
for the detailed specifications under which ASECNA would design and supervise
the project works and procure and install certain equipment. In accordance
with the special contract, ASECNA would act as agent for the borrower in all
matters pertaining to tender action, bid evaluation, contract negotiation,
and project management. The special contract and the subsidiary loan agree-
ment between the Government and ASECNA would form a single document, the
signing of which would be a condition of effectiveness (Section 6.01 (b) of
the draft Loan Agreement).
46.       The paving at Dakar airport would interfere with flight operations
and it would be necessary to limit the hours during which paving could be
done and to reschedule some aircraft. However, the airport would not suffer
any loss in traffic or revenues as a result of this rescheduling. The work at
Ziguinchor and Cap Skirring would not interfere with aircraft operations.
Financial Aspects
47.       The project would have no impact on ASECNA's finances relating
to international air navigation under Article 2. With regard to ASECNA's
finances relating to Senegal's airports under Articles 10 and 12, Dakar
airport's gross cash surpluses are expected to increase steadily over the next
years. However, the deficit of domestic airports will worsen unless measures
are taken to improve this situation. So far the deficit of domestic airports
has been largely offset by Dakar airport cash surpluses and the remainder by
an annual Government subsidy of about CFAF 200 million. Under the proposed
project this system would be discontinued to allow Dakar airport to simply
provide a contribution (set at a minimum of 10 percent and a maximum of 15
percent of gross operating revenues) to the Government while building up cash
reserves for financing future investments (agreement to be entered into by



- 15 -
the Government and ASECNA no later than December 31, 1979 - Section 4.04 of
the draft Loan Agreement). At the same time, in order to reduce Government
subsidies to cover the deficit of secondary airports, the Government and
ASECNA agreed at negotiations that these secondary airports (particularly
Ziguinchor and Cap Skirring) would generate sufficient new revenues so that
the net operating revenues (after deducting working expenses and adequate
provision for depreciation of fixed assets) of the Senegalese airport system
as a whole would be positive in 1981 and would earn a return of at least 4
percent on revalued net fixed assets in use by 1984 (See Section 4.04(a) of
the draft Project Agreement). Under this target, the operating deficit of
secondary airports would not be entirely eliminated as most of these airports
serve multiple functions and therefore require a minimum of maintenance and
administrative expenses which cannot be realistically covered by revenues
generated from low traffic levels. However, net Government subsidies would be
reduced from the present level of about CFAF 200 million to a level of about
CFAF 100 million by 1984. In order to achieve the rate of return targets, the
Government and ASECNA agreed to an Action Plan containing the following
measures: (i) immediate introduction of passenger fees and aircraft service
charges at Cap Skirring and Tambacounda airports; (ii) progressive introduction
of such tariffs at all domestic airports where they do not exist at present;
and (iii) tariff increases as and when needed, reduction in working expenses
and possible promotion of new traffic. The Action Plan is part of the loan
documentation (Section 4.04(a) of the draft Project Agreement and Supplemental
letter No. 3).
48.       To ensure that Dakar's airport is able to finance its share of proj-
ect costs, service the relevant debt, and finance its future investment needs
(such as expansion of terminal, aircraft parking and taxiway needs to accom-
modate increasing traffic demand) through adequate cash generation and debt
service capacity, the Government and ASECNA agreed that net operating revenues
at Dakar airport would earn a return on revalued net fixed assets in use of
not less than 8 percent in 1980 and 10 percent from 1981 onwards (Section
4.04(a) of the draft Project Agreement). The measures needed to achieve this
target are also part of the Action Plan. Dakar airport tariffs, however,
would remain competitive and attractive to airlines operating long distance
large aircraft flights. The annual contribution from Dakar airport operations
has been set on the basis of future cash needs, as defined above, and would
leave an adequate working capital for Dakar airport's ongoing operations.
Procurement
49.       Civil works at Dakar airport would be carried out through interna-
tional competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. For purposes
of standardization with existing air navigation equipment throughout the
ASECNA system and to take advantage of ASECNA's bulk purchasing procedures,
ASECNA would negotiate with overseas suppliers for the highly specialized
electronic and electrical equipment costing about US$300,000 for Ziguinchor
and Cap Skirring. This procedure would be consistent with normal ASECNA
equipment procurement practice for its member countries. This arrangement



- 16 -
has been used in past Bank projects with ASECNA 1/ and has proven satis-
factory. A building (US$45,000) to house new electrical switchgear and an
emergency power plant together with other related civil works at Ziguinchor
would be executed by a local contractor under local bidding and procurement
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Disbursements
50.       The proposed Bank loan of US$7.0 million would be disbursed to
cover the estimated foreign exchange cost of items financed by the Bank as
follows:
(a)  100 percent of foreign expenditures for equipment and its
installation or 70 percent of local costs;
(b)  80 percent of total costs for civil works; and
(c)  80 percent of total costs for engineering and supervision.
Economic Justification
51.       The economic benefits of the proposed investments at Dakar, which
represent 92 percent of total project costs, are calculated as those benefits
which would be foregone to the Senegalese economy if the Europe-Latin America
flights now stopping at Dakar were diverted as a result of further deteriora-
tion of the runway. They derive from four sources: revenues from landing
charges, expenditures by crews stopping over in Dakar, sale of aviation fuel,
and sale of airport-related services. These revenues are estimated to repre-
sent additional foreign exchange earnings to Senegal amounting to over US$3.0
million equivalent per year. The internal economic rate of return (IERR),
based on the benefits and costs of the Dakar investments under the proposed
project and calculated over the 15-year life of the project, is 39 percent.
In addition, the proposed investments at Dakar would generate or maintain
benefits to the Senegalese economy which are difficult to quantify, such
as: (a) avoiding increases in maintenance costs of Dakar's main runway;
(b) increasing the number of tourists by using seat space available on tran-
sit flights at low group rates; and (c) providing employment to Senegalese
nationals.  In addition to providing temporary employment during construction,
the anticipated traffic growth at Dakar airport would result in creating new
permanent jobs in the Dakar area. The investments at Zinguinchor and Cap
Skirring would generate increased aircraft utilization and allow savings in
maintenance costs of navigational aid equipment. The IERR on these invest-
ments over a 10-year period is estimated at 14 percent. The rate of return
for the whole project, including Dakar and domestic airports, is 37 percent.
This rate would fall to 34 percent assuming a 10 percent increase in construc-
tion costs and to 30 percent if project benefits were 20 percent lower than
estimated.
1/   Senegal (Loan 867-SE) and Niger (Credit 473-NIR).



Risks
52.       Execution of the project should be straightforward and no technical
risks are associated with its physical components given the well defined
nature of the civil works and equipment components of the project, and
ASECNA's experience in this field. In order to monitor any Dakar airport
relocation plans, the possibility of which is very remote, assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the Government will inform the Bank of any
studies affecting airport relocation and consult with the Bank before making
any decisions on relocation (Section 4.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Financial risks consist of a possible decrease in ASECNA's cash generation
stemming from a possible decrease in operating revenues and increase in oper-
ating costs and/or an increase in the cost of the project. Should revenues
fall below expected levels, ASECNA would be able to reduce its cash needs by
scaling down or delaying future investments projected to occur after comple-
tion of the proposed project as such investments may not then be justified.
At the same time, a reduction in Dakar revenues would automatically imply a
reduction in the contribution payable by Dakar, thereby calling for a higher
Government subsidy. The risk analysis shows that an adverse combination of
the revenues and increased costs would result in a possible diminution of
working capital by about CFAF 900 million over the forecast period 1979-1984.
By reducing Dakar airport future investment needs and maintaining Government
subsidy at present levels, the expected deficits could be completely covered.
Nevertheless, to prevent ASECNA from borrowing and expanding operations beyond
a safe level, assurances were obtained at negotiations that ASECNA shall not
incur any debt unless net revenues for the fiscal year immediately preceding
such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended prior to such incur-
rence, whichever are the greater, shall not be less than 1.25 times the
maximum debt service requirements on all debt (including the debt to be
incurred) in any succeeding fiscal year, unless otherwise agreed upon with
the Bank (Section 4.05 of the draft Project Agreement).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
53.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Senegal and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and ASECNA, and the Report
of the Committee provided in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank, are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
54.       In addition to the features of the draft Loan Agreement which are
referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III, the following
feature is of particular interest: the signing of the Special Contract,
including the subsidiary Loan Agreement, between the Government of Senegal
and ASECNA would be a condition of effectiveness (Section 6.01(b) of the draft
Loan Agreement).
55.       I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 18 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
56.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, D.C.
February 28, 1979



-  19  -                                               Page I
TABLE 3A
SENEGAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
SENEGAL
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                     - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL             196.2                                                      SAME         SANE     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL       80,0                                  MD ST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME         INCOME
1960  Lb    1970 kL ESTIMATE k         REGION /c   GROUP Ld    GROUP Le_
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   200.0        270.0      420.0            223.6       432.3        867.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       121.0        139.0     195.0              86.7      251.7        578.3
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                           3.4          4.4       5.3
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.7           29.0       30.2             13.6        24.2         46.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         17.0         22.0       27.0             18.4        42.7         50.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       43.0         55.0      66.0              53.6        95,0         93.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           42.6         41.2       44.2             44.4        44.9         42.9
15-64 YRS.                           53.6         54.9      52.7              52.7        52.8         53.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.8          3.9        3.1              2.8         3.0          3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.1          2.6        2.7              2.6         2.7          2.5
URBAN                                3.5          5.0        4.0              5.8         8.8          4.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       48.0         47.6       47.6             46.9        42.2         37.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       27.5         24.4       20.0             20.6        12.4         10.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  ..         3.0        3.1              3.1         3.2          2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         .            .                            vv
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)                                              2.5        14.2         20.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)              151.5        100.0      139.4             94.2       104.3        107.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     97.0         91.0       97.0             90.1        99.5        105.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            64.0         64.0       67.1             55.2        56.8         63.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            .         16.6  f   20.8              17.1        17.5         21.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE          .         85.0         .                .          7.5          8.0
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    35.9           40.0       44.0             43.7        53.3         57.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            193.0           .       158.0            138.4        82.5         53.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    *v                                  22.4        31.1         56.8
URBAN                      *e                    87.0                        66.3        68.5         79.0
RURAL                                 .                                      10.4        18.2         31.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 .            .                         23.9        37.5         30.9
URBAN                                                                        70.3        69.5         45.4
RURAL                                 .            .e         ..             14.2        25.4         16.1
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           35000.0      16640.0   13470.0           21757.5      9359.2       2706.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       4110.0 /R   2610.0    1350.0             3473.8      2762.5       1462.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              940.0        810.0      730.0            645.4       786.5        493.9
URBAN                                 .         390.0      380.0            172.9       278.4        229.6
RURAL                                 ..       1300.0    1156.0            1292.6      1358.4       2947.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..         22.2       26.7             19.2        19.2         22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 .                                       4.9          .           5.2
URBAN                                 .            .          ..              5.0          .           5.0
RURAL                                                                         4.7                      5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 .            .   v                                               2 .0
URBAN                                          a                                          2.3          1.5
RURAL                                 .            .          .                .           .e          2.7
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 .            . *                         .         28  3        64.1
URBAN                                                                                                 67.8
RURAL                                                                                    10.3         34.1



- 20 -
Page 2
TAILE 3A
SENEGAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
SENEGAL                                                /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP Ld    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 27.0        43.0       40.0            52.1        75.8        99.8
FE4ALE               17.0         33.0      32.0             37.6       67.9         93.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  3.0        11.0       13.0             8.0        17.7        33.8
FEMALE                2.0          6.0       8.0              5.0       12.9         29.8
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 23.0          9.0       10.0             7.2         7.4        12.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              ..        45.0       49.0            43.2        34.3        34.9
SECONDARY                          34.0        29.0       22.0            22.8        23.5        22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         5.6 lh     10.0       10.0            20.3        63.7        71.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          6.0         9.0        9.2             3.9         7.2        12.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         47.0        69.0       66.0            40.1        71.1       104.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..         0.4        8.0             2.2        14.1        28.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   6.0         5.0        7.0             3.9        16.3        45.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..       1.2             1.2         1.6         4.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      1300.0      1600.0    1650.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   39.7        39.1       38.8            32.6        28.0        25.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              83.6        73.0         ..            73.3        54.1        46.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  5.4         6.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                46.6        44.3       42.8            42.0        37.8        33.8
MALE                                 56.7        54.5       53.0            54.8        50.3        48.1
FEMALE                               36.8        34.3       32.8            27.3        20.9        17.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.2          1.2       1.2              1.2        1.3          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OP PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   36.8 ji        ..         ..            25.7        19.5        23.6
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  62.5 /         ..         ..            55.1        48.9        52.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.2 /i         ..        ..             5.8         5.9          4.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    9.4  i         ..        ..             14.5       15.7         13.1
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..           108.8       155.9        191.9
RURAL                                ..           ..      70.0            74.1        97.9        193.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     151.0           124.4       143.7       319.8
RURAL                                ..           ..     117.0            59.6        87.3        197.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      23.0             26.8       22.9         19.8
RURAL                                ..           ..      30.0            47.6        36.7         35.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-eighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries aong the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    Africa South of Sahara;   /d  Lower Middle Income  ($281-550 per capita, 1976);  /e  Intermediate Middle
Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976);  /f  1972; Jg  1964; /h  African population only; Li  Population.
September, 1978



- 21 -                                                            ANEX I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                     Pace 3
Note: The udjosted group averages for each indicator are popolation-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the most
pepulated casstry In each group.  Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.  Doe ta lack of data,
group averages for CapItol Surplus Oil Euporters and indicators of access to water and eacreta disposal, housing, income distribhtion and poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric nears without the eoclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. kb)                                                              Population per hospital bed - total, urhan, amd total - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area comprislng land area and inland watera.                        urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agrilcoral - Most recant estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                   available in public and private general and specialized hospital and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitches gardens or to                    habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie fallow.                                                                             at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are sot included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and -edi-
(:NP PER CAPliA (us)) - GlNP p7r capita estimates at current market prices,                cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
calculated bv same conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);               sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accommodation and
196O, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                              provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
iNiRGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - A.nnal coasamption of coescial energy                      from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleus, natural gas sod hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                   HOUSING
Average sie of household (persons per household) - total, urban, and  rol-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATlSTICS                                                            A household corsists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total population. mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                   amd their maim meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
average of tao end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                           the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
ira  po       in (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popsla-                     hold vary.
ties; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                   Average number of persons per coom - Lotal, urban, and rural - Average num-
of data among countries.                                                                ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Populati-s denst                                                                          dwellings, respecti-ely.  Dwellings eclode -no-pecrmanet structures and
Per sq. km. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                    unoccupied parts.
of cotal area.                                                                        Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per _s_9km. agricuiture land - Computed as above for agrIcultural land                   Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                   of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (perceni) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-              EDUCATION
year population.                                                                     Adjusted enrollment ratios
Popu latowth rate (percent) - tersi, and urban - Compound annsal                        Primary school - total, and female - Total and femain enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total and urban rid-year populations for 1950-60,                       at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                   populations; normnlly includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per trousand of                      different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                    cation enrollment may asceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-yeas  average ending in 1975 for most recest estimate.                    sabve the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                    Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 197C                   tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent esti.ate.                          vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Irons reproduction rate - Average comber of daughters a woman will bear                   usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses aro generally
in her not  sa Ieproductive por-od if she experiencas ?ra.ent ago-                      axcluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                  Vocational enrollment (Percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                         elude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
Family planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                        or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program.                                                                       primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Pamily planning - users (percent of married women) - Percentage of                        spending Levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control               Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to all macied womae in name age group.                                         a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
POOD AND NUTRITION                                                                     CONSUMPTION
Index of food production per capita (1970.100) - Index somber of per                   Passenger cats (per thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars
capita annual production of a11 food commodities.                                     seating less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita  upply of calories (percent of requinements) - Computed fr.m                 vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita               Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less               broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; esclodes unlicensed
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,              receivers in countries and in years when registration ot radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                  effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since most countries
quirements were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-                abolish;ed licensing.
mal activity and health considering enviromentai temperature, body                   TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to generai
weights, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 pee-                  public per thousand population; excludes unlIcensed TV receivers in coun-
c-nt for waste at hounehold level.                                                      *ries and in years ohem  regintration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein conte-t of per                  Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the average circula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                    tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by  iSDA provide for                 cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considered to
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                   be "daily" if it appears at least four tines a weak.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should ba animal protein.             Cinema annual attendance pee capitaperyear - BNsed em the somber of tickets
These standards are lower than those if 75 grams of total protein and                   sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinemas and msbtle
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, prnposed by                     units.
FAG in the Third World Food Survoy.
Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food              EMPLOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                    Total labor farce (thousands) - Economically active parsons-     , t-cidirg arm.ed
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                 forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, students, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                              tions in various countries are not comparable.
Female (percent) - Female labor force us percenutgo of total 'labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                  Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life expectancy at birth (yea,s) - Average number of years of life                        as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                 Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                               electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rat. (per thonuad) - Annual deaths of infants under                   Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, and
one year of age per thosusnd live birhts.                                               female labor force as percentages of their respective populations.
Access to safe water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                  These are 110's adjusted participation rates refl-ecscg agm-sec
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                    strncture of the populotion.  -nd lcng tine trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                  Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and aver to
uncontaminated water such an that from protected boreholes, springs,                    the labor force in age group at 15-64 yesrs.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban area a public fountain or standpost located not more                    INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters from a house may be considered as being within rea-                  Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
sonabls access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                   percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewife or members of the household do not have to                     of ho usholds.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                        POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to eacreta disposal (percent of popumnin) - total, urban, and                   Estimated absolute poverty income level (US$ per capita) - urban and rota' -
rural - Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by excreta                       Absolute poverty income level is that income level below which a minima'
disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Excreta                       nutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-food requirements is not
disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or without                       affordable.
t-eatment, of human escreta and sante-water by water-borne systems                   Estimated relative poverty income level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
or the use of pit privies and usiilar installations.                                    Relative poverty income level is that ir.com  level less than one-third
Population per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                      per capita personal income of the country.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                      Estimated population below poverty income level (percent) - urban and rural -
Population per nursing person - Populatcon divided by number of                            Percent of population (urban and rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                       "relative poor" whichever is greater.
assistant nurses.
Economic and Social Data Division
Economic Analysis and Projections Department



ANNEX I
SENEGAL  -  ECONMIC1 DEVEL.IPME9T DATA SHEET                                                                            P899 6
Actul                                          stE- te-                ___ -_________-____                                     Growh rts1]Shore  In 0 oftotal
1970     1971     1972     197 3     1974     1975          1976     1977      1979          1979     1990     1995      1990          1970-75     1975-80      1999-0#  1995-90        1970    1971       1990     1985     1990
(i    illn   of 1971 CFAP
1.  GDP                                     247      247      263       248      259      283           297       291      27 1          306      325       404      49128   2.8   ZA                            4A      4.0         99.8  ISO. n    103.2   101.3   109l.7-
2 .  TT odjosonnoet                           I       -          3       -2        6        -2           .45       -3       -3             5   5        -1    6       -0                     -                  -          -           0.2   -0.7      -5.2     -1.5      -1.7
3 .  0D5                                    248      247      260       246      265       201          207       288      248           301      313       398      483             2 .5         2 .3         4.8        3. 9      100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0   190.0
4.  Ieporte (to.NFD                          95       92        90       84       95        06           105       96      100           102       155      120      160             0.2          4. 1         4.0        4.6         34.2   30.6      33. 3     32. 2    33. 1
5.  Enports (inc. lFPS)                      72       64        82       64       69        77            97       9        72            93      102       123      152             1.2          5.0          3.0        4.3        29.1   27.4       31. 4    30.9    31.4
6.  Eoports, TI adj.                         73       64        79       62       74        75            07        5       69            90       92       117      145             0.3          4.2          4.9        4.4        29.3   26,7       29.2     29.4      30.D
7.  Eon.'gp,       a]1                                1         -I9      _-22    -_1       -11           -10      -13       _-31         -14      -13       _I1      _45---                                                -          -4.9   -3.9      -4.5      -2.7     -3.1
8.  Con,epine                               221      2123      225      223      2217      252'          265      20 8     254           267      274       344      410             2 .7         1.7          4.8. 9.3   89.7                         87.0     86.4    96.5
9.  Croon invounet                           39       40        44       45       49       40             40       43       25            40       34        65       00             0.5          6.2          3.7       4.2         15.6   14.2       17.1     16.3      16.6
10.  Privte levaunat                          19        17       24       17        23       15            14       17        21           21        20       20       24            -4.6          5.9            -        3.7          7.6     5.3      6.3       5.0      5.0
11.  Poblic ieveseo.et                        12        14       12       17        10       19            21       21       10            22        29       39       48             9.6          9.9          6.1        4.2          4. 8    6.8      9.2       9.0      9.9
12.  Change in stoks .                                                    11       I,1        6             5        5       45             5         5        6        9 8                                                             3.2     2.1      1.6       1.5      1.7
13.  Dosaei  Onvinge, TI ad].                 27        22       35       23       30        29            22       30        -6           34        41       54       65              1.4         7.1          5.7        3.0         15.7   10.3      13.0      13.6     13.5
14.  Natto..al saings   TI ad].               32       30        42       28       39        30            28       31        -l           4.4       43       54       65            -1.2          7.4          4.7        3.0         12.9   10.7      13.7      13.6     13.5
15.  3D? (to sIn. or onr-t   8565                      952     1095     0049     1405      0096          0910     0530     0054          26 75    3011    5004       7770            17.0          9.7         10.7        9.2                   -         --                -
D. SECTOE EOUPIE
1.  VDon added                              247      247      263       240      259      203           297       291      251           306      325       404      4912.    2.84.                                       4.0       100.9  IOD.0   10D.0        Oa 100.019.
2.  Agri.al1a-                               62       52        64       54       66        81            89       01       68            09        94      112      132             5.4          3.0          3.5        3.5         25.1   29.6      28.9      27.7    26.9
3  . Ddneers                                 53       54        56       54       61        61            67       70       39            71        79      114      153             2.9          5.3          7.6        6.0         21.1   25.5      24.3      29.2     31.2
4.  Pr~~~~~~fivate a-icr..            105      112       114      111      104       112           111      109       92           004       120      143      167              1.3         1.4          3.5        3.2         412.5   39.6     365.9     35.4    34.D
3.  Publi  a-rio..e                          27       29        29       29       20        29            30       31        32           32        32       33        39             1.4         2.0          2.0        2.0         13.9   10.3       9.9       8.7      7.9
C. PRICE INDICES (1971-100)
1.    nport prices (goods only)              92      100      150       121      221      192           166       192      104           196      199       296      377            15.9          0.7          0.6        S.D
2.  Tp,opr  prrr                             91      100       107      129      194       190           194      202      197           214       233      318      406            16.9          3.3          6.4        5.0
3.  Tees  of Erad                           10        2          4       94      14         95                     95       93            91        85       93        93           -0.9         -2.6           1.0 
4.  OHP deflator                 ~~~     ~~~97  100  104     112      131      144           154       163      500           192      204       272      348             0.2          7.2          6.0       5.0
3.  Coneas_  pr,c..                          96      100       106      119      139       191           196      204      212           226       239      321      409             13.5         5.7           6.0       5.0
6.  Floo~~~~Pid i-votoet p01c..        99      100       16       114      138       16            167      100       9            209       223      312      43              10.9         6.1          7.0        6.0
7.  E.oth. rats (118.  par U.S.$)         277.7   277.00  2512.2    222.7   240.85   2114.3           239.0   2415.7   2210.50         220.0   220.0   220.0   220.0                                               
H.  0118108  E55DOCATORSL4                  1960165    1965/70   19L70/75   595HE 90111..  LABOR F0RCE (1571)                                                                                                                        Thoasand   Por.e.o
1.  010R16                                  4.2         9.1        5.3         4.4         4.0                                                                                                      1.AgrOon.lt-r                    812       69.4
2.  An  Hn  svig   ra                       7.3         6.2       13.          9.2        14.3                                                                                                      2.  Hiein                          2        0.2
3.   Ir- sc  eai      -arte                 cog.     103.9         _-5.       391.0       13.3                                                                                                      3.  Hasofactoriog                 69        5.9
4.  Pined L-veataet/DDP                    13.         10.2       13.5        13.2        14.8                                                                                                      4.  Public utilities               4         0.3
5.  Iepo-c elasticity                       0.92        096        0.00        1.06        0. 99                                                                                                    5.   o-atruotioe                  17         1.5
6.   nporta/GVF                            40.5       35.8        33.5        34.4        32.2                                                                                                      6.Pvaesris                       115         9.8
2.  Enporta/GDP                            32.0       341         2.          293         29.5                                                                                                      7.  Public  -ori...              127       18.9
9.  R-ouro  gsp/GDP                         9.5        -1.7       -5.7        -6.1        -5.2                                                                                                      6.  Dther                         24         2.1
F. PUBLIC FINANCE /7                                                                                                                                   ~~~~           ~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Total1   1,170   500.0
(in billions of carreot ClAY                                            Acitsl.                                         Eatiotes                             Pr   rtoa                                 GroC-h rates 55h....a to carret GDP (0
and f-Isa  y-sra                           FY71      FY72       P073      PY74       TI75      FY7.             FY77       FY78              FY79        P080       FIY91       FY95         P071-7    P575-HO  PY00-85         PY71      FY75    FY77       FY80     PY85
1.  Hadgot - -ean                                46.4      53.1       55.1      55.4       77.3      97.9             106.5      116.5             112.4      155.9       176.9       271.0          13.6       13.0      11.7        19.0      20.7     22.9     24.9      25.8
2.  Curret ..P. (...rl.inctr-st                 42.3       45.1       50.3      48.9       65.8       00.2             02.2       99.5             105.6      113.0       125.1       192.2          11.7       11.6      11.1        17.3      17.6     17.7     19.2      18.3
3.  Budg. can  befor  debt eAric                  4.1       0.0        4.0       6.5       11.5       7 .7             24.3       117.0              6.8       42.0        51.0        79.5-    -                      -               1.7       3.1      3.2      6.7       7.5
4.  Dlher 7oblio aevoegsL1  1.5  2.2     2.4       7.2        0.3       2.1               5.0         1.8             .],7L2      -2.0       -6.7       -10.6 -7.7/9  2.0  -6.-                          0.66      0.1      5.3     -0.3.3    -1.4
5.  PubS.sa.  before debtsevc                     5.6      10.2        7.2      13.7       11.        9.1              30.1        18.9             -0.9        40.0       45.11       63.9                       -          -         2.3       3.2      6.5       6.4      6.1
6.    bt centr                                    2.5        1.1       1.0       2.5        4.0 0' .7                  13.0        16.8             21.3        27.1       32.1        34.5          12.5       46.7       4.6         1.-C      1.1      2-8       4 3      3.2
2.  Iaetble                                       3.1       9.1        5.4      11.2        7.8       0.4              17.1         2.0            -23.0        12.9       13.0        29.9-    -                            -         1.3       2.1      3.7       2.1      28
8.  Fub'lie                                      1!:'=     1!:'       Sr!       "T         3!%       41%               !           4%f%                         1:'        iT         lT28.5                    14.5       15.5        TI       1           1      I!       1!!
9.  P-rc..tage of '.If financiog(7               24.0      60.4       33.5      39.4       22.3       0.1              37.6         4.2              nil        18.7       15.0        21.0
10.  Dbc  servic  in p-ro-t of
revenues (0)                               5.4       2.1        3.3       4.5        5.2       9.9              12.2       14.4              17.7        15.8       16.4        11.0
fl  These projec.tions .s..-  that ths finanial stabilisatiec plac  hich Gov- -sst is prea...cly d-ing up aith the 06Ff  ill be effo-tivly iapl-t.etd.
/2  ah  highar  .oaani  groth and lone  invesent rates it this prriod-p...d  to those in the preious pertod is due to thre   legs p-oj-cc   (Disi  den, Phosphoric  acid plant and Dakr shipyard)  hich will be is  osrot
before 1990, but 4811 ro-   into prdetian  to the ealy 1980a.
/3  fast of 1ivig indee in Dkhr.
A4  Caloolated frnvle   nontn-rcs
£4  adjoated _frterms  f tra'de   berstapppropriate..
£4  Calcula,ted an tbr.. year  averge.
£7  Fiscal Ysar  fees Ju ly let to Sun  30th.
/B  I-Iadre  savings fro  Stabilioatioe F.nd ard public enterprises.
19  The enpected drop in "ethar saviega' is da.t.T pa.yeata or public gocorprle-  in liqoidatiar and, ic 1eer y-ar, i-cr-iog nuboidirn  to evincing enterprises  (SAEI) andceste ris   (Dak-r-irle).
/10  Poblic ievaloto.t  as doEfieed by the Miriatry of Planiog; contray to the natica a...                  at  deicitio, thas. figuess include the lull  -tct  of projects  i  wined .ot-rpri... io  hich Govcnmst takes a sin  fiia..oial
-vpo...ibilit81 project caspoost  that do aot cepro....  fined copital foreotin, reerh pr-j-ct  sod nos   ilit-ry ccp-dit-r,
Februay 1979.



SENEGAL:  BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE                                     ANNEX I
Page 5
(millions of current U.S. dollars)
ACtual.                                      estimates                         Projection., 
1970    1971    1972        1973   1974    1975            1976    1977    1978              1979       19       1985
A.   SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
1.  Exports, incl. NFS                                  237      231      333      355      602      693            706      696      623             855       975    1697
2.  Imports, inel. NFS                                 -276    -295      -373    -483    -691    -793              -852     -807     -898            -988    -1109   -1854
3.  Resource balance                                    -39      -64      -40    -128       -89    -100            -146     -111     -275            -133      .134    -157
4.  Factor services net                                 -21      -19      -23      -29      -48      -55            -25      -36      -33             -51       -52      -98
Net investment income                         -10      -11      -12      -17      -26      -37            -12      -14      -14             -15       -15      -40
Interest public debt                           -I       -4       -5       -7      -14      -19            -18      -21      -31             -41       -42      -71
Other interest                                 -1        2        3        3        2       -3             -3       -4       -4              -5        -5
Wosker's remittances                          -16      -15      -20      -18      -20       -6             -4       -5       +3              -4        -4       -2
Other                                           7        9       11       10       10       10             12        8       13              14        14       15
5.  Current transfers net                                37       45       50       56       64       67             73       46       80              60        73      100
6.  Current account balance                             -23      -38      -13    -101       -73      -88            -98    -101    -228              -124      -113    -155
7.  Erivate capital (net)                                -         3        2      -15       -5       12             13       14       15              16        50       60
S.  Capital grants                                       12       19        8       19       19       22             23       24       27              30        33       46
9.  Public E + LT loans (net)                            14       15       11       78       36       56             58       76      178              80        38       89
Disbureements                                  19       23       19      100       56       77             83      114      246             165       154      286
Repayments                                     -5       -8       -8      -22      -20      -21            -25      -38      -68             -85      -116     -197
10.  Short-term cap3,al (net)                             10       -4      -12        3       23       10             -        -        -               -         -
11.  Capital n.e.i. -                                     11        4        7      -28       -3      -02             -6      -26      -26              -         -
12.  Increase in reserves (+)                             24       -I        3      -44       -7      -10            -10      -13      -34              2         8        40
13.  Level of reerves (end yer)                           19       17       27      -15      -27      -48            -45      -53      -87            -85       -77        94
Actuals                                      estimates                        Projections
1970    1971    1972        1973   1974    1975            1976    1977    1978               1979      1980    1985
B.  LOAN COMMITMENTS                                           8        31       50        18.1   70       135            112      223      277             238       186      305
i     IBRD                                               -        -        16         1       3        7             26       20-/3    11              32        20       43
2.  IDA                                                  2        7        11        24        -      25             10       -         26             24         17       26
3.  OPEC Fund                                            -        -         -          -      -        4              2       11        -                5         6        6
4.  Other international institutions                     -        2         1          2     10        6             11         9       -               10        11       16
5.  France                                               2        7         7         5      16       13             27       27       2               28         30       44
6.  Germany                                              2        -          -         -      17       3               -        5       -               10        10       14
7.  Canada                                               -        -         4         3       -        8              4         5       - /4             6         7        9
8.  OPEC Countries                                       -         -         L         2,6     97       -/8            -        j/9    417-j             -        23       25
9.  Other bilateral                                      -        -         3        50       4       21-             -        12-      10-             10/11    12        12
10.  OYS (Di ms dsm)                                          -         -         -            -        -              -        -        -             113-        -
11.  Suppliers                                            2        2         2         14       3        1             3        32       10               -         -
12.  Financial institutions and private banks             -       13         6        80        8      47             28       102      177              10        25      110
C.   LOANS TEENS
1.  Interest (t)                                         3.5      4.9       4.1        5.8    4.7       4.8           6.5       7.8      7.2             5.5       6.0    6.0
2.  Grace (years)                                        8.4      5.0       6.3        6.1    6.3       6 +5            -        -        -              4.5       4.0    4.3
3.  Maturity (years)                                    28.1    19.0       30.2       19.8   22.5    23.4             19.1    11.0    13.7              20.0      17.6   18.9
6.  Grant element (%)                                   52.0    35.0       47.0       29.0   39.0    40.0            26.0      13.5    17.7             29.9      28.0   27.1
5.  Debt service ratio (Z)                               2.5      5.3        3.9       8.2    5.6       6.1            6.1      8.5    15.9             14.7      16.2   15,8
/1  Includes errors and omissions
/2  Includes SDR allocations and differences between public capital inflow as recorded by the Central Bank and by the IBRb debt report.
/3  Includes US$14 million Third Window funds
74  Saudi Arabia
/5  Denmark
/6  People's Republic of China to finance imports of Chinese surpluses ($5.2 million disbursed so far)
/7  $4 million from USA and $8 million from Iran.
/8  Includes US$17.4 million commitment from Spain and $3.5 million from Denmark
79  US AID
/10 Spain
/11 An estimated share of 752'. in the $150 million cost of the Diama dam: France $52 million, Saudi Arabia $37 million, Kuwait $35 million, and African Development
Bank $26 millian.   Total: $150 million.
February 1979.



SENEGAL - DEBT AND CREDITWORTHINESS                                  ANNEX I
Page 6
(millions of current US dollars)
Actuals                                       Estimates                          Projections
1970       1971       1972       1973       1974       1975         1976        1977         1978       1979       1980       1985
A.  MEDIUM AND LONG-TERM
DEBT (Disbursed Only)
1.  Total Public Debt outstanding                 102.8      125.5      138.6      203.2      248.3      299.0         352.9       440.6        637.6      708.0       746.0      1865
2.  Including Undisbursed                         144.4      173.9      219.2      367.2      432.4      533.7         609.8       812.3       1060.0    1097.0    1197.0'    2386
3.  Public Debt Service                             6.0       12.2       13.4       29.4       33.6       39.8          42.9        58.6         99.3      125.8       157.8       295
a.  Interest                                   1.4        4.3        4.9         7.2       13.9       18.6          18.3       21.0          31.4       40.8       41.9        98
b.  Amortization                               4.6        7.9        8.5       22.2        19.7       21.2          24.6       37.6          67.9       85.0      115.9       197
4.  Other M & LT Debt W8rviceLi                     7.8        6.3        7.4       27.2L2    32.1i/2    21.9           21.8        23.7         24.7        29.7       27.9        17
a.  Other Intere                               3.3        0.1        0.4         1.9        4.9        9.5           8.5        9.5           9.5       13.5       10.5          7
b.  Amortizationhi                             4.5        6.2         7.0       25.3       27.2       12.4          13.3       14.2          15.2       16.2       17.4        10
5.  Total Debt Service                             13.8       18.5       20.8       56.6       65.7       61.7           64.7       82.3        124.0       155.5      185.7       312
6.  Net investment income                          10.0       11.0       12.0       17.0       26.0       37.0           12.0       14.0          14.0       15.0       15.0        20
7.  Total payment on foreign capital               23.8       29.5       32.8       73.6       91.7       98.7           76.7       96.3        138.0      170.5       200.7       332
B.  DEBT BURDEN
1.  Public Debt Service Ratio                       2.5        5.3        3.9        8.2        5.6        5.8            6.1        8.5          15.9       14.7       16.2        15.8
2.  Payment on Foreign Capital Ratio               10.0       12.8        9.8       20.7L2    15.2/2    14.2             10.9       13.8         22.2        19.9       20.6        19.6
3.  Public Debt Service/GDP                         0.7        1.4        1.2        2.4        2.4        2.1            2.2        3.0           4.8        4.7        5.2         7.3
4.  Public Debt Service/Govt. RevenueL               -         5.4        2.1        3.3        4.5        5.2            9.9       12.2          14.4       17.7       15.8        11.0
C.  TERM4S
1.  Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                1.4        3.4        3.5        3.5        5.6        6.2           5.2         4.8          4.9        5.8         5.6         5.3
2.  Total Debt Service/Total DOD                  5.8         9.7        9.7       14.5       13.5       13.3          12.2        13.3         15.6        17.8       21.2        15.8
D.  DEPENDENCY RATIOS FOR M & LT DEBTL/
1.  Gross Disbursements/Imports (incl. NFS)    6.9             7.8        5.1       20.7L/5     8.1        9.7            9.7       14.1         27.4        16.7       13.9        10.6
2.  Net Transfer/Imports (incl. NFS)                5.1        5.1        2.9       16.1        5.2        7.1            6.8        9.4          19.8        8.1        3.4         4.8    8
3.  Net Transfer/Gross Disbursements                0.74       0.65       0.58       0.78       0.64       0.73           0.70       0.67          0.72       0.48       0.25        0.31
E.  EXPOSUREL6
1.  IBRD Disb./Total Gross Disbursements            0.5        0.9        1.9        0.7        1.5        9.2            5.7       11.4          4.4         8.7       11.6        12.2
2.  Bank Group Disb./Total Gross Disbursements24.9             9.3       23.7        3.9       20.9       24.5           20.2       18.2           9.5       16.7       23.4        18.2
3.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                              2.2        1.8        1.7        1.4        1.3        3.4            4.1        6.2           5.8        7.0        8.3        10.3
4.  Bank Group DOD/Total DOD                       10.7       12.6       13.1       11.5       14.0       17.9           19.8       20.4          17.6       19.3       21.8        19.4
5.  IBRD Debt Service7Total Debt Service            4.1        3.2        3.0        1.8        1.9        1.9            2.9        3.5           3.7        3.5        3.4         8.1
6.  Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service 4.2             3.7        3.8        2.1        2.5        2.6            3.7        4.5           4.5        4.2        4.0         8.9
F.  EXTERNAL DEBT (Disbursed Only)                                            Outstanding Dec. 31, 1978                               Outstanding December 1985
Amount             Percent                             Amount              Percent
1.  IbRD                                                                   37.2                 5.8                               191.5                10.3
2.  IDA                                                                    75.0                11.8                               169.2                 9.1
3.  Other Multilateral                                                     40.5                 6.3                               116.0                 6.2
4.  Governments                                                           202.0                31.7                               749.0                40.2
5.  Suppliers                                                              17.1                  2.7
6.  Prefinancing of Public Works                                           15.3                  2.4                             (638.5               (34.2
7.  Private Banks and Financial Institutions                              247.1                38.8
8.  Bonds                                                                   3.4                 0.5                                 1.2                  -
9.  Total Public M & LT Debt                                              637.6               100.0                              1865.4               100.0
10.  Total Public M & LT Debt (incl. undisb.)                             1059.9               166.2
G.  TOTAL DEBT SERVICE 1977-81/DOD end-1976                   177.8%
/1 "Other Debt Service" has been calculated from the balance of payments; interest payments include those on the negative net foreign assets of the banking system and
short-term comercial loans; in view of the amount of "other debt service" payments we estimate total foreign borrowing outside the public sector at the end of
1976 at $100 million.
/2 High private capital repayments probably related to Government's participation policy.
/3 Debt service to be paid by tit Treasury only (fiscal years).
/4 Public debt only.
/5  High Eurodollar borrowing to finance Government's participation policy.
/6 Based on existing lending program.
February 1979.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of January 31, 1979)
Amount, less cancellation
Loan or                                                         (US$ MIillion)
Credit Number  Year   Borrower    Purpose                  Bank   IDA 1/ Undisbursed
Three Loans* and ten Credits fully disbursed               7.0    34.9
835-SE     1972   Regie des   Railway                 6.4                 0.2
Chemins de
fer du Senegal
336-SE     1972   Senegal       Housing Site
and Services                 8.0        3.1
866-SE     1973   OPTS          Telecommunications   6.2                  1.5
366-SE     1973   Senegal       Second Highway                 8.0        0.2
404-SE     1973   Senegal       Agriculture Credit             8.2        0.5
987-SE     1974   SOFISEDIT   Development Finance  3.0                    0.2
530-SE     1975   Senegal       Education                     15.0       10.4
549-SE)    1975   Senegal       Agric. Diversifi-
)                          cation               7.0      7.0       8.3
1113-SE)
578-SE     1976   Senegal       Terres Neuves II               2.0        0.3
1221T-SE             Senegal      Feeder Roads           6.6                3.3
1222-SE             Senegal      Third Highway         15.0                5.3
633-SE     1976   Senegal       Livestock                      4.2        3.4
647-SE     1976   Senegal       Second Sedhiou                 6.3        5.0
1332-SE     1976   SOFISEDIT   Second Development
Finance             4.2                 3.6
1405T-SE     1977   Senegal       Port of Dakar          6.0                4.8
1412T-SE      1977   Senegal      Petite Cote Tourism  8.0                  7.6
1413-SE     1977   Senegal       Petite Cote Tourism  5.6                  5.3
764-SE     1978   Senegal       Para-Public Sector
Tech. Asst.                  6.3        5.8
775-SE     1978   Senegal       Irrigation                    20.0       19.2
1518-SE     1978   RCFS          Railways III          11.0               11.0
Total                                     86.0   119.9       99.0
of which has been repaid 2/              3.7     0.3
Total now outstanding                     82.3   119.6
Amount sold                                3.40
of which has been repaid 2/              1.10
2.30
Total now held by  Bank and IDA 2/        80.00  119.6
Total Undisbursed                         49.8    49.2      99.0
*    A Loan of US$3.5 million for agricultural credit (584-SE) made in 1969
was cancelled on March 25, 1971.
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
27/   As of December 31, 1978.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of January 31, 1979)
Amount (US$ Million)
Equity
Year          Obligor            Type of Business       Loan   Investment   Total
1967   Societe Industrielle    Fertilizer Plant         2.45        1.01      3.46
d'Engrais au Senegal
1972) BUD Senegal
1973)  S.A.                      Vegetable Export        -          0.87      0.87
1976)
1974   SOFISEDIT                 Development
Finance Company         -          0.21     0.21
Total Gross Commitments                          2.45        2.09      4.54
Less Cancellations, Terminations                 2.45        0.88      3.33
Total Commitments now held by IFC                  0         1.21      1.21
Undisbursed Balance
C. Projects in Execution
Cr. 314/      Second Railway Project; US$2.2 2Iillion and US$6.4 Million
Ln. 835       Credit and Loan of June 23, 1972; Effective December 29, 1972;
Closing Date: March 31, 1979
The Railway's efficiency has been severely hindered by poor manage-
ment, a severe shortage of qualified supervisory staff, insufficient motiva-
tion of staff at all levels, deficient training combined with cumbersome
financial governmental regulations hampering day-to-day operations. This
has resulted in a slow and unsatisfactory implementation of a project and
in the inadequate traffic performance that has led to decreasing revenues
and acute financial problems. These financial problems have in turn pre-
vented the Railway from purchasing badly needed spare parts for motive power
and track maintenance equipment. Loan/Credit funds were consequently re-
allocated from appraised items to the provision of spare parts by deleting
some project elements, notably the reduction of the procurement of rails and
fittings from a planned 170 km to 125 km of which only 28 km were laid under
the project because of the lack of local funds. The project is almost com-
pleted. The only unfinished items are the final positioning of the workshop
cranes and the disbursement for the payment of this work. The final super-
vision mission was in the field in July 1978.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Cr. 336       Sites and Services Project; US$8.0 Million Credit of September
29, 1972; Effective August 31, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This project is now a problem project. Plot occupancy which started
in November 1977, two years behind the original schedule, continues to be very
slow. About 900 houses are in various stages of construction by allottees
and only 50 families are in residence on the site, despite the start-up of an
Immediate Action Plan focussing principally on the first tranche, which was
developed during Spring 1978 to remedy the situation and which was endorsed
by the Government. The newly appointed Minister of Urbanism and the Project
Director visited Headquarters in the Fall of 1978 for discussions with Bank
staff to remedy the situation. Agreements were reached on the ceiling and
terms of building material loans for eligible allottees, and design standards
of housing unit for the poorest of the project population, and the restructur-
ing of the Project Unit to deal with the last phase of the project.
Cr. 404       Second Agriculture Credit Project; US$8.2 Million Credit of
June 25, 1973; Effective November 18, 1973; Closing Date:
May 31, 1979
The 1978/79 season was good: groundnut and cereal production
reached near 'record levels; fertilizer use, after falling to 70,000 tons in
1977/78, increased to 100,000 tons. Demand for short-term credit remained
stronger than anticipated, but available credit funds were sufficient to
meet requirements. Demand for medium-term credit is still not met because
of Government's desire to limit cooperative indebtedness. As a result, on-
farm intensification programs are failing to reach their objectives. Govern-
ment is re-introducing the subsidy on some farm implements, and increasing
the subsidy on fertilizers. The study of fertilizer applications financed
under the Credit is now completed; ongoing data analysis should provide a
basis for policy review in due course. Major organizational and financial
problems still exist at the groundnut marketing entity: steps taken by Gov-
ernment in early 1975 and again in mid-1978 to remedy this serious situation
have resulted in some limited improvement in accounting, but overall perform-
ance remains poor and the organization overstaffed. The Government has agreed
in principle to make some of the outstanding Credit balance available to
finance preparation of a proposed Agricultural Research Project. The closing
date has therefore been extended until May 31, 1979 to permit the necessary
administrative arrangements.
Loan 987      SOFISEDIT Project; US$3.0 Million Loan of May 24, 1974;
Effective November 22, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1979;
SOFISEDIT was created in March 1974 for the purpose of providing
long-term financing for developing enterprises in industry and tourism. By
March 31, 1978 SOFISEDIT had approved 37 loans, net of cancellations, total-
ling about US$10.2 million, and 8 equity investments for US$650,000. The
first loan of US$3 million is now fully committed and the remaining balance
of $200,000 should be disbursed shortly.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Ln. 866      Telecommunications Project; US$6.3 Million Loan of December 19,
1972; Effective June 5, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project is designed to improve the quality of the telecommunica-
tions service in Dakar and in parts of North Senegal. Delay in procurement,
a 100 percent cost overrun, changes in top management and improper timing of
project execution are the main causes of a three year delay in project imple-
mentation. As a result the closing date has been postponed to December 31,
1979. Project implementation is now progressing satisfactorily, the main
installation was successfully commissioned in December 1978, and project
completion is expected by June 1979. During 1978, the Borrower made signif-
icant efforts to improve its management, as well as its accounting and finan-
cial organization. This, together with the audits and financial advisors
financed through the IDA Parapublic Sector Project, should lead to substantial
improvement of the institution during the coming months.
Cr. 366      Second Highway Project; US$8.0 Million Credit of April 9, 1973;
Effective November 28, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project consists of pavement strengthening of primary roads,
a four-year maintenance program, and preinvestment studies. As of July 1978,
95 percent of the Project.had bee4 completed.  The strengthening program was
reduced from 110 km to about 34 km as a result of higher costs than estimated
at appraisal, and high inflation during project execution. The reduced pro-
gram was satisfactorily completed in MIay 1976. The remaining 75 km were
strengthened under the Third Highway Project (Ln. 1222). The highway main-
tenance program ended in June 1977. Due to management problems and inappro-
priate allocation of funds, objectives were not met, and the technical
assistance was extended to June 30, 1978.under the Third Highway Project.
The preinvestment studies for 228 km of primary roads, and the review of
feeder road requirement have been successfully completed. The closing date
of the credit has been extended to December 31, 1979 to compensate for the
one year delay in project completion.
Cr. 530      Second Education Project; US$15.0 Million Credit of February 19,
1975; Effective April 22, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Project implementation is about 30 months behind schedule because of
design and contract award delays. Total project costs are estimated at $26.5
million, compared with the appraisal estimate of $19.0 million. The Govern-
ment has decided to reduce the scope of the project by reducing the number of
science centers from 11 to 8 and the number of rural youth training centers
from 30 to 15, and is seeking another external source of finance for the
construction and equipping of the Hotel School. The Vocational Training
Center has started some upgrading programs and was expected to be fully
operational by January 1, 1979. Construction of the science centers and
secondary schools is progressing well and is expected to be completed between
September and December 1979. Preparation of final drawings for the Hotel
School is progressing well. The rural youth training program is progressing
slowly, but modified educational objectives and a revised implementation
schedule have been agreed with the Government and it is expected that 15
experimental centers will be operating by the end of 1981.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Cr. 549/      Sine Saloum Agricultural Development; US$7.0 Million Credit and
Ln. 1113      US$7.0 Million Loan of May 22, 1975; Effective October 31, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project consists of strengthening the extension service to
induce farmers to intensify their agricultural practices, which is estimated
to lead to higher yields. However, results over the project's first three
years show that yield increases have been negligible. The project authority,
in agreement with the Bank, has therefore decided on a re-orientation in which
its extension services are being reorganized and retrained, with more emphasis
put on actions which have had favorable results such as the promotion of maize
production in the South and the integration of agricultural and animal hus-
bandry in the North. While it is too early to judge the effect of this re-
orientation, the first serious effort with the production of millet and maize
under contract proves to be highly successful in the 1978/79 season.
Cr. 578       Terres Neuves II Resettlement and Eastern Senegal Technical
Assistance Project; US$2.0 Million Credit of August 6, 1975;
Effective November 14, 1975; Closing Date:  December 31, 1979
The project consists of: (i) settling 600 families over a three
year period in Eastern Senegal and providing the necessary infrastructure;
and (ii) preparing a master plan for the agricultural development of the
Eastern Senegal Region. Despite the project being one year behind schedule
with 500 families settled to date, which has no serious consequences, pre-
viously expected cost overruns could be avoided. The project has, however,
serious financial problems because first, disbursement of counterpart funds
has been seriously delayed and second, the 1978-1979 budget is not being
entirely funded. The master plan study has been completed and an Eastern
Senegal Agricultural Development Project based on this study is now being
prepared.
Ln. 1221T    Feeder Roads Project; US$6.6 Million Loan of March 31, 1976;
Effective June 15, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project consists of improvement of about 1,000 km of feeder
roads and maintenance of about 250 km of existing feeder roads; purchase of
highway equipment and spare parts, and of materials and supplies for project
operations; technical assistance for project implementation and monitoring;
construction of HQ building for the Bureau des Pistes de Production (BPP).
The project has experienced serious delays, the main reasons being of finan-
cial, managerial and logistic support order. Government is seeking some
measures to accelerate works, but even so it is envisaged that the Loan
closing date will have to be postponed by 2 years, and that the improved
road length will be less than expected at appraisal. Works executed so far
are of satisfactory technical quality.
Ln. 1222      Third Highway Project; US$15.0 Million Loan of March 31, 1976;
Effective June 5, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project consists of pavement strengthening of 199 km of pri-
mary roads, equipment procurement, and consulting services for preinvestment



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
studies, highway maintenance and development of the domestic construction
industry. The project is proceeding satisfactorily and on schedule. The road
maintenance program begun under the Second Highway Project, and extended under
this project, should be further continued under the proposed Fourth Highway
Project to strengthen the road maintenance organization and operations. About
US$2.5 million of the Bank loan will accrue to the project due to dollar reval-
uation (US$1 = CFAF 225 at appraisal and CFAF 245 during project execution),
and shorter execution period for the pavement strengthening program. The
Government is preparing proposals for the utilization of these funds.
Cr. 633       Eastern Senegal Livestock Project; US$4.2 Million Credit of
June 17, 1976; Effective June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project aims at improving livestock production in Eastern Senegal
through improved grazing and herd management practices of pastoralists, devel-
opment of stock watering facilities and firebreaks, improved animal health
services, livestock credit, and a functional literacy program. Parallel financ-
ing was obtained from the Kuwait Fund and BADEA. Project implementation is
progressing on schedule. The 1976/77 and 1977/78 vaccination campaigns pro-
ceeded satisfactorily; the 1978/79 campaign was to start in November 1978.
Thirteen Pastoral Units covering 3200 km or 1/5 of the project area have been
demarcated, 64 villages and 5200 inhabitants have been organized through the
election of managing committees, and concrete action with 23,000 cattle has
started. The inventory of all existing wells and ponds in the grazing scheme
area has been completed as well as the siting of 29 wells, of which 5 are
under construction. Vehicles and equipment have been purchased and firebreak
construction is expected to start soon. On the other hand, there has been no
progress in civil works, certain project activities are not yet fully integ-
rated with those of the executing agency, SODEFITEX (garage, accounting), and
SODEFITEX must prefinance companies under BADEA and Kuwait Fund financing.
Cr. 647       Second Sedhiou Project; US$6.3 Million Credit of June 25, 1976;
Effective November 23, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project aims at improving crop production through ti) yield
increases and (ii) increases in farm size by the use of animal traction.
Due to low rainfall, yields remained below appraisal estimates. However,
groundnut production exceeded forecasts while foodgrain production was sub-
stantially lower (40-70 percent of appraisal estimates). The actual results
of the 1978-79 campaign are not yet known but should be good given the ade-
quate rainfall. Results of the livestock component are disappointing up to
now and a consultant has been called upon to review this component. The
project had major financial problems because counterpart funds were not made
available by Government. This problem has been temporarily resolved through
a special loan from the Senegalese Treasury. Work on the development plan
for the Casamance Region by the project's planning unit is now completed, with
a 5-month delay.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
Ln. 1332      Second SOFISEDIT Project; US$4.2 Million Loan of October 14,
1976; Effective April 21, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
In addition to providing SOFISEDIT with credit for investments in
industry and tourism, the Second SOFISEDIT Loan is financing a pilot scheme
of assistance to small-scale Senegalese businesses and artisans through SONEPI,
the local industrial promotion agency. SOFISEDIT's use of the Second Loan has
been slower than anticipated.
Ln. 1405T    Dakar Fishing Port Project; US$6.0 Million Loan of June 7, 1977;
Effective March 20, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The civil works are progressing satisfactorily, but costs will
increase because marine quality cement has now to be imported. Exoneration
of project from further taxes may possibly offset these increases, but some
adjustment of the financing plan could be necessary later. Traffic has in-
creased significantly, particularly phosphate exports, tuna transshipment,
and oil products. Port operations have been normal. The container facilities
and port master plan study has commenced and consultants for fishing port ope-
rations and fishing sector study are being appointed. Statistics and accounts,
including introduction of analytical accounting, are considerably in arrears
due to difficulties of staff and tardiness of the Government computer centers.
Bank is urging and assisting Government and the Port authorities to resolve
the problems, which will almost certainly intensify unless remedied early.
The Port's finances have improved appreciably due to tariff increases and
increased traffic. The Port's general performance is satisfactory and the
project is being implemented satisfactorily.
Ln. 1412T    Petite Cote Tourism Project; US$8.0 Million and US$5.6 Million
Ln. 1413      Loans of June 7, 1977; Effective January 5, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
All project implementing agencies are expeditiously carrying out
early project implementation which includes preparation of final design and
bidding documents for the project works, and awarding of construction con-
tracts. Construction of infrastructure were expected to begin in January
1979; construction of common facilities in June 1979; and renovation works
in Goree Island in December 1979. Promotion of hotel investments in the
project area is expected to yield its first results soon. Two hotel investors
are interested in using the executing agency's equity funds for their projects
and negotiations are advancing to this effect.
Ln. 1518      Third Railway Project; US$11.0 Million Loan of March 17, 1978;
Effective August 17, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project consists of track rehabilitation and maintenance; supply
of material and equipment, improvement of telecommunications facilities and
track in the Dakar area, supply of spare parts for motive power and rolling
stock, establishment of a training center and supply of training equipment and
training studies. Delay in effectiveness and change in the scope and location



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 8
of the track rehabilitation component resulted in delayed implementation. How-
ever, the project is now progressing satisfactorily and bids have been called
for all items to be procured under ICB. Traffic and operating performance
improved during the first two quarters of 1978 mainly as a result of the com-
petence and motivation of newly appointed Senegalese staff and French technical
assistance. This encouraging trend was temporarily reversed by two heavy
train accidents which completely destroyed two locomotives and the collapse
of a small bridge which halted international traffic for about two weeks.
Extended utilization of Malian locomotives in Senegal, the purchase of two
heavy Canadian locomotives and the delivery of project financed spare parts
will help the Railway overcome its problems and reach its traffic objectives.
Cr. 764       Para-Public Sector Technical Assistance Project; US$6.3 Million
Credit of March 17, 1978; Effective June 6, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The main objective of the Project is the strengthening and the
improvement of the Government's departments in charge of monitoring the
development and day-to-day management of the para-public sector in order
to help meet the sector's medium and long term targets. To achieve this
objective the project comprises (a) the provision of four advisors to the
Financial Controller of the Presidency and of two advisors to the Center
for Public Enterprises of the Ministry of Finance over three years; (b) the
carrying-out of three successive annual financial and economic audits and
the reorganization of budget, financial and accounting procedures of four key
public enterprises and three mixed companies; and (c) the provision of two
advisors over three years to the Bureau d'Organisation et Methodes to improve
this department's capacity to train managers and accountants of the sector's
public enterprises and mixed companies. The advisors under parts (a) and (c)
of the project arrived in the field in late 1978 and early 1979. The audits
provided under part (b) are well underway.
Cr. 775       Debi-Lampsar Irrigation Project; US$20.0 Million Credit of
March 17, 1978; Effective June 30, 1978; Closing Date: June
30, 1983
The Credit became effective on schedule, June 30, 1978. The Debi-
Lampsar Engineering Credit (S18-SE) was refinanced and its undisbursed balance
will be disbursed directly from Credit 775-SE. The project is still in the
procurement stage and physical implementation started in December 1978. Since
civil work equipment are already on the spot, the delay in starting execution,
estimated at 6 months, is expected to be made up for during project execution.
A joint IDA/FAC mission assessed the project authority SAED's managerial com-
petence and will shortly submit detailed recommendation designed to strengthen
the project authority's performance.



- 33 -                        ANNEX III
Page 1
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) First Presentation to the Bank: January 1978
(b)  Identification Mission:  February 1978
(c) Project Preparation Agency: ASECNA
(d) Appraisal Mission: June/July 1978
(e) Negotiations: February 1979
(f)  Planned Effectiveness:  May 1979
Section II: Special Project Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
The Government would:
(a) enter into a special contract, including a subsidiary loan
agreement, with ASECNA appointing the latter as executing
agency for the proposed project; the signing of the contract
would be a condition of effectiveness (para. 45);
(b) enter by December 31, 1979 into an arrangement with ASECNA
providing for the payment of a contribution by Dakar airport
to the Government amounting to minimum 10 percent and maximum
15 percent of gross revenues generated by Dakar airport
(para. 47);
(c) together with ASECNA, take whatever measures are necessary
to increase revenues and/or decrease operating costs of
its domestic airport system in accordance with an Action
Plan agreed with the Bank and described in a side letter to
the loan documents (para. 47);
(d) together with ASECNA, ensure that revenues of the entire
airport system produce a consolidated annual return on all
airports' net value of fixed assets in use of not less than
zero in FY 1981 through 1983 and not less than 4 percent in
FY 1984 and thereafter (para. 47);



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(e) together with ASECNA, ensure that the annual return on
Dakar airport's net value of fixed assets in use reach
8 percent in FY 1980 and 10 percent thereafter (para 48);
and
(f) inform the Bank of any studies affecting Dakar's airport
relocation and consult with the Bank before making any
decisions on relocation (para. 52).
ASECNA would:
ensure that cash generated from its operations will be at
least 1.25 times its maximum debt service of the following
year, unless otherwise agreed upon with the Bank (para. 52).



V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
>*>    I'
|  I   J-S  A ? // /fo+ l;~~~I                              0 
~~~~~~~~ V ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~I 
-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~MS-
<t< ' 4  S.'






¢ !  -t n   i- -- - - - -   -    --- -                            s        A
-'/ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     'o
i~j!             2                                               ' N,t00        0 
'I     _  __, ___ =_    A;                           -        -  -
t         3i Xit000000  00'0jI>



