Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23666
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-28160; IDA-28161; IDA-28162; IDA-28163; IDA-28164)
ON A CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 83.90 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR A
PUBLIC SECTOR MODERNIZATION STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
June 28, 2002
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 28, 2002)
Currency Unit = Lempira (L)
L16.40 = US$ 1
US$ I = L16.40
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANACI         -      Civil Aviation Authority
CAS           -      Country Assistance Strategy
CCP           -      Consultative Commission for Privatization
CNE           -      National Energy Commission
CONATEL       -      National Telecommunications Commission
CPME          -      Presidential Commission for the Modernization of the State
DGSC          -      General Directorate of Civil Service
DICTA         -      General Directorate of Science and Technology
EFMTAC        -      Economic and Financial Management Technical Assistance
Credit
ESAF          -      Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
ENEE          -      National Electricity Enterprise
GNP           -      Gross National Product
GPAL          -      General Public Administration Law
HONDUTEL      -      Honduran Telecommunications Enterprise
HIPC          -      Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative
ICAO          -      International Civil Aviation Organization
ICR           -      Implementation Completion Report
IDA           -      International Development Association
IDB           -      Inter-American Development Bank
IFC           -      International Finance Corporation
IMF           -      International Monetary Fund
INFA          -      Institute of the Child and the Family
JNBS          -      National Board for Social Welfare
PCU           -      Project Coordinating Unit (Executive Secretariat of CPME)
PANI          -      National Children's Organization
PSMP          -      Public Sector Modernization Program
PSMSAC        -      Public Sector Modernization Structural Adjustment Credit
PSMTAC        -      Public Sector Modernization Technical Assistance Credit
QAG           -      Quality Assurance Group
SAG           -      Secretariat of Agriculture and Husbandry
SCL           -      Superintendence of Concessions and Licenses
SEFIN         -      Secretariat of Finance
SENASA        -      National Agricultural Health Services
SEP           -      Secretariat of Public Education
SEPLAN        -      Planning Secretariat
SERNA         -      Secretariat of Natural Resources and the Environment
SIAFI         -      Integrated Financial Management System



SLARH         -      Comprehensive Human Resources Management System
SINEG         -     National Information System for Evaluating PMRTN
SISPU         -      Integrated Public Sector Investment System
SMP           -      Staff-Monitored Program
SOPTRAVI      -      Secretariat of Public Works, Transport and Housing
SSP           -      Secretariat of Public Health
UPEG          -      Planning and Evaluation Unit (Line Secretariats)
Vice President:  David De Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:  Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Director  Emesto May
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Miguel Mercado-Diaz






HONDURAS
RN PUB SEC MOD SAC
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              23
6. Sustainability                                                                  26
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   27
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 29
9. Partner Comments                                                                30
10. Additional Information                                                         33
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               34
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               37
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               38
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               39
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               41
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  42
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              43






Project ID: P007387                                       Project Name: HN PUB SEC MOD SAC
Team Leader: Miguel Mercado-Diaz                          TL Unit: LCSPS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 28, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: HN PUB SEC MOD SAC                             L/C/TF Number: IDA-28160;
IDA-28161;
IDA-28162;
IDA-28163;
IDA-28164
Country/Department: HONDURAS                                            Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: BB - Public Sector Management Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   09/18/92                               Effective: 04/10/97           04/10/97
Appraisal:  05/17/95                                 MTR: 01/18/99              01/18/99
Approval:  02/08/96                                Closing: 11/30/2001          11/30/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS/MIN OF FIN & PUBLIC CREDIT
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      David De Ferranti                         Shahid Husein Burki
Country Manager:     D-M Dowsett-Coirolo                       D-M Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager:      Ronald E. Myers                           Robert M. Lacey
Team Leader at ICR:  Miguel Mercado-Diaz                       Antonio Martin Del Campo
ICR Primary Author:  Cecilia Zanetta
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Honduras is the third poorest country in Latin America, with per capita GNP of US$890 in 2001, a high
incidence of poverty, and low social indicators. Recurrent macroeconomic imbalances have been a major
factor contributing to high poverty and weak social indicators. By the end of the 1980s, Honduras was on
the verge of economic collapse as the result of the state interventionist policies that had guided most Latin
American countries since the 1960s. Fueled by abundant external financing which masked the need to
correct structural distortions in the economy, high levels of government spending were also a central factor
contributing to macroeconomic disarray.
Stabilization and structural adjustment measures were undertaken in 1990, bringing about economic
recovery and substantial improvement in terms of growth, inflation, and fiscal deficits. In 1993, however,
the Government embarked on an expansionary fiscal policy in the run-up of a presidential election, which
resulted in a resurgence of fiscal deficits and rapid macroeconomic deterioration. With IMF support
through an Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF)' arrangement, the subsequent administration
(Reina, 1994-98) implemented a series of drastic measures that succeeded in stabilizing the economy and
reviving growth during the 1994-95 period. It also launched the Public Sector Modernization Program
(PSMP), a comprehensive reform program aimed at restoring and sustaining macroeconomic stability by
developing a smaller and more efficient public sector.
The overall objective of the Public Sector Modernization Structural Adjustment Credit (PSMSAC) was to
support the Government's objectives as articulated in the PSMP. The PSMSAC focused on key structural
weaknesses underlying poor fiscal performance-particularly on the expenditure side-and on correcting
the lack of transparency and accountability existing in the public administration. The program was also
aimed at increasing efficiency in the provision of public services. In particular, the program's specific
objectives were to:
(a)    Increase private sector participation in the provision of public services,
(b)    Underpin fiscal adjustment through the restructuring of public institutions and employment, and
(c)    Improve public sector management to enhance efficiency, transparency, and accountability.
The program's objectives reflected closely the priorities of IDA's strategy for Honduras as articulated in
the 1993 CAS. This strategy was aimed at three key objectives: (i) poverty reduction; (ii) public sector
reformn and promotion of private sector development; and (iii) sustainable management of natural resources.
The PSMSAC and its companion, the Public Sector Modernization Technical Assistance Credit (Credit
No. 2814; PSMTAC) were designed to provide ample financial and technical support to the objectives of
public sector reform and private sector development.
The Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) was the IMF's concessionalfacilityfor low-income countries. On November 22, 1999
its purposes were redefined and it was renamed the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility.
- 2 -



The operation was designed as a structural adjustment credit co-financed with the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) for a total of US$210 million. IDB's financing, amounting to US$155 million,
was to be used mainly for relieving pressure from external debt. The IDA's credit, in the amount of SDR
36.6 million equivalent to US$55 million and an additional SDR 47.30 million equivalent to US$67.928
million in IDA reflows, was to be released in three tranches. A complementary technical assistance project
(PSMTAC; Credit No.2814) for SDR 6.4 million equivalent to US$9.6 million was implemented
simultaneously to provide hands-on support to the implementation of the reforms sought under the
PSMSAC.
The operation built on previous Bank work. In particular, it benefited from the study on Prospects for
Public Sector Reforn (World Bank, 1992), which provided an exhaustive diagnosis of the main challenges
facing Honduras' public sector and laid down the foundations for the reform program. It also benefited
from the IBRD-IDB joint study on Reforming Public Investment and the Infrastructure Sectors (World
Bank, 1995), which provided in-depth recommendations for improving the management of public
investments and the provision of infrastructure services.
Potential risks were properly identified during appraisal, including the potential: (i) insufficient technical
and institutional capacity to implement the operation, (ii) macroeconornic vulnerability due to the large debt
burden and trade deficits, and (iii) lack of political will. These risks were explicitly addressed in the design
of the operation. The lack of adequate human resources and technical capacity was specifically addressed
by complementing the adjustment operation with a technical assistance project and by coordinating with the
IDB's field office to provide implementation support. Similarly, a number of measures aimed at
rescheduling, restructuring, and eliminating existing debt were coordinated between the Government, the
IMF, the Bank, and the IDB. Finally, the Government's commitment towards reform was tested by
including a series of actions requiring a high degree of political will as conditions for Board presentation,
including substantial employment and deficit reductions and compliance with the fiscal targets agreed upon
with the IMF. Nevertheless, it is important to note that the risk of lack of political commitment could not
be totally eliminated, as it fluctuates over time-as it indeed did over the life of the project-and depends
on a number of actors, including both the executive and the legislature.
In summary, the program objectives were clearly delineated and responded to both the Borrower's priorities
and the Bank's overall strategy in Honduras. Similarly, the design of the program was clearly linked to the
objectives set forth, which in tum were made operational through loan conditionality.
The only area of concern identified by this evaluation in terms of design relates to the scope of the
operation. The many and difficult reforms that were pursued in the framework of the operation resulted in
a high degree of political, technical, and institutional complexity.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The program's objectives remained unchanged during its implementation.
3.3 Original Components:
The PSMSAC focused on three main components of the Government's adjustment program. It was
designed as a structural adjustment credit to be disbursed in three tranches. A series of policy actions were
identified as indicators of the progress made in the implementation of each component. The release of each
tranche was contingent upon maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic framework and satisfactory
progress toward the implementation of these policy actions (see Policy Matrix in Annex 1). The three main
components were defined as follows:
-3-



(a)    Private Sector Participation in Public Services:
This component was aimed at promoting increased private sector participation in the provision of key
public services, with the ultimate objective of increasing fiscal revenues, reducing public investment
requirements, decreasing external debt, inducing new private investments, and increasing operational
efficiency in utilities and transport. This component supported ambitious reformns in telecommunications
and civil aviation and more partial reforms in electric power, which eventually became more ambitious over
the life of the program. Specifically:
LI     Telecommunications: This sub-component was aimed at creating a competitive environment in
the telecommunications sector, including the transfer of operations to the private sector. Key actions
outlined in the Government's strategy included: (i) obtaining Congressional approval for the new
Telecommunications Framework Law; (ii) the creation of an independent and financially autonomous
regulatory entity; (iii) the establishment of an enterprise responsible for basic telephonic services in the
country with at least 30 percent of the stock controlled by the private sector; and (iv) the rebalancing of
tariffs to reflect the long-term marginal costs. Loan conditionality focused on items (i), (ii), and (iii).
LI     Civil Aviation: This sub-component was aimed at increasing efficiency in civil aviation and
airport management through the formation of an autonomous enterprise and concessioning of services to
the private sector. Key actions outlined in the Government's strategy included: (i) obtaining Congressional
approval of the new Civil Aviation Law and the Law for the Honduran Enterprise of Airports and
Navigation Systems; (ii) creating an autonomous regulatory entity; (iii) establishing a public autonomous
enterprise to operate the airports and air navigation systems; and (iv) substantially increasing private sector
participation in the airport operations. Loan conditionality focused on items (i), (iii), and (iv).
LI     Electric Power: This sub-component was aimed at increasing public sector participation in the
distribution of electric power in accordance with the Law of Electricity approved in November 1994. Key
actions outlined in the Government's strategy included: (i) defining a new electricity tariff structure and
implementing it on a permanent basis; and (ii) taking the corresponding steps for transferring distribution to
the private sector, including the definition of the different geographic areas of operation and the contracting
with the private sector for the distribution of electric power. Loan conditionality focused on both items.
(b)    Administrative Reform:
This component supported institutional restructuring and the rationalization of employment and salary
regimes.
O      Institutional Restructuring: This sub-component was aimed at reducing the size and improving
the organization of central and decentralized administrations by: (i) eliminating redundant and obsolete
entities and functions; (ii) merging and streamlining those that were duplicated; (iii) transferring to the
private sector and contracting out those functions that could be better performed by other agents; (iv)
decentralizing functions to regional offices and local authorities; and (vi) establishing a legal framework
consistent with a modernized administration. The initial focus was on the sectors with the highest potential
for fiscal savings and major structural problems-education, health and social services, infrastructure and
communications, and natural resources-and the Secretariat of Finance.
O      Rationalization of Employment and Salary Regimes in the Civil Service and Decentralized
Institutions: This sub-component was aimed at sustaining the employment and salary reforms
- 4 -



implemented by the Govemment as part of its overall reform efforts. It involved the systematic monitoring
of the number of posts and payroll expenditures in the short termn and the establishment of permanent
mechanisms for employment censuses and payroll audits.
(c)    Reforms of Public Management
This component was aimed at improving efficiency and transparency in the management of public
resources through the development and implementation of modem public management tools. Specifically,
this component focused on developing and implementing two key management systems: (i) a human
resource management system; and (ii) a system for financial management and investment programming.
O      Human Resources Management: This sub-component was aimed at reducing the fiscal burden
that resulted from overstaffing in the public sector by correcting distortions in the salary regime and
introducing incentives conducive to increasing the quality and efficiency of human resources in the public
administration. In addition, this sub-component complemented the Govemment's short-term efforts to
rationalize employment and salary scales with the development and implementation of a comprehensive
human resource management and payroll system linked to the budget for the entire public sector.
LI     Financial Management and Public Investment Programming: This sub-component was aimed
at improving public resources allocation through the implementation of integrated systems of financial
management and investment programming. The financial management system linking all relevant
functions-budget, treasure, public credit, and accounting-was to replace overly centralized budgeting
functions.
3.4 Revised Components:
The components did not substantially change during project implementation, except in the case of the
electric and civil aviation sectors, where the Government subsequently adopted a more ambitious reform
program.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry was satisfactory. The program objectives were consistent with those of IDA as articulated
in the 1993 CAS as well as the Government's own priorities as reflected in the PSMP. Drawing from
IDA's previous thorough economic and sector work, the operation correctly identified the major issues and
systemic distortions that needed to be addressed as part of the reform efforts. It also reflected a global
understanding of Honduras' public sector structure, functions, and characteristics. Finally, the project
design considered into account IDA's safeguard policies, and the major risks were appropriately identified
and addressed as part of the design.
Two factors, however, should be noted with respect to the operation's quality at entry: (i) ambiguous loan
conditionality for some components, and (ii) the wide scope of the reforms being supported by the
operation. The definition of loan conditionality was uneven across the different components. While the
private-sector reform component was made operational through a set of few, well-defined policy actions
that reflected key policy objectives, loan conditionality for other components lacked equivalent detail in
definition. This is especially the case for those conditionalities that require the implementation of Action or
Institutional Restructuring Plans. For instance, in the case of the institutional restructuring sub-component,
the condition for disbursement of the third tranche required the implementation of six individual
restructuring plans, involving, in turn, more than 30 individual actions. While detailed action plans are
highly valuable in guiding and structuring the implementation of complex reformn processes, it is the view of
this evaluation that selecting a few, highly relevant actions for each component may have been a more
- 5 -



effective approach to ensure the Government's focused attention on key policy actions. There is no doubt,
however, that the measurement of outputs is more elusive and, consequently more challenging, in the case
of institutional development components such as administrative reform.
The second concern relates to the wide scope of the reforms that are pursued as part of the operation. In an
attempt to capitalize on the window of opportunity provided by a reform-minded administration, the
PSMSAC tackled a wide range of politically difficult reforms, all exhibiting considerable complexity and
requiring specific expertise. Further, many of the reforns required changes in the legislation. Although a
review by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) found the project design adequate, it also made a explicit
reference to the fact that the project had been designed in response to the Government's ambitious reform
agenda and that, although this agenda was somewhat rationalized by IDA, the PSMSAC was still a very
complex project. The significant delays and the unsuccessful attempts to accomplish some important policy
actions in the framework of the PSMSAC suggest that that operation may have been indeed too ambitious.
The lack of a good track record in the two preceding adjustment operations should have alerted IDA to take
a more cautious approach. In particular, one of the main findings of the ICR for the Structural Adjustment
Loan II and the Structural Adjustment Credit (Loan 3257-HO and Credit 2208-HO) was that the loan
contained too many conditionalities and that the design of the loan should be more specific with respect to
conditionalities which was a contributing factor to important delays in enacting reforms. This seems to
have been the case again for the PSMSAC.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Ouitcome/achievement of objective:
Although the level of achievement varies among sub-components, the operation has generally achieved its
overall objectives of promoting the modernization of Honduras' public sector. As a result of the actions
taken under the PSMSAC, Honduras has taken important steps towards addressing some of the structural
weaknesses of its public sector, including controlling personnel expenditures, improving the organizational
structure of the public administration, and developing and implementing modern management systems for
human and financial resources. The operation has also increased efficiency and private sector participation
in the provision of public services. In particular:
(a)    Private Sector Participation in Public Services: The overall achievement of objectives in this
component has been satisfactory. The provision of public services in Honduras has improved over the life
of the PSMSAC, with improvements in the coverage and quality of services and the private sector now
playing a more important role in the provision of services. The most remarkable achievement has been the
20-year concession for the four main airports, which exceeds the original expectations. In the
telecommunications sector, the Government has satisfactorily completed all loan conditionality aimed at
bringing HONDUTEL ("Empresa Hondurena de Telecomunicaciones") to the point of sale. However, the
actual privatization was not completed as the one bid that was presented turned out to be lower than the
Government's base price. Subsequently, the Government expressed its commitment to granting a license
for mobile telephony in Band B, but this was also abandoned due to lack of support in Congress. However,
despite the unsuccessful attempt to complete the sale of HONDUTEL or the concession of the Band B, the
Government has made substantial progress in redefining the sector in a manner consistent with the
objectives of the modernization program. In the electricity sector, the scope of the reforms were
significantly broader than initially envisioned. Despite some important achievements, such as the creation
of a regulatory agency, implementation is lagging behind, as the new Electricity Law has been stalled in
Congress since December 1999.
It is important to note, however, that despite the advances of the last few years, coverage and quality for
- 6 -



telephone and electricity services in Honduras are still substantially poorer than in other countries in the
region. A recent Bank study (World Bank 2001) characterizes Honduras' public services as weak, with the
Microeconomic Competitiveness Index showing a particularly low performance in electricity (58).
Although airports (50) and telecommunications (40) are performing somewhat better, they are also below
other Central American countries. These results stress the importance of continuing with the efforts to
increase competition and private sector participation in telecommunications and electricity, as well as to
strengthen the regulatory bodies in all sectors, which remain weak.
(b)    Administrative Reform: Achievement under the administrative reform component has been
satisfactory. The restructuring of the public administration has been carried out in accordance with the new
Public Administration Law, which resulted in the streamlining of the central administration and six key
secretariats, the elimination of redundant entities, and considerable progress toward decentralization. The
restructuring also called for the elimination of the central planning agency (SEPLAN), which had the
unintended effect of creating a vacuum in terms of planning, monitoring, and normative functions.
Similarly, it is not clear whether the restructuring has had the expected impact on service delivery within
each secretariat. To correct this deficiency, IDA's follow-up operation-the Economic and Financial
Management Technical Assistance Credit (Cr. 3414-HO; EFMTAC)-is currently providing technical
assistance to strengthen the planning units within each secretariat and to develop a system of performance
indicators.
In terms of employment rationalization, over 20 percent of all permanent positions in the central
administration and decentralized entities have been either eliminated or frozen, which is well above the 10
percent benchmark established by the PSMSAC conditionality. As a result, the size of the Honduran public
sector is now similar to that of other Central American countries. Despite these employment reductions,
the salary wage has continued to increase, reaching 10.0 percent of GDP in 2001. The most significant
impact on the wage bill stems from growing salary increases in the health and education sectors that have
been legislated under separate employment regimes (estatutos) since 1997. While the total wage bill for
civil servants has increased by a moderate 12.4 percent since 1996, that for teachers and health-sector
employees has increased by more than 60 percent over the same period. Although politically very difficult
to tackle, the estatutos pose a real threat to the sustainability of the achievements made as part of the
administrative reform component and more importantly, to fiscal stability.
(c)    Reforms of Public Management: The achievement of objectives in this component has been
satisfactory. Substantial progress has been made in the implementation of a human resource management
system, including a reclassification of all 25,000 posts in the central administration and the restructuring of
the salary structure to match comparable private-sector targets. The salary restructuring has been an
important step toward improving the quality of human resources within the public sector, as competitive
salaries will permit the recruitment and maintenance of qualified staff. A basic human resource database is
now operational, which includes all posts in the payroll as well as their corresponding category and salary
according to the newly implemented classification system. Employment census and audits have also been
conducted in several secretariats, which have permitted the identification of operational anomalies and
structural deficiencies. Some of the operational problems that have been identified include absenteeism,
multiple employments, and the mismatch between nominal and actual functional assignments.
Recommendations have been drafted to address these irregularities within each secretariat. Similarly,
structural deficiencies have been identified, such as the skewed allocation of posts to administrative
functions despite the limited planning and normative functions currently carried out by most secretariats.
The work done under PSMSAC has been key in identifying these deficiencies and bringing them into the
open. However, the challenge of correcting operational anomalies and assessing staffing needs within each
agency is still pending and will require strong political will. Still institutionally weak, the Civil Service
- 7 -



Directorate (DGCS) is not up to the task and it will be up to the new administration to face the challenge.
The Govemment has also made substantial progress in the development and implementation of a modem
system of financial administration (SIAFI), incorporating into a single operational framework the
previously dissociated functions related to the budget, treasury, accounting, and public credit. The 1999
and 2000 budgets have been executed using the SIAFI, which is now operational in five secretariats.
Overall, the implementation of the SIAFI has contributed to increase transparency in the management of
public resources by having on-line, real-time information on financial transactions within the central
administration integrated into a single database with access open to multiple users. It also has the potential
to strengthen policy decision-making by providing timely and dependable information on public finances.
Much still needs to be done before the SIAFI can function as a fully integrated system that interrelates the
central database managed by SEFIN with local databases corresponding to the different organisms within
the central administration and decentralized entities. IDA's ongoing Financial and Economic Management
Project is providing technical and financial assistance for activities supporting the integration of the SIAFI
into the public administration.
4.2 Outputs by components:
As a structural adjustment operation, the project outcomes consist of those policy actions identified as loan
conditionalities and included in the project's Policy Matrix. However, to better assess the overall progress
achieved in each of the sectors, this evaluation reaches beyond loan conditionality and includes other
relevant actions taken by the Government that are consistent with the overall objectives of the operation.
Specifically: Macroeconomic stability: The release of all tranches was made contingent upon the
maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic framework conducive to sustaining structural reform and
stimulating growth. Working closely with the IMF, Honduras has made substantial progress in
implementing economic reforrns over the past decade. This record is even more impressive when
considering the devastating effects of an unprecedented natural disaster-Hurricane Mitch struck the
country in late 1998. Inflation was reduced to 10 percent in 2000 from 23 percent in 1990, and the overall
fiscal deficit was reduced to 1.5 percent in 2000 from 7.7 percent of GDP in 1990 (see Box 1). While
Honduras remains one of the poorest countries in Latin America, the proportion of its population living in
poverty, according to estimates, has declined to 66 percent in 1999 from 75 percent in 1991. Notable
improvements in social indicators have also been recorded, especially in the areas of education and health.
- 8 -



Box 1
Honduras's Macroeconomic Performance During the 1990s
Recurrent macroeconomic imbalances have been a mayor factor contributing to high poverty and weak
social indicators. Honduras' current account deficit peaked in 1993, reaching 9.2 percent of GDP as a
result of an expansionary fiscal policy in the run-up of a presidential election. As with its predecessors, the
Reina administration (1994-98) inherited an impeding fiscal and external crisis. Supported by an Enhanced
Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) arrangement with the IMF, the govemment stabilized the economy
and revived growth during 1994-95, but further progress proved difficult in 1996 and the Government was
unable to agree with the Fund on the third year of the ESAF. Largely reflecting political pressures related
to the electoral cycle, the Government considered that the fiscal effort that would have been required to
bring the performance back on track during 1997 was not feasible. In early 1997, the Fund and the
Government agreed on a Staff-Monitored Program (SMP) to re-establish a record of performance during
1997 that would lay the basis for negotiating a new ESAF with the incoming administration in 1998.
Honduras' economy improved steadily during the two years prior to Hurricane Mitch, either meeting or
exceeding the targets in the SMP. Growth rebounded to 5.1 percent in 1997 and was on pace for 5.5
percent in 1998. The current account deficit fell from 4.8 percent of GDP in 1996 to 3.9 percent in 1997.
After stagnating in 1995-96, real wages increased by almost 10 percent in 1997 and a further 3 percent in
the first three quarters of 1998. Annualized inflation fell from 26 percent in 1997 to 13 percent in
September 1998.
In April 1998, the subsequent Flores administration (1998-2002) adopted a fiscal package to further reduce
the fiscal deficit, which had fallen to 2.9 percent of GDP in 1997. The measures increased social spending,
lowered income taxes to the level of the rest of Central America, and phased out taxes on net assets and
exports. To finance the increased spending and tax reductions, the sales tax rate was increased from 7 to
12 percent. Preliminary data for the first nine months of 1998 indicated that fiscal performance was in line
with a fiscal deficit target of 2.5 percent of GDP.
Hurricane Mitch hit Honduras in late October 1998, resulting in turning out to be the worst catastrophe in
the country's history and inflicting enormous human and material losses. As a result, growth and export's
trends reversed, with GDP growth slowing to 2.8 percent compared to the expected 5.1 percent. Similarly,
output and per capita income declined, unemployment rose and productivity decreased considerably. Fiscal
deficit swelled to 3.5 percent of GDP in spite of the fact that 1998 fiscal accounts showed a surplus by the
end of the second quarter (ECLAC 1998).
Sound macroeconomic management helped Honduras recover from the devastation caused by Hurricane
Mitch. Despite the magnitude of the disaster, the Government has persevered in its efforts to maintain
macroeconomic stability and continue forward with selected reforms while carrying out its reconstruction
program. It also redoubled efforts to address long-standing debt issues by seeking access to the HIPC
Initiative. In March 1999, only five months after Hurricane Mitch, Honduras reached an agreement with
the IMF on a three-year Poverty Reduction program (PRFG), which is now under implementation. In
December 1999, Honduras was declared eligible for HIPC assistance, and in July 2000, the country
reached the Decision Point and presented an Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy (I-PRSP) to the Boards of
the IMF and IDA.
Real GDP grew by 4.8 percent in 2000 led by the recovery in agriculture, after a decline of 1.9 percent in
-9-



1999. A tight monetary stance helped lower inflation to 10 percent from almost 11 percent the previous
year. Although central government revenue performance deteriorated slightly in 2000, the overall deficit
(1.5 percent of GDP) was lower than expected (4 percent of GDP) as some reconstruction works were
postponed for 2001. GDP growth is projected at 3.5 percent for 2001 with inflation remaining at 10
percent. The expected slowdown in economic growth is attributed mainly to a worsening in international
commodity prices, especially coffee, high oil prices, and the slowdown in the U.S. economy. The fiscal
deficit is expected to increase to nearly 4 percent of GDP as the government incurs additional
reconstruction expenditures that were delayed in 2000. On the external front, the expected current account
deficit is expected to remain at approximately 3.5 percent of GDP as increasing private transfers
compensate for a slowdown in public transfers.
I      Based mostly on informnation prepared by the IMF, except when explicitly noted.
2      Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLAC), 1998. Preliminary
Overview of the Economies of Latin America and the Caribbean, 1998. United Nations (New York).
-10-



Box 2
Honduras' Debt Relief under the HIPC Initiative
The International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank Group's International Development
Association (IDA) agreed in July 2000 to support a comprehensive debt reduction package for Honduras
under the enhanced Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative.
The IMF and the World Bank launched the HIPC Initiative in 1996 as the first comprehensive effort to
eliminate unsustainable debt in the world's poorest and most heavily indebted countries. In October 1999,
the international community agreed to make the Initiative broader, deeper and faster by increasing the
number of eligible countries, raising the amount of debt relief each eligible country will receive, and
speeding up its delivery. The enhanced Initiative aims to reduce the net present value (NPV) of debt at the
decision point to a maximum of 150 percent of exports and 250 percent of government revenue, and will be
provided on top of traditional debt relief mechanisms. Thirty-six countries are expected to qualify for
assistance under the enhanced HIPC Initiative, including Honduras.
The debt relief package will save Honduras more than US$900 million in debt service over the coming
years, and is equal to US$556 million in net present value (NPV) terms. At the end of 1999, Honduras'
total external public debt, after full application of traditional debt relief mechanisms, was approximately
US$3.1 billion in NPV terms. This equaled almost 135 percent of exports and more than 300 percent of the
country's central government revenue. HIPC assistance, provided after application of traditional debt relief
mechanisms (i.e., a stock-of-debt reduction under Naples terms from bilateral creditors), is calculated to
achieve the debt to government revenue target of 250 percent. Under the HIPC relief package, bilateral
creditors will provide US$215 million NPV in debt reduction to Honduras, with multilateral creditors
roviding US$340 million NPV. Of this total amount, the World Bank will deliver US$98 million NPV, a
43 percent reduction in debt service over the next 10 years. The assistance committed by the IMF of
US$30 million NPV will be delivered over eight years, and will cover, on average, 22 percent of
debt-service obligations to the Fund. Debt relief for Honduras under the enhanced HIPC Initiative is
expected to be significantly front-loaded, with most relief delivered during the first 15-20 years. Honduras
eligibility for debt relief under the HIPC Initiative represents the recognition by the international
community of the country's progress in implementing reforms in macroeconomic, structural and social
policies. The 25-percent debt service reduction enabled by the enhanced framework should help the country
sustain this progress through the next decade.
1 IMF Press Release No. 00/4 1; 10 July 2000.
(a)    Private Sector Participation in Public Services: In the early 1990s, the provision of
infrastructure services in Honduras was characterized by lack of competition and inefficient regulations,
which, in turn, had resulted in low coverage, poor quality of services, distortional tariffs and lack of
adequate maintenance. Moreover, public enterprises were major contributors to Honduras' chronic public
deficits, as high levels of foreign credit were needed to finance public investments. To reverse this
situation, the Government established the Consultative Commission for Privatization (CCP) to implement
an aggressive privatization plan to replace state monopolies with regulated competitive environments. The
Government's privatization plan was guided by policy recommendations designed by the World Bank and
IDB as part of a public expenditures review conducted in 1995 (see Box 3). These recommendations
included major reformns in four main areas: (1) the structure of ownership and competition of publicly
owned enterprises; (2) the regulatory and control processes; (3) the procedures for tariff settings; and (4)
- 11 -



the quality and efficiency in the provision of services. The PSMSAC focused mainly on key Govemment
actions aimed at establishing adequate legal frameworks and the privatization and concessioning of
services. Performance under this component was satisfactory.
- 12-



Box 3
Increasing Private Sector Participation in Honduras
IBRD and IDB's Policy Recommendations
The PSMSAC supported the Government's plan to drastically reduce the role of the State in the provision
of public services by increasing private sector participation. To be effective, the World Bank and IDB had
recommended as part of their Reforming Public Investment and the Infrastructure Sector report (World
Bank, 1995) that reforms be pursued in four main areas: (1) the structure of ownership and competition of
publicly owned enterprises; (2) the regulatory and control processes; (3) the procedures for tariff settings;
and (4) the quality and efficiency in the provision of services, including targeting of the poor.
1. Structure of ownership and competition: Government's efforts should be aimed at changing the
structure of ownership within publicly provided services and enhancing the degree of competition in the
provision of services, removing artificial barriers to entry in service provision. Further participation of the
private sector would, in turn, improve the efficiency of public services and would generate additional
sources of finance. This increased participation was to be sought through transfers of ownership and
vertical and horizontal unbundling of service provision.
2. Regulatory and Control Processes: Equally important was the need for a major reform of the regulatory
and control processes in the provision and management of public services. In order for them to be
effective, regulatory bodies should be designed as free as possible from the pressures of regulatory capture
by interest groups. Regulators should be skilled in sectoral regulation issues, with appointments long
enough to make them independent of any particular administration. Regulatory bodies should be properly
funded to ensure that they could effectively conduct their functions independently. In order to ensure
fairness, regulations should be applied evenly among all providers.
3. Tariff Setting: Tariff setting should be based on a proper cost analysis, which includes all categories of
users and what it actually costs the company to operate the services as well as finance investments for
expansion and improvement of services. Enterprises should be required to meet at least operating costs for
small residential consumers of electricity and local telephone services and their long-run marginal costs for
all other services. Cross-subsidies within each sector should be designed in such a way as not to penalize a
particular group that is important for economic growth (such as industries that use large volumes of
electricity and make international calls) or the extremely poor, who generally do not have access to the
service and need to be connected. Revenues from such cross-subsidies should be targeted to the poor,
instead of using them to subsidize the middle class. In general, subsidies should be directed as much as
possible toward expanding access rather than subsidizing usage of services.
4. Quality and Efficiency in the Provision of Services: Regulatory bodies should ensure that the costs of
inefficiencies should not be passed down to the consumers. Tariffs should be based on the production costs
of an "efficient" enterprise. Coverage and quality of services should be an important objective of the
reform strategy.
Source: World Bank (1995) Honduras. Reforming Public Investment and the Infrastructure Sectors: A
Joint World Bank and IDB Study. Report No. 14084-HO, Washington, D.C.: World Bank.
- 13 -



a.1    Telecommunications: Loan conditionality in this sub-component was partially met.
Issues: Telecommunications services were in the hands of a public enterprise, HONDUTEL, which had the
monopoly power over the provision of all services, including telephony, telex, telegraphy, and radio
communication. Despite high levels of public investments in the telecommunications sectors, HONDUTEL
was a poor performer. As with all public services in Honduras, costs of service provision were very high,
operations were inefficient, and the quality of services was low by international standards. Similarly, the
existing tariff structure in telecommunications reflected a poorly developed scheme of cross-subsidization
that introduced significant distortions in the economy.
Loan Conditionality: The PSMSAC focused on establishing a legal framework conducive to creating a
competitive environment in the sector, the establishment of a regulatory entity, the issuing of bidding
documents for the privatization of basic telephone services, and the actual privatization of these services.
All conditions were met, except for the one requiring the actual privatization of HONDUTEL, which was
not completed. Specifically:
O      Legal Framework: Accomplished. As a condition for Board presentation, the Government
obtained congressional approval of the new Telecommunications Law in April 1995, which redistributed
state responsibilities in the sector, mandated private sector participation in the provision of public services,
and created the National Telecommunications Commission (CONATEL) as the regulatory agency for the
sector. Regulations of the Telecommunications Law were issued through Executive Decree 89-97 on May
27, 1997 and published in the Official Newspaper Gaceta of August 2, 1997. Congress also approved the
capitalization of HONDUTEL in October 1998. In May 1999, Congress approved further changes to
strengthen the existing Telecommunications Law and to improve the prospects for a successful
privatization. The new decree authorized the privatization of HONDUTEL through the creation of a
subsidiary with private sector involvement, granted the executive authority to sell 51 percent of the new
company to a strategic investor, and allowed the Government to sell the existing and new shares, thus
making it possible to receive proceeds from the sale.
O      Regulatory Entity: Accomplished. The new regulatory agency CONATEL began operations in
January 1996 and was assigned an appropriate budget. It was responsible, among other things, for the
preparation of the regulations of the new Telecommunications Law. Although CONATEL is the
best-functioning regulatory agency in Honduras, it still needs several improvements to ensure its
effectiveness.
0      Issuance of Bidding Documents: Waived for Second Tranche but Subsequently Accomplished.
As result of the disruptions generated by Hurricane Mitch, the issuance of final bidding documents was
delayed, and IDA granted a waiver for the release of the second tranche. The issuance of bidding
documents took place in November 1999, identifying eight potential buyers.
Li     Privatization: Waived. Despite the promising scenario that prevailed during in 1999, only one bid
was submitted on October 16, 2000. The bid was substantially lower than the Govemment's base price;
thus the privatization was not completed and a waiver of this condition, where the Honduran Government
had done its part to bring HONDUTEL to the point of sale, was justified. The base price was set by an ad
hoc commission constituted by both government officials and representatives of the civil society at a level
considerably higher than that recommended by the legal advisor. In view of the unsuccessful attempt to
privatize HONDUTEL, the Government subsequently decided to increase competition in the sector by
granting a license for mobile telephony in Band B. However, this initiative was abandoned when the
- 14 -



proposal met some opposition in Congress. The Government has agreed to identify additional steps toward
liberalizing the market and increasing competition in the sector.
Other Progress Towards Sector Modernization: Despite the unsuccessful attempt to complete the
privatization process, progress has been made towards increasing competition, eliminating distortions, and
increasing the coverage and quality of services. The number of private agents that who provide various
non-basic telecom services has increased substantially since 1995, from 26 to 192. The tariff structure has
been substantially modified to eliminate previous distortions, increasing the domestic rates and lowering
international ones. The coverage and quality in the provision of services has improved substantially since
1995, with the number of main lines per 100 people almost doubling, the same as productivity measured in
the number of lines per employee. Similarly, the completion rate for local calls and other measures of
quality of service have also improved substantially. Moreover, HONDUTEL does not constitute a drain of
public funds, as revenues from user charges provide for the majority of its expenditures and it makes
significant transfers to the national government, amounting to slightly over US$20 million in 1999, which
is equivalent to 0.4 percent of GDP and ten percent of HONDUTEL revenues.
a.2    Electricity: Loan conditionality under this sub-component was partially met.
Issues: For the most part, electricity generation was, in the hands of the public enterprise ENEE, serving
98 percent of users. Although private generation had been allowed since 1994, new power generation from
independent power producers had been slow to develop, accounting for only 65 MW of installed capacity
compared to 620 MW of ENEE. Therefore, there was no significant competition between the existing
generators. Similarly, transmission and distribution was mainly in the hands of ENEE. Access to electricity
was also lower than any Central American country. Similarly, the efficiency of service provision was also
very low, with system losses at 27 percent, which is also higher than those of any other Central American
country. Low tariffs were one of the factors that contributed to these deficiencies, that interfering with
ENEE's ability to meet its investment needs.
O      Legal Framework: Waived. A new Electricity Law (D158-94) was passed in 1994, which
attempted to reform the electricity sub-sector by enabling the privatization of new generation and the
existing distribution network, and separating policy and regulation functions. However, the law presented
important shortcomings, which impeded the planned privatization. In August 1998, the Energy Cabinet
approved the privatization strategy for the electricity distribution companies. In December 1998, an
Executive Committee was formed to direct the privatization process and negotiated a contract with the
International Finance Corporation (IFC) to serve as the investment bank. Shortly thereafter, however, the
Government decided to depart from the originally envisioned strategy that focused on privatizing the
National Electricity Company's (ENEE's) distribution system and to adopt instead a more comprehensive
sector reform strategy geared to opening the sector to private investors and developing a competitive
wholesale market. The new strategy reached beyond the privatization of power distribution envisioned
under the PSMSAC to also encompass: (i) opening power generation to competition; (ii) allowing
generators access to transmission lines; and (iii) establishing an independent entity to serve as the
clearinghouse/dispatch center between the generating and distribution companies. The adoption of a more
ambitious strategy required the preparation and passage of a new Framework Law for the Electricity
Sector. A bill of law was submitted to Congress in December 1999. Since then, 53 of the 152 articles have
been approved, but subsequent debates in Congress have stalled as support for the privatization of ENEE's
distribution activities has waned during the pre-electoral period.
Loan Conditionality: It focused on the definition of a new tariff structure, the determination of
geographical regions appropriate for the distribution of electric power by private companies, and the sale of
- 15 -



assets to the private sector. Specifically:
Li     Tariff Structure: Accomplished. As a condition for Board presentation, a new tariff structure was
defined and that the Government expressed its commitment to implement it on a permanent basis.
Adjustments to the tariff structure took place in 1994 and 1997, which reduced cross-subsidization for
residential customers and limited annual subsidies to a maximum of L 280 million. Electricity tariffs were
increased by 16 percent again in 2000 to maintain the marginal cost pricing system for the electricity
company. However, additional adjustments are still needed. Honduras still has a relatively low average
tariff for electricity, an extremely convoluted pricing system for residential consumption, and a subsidy, 82
percent of which is estimated to go to the non-poor.
Li     Geographical Regionalization: Accomplished. Two major studies were conducted by
international consultants to determine the best way to separate the country's territory into geographical
regions to facilitate private sector participation in the distribution of electricity.
LI     Sale of Assets: Waived. This condition required that at least one contract be awarded for the
distribution of electricity in accordance with the recommendations in the geographical regionalization study
covering at least 35 percent of the electricity consumers in the country. Delays in approval of the Electricity
Framework Law have prevented compliance with the condition related to the electricity sector. The
Government has reiterated its commitment to increasing private sector participation in the electricity sector
and building consensus with the legislature and civil society. The Govemment also agreed to conduct a
comprehensive study aimed at developing a coherent and detailed sector strategy before adopting the new
law.
Other Progress Towards Sector Modernization: Despite the unsuccessful attempt to complete the
privatization process, some progress has been made towards increasing competition, efficiency, coverage
and quality of services. In 2001, approximately 50 percent of power generation is already being provided
by the private sector, which surpasses most countries in the region without taking into account a planned
investment amounting to about 12 percent of GDP for a new plant that will generate about 600 MW,
almost doubling the country's capacity. An additional 128 MW out of a total capacity of 800 MW have
been installed by private capital since 1998. Overall electricity coverage has risen from 47 percent of
households in 1996 to 62 percent in 2001. The average price paid to generators has dropped from 13.5
cents (1993-1995) to 7 cents at present as a result of improved procedures for buying electricity from
private providers. Distribution losses have declined from 27 percent in 1996 to 18 percent in 2001.
Similarly, the Government has reiterated its commitment to continue its efforts to build consensus with the
legislature and civil society. Finally, the Energy National Commission (CNE) has been created as the sole
regulatory entity for the sector. Although similar in structure to CONATEL in the telecom sector, the CNE
suffers from serious weaknesses in terms of its technical, administrative, and financial capacity.
a.3    Civil Aviation:  Loan conditionality for this sub-component was met, with actual outputs
exceeding the conditions specified in the loan agreement.
Loan Conditionality: It focused on establishing a legal framework conducive to improving efficiency in
civil aviation and airport management and the formation of an autonomous enterprise and the concessioning
of services to the private sector. Specifically:
Li     Legal Framework: Accomplished. The Government's strategy for civil aviation, approved in
December 1998, called for the opening of the sector to competition and strengthening the regulatory
framework. With the passage of the Law for the Provision and Management of Public Services
- 16-



(Concessioning Law) in October 1998, the legal basis for concessioning was set up, and a regulatory
agency, the Superintendence of Concessions and Licenses (SCL), was established, with its Superintendent
appointed by Congress. On March 15, Congress approved an Open Skies Law that fully achieved the first
objective of opening the sector to competition. A new Civil Aviation Law is presently under debate in
Congress. It would create the Civil Aviation Authority (ANACI) as an independent entity in charge of the
technical regulation of the sector. Such regulatory agency should be considered as a part of an integral
transport sector regulatory agency. ANACI would oversee safety and security, by ensuring compliance
with the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) standards and practices.
O      Concessioning: Accomplished. The Government adopted a more ambitious strategy than the one
originally agreed for the concessioning of the National Airports System. Rather than awarding a partial
concession of airport services, a master concession of Honduras' four international airports-Tegucigalpa,
San Pedro Sula, La Ceiba, and Roatan was awarded on March 9, 2000 and subsequently ratified by
Congress in April 2000. The concession was awarded to INTERAIRPORTS, headed by SFO International,
which also manages the San Francisco International Airport in the U.S. The concessionaire has been
operating since October 1, 2000.
Other Progress Towards Sector Modernization: Airports show one of the best operational indicators.
Honduras' four international airports have shown rapid passenger growth during the late 1990s, at
approximately 8 to 9 percent a year. The new San Pedro Sula airport is the largest in capacity and volume,
and is experiencing particularly rapid cargo growth of over 10 percent a year, which is linked to the
maquila sector. Honduran airports have relatively high labor productivity, at 4,134 passengers per
employee, towards the top end of the internationally acceptable range. Passenger charges are high at US$25
per departure (at the top of the international range of US$5 to US$25), but aircraft charges are mid-range
(US$660 for an Airbus 310 compared to with a range of US$200 to US$1,000). As a requirement of the
concession contract, the concessionaire will invest US$19 million over a period of four years in
urgently-needed infrastructure improvements, including the expansion of the landing strip in the Tincontin
Airport in Tegucigalpa.
(b)    Administrative Reform: Achievement of objectives under this component is satisfactory. The
institutional structure of the Honduran public sector was characterized by a multitude of entities with
sometimes unclear, obsolete, or duplicate functions. As a result, there was considerable functional
fragmentation, inefficiency, and a high fiscal burden. The actions supported under the PSMSAC's
administrative support component were aimed at rationalizing the size of the public sector, streamlining its
activities, and improving the efficiency in the delivery of public goods and services.
b.1    Institutional Restructuring: Accomplished. In December 1996, Congress approved reformns to the
General Public Administration Law (GPAL) that sets out the new structure of the public sector.
Institutional restructuring plans were developed and implemented for each of the secretariats included in the
PSMSAC. As result, these secretariats were restructured in conformity with the GPAL, redundant entities
were eliminated, and substantial progress was made toward decentralization. These restructuring plans
were also aimed at improving performance and introducing cost-effectiveness and efficiency considerations
in the use of public resources. Since the restructuring in 1998, successive budgets have fully reflected the
new structure. Overall, the restructuring has been successful and the objectives set forth in each of the
targeted entities have been met. Some of the most notable outcomes in each of the targeted secretariats
include the following:
O      Secretariat of Public Education (SEP): The education sector has made steady progress towards
transferring functions to the private sector and moving toward decentralization. Among some noteworthy
- 17 -



achievements is the transferring of the responsibility for technical education to the private sector. Presently,
50 percent of formal technical education is being provided by the private sector, thus surpassing the 20
percent established as benchmark. SEP's budget allocation among primary and secondary education is a
good indicator of the progress being made toward decentralization. The allocation for primary education
has increased from 61.6 percent in 1998 to 69.2 percent in 2000. SEP has created 18 departmental offices
and deconcentrated corresponding personal and functions. Deconcentration involves the redistribution of
administrative responsibilities from the central government to its regional branch offices. Regarding
personnel, 90 percent of the almost 9,000 SEP employees who depended upon the General Directorates of
primary and secondary education in 1996 have been deconcentrated to the departmental offices. As for the
transfer functions, SEP has deconcentrated its management, technical and supervisory roles to the 18
departmental offices. The action plan also included setting limits on the number of officially designated
private schools, but no progress has been made as Congress ignored the request.
El     Secretariat of Health (SSP): The health sector continues to make progress towards a system
characterized by greater emphasis on prevention and primary care, with area hospitals playing an
increasing role. This progress is reflected in the share of SSP's budget allocated to preventive and primary
medicine, which has increased from 51 percent in 1997 to 57 percent in 2001 and exceeded the original 50
percent benchmark. The Government has also continued to make progress toward rationalizing and
deconcentrating budget management and procurement functions to the departments/regions. With the
exception of procurement distribution functions, of which 80 percent still remains centralized, all other
budget management functions have been successfully deconcentrated, including budget programming,
preparation and monitoring, and inventory, control and use of supplies. The SSP is currently working on
improving the quality of health services under a BID project.
Li     Social Services (JNBS/PANI): The Honduran Institute for Children and Family was created in
1997 to consolidate the functions previously performed by the National Board of Social Services (JNBS).
The Institute of the Child and the Family (INFA) was also created to manage social programs focusing on
children, with a special emphasis on promoting the participation of different groups of civil society. Finally,
the responsibility for managing games of lottery and chance was removed from the National Children's
Organization (PANI) and assigned to a newly created National Lottery Enterprise, whose profits are used
mainly to finance social programs.
LI     Secretariat of Communications, Public Works and Transportation (SOPTRA VI): In addition
to playing a key role in the concessioning of the airports and the preparation of the legal framework for the
civil aviation sector, SOPTRAVI has also made outstanding progress toward increasing private sector
participation. Since 1999, all maintenance and construction activities of roads and airports previously
conducted by SOPTRAVI are subcontracted.
Li     Secretariat of Natural Resources (SERNA): The functions formerly under SERNA's
responsibility were reassigned between two different entities: the Secretariat of Natural Resources and the
Environment (SERNA) and the Secretariat of Agriculture and Husbandry (SAG). The administrative
structure of the newly created Secretariat of Agriculture was effectively strengthened through the creation
of the General Directorate of Science and Technology (DICTA) and the National Agricultural Health
Services (SENASA), which are now fully operational and consolidated. Also, extension services were
transferred to the private sector and educational institutions, together with the transfer of assets.
LI     Secretariat of Economics and Finance (SEFIAN: In accordance with the General Public
Administrative Law's restructuring plan, the former Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit and the
Secretariat of Economics underwent a restructuring process, which culminated in 1998 with the creation of
- 18-



the Secretariat of Finance (SEFlN) and the Secretariat of Industry and Commerce. Financial management
and investment programming functions have been consolidated in SEFIN.
O      Secretariat of Planning (SEPLAA): The restructuring also called for the elimination of the
central planning office (SEPLAN) and the transferring of responsibility for policy formulation, technical
cooperation and investment policies to the Presidency. The elimination of this agency may have been
premature, as transferring planning responsibilities to the Presidency has proved difficulty to implement
because of the number of institutions involved as well as generally weak public sector management.
Similarly, the line secretariats did not assume responsibility for planning and evaluation of their respective
programs through their Planning and Evaluation Units (UPEGs) as it was expected. As a result, the
restructuring had the unintended effect of creating a vacuum in terms of planning and evaluation functions
and may have hampered the Government's ability to coordinate poverty-reduction actions across the
different social areas. IDA's follow-up operation EFMTAC is currently providing technical assistance to
the UPEGs to strengthen their capacity to plan, prepare and evaluate investment projects and operational
programs, and to formulate policies.
b.2    Rationalization of Employment and Salary Regimes: Accomplished. The administrative reform
component also focused on promoting the effective management of personnel resources and expenditures,
which, in turn, was considered critical for both maintaining aggregate fiscal control and ensuring efficient
delivery of public services. In 1994, the Law of Restructuring was approved, requiring a 10 percent cut in
permanent employment in the civil service and decentralized institutions. With support of the PSMSAC and
PSMTAC, the Government has made significant progress toward human resources reform, including the
following:
Since January 1994 the number of staff positions in the central government and decentralized institutions
(excluding teachers, medical doctors, paramedics, police and defense), was reduced from a combined
46,323 in January 1994 to 36,859 in August 2001, or an overall
Reductiors in the Number of Perm anent Positions
Central Administration and Decertralized Erntities, 1994-2001
4 0 0 -~     @    i -                -         m 51 
X  0000               -l^        i   .i+       l      l_t
40000                            - 
IL~ ~  ~ 30                                       -
0           --g- i - - [ I'
E 20000   '[        ,             i   L' t  1 ]     * '    ; 
CL~~~~~~~ k
0610000   K                 L1.        K    _   .
Jan. 1994  Dec. 1998  rvy. 1999  Dec. 1999  Jun. 2000  Aug. 2001
ElCertral Administration  Dercentralized Entitles  ETotal Permanent Positions
reduction of 20.4 percent. This is well above the 10 percent required in the decree 135-94 of October 1994
and the PSMSAC conditionality.
Li     In April 2001, an Executive Decree (PCM 003/2001) aimed at controlling salary expenditures in
- 19-



the central government was approved. The Decree sets a ceiling on salaries and mandates that, beginning in
2002, salary increases be based on performance evaluations. The Decree also calls for the cancellation of
60 percent of vacancies and sets a hiring freeze on the remaining 40 percent.
El     Monitoring of employment has been satisfactory. An employment census has been carried out in
the Secretariat of Health and post audits aimed at verifying the accuracy of recorded positions were carried
out in the Secretariats of Finance, Education, Agriculture, Natural Resources, Industry and Commerce,
Gobemaci6n, Cultural Affairs, and Labor. Although monitoring is still weak for the decentralized
institutions, the Government continues to improve the timeliness and completeness of the data. So far, no
effective mechanism exists to transform the one-time checks into a permanent staff list. Once the system for
human resources management is operational, a permanent system of staff audits should be in place and
linked to that system.
(c)    Reforms of Public Management: Achievement of objectives under this component is satisfactory.
Substantial progress has been made towards the development of a Human Resource Management System
(SIARH) and a system for financial management and investment programming (SIAFI). Specifically:
c.1    Human Resources Management: Accomplished. Honduras's public sector suffered from serious
overstaffing, inadequate systems of incentives, and the lack of effective management. Overstaffing was
particularly serious at the lower end of the salary scale, with large numbers of low-skilled personnel with
high tumover. At the same time, real wages had been declining steadily, affecting especially highly skilled
staff, thus hampering the Government's ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Incentives were
largely inadequate, with post classification schemes that did not adequately take into account skills, level of
responsibility or performance. Job evaluation, career development, and training programs were almost
non-existent. In turn, the lack of incentives and monitoring together with the politicization of hiring resulted
in low morale, high absenteeism, and poor performance. Management of human resources was almost
non-existent as the result of the institutional weakness of the Civil Service Directorate (DGSC) and the lack
of employment data.
The Government has taken many important steps to improve government-wide personnel management,
including a reclassification of posts and an initial reform of the civil service pay structure. Considerable
progress has also been made in the design of a new civil service law. In particular:
o      The consultancy for the design and implementation of a Human Resource Management System
(SIARH) for the Central Government was finalized in 1999. This study set forth different elements,
including a proposal for the organizational restructuring of the DGSC, a post classification system and
implementation plan, a market analysis of national salary rates, a performance evaluation system, and a
Human Resources management system development plan.
o      The implementation of the post classification has been completed. By August 30, 2000 25,000
posts within the Central Government were reclassified, according to the post classification system, into four
groups-administrative, technical, management, and directors-and fifteen individual categories. This
process was a major undertaking, as each post had to be assessed in terms of its functions, required skills,
and responsibilities. In September 2000, the post classification system was approved through Legislative
Decree 139-2000. In April 2001, a new Executive Decree (PCM 003-01) was passed mandating that,
beginning in 2002, salary increases be based on performance evaluations. It also mandates that all
Secretariats adopt measures to rationalize employment, elirninate duplications, and make all due severance
payments.
- 20 -



o      The implementation of the new salary structure is also near completion. The objective of the salary
rationalization program (nivelaci6n salarial) has been to rectify the most notable cases of underpayment
by bringing employees' salaries in line with the newly developed salary structure and with comparable
market-based targets. This adjustment process has been undertaken under the direction of the Salary
Committee, a group constituted by the Vice Minister of the Secretariat of Finance, the Budget Director, the
Director of Civil Service, and the Commission for State Modernization. This group has been the champion
of this process, which has required considerable collective bargaining with the six labor unions. It has also
required the handling of numerous individual complaints, as employees whose salaries were determined to
be higher than they should under the new salary scale were given only nominal salary increases. This
process was undertaken in three successive steps to ease its budgetary impact, the first step of which was
completed in December 2000 and the third programmed to conclude by October 2001. As a result,
public-sector jobs will be now more attractive to qualified applicants.
o      Due to the adjustment process, the compression ratio of civil service salaries has gone from about
6:1 in December 1998 to 10:1 in January 2001, thereby meeting the performance indicator for
decompression in the PSMSAC action plan. Consequently, the average base salaries rose sufficiently to
regain the levels at the beginning of the decade in real terms. While making an important improvement in
the salaries of mainly top technical and professional staff, the fiscal impact of this reform was minimal, as
the number of people involved was relatively small due to the existing bottom-heavy structure of the civil
service.
o      As a result of an agreement with SEFLN, the DGSC gained access to payroll data and subsequently
verified them against its own personnel files. This constituted the basis of the new human resources
database that is currently operating in both institutions, which consists of updated central government
employment figures that are crosschecked monthly for consistency with SEFINs payroll database. Based
on these data, the DGSC and General Directorate of Budget generate monthly reports on employment
figures within the central government, thus permitting timely and adequate monitoring on employment
levels. The conceptual design for turning the database into the full-fledged human resource management
tool operative within the different secretariats and linked with SIAFI is under development. The software
development for the various modules of the system and a set of intemal control mechanisms is still pending.
u The SEP continues to improve its human resource information system for the teachers' regime. There
are also action plans to install a new human resources information system that will be capable of
establishing an Internet linkage between the SEP central office and the regional directorates. The upgraded
system will be linked to the SIARH and to the integrated financial management system, which is now the
main tool for budget programming.
c.2    Financial Management and Public Investment Programming: Accomplished. Honduras'
financial management and investment programming functions were characterized by an excessive
centralization, particularly in the case of budget functions, the lack of an adequate institutional framework,
the lack of an integrated financial management and investment programming system, and poor expenditure
monitoring and control. The Government has developed and made substantial progress toward the
implementation of a Financial Management System (SIAFI) that will allow the decentralized expenditure
execution, provide unified and timely information, and facilitate control in the financial management of
public expenditures. Specifically:
o      Significant progress has been made toward eliminating duplication in the budget function,
simplifying procedures, and producing more timely and accurate information for use in the decision-making
process. In 1999, the SIAFI became fully operational for the preparation and execution of the budget.
- 21 -



Implementation of the related computer systems in the central government began with the installation of
SIAFI throughout five pilot Secretariats (Finance, Health, Education, Government and Justice, and
Industry and Commerce) where the system is now fully operational. The implementation of SEFfN in these
secretariats has resulted in the decentralization of the budget execution by 51 percent in terms of the
number of transactions and 66 percent in terms of the amount of all the transactions done by the central
administration. Similarly, it is estimated that the Health Secretariat was responsible for executing 72
percent of its budget during 1999 and 98 percent during the year 2000.
O      With the implementation of the SIAFI, the timetables for processing payments have decreased
considerably. For instance, the processing time of budgetary transactions in the Secretariat of Finance
declined from an original 56 days to 6 days, while the average procurement time in the Health Secretariat
dropped from three months to 15 days.
q      Phase III of SIAFI was contracted in February 2001. This phase will complete SIAFI coverage to
all Secretariats and will test the system in one decentralized institution. Implementation of SIAFI's current
phase includes the development of performance indicators for budget execution and the strengthening of the
UPEGs and Administrative Units in participating Secretariats. SEFIN's capacity to design and analyze
policies and programs related to public investment will continue to be strengthened under the Economic and
Financial Management Project.
U      With respect to investment capabilities, SEFIN is currently developing a system for managing the
public investment process more efficiently. Such Integrated Public Sector Investment System (SISPU)
consists of a comprehensive database of ongoing and planned investment projects in the entire public sector
(including decentralized entities and public enterprises, which account for a large portion of public
investments). This system will be linked to other govemment financial management systems: the SIAFI,
the evaluation system SINEG, and sector-specific management information systems such as the Health
Secretariat's SIGADE. With the introduction of SISPU, the Government plans to have SEFINIs Public
Investment Department screen all investment projects for their technical and financial viability.
J      A new Financial Management Law has been drafted and is currently under consideration by the
Executive prior to its submission to Congress. Passage of the proposed law will strengthen the
implementation of the system's coverage throughout the public sector, including the legislative and judicial
branches, state entities established via special decrees, and decentralized institutions financed at least
partially with public funds.
Li     The full implementation of SIAFI as well as its integration with other management systems,
including the SIARH and the SISPU, requires further development, which is pursued under the ongoing
EFMTAC project. The full integration of all management systems is key to increase transparency and to
avoid the duplication of bureaucratic procedures.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project has had a substantial institutional impact, as described for each component.
- 22 -



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The implementation of the project was much slower than anticipated, extending for an additional three
years. Although the project was originally scheduled to close on December 31, 1998, four extensions were
granted to December 31, 1999, December 31, 2000, June 30, 2001, and December 31, 2001. Moreover,
four conditions for disbursement were not met in their entirety-two conditions corresponding to the second
tranche another two corresponding to the third tranche and were waived by IDA. Various factors, both
outside and within the Government's control, contributed to the slow implementation of the project and the
failure to comply fully with the waived conditions.
Hurricane Mitch hit Central America in October 1998, bringing great devastation particularly to Honduras
and Nicaragua (see Box 4). The catastrophe, generated delays in the reform program, as the Government
naturally refocused its efforts, first on emergency relief and later on the reconstruction of the country's
infrastructure. IDA provided full support to the Government by releasing the second tranche on November
11, 1998.
- 23 -



Box 4
Effects of Hurricane Mitch
In late 1998, Hurricane Mitch and the subsequent flooding and landslides inflicted significant damage on Central
America, resulting in a large loss of human life and severe infrastructure destruction. The human and economic
oll was heaviest in Honduras and Nicaragua and lighter, though still significant, in El Salvador and Guatemala.
In Honduras, where Mitch is considered the worst natural disaster to have affected the country in recent years,
more than 13,5000 people died and about 2.5 million (out of a total of 6 million) were displaced or left homeless.
Damage to crops (including its very important export bananas) and infrastructure was extensive, and a large
proportion of the country's roads, bridges and water systems was destroyed or seriously impaired. Overall direct
and indirect damages are estimated at $5 billion (95 percent of Honduras' 1998 GDP).
In Nicaragua, about 3,000 people died and about 870,0000 (out of a total population of 4.8 million) were displaced.
The impact on agriculture (basic grains, bananas, and sugar) and infrastructure was substantial, with total direct
and indirect damages estimated at $1.2 billion (57 percent of Nicaragua's 1998 GPD).
The accompanying charts present pre-Mitch projections and post-Mitch estimates of real GDP growth, inflation,
external current account, and fiscal balance for Honduras in 1998 and 1999. Because of less extensive damage
that Mitch inflicted on Nicaragua, its economic recovery started in 1999, sooner than in Honduras, where a return
to positive real GDP growth was expected in 2000. These expectations were confinned, as Honduras' real GDP
grew by 4.8 percent in 2000 led by the recovery in agriculture, following a decline of 1.9 percent in 1999.
Estimated effects of Hurricane Mitch
On Honduras and Nicaragua
Real GDP growth                         Consumer price Inflation, end of year
(percent)                                     (percent)
Honduras            Nicaragua        20       Honduras             Nicaragua
7
5   1                                          15
4
3
2       ..10
0
-1                                              5-
-2
.3
-4
1998      1999       1998       1999           1998       1999      1998       1999
Current account                          Nonfinanclal public sector balance
(percent of GDP)                               (percent of GDP)
Honduras             Nicaragua                Honduras              Nicaragua
0                                  o                                      -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-10                               .            -
*15 -
-20 -4
-25
-30                               .             6
.35          I-7J
1998      1999       1998      1999           1998       1999      1998        1999
Pre-Mitch                        I    Post-MthSource: TMF staff estimates
Source: "Central America: Adjustment and Reforms in the 1990s" by Leonardo Cardemril, Juan Carlos Di Tata,
and Florencia Frantischek, in Finance and Development, March 2000, pp. 34-37.
- 24 -



In retrospect, IDA's vote of confidence on the Government was well justified. Despite the magnitude of the
devastation and the consequent negative impact macroeconomic conditions, the Government managed the
crisis without abandoning its commitment to reform and fiscal prudence, which in turn accelerated the
country's economic recovery. Similarly, the two conditions that were waived for the disbursement of the
second tranche were later met.
The unsuccessful privatization of Hondutel was also largely the result of factors beyond the Government's
control. By the time Hondutel was offered for sale in 1999, market conditions for the telecommunications
sector had changed substantially from those at the beginning of the decade. The optimism that had fueled
the first wave of privatizations had already waned and the stock prices of other telecommunications
companies in the region had fallen sharply. Conversely, governments' expectations in terms of proceeds
from the sale of public telecommunications companies did not adapt accordingly, reflecting instead the
higher prices of the previous years. Other privatization processes in the region, including Nicaragua and
Colombia, that were taking place simultaneously also failed for similar reasons.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
It is clear that, despite the additional challenges presented by Hurricane Mitch, the implementation delays
were also the result of inherently slow processes within the government' s bureaucracy. Some of the
contributing factors include the complexity of the reforms, scarce availability of professional staff with
sound technical capacity to tackle such level of complexity, and the lack of coordination between powers.
As mentioned above, the operation may have possibly involved too many, highly complex components and,
despite the Government's political will, it proved very difficult to bring about change simultaneously in
many fronts. Similarly, the scarcity of highly qualified human resources within the different entities of the
public sector posed additional challenges to the implementation of the reforms. Some key entities, such as
the Directorate for Civil Service (DGSC) which houses the human resources management system, and the
Ministry of Natural and Environmental Resources which houses the electric company, presented
particularly difficult challenges in this regard. These entities not only lack adequate technical and
institutional capacity but are also subject to strong political pressures, making more difficult the
implementation of the reforms. Finally, the relationship between the administration and Congress has often
been difficult, with legislative approval processes taking too long and introducing inadequate changes into
the proposed legal frameworks. The stalemate in the approval of the legal framework for the electricity
sector is one example. The lack of coordination between powers has not been necessarily the result of
ideological or political differences, but also of inadequate communication. In this respect, the
administration has learned from experience and lately has taken a more proactive approach in
communicating with Congress to improve its understanding on the substance of the issues being discussed.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The implementing agencies-i.e., the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) and the Consultative Commission
for Privatization (CCP), both within the Presidential Commission for the Reform of the State
(CPME)-have managed all the factors under their control satisfactorily, adequately responding to the
requirements and complexity of the project. The professionalism of the coordinators and staff of both the
PCU and the CCP greatly contributed to the success of the project. They adjusted their actions to the needs
of the project and played active and important roles in the achievement of the project objectives and related
activities. Solid knowledge of issues addressed by the project was developed within these units. Staffing
levels were low, which contributed to a more active involvement on the part of other participating
government entities. Both the PCU and the CCP effectively coordinated efforts with other government
entities as well as with Honduras' private sector and foreign bidders. The technical assistance provided by
- 25 -



the PSMTAL was used well to support the different reforms supported under the PSMSAC.
However, the visibility of the overall reform program seems to have dwindled over the years despite the
substantial effort made by the Government in implementing the activities agreed upon within each sector.
The fact that the Presidential Commission for Reform of the State, which is presided over by the president
and responsible for steering the reform program, has not met in recent years is an indication of the loss of
impetus in the reform program. The implementation delays may have contributed to this loss of political
momentum. Another reason may be that some of the key actors responsible for overseeing the
implementation of the reforms have simultaneously occupied official posts with heavy responsibilities for
the day-to-day operation of the Government. An example is the Secretary of the Presidential Commission
for the Reform of the State, who also served as the Minister of the Presidency, two posts carrying
enormous responsibilities. In the future it might be more effective to separate the CPME Secretary's
responsibilities from other responsibilities, while maintaining direct access to the president.
5.4 Costs and financing:
Three tranches were disbursed for a total of SDR 83.9 million equivalent to US$122 million),
corresponding to SDR 36.6 million equivalent to US$55 million of the original credit and the remaining
SDR 47.3 million equivalent to US$67.9 million in IDA reflows. Since the purpose of the operation was to
support the balance of payment, the proceeds were used to finance the foreign exchange costs of goods
normally imported, as anticipated.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Overall, the reforms pursued under PSMSAC are likely to be sustained, although the degree of
sustainability varies across the different components. A good indicator of the sustainability of the overall
reform program is that both presidential candidates in the recently held presidential elections stated their
support and their intentions to continue with the reform program. In fact, based on his electoral platform,
the newly elected president is expected to even bring new momentum to the reform process that has been
under implementation under the current and previous administrations, even though he is from the opposition
party. Also, the sustainability of the reforms is greatly enhanced by the technical assistance being provided
under the new operation, the Economic and Financial Management Project (EFMTAC; Credit No.
3414-HO), whose main objective is, in fact, ensuring Bank's support for the continuation and extension of
the reforms started under the PSMSAC. As noted above, the sustainability of the reforms varies across
individual sub-components, as follows:
Private Sector Participation: In the private-sector participation component, the sustainability of the
airport master concession is, of course, the most likely of all the actions implemented as part of this
component. The concessionaire has already overcome its first test, when a controversy about newly
established freight charges was successfully resolved among the parties involved. Progress in the
telecommunications and electricity sectors, instead, can easily be undone, as no contract has been awarded.
Given the relatively little progress made in the electricity sector and the strong interest groups against the
implementation of structural reforms in this sector, sustainability is more uncertain for this sub-component.
The CCP continued to work on the privatization of Hondutel and the distribution of electricity, with the
objective of having a well-defined strategy and a finely tuned legal framework ready for the new
administration. The newly elected president has expressed his commitment to continue to move ahead
toward increasing private sector participation. Eventually, the medium and long-term sustainability of the
reforms under this component, together with ensuring the effectiveness of private providers, will depend on
the technical soundness and political independence of the regulatory bodies, which is not yet guaranteed
- 26 -



under the current institutional arrangements. IDA provides continuing technical assistance for this
component under the Economic and Financial Management Project.
Administrative Reform: The institutional restructuring implemented under this component is likely to be
sustained over time, as it reflects the provision of the new Public Administration Law (DL No. 218-96)
passed by Congress in December 1996. The follow-up operation EFMTAC is currently providing
technical assistance to strengthen the planning units within each secretariat and to assist them in the
development of a system of performance indicators, which will consolidate even further the new
institutional structure of the public administration. In terms of the rationalization of employment, these
reflect the provisions of an executive decree (PCM No. 135), which can be easly overturned, although it
does not seem likely that the new administration will reverse the progress made under the PSMSAC.
Public Management: Progress made in the implementation of systems to improve management of human
resources and financial administration is likely to be sustained. The new post classification system
developed as part of the human resources management sub-component has been adopted through legislative
action (DL 139-00). However, it is key to ensure by law that hiring and promotion practices are based on
qualification and merit to avoid patronage and to enhance the public sector's ability to formulate and
implement sound public policies. Similarly, there is still an urgent need to develop a comprehensive strategy
toward public employrnent, as the fiscal burden from wages and salaries is currently on an unsustainable
path despite the reductions in public employment under the PSMSAC. The cap on overall salaries
expenditures established by executive decree PCM No. 003-01 refers only to the 2002 budget. Further
adjustment of the wage bill seems unavoidable and should include a review of the Estatutos, especially
those of teachers and doctors. The Government has created a Civil Administration Law, which will be
disseminated through workshops targeting various audiences, including the public and private sectors, as
well as the civil society at large, to build awareness of the need to tackle this challenge and support for the
proposed legislative framework. In terms of the system for financial management and investment
programming, its sustainability is highly likely. Since 1999, annual budgets have been prepared and
implemented under the new systems, and the old systems have been abandoned. The system continues to be
consolidated under the ongoing EFMTAC, which has been successful in incorporating additional key
government entities, such as the Office of the Comptroller. The passage of the supporting Financial
Administration Law, which has been developed under the PSMSAC, will ensure the sustainability of the
reforms over the medium-and long-term.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
N/A
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
IDA's performance in assisting the Borrower in identifying, preparing and appraising the operation was
satisfactory. IDA, together with IDB, conducted extensive sector work that provided the foundations for an
in-depth knowledge of Honduras' public sector and the correct identification of the main challenges it
faced. IDA's staff helped to identify and prepare an operation that was fully consistent with both the
Borrower's interests and IDA's Country Assistance Strategy. The quantity, quality, and mix of IDA staff
involved in project preparation were appropriate and the relations developed with the Borrower have
proved to be long-standing.
In retrospect, while it may appear that IDA may have been too optimistic in its appreciation of what could
- 27 -



be accomplished during the anticipated three-year life span of the operation, the fact that only two credit
conditions were not met in an adverse environment created by Hurricane Mitch, does not substantiate its
over-ambitiousness. The operation was complex, pursuing difficult reforms in various sectors, but this
shortcoming was addressed by IDA's decision to implement a companion technical assistance credit to
provide additional technical support to the key government agencies responsible for the implementation of
the reforms. Thus, the accomplishments of the PSMSAC are closely linked to those of the PSMTAC, as
both operations complemented each other well in terms of objectives and govemment counterparts.
Through the PSMSAC, IDA worked closely with top government officials in the design of the necessary
reforms and provided strong financial incentives for the adoption of an enabling policy framework.
Concurrently, the PSMTAC supported the government administration in designing and adopting the
normative and operational tools required to carry out these reforms, a sustained effort which is now
continued under the EFMC.
7.2 Supervision:
IDA's supervision was highly satisfactory.  The project was supervised regularly and ratings were
adequately reported. IDA's ability to maintain a close working relationship with the Borrower during the
implementation of the program was praised during the interviews conducted during the ICR mission. This
is a particularly noteworthy accomplishment, given the complexity of the operation. Also, the ability of the
supervision team to coordinate efforts across the broad spectrum of actors, including sector teams, extemal
consultants, and the two implementation units was highlighted in a Quality of Supervision Assurance
review performed by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG), which rated the overall supervision of the
project as highly satisfactory.
IDA appears to have continued to be optimistic during project supervision. While Hurricane Mitch
undoubtedly caused extraordinary disruptions in implementation, compliance was already considerably
behind schedule considering that the operation was originally scheduled to close in December 1998. The
release of the second tranche and the extension of the closing date proved to be adequately justified, as the
two conditions that were waived at the time were subsequently met, as anticipated in the progress report.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
IDA's overall performance was satisfactory. It provided full support to the Borrower from the early stages
of the operation and exhibited great flexibility in extending the operation in response to the Borrower's
needs and the impact of unexpected events, such as the devastation brought by Hurricane Mitch. IDA also
faced the difficult decision to waive two key conditions of disbursement for the third tranche-i.e., the
privatization of HONDUTEL and concessioning of electric distribution. In the case HONDUTEL, the
waiver was justified given the fact the the Honduran Government successfully brought HONDUTEL to the
point of sale. However, while the decision to grant a waiver for electricity distribution was difficult, it was
evaluated within the overall progess in the sector, as explained in section 4.2(a.2).
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower was fully committed to the objectives of the PSMSAC, which reflected its own Public Sector
Reform Program. The Borrower participated in the preparation of the operation in a capable and timely
manner.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance was satisfactory. The two administrations--Reina and
Flores--showed strong commitment to the reform program and assigned top-notch managers to coordinate
the implementation of the operation. Among the actions that deserve particular recognition is the fiscal
- 28 -



responsibility exhibited by the Flores administration in controlling public expenditures until the end of its
administration, even during the presidential election period. This constitutes a reversal of the past political
cycles, generally typified by positive political actions during the first two years of an administration,
followed by policy slippage during the latter two years as a new electoral process takes hold. Also
noteworthy has been the performance of the Salary Committee, a group constituted by the Vice Minister of
the Secretariat of Finance, the Budget Director, the Director of Civil Service, and the Human Resources
coordinator in the Commission for State Modernization. This group has been key in championing salary
reform, resisting strong political pressures to raise salaries from the various unions within the public sector.
Finally and also commendable, is the hands-on approach taken by the Minister of Finance in the
implementation of those sub-components under her jurisdiction, including the privatization of HONDUTEL
and the implementation of the system of financial administration.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Throughout the implementation of the operation, the implementing agencies have performed their functions
satisfactorily, elaborating detailed progress reports in a timely manner and effectively coordinating the
implementation efforts among the different entities. It is worth mentioning the very active role of CCP in
the concessioning of airports, which included organizing a seminar to educate key decision-makers on the
different strategies for concessioning early on in the process and conducting road tours to identify, get input
from, and foster the interest of potential investors. The process of privatization of HONDUTEL was also
particularly noteworthy in terms of its transparency. Both implementing units were constituted by a highly
qualified group of professionals, who combined high technical skills with strong commitment toward
reform.
7. 7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower is rated satisfactory for the reasons outlined above.
8. Lessons Learned
There are a number of lessons learned from the operation, which reinforce the experience from the
preceding operations (Loan No. 3257-HO and Credit 2208-HO) and raise the need to incorporate lessons
learned in the design of new operations. Specifically:
q      Government commitment is key in ensuring the success of the program. The PSMSAC
effectively reflected the Borrower's own priorities, which was key in ensuring the continuous support of the
Government, even in the face of great challenges such as the devastation brought by Hurricane Mitch.
q      The use of multiple instruments, including both lending and non-lending ones, to support
Bank interventions maximizes the Bank's effectiveness. In the case of the PSMSAC, it was built on the
foundations of exhaustive sector work, which provided an exhaustive diagnosis on the key challenges
facing Honduras' public sector. Similarly, the effectiveness of the PSMSAC was greatly enhanced by
having a companion technical assistance loan, which focused on doing the groundwork of the policy actions
pursued under the SAC.
0      When seeking a comprehensive reform program, it is important to prioritize the policy
actions and keep the focus. Given the complexity and the specific know-how of the reforms supported
under the PSMSAC, IDA could have used several operations to increase the focus of individual reforms.
For instance, the development and implementation of the financial administration system could have been
accomplished using a physical investment loan, similar to Guatemala's Integrated Financial Management
Project (Loan No. 38950). Similarly, sector-specific adjustment loans (SECALs) may be more effective in
- 29 -



supporting ambitious reforms in specific sectors. Finally, a series of short, more focused structural
adjustment credits could have been implemented over the six-year time span of this operation.
q      Loan conditionality should be well defined. Some loan conditionalities, particularly those related
to the implementation of action plans, are more adequate for technical assistance projects than for
structural adjustment operations. Having numerous operational conditions detracts from the key policy
actions that constitute the core of reform efforts.
q      Adequate supervision of structural adjustment operations requires a close monitoring of the
overall situation in a country. IDA seems to have been optimistic in its assessment of the time needed to
implement the reforms. Having a representative field office has significantly improved IDA's pulse-taking
functions.
q      It is important not to underestimate the complexity of legal frameworks. In the case of the
PSMSAC, it has not been useful to craft and obtain congressional approval of broad legal frameworks for
sector reform prior to defining a detailed privatization strategy. Reversing the sequencing might prove to be
more effective.
q      Regulatory bodies are key to the sustainability of privatization and concessioning efforts. The
experience of the PSMSAC stresses the difficulties of building technically sound, politically independent
regulatory bodies.
q      International market conditions can affect the outcome of sound privatization processes.
HONDUTEL was brought to the point of sale but the attempt to privatize it was unsuccessful due to
market conditions. That is, market conditions affect the outcome of the reform program, and the process
should be kept as short as possible.
q      The relatively small size of the market is an obstacle to privatization efforts, making them less
attractive for potential buyers. This is particularly relevant in Central America, where IDA could play a
significant role in supporting and facilitating the regional efforts toward the economic integration of the
region.
q      Coordinating efforts with other international financial institutions, such as the IMF and the
IDB, is critical in ensuring a consistent policy approach toward borrowers. The close collaboration
between the Bank and the IMF in term of assessing progress toward macroeconomic stability and the
justification of waiving loan conditionality in the framework of the PSMSAC illustrates how this
cooperation can be achieved successfully.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Resumen
En 1992, el Gobierno de Honduras como complemento a las reformas econ6micas iniciadas en 1990
decidi6 emprender un programa de modernizaci6n del sector publico. Esta decisi6n fue apoyada por el
Banco Mundial y el Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo, que oportunamente se convirti6 en las
operaciones de credito IDA-2814-HO e IDA-2816-HO y BID-967/SF-HO y BID-968/SF-HO.
- 30 -



Los objetivos de las operaciones (apoyo a la formulaci6n de politicas que respondan a las reforrnas
deseadas y apoyo a la ejecuci6n de las politicas y acciones) mantuvieron congruencia con los objetivos del
programa del Gobierno (corregir algunas debilidades estructurales que afectan el desempeiio fiscal,
incrementar la transparencia en la gesti6n publica y elevar la eficiencia en el suministro de los servicios
puiblicos).
Los objetivos generales del Programa se plasmaron en objetivos especificos claramente definidos, aunque
involucraron un nuimero posiblemente muy amplio de componentes y subcomponentes que pusieron a
prueba una d6bil capacidad institucional de ejecuci6n del Gobiemo.
Asimismo, un programa multisectorial con amplia participaci6n de agentes tanto a nivel de decisi6n de
politicas como de ejecuci6n de acciones especificas present6 problemas de coordinaci6n y de
convencimiento. La presencia de una unidad coordinadora con respaldo pleno represent6 una ventaja para
sobrevenir algunos de los problemas que se
presentaron. Sin embargo, este beneficio se vio contrarrestado por la alta rotaci6n de responsables en los
distintos niveles.
Aunque los objetivos globales se mantuvieron, factores ex6genos indujeron a cambios de prioridad o ritmo
de ejecuci6n de acciones, pero siempre enmarcados en la concepci6n original del Programa.
En varios de los componentes del programa se Ilenaron las expectativas, en otros se ha avanzado lo
suficiente como para asegurar continuidad en las reformas, mientras que en otros el nivel de comprensi6n
de la situaci6n es mayor contandose con instrumentos identificados para proceder a concretar reformas.
Los componentes
A continuaci6n se presenta una breve apreciaci6n sobre el estado de los principales componentes del
programa.
Servicios Publicos
Los esfuerzos de reforma de los servicios puiblicos en Honduras antes de las operaciones en referencia
fueron aislados, descoordinados, con escasos recursos financieros y tecnicos. Lo anterior dio lugar a
resultados muy pobres o nulos.
Las operaciones permitieron contar con una capacidad institucional fortalecida a traves de la Secretaria
Tecnica de la Comisi6n Consultiva de Privatizaci6n (STCCP), la cual se convirti6 en la unidad ejecutora
del componente, guardando coordinaci6n con la unidad ejecutora del programa. La STCCP permiti6
brindar mejor asesoria en procesos de privatizaci6n, capitalizaci6n y concesi6n de los servicios puiblicos.
Ademas, permiti6 que se pudiera contratar personal local con altos niveles de calificaci6n y consultores
internacionales a traves de procesos de licitaci6n piublica intemacional transparentes y competitivos. Con
estos recursos se logr6 mejor coordinaci6n y amplitud de dialogo con bases s6lidas de informaci6n.
Se considera que el disenio del componente fue adecuado ya que ademas de concebirse una transferencia
efectiva de la provisi6n de servicios puiblicos al sector privado, tambien se establecieron los marcos legales
que establen una clara definici6n de funciones de formulaci6n de politicas, regulaci6n y operaci6n. Al
cierre de las operaciones, los sectores de telecomunicaciones y aeropuertos han avanzado en sus varios
aspectos; en cuanto a la energia electrica la tarea esta avanzada en aspectos de regulaci6n y participaci6n
- 31 -



del sector privado; mientras que en puertos las acciones se han limitado a elevar la eficiencia y a permitir
cierta participaci6n del sector privado.
Los Bancos en todo este proceso han brindado recursos financieros y de asistencia tecnica en forma
expedita, oportuna y de sumo valor.
En este proceso de profundas reformas y experiencias que por diversas razones no siempre han alcanzado
los objetivos deseados es importante enfatizar el dialogo continuo y abierto con legisladores y la sociedad
civil, ademas de asegurar el flujo de informaci6n. Asimismo, el fortalecimiento de los reguladores ayudara
a establecer mercados competitivos y ganar la confianza de los usuarios a servicios suministrados por el
sector privado.
Recursos Humanos
Al cierre de las operaciones, el Programa en su componente de recursos humanos muestra avances en todos
los objetivos establecidos, aunque el grado de cumplimiento varia: en algunos casos se logr6 un
cumplimiento del 100 por ciento de la meta, y en otros el exito fue de menor medida. Se logr6 reducir el
niumero de empleados redundantes y se introdujeron varias reformas y nuevos procedimientos en la gesti6n
del recurso humano. Aunque no fue posible la implementaci6n del sistema completo, se logr6 implantar los
m6dulos basicos de reclasificaci6n de puestos en el Servicio Civil, y una nueva politica de salarios. Con lo
anterior, se Iogr6 descomprimir significativamente los salarios de los niveles tecnicos. La puesta en marcha
de sistemas de informaci6n es el objetivo que muestra un indice de ejecuci6n mas bajo, esto debido a que su
introducci6n requeria de avances previos en otras areas, especialmente de la aplicaci6n de la totalidad del
sistema de gesti6n de recursos humanos.
La complementariedad de acciones y simultaneidad de reforrnas contribuyeron a viabilizar la ejecuci6n del
componente. No obstante, el componente fue concebido de manera muy amplia, fijando metas ambiciosas
cuyo logro requeria de la conjugaci6n de varios factores y de condiciones extemas al proyecto.
La alta rotaci6n en los responsables del componente influy6 negativamente en los avances, conllevando
continuos ajustes y retrasos en la forma de organizar y hacer operativa las acciones necesarias. Sin
embargo, esto fue compensado con la conformaci6n del Comite de Salarios (integrado por la Secretaria de
Finanzas, la Comisi6n de Modemizaci6n del Estado y la Direcci6n de Servicio Civil) que jug6 un papel
determinante en la coordinaci6n e implementaci6n de la politica de salarios y la reclasificaci6n de los
puestos.
Durante las etapas de preparaci6n y ejecuci6n del proyecto, los Bancos trabajaron muy estrechamente con
la unidad ejecutora en la organizaci6n y operacionalizaci6n de los planes de acci6n. Los tramites
administrativos fueron manejados en forma Agil y oportuna. El asesoramiento en cuestiones administrativas
y tecnicas fue acertado y se mantuvo un dialogo abierto con la unidad ejecutora y las demas instituciones
participantes. Esta actuaci6n contribuy6 positivamente en la ejecuci6n del proyecto de conformidad con la
programaci6n y el calendario establecido.
Si bien el diseno del proyecto debe ser ambicioso para que constituya un reto, debe ser tambien lo
suficientemente realista para no establecer metas cuya consecuci6n requiera de factores fuera del ambito
del mismo. El grado de 6xito en la implementaci6n parece estar relacionado con el grado de focalizaci6n de
las acciones.
- 32 -



Reestructuraci6n Institucional
En cuanto a los objetivos de la reestructuraci6n institucional se cumplieron todas las metas, quedando
avanzadas el mejoramiento de calidad de los cuidados de la salud y la conversi6n definitiva del PANT en
Empresa Nacional de Loteria. En cuanto al fortalecimiento de las instituciones a traves de planes de
reestructuraci6n, los esfuerzos se vieron debilitados por lo numeroso de ellos y careciendo en ciertos casos
del apoderamiento de los beneficiarios.
Entre los logros que se pueden contar estA la mejor la asignaci6n presupuestaria para la Educacion Basica;
creaci6n de las Direcciones Departamentales de Educaci6n conllevando una redistribuci6n de funciones,
recursos y capacidad decisoria; se mejor6 el presupuesto destinado a la Salud Basica ; y se cre6 un marco
legal moderno para las diferentes instituciones ejecutoras. Sin embargo, falt6 un programa de divulgaci6n
del proceso de modemizaci6n; se subestim6 el tiempo para la implementaci6n de las reformnas. Aun quedan
pendientes la aprobaci6n de algunas leyes.
Gestion Puiblica
El Gobierno ha realizado considerables esfuerzos en el desarrollo y ejecuci6n del Sistema de
Administracion Financiera Integrada. Recientemente se complet6 la tercera fase cubriendo aspectos de
presupuesto, tesoro, contabilidad, credito puiblico y bienes nacionales. De esta forma se han descentralizado
varios aspectos e introducido eficiencia en tramites, notablemente reduciendo tiempos en completar
procesos. Un porcentaje substancial de las operaciones forman parte del sistema y son operadas por los
ministerios participantes, los cuales estan conectados en tiempo real.
Asimismo, se avanz6 en la reestructuraci6n de los 6rganos responsables en SEFIN. El marco legal asi
como otros aspectos para lograr una mayor transparencia en la gesti6n de las finanzas publicas seguiran
avanzando con la operaci6n del Proyecto de Gesti6n Econ6mica y Financiera.
Contrataci6n del Estado.
Una nueva ley fue aprobada en junio de 2001 (Decreto No. 74-2001) y publicada el 17 de septiembre de
2001. Por lo tanto se derog6 la ley anterior. En la actualidad se cuenta con una propuesta de reglamento
que estA en discusi6n.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
None
- 33 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
First Tranche             Have in place a short- and medium-term macroeconomic  Accomplished
(Board Presentation)      program to sustain structural reform and stimulate growth.
Second Tranche            Policy performance satisfactory to IDAIIDB, measured  Accomplished
against targets specified in the Letter of Development
Policy (LDP).
Third Tranche             Policy performnance satisfactory to IDAIIDB, measured Accomplished
against targets specified in the Letter of Developmen
Policy (LDP).
(a)Private Sector Participation
in Public Services
a. l Telecommunications                                                   _
First Tranche             Approval by Congress of the Framework Law for the  Accomplished
(Board Presentation)      Telecommunications Sector including amendments to the
HONDUTEL Organic Law.
Second Tranche            Issue and put into effect the regulations of the Framework Accomplished
Law for the Telecommunications Sector.
Assign a budget for and establish operations of the  Accomplished
regulatory agency (CONATEL).
Issue fmal bidding documents to solicit bids for investmnent Waived
in the enterprise(s) HONDUTEL established according to (Subsequently
the Law to operate basic telephone services (local,  Accomplished)
long-distance and international) with coverage of the
South-Center and North-West regions including the cities
of Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula.
Third Tranche             The enterprise(s) established by HONDUTEL to operate  Waived (Justified)
basic telephone services (local, long-distance and
international) in the South-Center and North-West regions
including the cities of Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula are
managed and controlled by investors (other than the
Government) and are substantially owned by these
investors.
a.2 Electric Power
First Tranche             Define a new electricity tariff structure and make a public Accomplished
(Board Presentation)      commitment to implement the new structure on a
perrnanent basis.
Second Tranche            Approve strategy satisfactory to IDA to determine the  Accomplished
geographical regionalization of electric power distribution
across the national territory to facilitate private sector
participation.
Third Tranche             Award at least one contract for private sector participation Waived
in the distribution of electric power in accordance with the
study carried out by second tranche. Such contract would
cover at least 35% of consumers in the national territory.
a.3 Civil Aviation
First Tranche             The Aviation Law and the Law for the Honduras    Accomplished
(Board Presentation)      Enterprise of Airports and Air Navigation Services to
substantially increase private sector participation was
- 34 -



presented to Congress.
Second Tranche            Enter into a concession contract for the management and  Waived
operation of at least one of the airports with regular  (Subsequently
international traffic; or enter into at least one concession  Accomplished)
contract to operate some of the Airport Services in at least
two of the airports with regular international traffic.
Third Tranche             Enter into a concession contract for the management and  Accomplished
operation of one of the airports with regular international
traffic; or enter into at least one concession contract to
operate some of the Airport Services in at least two of the
airports with regular international traffic. This is in
addition to what was already accomplished for the second
tranche.
(b) Administrative Reform
(bl) Institutional
Restructuring
First Tranche             Present to Congress the new General Law of Public  Accomplished
(Board Presentation)      Administration.
Emanate Presidential Decree to establish the legal basis for Accomplished
he reform including the approval of institutional
estructuring plans for priority entities (Secretariats of
ducation, Health, Communications and Transport, and
Natural Resources, and JNBS/PANI and Economics and
Finance Secretariats).
Accomplished
Restructuring plans will be reflected in the proposed
budget for 1996. Implement the institutional restructuring
lans in accordance with the benchmarks established in
such plans.
Second Tranche            Implement the institutional restructuring plans in  Accomplished
accordance with the benchmarks established in such plans.
Third Tranche             Implement the institutional restructuring plans in  Accomplished
accordance with the benchmarks established in such plans.
b.2 Rationalization of                                                      Accomplished
Employment and Salary
Regimes
First Tranche             Rationalization of public employment and salary structures Accomplished
(Board Presentation)      in accordance with the benchmarks established in the
action plans for the Reform in the Civil Service Regime of
he Central Government and the Decentralized Institutions
Second Tranche            Comply with the measures for rationalization of public  Accomplished
employment and salary structures in accordance with the
enchmarks established in the action plans for the Reform
in the Civil Service Regime of the Central Government
and the Decentralized Institutions.
Third Tranche             Comply with the measures for rationalization of public  Accomplished
employment and salary structures in accordance with the
enchmarks established in the action plans for the Reform
- 35 -



in the Civil Service Regime of the Central Government
and the Decentralized Institutions.
(c) Reforms of Public
Management
c. 1 Human Resource
Management
First Tranche             Agree on an action plan for the development of a   Accomplished
(Board Presentation)      comprehensive Public Sector Human Resources
Management and Effective Control Mechanisms.
Implement the plan in accordance with the benchmarks  Accomplished
established in such plan.
Second Tranche            Implement the action plan for Human Resources      Accomplished
Management and Control in accordance with the
benchmarks established in such plan.
Third Tranche             Implement the action plan for Human Resources      Accomplished
Management and Control in accordance with the
benchmarks established in such plan.
c.2 Financial Management
and Public Investment
Programming
First Tranche             Agree on an action plan for the Modernization of   Accomplished
(Board Presentation)      Financial Management and Investment Programming.
Design integrated systems of financial management and  Accomplished
investment programming.
Second Tranche            Implement the action plan for Modernization of Financial
Management and Investment Programming in accordance Accomplished
with the benchmarks established in such plan.
Third Tranche             Implement the action plan for Modernization of Financial Accomplished
Management and Investment Programming in accordance
with the benchmarks established in such plan.
- 36 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
N/A
- 37 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
- 38 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
9/27/94-10/7/94             7    Task Manager; Administrative      S             S
Reform; Human Resource
Management; Public
Administration; Financial
Management; Tax Policy and
Administration Reform;
Technology Specialist; Fiscal
Reform; Social Security
Appraisal/Negotiation
6/13/95-6/23/95            15   Task Manager; Human                S             S
Resource Management;
Institutional Restructuring;
Social Security; Public
Management;
Macroeconomic and Fiscal
Environment; Education
3/6/96-3/11/96              5   Task Manager;                      S             S
Telecommunications; Aviation;
Ports; Institutional Restructuring;
Human Resources; Financial
Management
Supervision
6/16/97-6/20/97              6   Task Manager;                     S             S
Telecommunications;
Airports; Institutional
Restructuring; Social
Security; Human Resources
10/20/97-10/31/97           7   Task Manager;                      S             S
Telecommunications, Electric
Sector, Institutional
Restructuring; Procurement;
Human Resources; Financial
Management; Civil Aviation
06/01/98-06/01/98            6  Task Manager; Financial            S             S
Management; Human Resources;
Telecommunications; Electricity;
Institutional Restructuring;
Privatization
06/01/98-06/05/98            6   Task Manager;                     S             S
Telecomnnunications; Electric
Sector; Institutional
Restructuring; Social Security;
Human Resources; Financial
Management; Civil Aviation
- 39 -



ICR
01/18/99                    5    Task Manager;                    S             S
Telecommunications;
Privatizations; Human
Resources; Electricity;
Institutional Restructuring;
Public Finance
01/29/01-6/23/01            6                                     S             S
Task Manager;
Telecommunications; Regional
Economist; Resident
Representative; Operational
Analyst; Integrated Financial
Management System
06/18/01-06/23/01           9    Task Manager; Human              S             S
Resources; Regulatory Reforms;
Privatizations; Personnel
Evaluations; Civil Society;
Integrated Financial
Management System
(b) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle                  ActualLatest Estirnate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation              17.9                       48.0
Appraisal/Negotiation                  24.60                       65.0
Supervision                           152.71                     396.28
ICR                                      4.0                        6.4
Total                                 199.21                     515.68
- 40 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
FMacro policies                          O H  * SU O M    O N  O NA
Sector Policies                         O H  O SU * M    O N  O NA
FI Physical                              O H  OSUOM       O N  * NA
O Financial                              O H  OSUOM       O N   * NA
X Institutional Development              0 H   0 SU 0 M   0 N  0 NA
L Environmental                          O H  OSUOM       O N  O NA
Social
OII Poverty Reduction             O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
OI Gender                         O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
CIJ Other (Please specify)        0 H   O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
 Private sector development             0 H  O SU * M    0 N  0 NA
 Public sector management               0 H  0 SU O M    0 N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)                O H  OSUOM       O N  O NA
- 41 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
El Lending                                          OHS Os       Ou    OIHU
D Supervision                                       * HS Os S    Ou    OHU
O Overall                                           O HS O S     O U   O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
El Preparation                                      O HS * S     O U   O HU
Ol Government implementation performance            0 HS 0 S     0 U   0 HU
El Implementation agency performance                0 HS 0 S     0 U   0 HU
El Overall                                          OHS Os       O U   O HU
- 42 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
World Bank (1992). Prospects for Public Sector Reform. Report No. 10318-HO. Washington, D.C.:
World Bank.
World Bank (1993). Honduras: Country Assistance Strategv. August 5, 1993. Washington, D.C.: World
Bank.
World Bank (1995). Honduras. Reforming Public Investment and the Infrastructure Sectors: A Joint World
Bank and IDB Studv. Report No. 14084-HO, Washington, D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank (2001). Honduras. Public Expenditures Management for Poverty Reduction and Fiscal
Sustainability. Report No. 22070-HO, Washington, D.C.: World Bank.
-43 -



- 44 -






IMAGING
Report No.:         23666
Type:     ICR



