Page  1
                                                         CONFORMED COPY
                                                  CREDIT NUMBER 2816-HO
                        Second Agreement Amending
                       Development Credit Agreement
         (Public Sector Modernization Structural Adjustment Credit)
                                 between
                          REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
                                   and
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         Dated January 8, 1997
                                                 CREDIT NUMBER 2816-2-HO
                       SECOND AGREEMENT AMENDING
                     DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated January 8, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a
Development Credit Agreement (Public Sector Modernization Structural
Adjustment Credit) of April 11, 1996 (the Development Credit Agree-
ment), for the purpose of providing support during the execution of
the program referred to in Recital (A) of the Preamble to the
Development Credit Agreement (the Program);
     (B)  the Borrower and the Association have entered into the First
Agreement Amending Development Credit Agreement (Public Sector
Modernization Structural Adjustment Credit) dated April 11, 1996,
whereby additional assistance was made available to the Borrower
for the purpose of providing support during the execution of the
Program;
     (C)  the Borrower has requested the Association to provide further
additional assistance in the support of the execution of the Program
by increasing the amount made available under the Development Credit
Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent to fourteen
million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 14,000,000); and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                ARTICLE I
Page  2
                      Amendments of the Development
                             Credit Agreement
     Section 1.01.  Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is
amended by:
     (a)  substituting the period at the end of paragraph (k) by a
semicolon;
     (b)  substituting the period at the end of paragraph (l) by a
semicolon and adding the word "and" after such semicolon; and
     (c)  adding the following new paragraph (m):
          "(m) 'Second Amending Agreement' means the Second Agreement
          Amending the Development Credit Agreement (Public Sector
          Modernization Structural Adjustment Credit) between the
          Borrower and the Association dated January 8, 1997.".
     Section 1.02.  Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is
amended to read as follows:
          "Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
          on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
          Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
          equivalent to sixty eight million two hundred thousand
          Special Drawing Rights (SDR68,200,000) (the Credit), which
          includes an original amount in various currencies equivalent
          to thirty six million six hundred thousand Special Drawing
          Rights (SDR36,600,000); a first supplemental amount in
          various currencies equivalent to seventeen million six
          hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR17,600,000)
          (the First Additional Financing); and a second supplemental
          amount in various currencies equivalent to fourteen million
          Special Drawing Rights (SDR14,000,000) (the Second Additional
          Financing).".
     Section 1.03.  Paragraph (b) of Section 2.02 of the Development
Credit Agreement is amended to read as follows:
     "(b) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c), (d), (e), (f)
     and (g) of this Section, the Borrower  shall be entitled to the
     use of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit
     Account and deposited in the Deposit Account in support of the
     Program.".
     Section 1.04.  Paragraph (d) of Section 2.02 of the Development
Credit Agreement is amended to read as follows:
     "(d) No withdrawal shall be made from the Credit Account after
     the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the
     Credit Account shall have reached the equivalent of:
               (i)   SDR30,900,000 unless the Association shall be
                     satisfied, after an exchange of views as
                     described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement
                     based on evidence satisfactory to the Association:
                     (A) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in
                         the carrying out of the Program;
                     (B) that the macroeconomic policy framework of
                         the Borrower is consistent with the objectives
                         of the Program; and
                     (C) that the actions described in Part I of
                         Schedule 2 to this Agreement have been taken
                         in form and substance satisfactory to the
                         Association; and
               (ii)  SDR58,200,000 unless the Association shall be
Page  3
                     satisfied, after an exchange of views as
                     described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement
                     based on evidence satisfactory to the Association:
                     (A) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in
                         the carrying out of the Program;
                     (B) that the macroeconomic policy framework of
                         the Borrower is consistent with the objectives
                         of the Program; and
                     (C) that the actions described in Parts I and II
                         of Schedule 2 to this Agreement have been
                         taken in form and substance satisfactory to
                         the Association.".
     Section 1.05.  The following paragraphs (e), (f) and (g) are added
to Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement:
               "(e) If, after any of the exchange of views described
               in paragraph (d) above, the Association shall have
               given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved
               or the actions taken are not satisfactory or that the
               macroeconomic policy framework is not consistent with
               the objectives of the Program and, within 90 days after
               such notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved
               progress or taken actions satisfactory to the Asso-
               ciation, or the macroeconomic policy framework shall
               not have become consistent with the objectives of the
               Program, then the Association may, by notice to the
               Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
               or any part thereof.
               (f) After a date twelve months from the date of the First
               Amending Agreement, no withdrawals shall be made and no
               commitment shall be entered into to pay amounts to or on
               the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to
               be financed out of the proceeds of the First Additional
               Financing.  At any time after such date, the Association
               may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn
               amount of the First Additional Financing from the Credit
               Account or any part thereof.
               (g) After a date twelve months from the date of the
               Second Amending Agreement, no withdrawals shall be made
               and no commitment shall be entered into to pay amounts
               to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of
               expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the
               Second Additional Financing.  At any time after such
               date, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
               cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Second Additional
               Financing from the Credit Account or any part thereof.".
     Section 1.06.  The proviso added by the First Amending Agreement
at the end of Section 2.04 (b) (i) of the Development Credit Agreement
is amended to read as follows:
          ";provided, however, that any commitment charge on: (A) the
          First Additional Financing shall accrue from a date sixty
          days after the date of the First Amending Agreement; and
          (B) the Second Additional Financing shall accrue from a date
          sixty days after the date of the Second Amending Agreement;".
     Section 1.07.  Paragraph 7 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement is deleted.
                                ARTICLE II
                        Effective Date; Termination
     Section 2.01.  This Agreement shall not become effective until
evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to
Page  4
the Association that the execution and delivery of this Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary governmental action.
     Section 2.02.  As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant
to Section 2.01 of this Agreement, there shall be furnished to the
Association an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Association
of counsel acceptable to the Association showing, on behalf of the
Borrower, that this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is
legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
     Section 2.03.  This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower
notice of its acceptance of the evidence required by Section 2.01 of
this Agreement.
     Section 2.04.  If this Agreement shall not have come into force
and effect by April 8, 1997, this Agreement and all obligations of
the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the Association
establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section.  If this
Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the
Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect,
as if this Agreement had not been executed.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                    REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
                    By /s/ Roberto Flores Bermdez
                                                Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                          Latin America and the Caribbean
