Page  1
                                                            CONFORMED COPY
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2816-1-HO
                             First Agreement Amending
                           Development Credit Agreement
            (Public Sector Modernization Structural Adjustment Credit)
                                      between
                               REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
                                        and
                       INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                               Dated April 11, 1996
                                                 CREDIT NUMBER 2816 -1-HO
                             FIRST AGREEMENT AMENDING
                           DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
       AGREEMENT, dated April 11, 1996 between REPUBLIC OF
HONDURAS (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
       WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered
into a Development Credit Agreement (Public Sector
Modernization Structural Adjustment Credit) of even date
herewith (the Development Credit Agreement), for the purpose of
assisting in the financing of the program referred to in
Recital (A) of the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement
(the Program);
       (B)    the Borrower has requested the Association to provide
additional assistance toward the financing of the Program by
increasing the amount made available under the Development
Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent
to seventeen million six hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR17,600,000); and
       WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to provide such additional assistance
to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;
       NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                     ARTICLE I
                           Amendments to the Development
Page  2
                                 Credit Agreement
       Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit
Agreement is amended by adding the following new paragraph (l):
              "(l)         'First Amending Agreement' means the First
              Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement
              (Public Sector Modernization Structural Adjustment
              Credit) between the Borrower and the Association of
              even date herewith."
       Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit
Agreement is amended to read as follows:
              "Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
              Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
              referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an
              amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty
              four million two hundred thousand Special Drawing
              Rights (SDR54,200,000) (the Credit), which includes
              an original amount in various currencies equivalent
              to thirty six million six hundred thousand Special
              Drawing Rights (SDR36,600,000); and a first
              supplemental amount in various currencies equivalent
              to seventeen million six hundred thousand Special
              Drawing Rights (SDR17,600,000) (the First Additional
              Financing)."
       Section 1.03. Subparagraphs  (a) and (b) of paragraph 4 of
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement are amended by
substituting the amounts "SDR13,300,000" and "SDR26,600,000" by
the amounts "SDR30,900,000" and "SDR44,200,000", respectively.
       Section 1.04. The following paragraph is added at the end
of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement:
              "7. After a date twelve months from the date of the
              First Amending Agreement, no withdrawals shall be
              made and no commitment shall be entered into to pay
              amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in
              respect of expenditures to be financed out of the
              proceeds of the First Additional Financing. At any
              time after such date, the Association may, by notice
              to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of
              the First Additional Financing from the Credit
              Account or any part thereof."
                                    ARTICLE II
                            Effective Date; Termination
       Section 2.01. This Agreement shall not become effective
until: (a) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement have been fulfilled; and (b)
evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been
furnished to the Association that the execution and delivery of
this Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
       Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to Section 2.01 of this Agreement, there shall be
furnished to the Association an opinion or opinions
satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the
Association showing, on behalf of the Borrower, that this
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed
and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is legally binding
upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
       Section 2.03. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Association shall dispatch to
the Borrower notice of its acceptance of the evidence required
by Section 12.02 of the General Conditions, with regard to the
Page  3
Development Credit Agreement, and by Section 2.01 of this
Agreement, with regard to this Agreement.
       Section 2.04. If this Agreement shall not have come into
force and effect by this Agreement and all obligations of the
parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the Association
establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section. If
this Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this
Section, but the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
the Development Credit Agreement have been fulfilled, the
Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and
effect, as if this Agreement had not been executed.
       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                           REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
                           By /s/ Roberto Flores Bermudez
                                                Authorized Representative
                           INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                           By /s/ Sri-Ram Aiyer
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                          Latin America and the Caribbean
