Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2816-4-HO
Fourth Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Public Sector Modernization Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 9, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 2816-4-HO
FOURTH AGREEMENT AMENDING
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 9, 2001, between REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement (Public Sector Modernization Structural Adjustment Credit) on April 
11, 1996 (the Development Credit Agreement), for the purpose of providing support 
during the execution of the program referred to in Recital (A) of the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement (the Program);
(B)
the Borrower and the Association have, on April 11, 1996, January 8, 1997 
and June 26, 1998, entered into three agreements amending the Development Credit 
Agreement  whereby additional assistance was made available to the Borrower for the 
purpose of providing support during the execution of the Program; 
(C)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide further additional 
assistance in support of the execution of the Program by increasing the amount made 
available under the Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to five million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR5,600,000); 
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments of the Development Credit Agreement
Page  2
Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by:
(a)
deleting the word "and" at the end of paragraph (m);
(b)
substituting the period at the end of paragraph (n) by a semicolon and 
adding the word "and" after such semicolon; and
(c)
adding the following new paragraph (o):
"(o) ‘Fourth Amending Agreement’ means the Fourth Agreement Amending the 
Development Credit Agreement (Public Sector Modernization Structural 
Adjustment Credit) between the Borrower and the Association dated May 9, 
2001".
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
"Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit 
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighty three million 
nine 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR83,900,000) (the Credit), 
which includes an original amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty 
six million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR36,600,000); a 
first supplemental amount in various currencies equivalent to seventeen 
million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR17,600,000) (the First 
Additional Financing); a second supplemental amount in various currencies 
equivalent to fourteen million Special Drawing Rights (SDR14,000,000) (the 
Second Additional Financing); a third supplemental amount in various 
currencies equivalent to ten million one hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR10,100,000); and a fourth supplemental amount in various currencies 
equivalent to five million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR5,600,000) (the Fourth Additional Financing).".
Section 1.03. Paragraph (b) of Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement 
is amended to read as follows:
"(b) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h) and 
(i) of this Section, the Borrower  shall be entitled to the use of the proceeds of the 
Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Deposit Account in 
support of the Program.".
Section 1.04. The following paragraph (i) is added to Section 2.02 of the 
Development Credit Agreement:
"(i) After June 30, 2001 (or such later date as the Association shall establish 
and promptly notify to the Borrower), no withdrawals shall be made out of the proceeds 
of the Fourth Additional Financing.  At any time after such date, the Association may, 
by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Fourth Additional 
Financing from the Credit Account or any part thereof.".
Section 1.05. The proviso added by the First Amending Agreement at the end of 
Section 2.04 (b) (i) of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to read as 
follows:
"; provided, however, that any commitment charge on: (A) the First 
Additional Financing shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the 
First Amending Agreement; (B) the Second Additional Financing shall accrue 
from a date sixty days after the date of the Second Amending Agreement; (C) 
the Third Additional Financing shall accrue from a date sixty days after the 
date of the Third Amending Agreement; and (D) the Fourth Additional Financing 
shall 
accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Fourth Amending 
Agreement.".
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Agreement shall not become effective until evidence 
satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that the 
execution and delivery of this Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been duly 
authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Page  3
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 
of this Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or opinions 
satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association showing, on 
behalf of the Borrower, that this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, 
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its acceptance of the 
evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Agreement shall not have come into force and effect by 
June 27, 2001, this Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall 
terminate, unless the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this 
Section.  If this Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the 
Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this 
Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the city of Tegucigalpa, Honduras, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
By /s/ Gabriela Nuñez de Reyes
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Joseph M. Owen
Resident Representative
