Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2816-HO
                       Development Credit Agreement
        (Public Sector Modernization Structural Adjustment Credit)
                                  between
                           REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                           Dated April 11, 1996
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2816-HO
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated April 11, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF
HONDURAS (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
    WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated
January 4, 1996, from the Borrower describing a program of
actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve structural
adjustment of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the
Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution
of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association
in the financing of urgently needed imports required during
such execution; and
    (B)   on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the
Association has decided in support of the Program to provide
such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in three
tranches as hereinafter provided;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof set forth below
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Page  2
Agreement:
    (a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
          "'Project' means the program, referred to in the
          Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, in
          support of which the Credit is made.";
    (b)   the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
    (c)   Section 4.01 is modified to read:
          "Except as the Borrower and the Association shall
          otherwise agree, withdrawals from the Credit Account
          shall be made in the currency of the deposit account
          specified in Section 2.02 of the Development Credit
          Agreement.";
    (d)   Section 5.01 is modified to read:
          "The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the
          proceeds of the Credit from the Credit Account in
          accordance with the provisions of the Development
          Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions.
          Except as the Borrower and the Association shall
          otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on
          account of expenditures in the territories of any
          country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods
          produced in, or services supplied from, such
          territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to
          persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if
          such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
          Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United
          Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the
          Charter of the United Nations.";
    (e)   the last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
    (f)   Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
          "(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date
          or such later date as may be agreed to this purpose
          between the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower
          shall prepare and furnish to the Assocition a report,
          of such scope and in such detail as the Association
          shall reasonably request, on the execution of the
          Program referred to in the Preamble to the Development
          Credit Agreement, the performance by the Borrowe and
          the Association of their respective obligatins under
          the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment
          of the purposes of the Credit.";
    (g)   Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as
modified above), 9.07 and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively,
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.
    Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
    (a)   "Action Plan for Comprehensive Human Resource
Administration and Effective Management Control" means the
Borrower's action plan for the development of a comprehensive
public sector human resource management and effective control
mechanism, dated November 22, 1995;
    (b)   "Action Plan for Employment and Salary Reform in the
Civil Service, Neighboring Regimes and Decentralized
Institutions"  means the Borrower's action plan, dated November
22, 1995, to rationalize employment and the salary structures
Page  3
of civil servants of the Borrower's central government and
decentralized institutions;
    (c)   "Airport Services" means the services related to air-
navigation (such as handling, fueling and catering of aircrafts
at airports), rental of space within airport facilities and all
other activities related to airport-traffic of users and cargo;
    (d)   "CONATEL" means Comision Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones, the Borrower's commission to be
established, under the Framework Law for the Telecommunications
Sector (as hereinafter defined), as the enforcement and
regulatory authority for the Borrower's telecommunications
sector;
    (e)   "Deposit Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement;
    (f)   "Framework Law for the Telecommunications Sector" means
the law approved by the Borrower's Congress as Decreto Ley No.
185-95, dated October 31, 1995, providing for the legal
framework for telecommunications in the Borrower's territory;
    (g)   "Hondutel" means Empresa Hondurena de
Telecomunicaciones, the Borrower's telecommunications
enterprise, established pursuant to Hondutel's Law (as herein
defined);
    (h)   "Hondutel's Law" means the Borrower's law approved by
the Borrower's congress as Decreto Ley No. 1341 dated May 17,
1976, as amended;
    (i)   "Institutional Restructuring Action Plans" means the
Borrower's action plans dated November 17, 1995 for the
institutional restructuring of the Borrower's secretariats of
state in charge of the portfolios of education, health,
communications, public works, transport, natural resources,
economy and finance, as well as the Junta Nacional de Bienestar
Social (the Borrower's National Board for Social Welfare) and
the Patronato Nacional de la Infancia (the Borrower's National
Children's Organization);
    (j)   "Integrated Financial Management and Public Investment
Programming Action Plan" means the Borrower's action plan for
the modernization of the public sector's systems for
expenditure planning, execution and control, and for financial
management of public resources; and
    (k)   "SITC" means the Standard International Trade
Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 343 (1986).
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
    Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to thirty six million six hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR36,600,000).
    Section 2.02. (a) The Borrower shall open, prior to
furnishing to the Association the first request for withdrawal
from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its central
bank, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association. All withdrawals from the
Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the
Deposit Account.
          (b)   Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c) and
Page  4
(d) of this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to use the
proceeds of the Credit from the Credit Account in support of
the Program.
          (c)   The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the
Credit shall not be used to finance expenditures excluded
pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If
the Association shall have determined at any time that any
proceeds of the Credit shall have been used to make a payment
for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Association, (i) deposit into the Deposit
Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii)
if the Association shall so request, refund such amount to the
Association.  Amounts refunded to the Association upon such
request shall be credited to the Credit Account for
cancellation.
    (d)   No withdrawal shall be made from the Credit Account
after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn
from the Credit Account shall have reached the equivalent of:
          (i)   SDR13,300,000 unless the Association shall be
                satisfied, after an exchange of views as
                described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based
                on evidence satisfactory to the Association:
                (A)    with the progress achieved by the Borrower
                       in the carrying out of the Program;
                (B)    that the macroeconomic policy framework of
                       the Borrower is consistent with the
                       objectives of the Program; and
                (C)    that the actions described in Part I of
                       Schedule 2 to this Agreement have been
                       taken in form and substance satisfactory to
                       the Association; and
          (ii)  SDR26,600,000 unless the Association shall be
                satisfied, after an exchange of views as
                described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based
                on evidence satisfactory to the Association:
                (A)    with the progress achieved by the Borrower
                       in the carrying out of the Program;
                (B)    that the macroeconomic policy framework of
                       the Borrower is consistent with the
                       objectives of the Program; and
                (C)    that the actions described in Parts I and
                       II of Schedule 2 to this Agreement have
                       been taken  in form and substance
                       satisfactory to the Association.  If, after
                       either of the exchange of views described
                       in paragraphs (i) and (ii) above, the
                       Association shall have given notice to the
                       Borrower that the progress achieved or the
                       actions taken are not satisfactory or that
                       the macroeconomic policy framework is not
                       consistent with the objectives of the
                       Program and, within 90 days after such
                       notice, the Borrower shall not have
                       achieved progress or taken actions
                       satisfactory to the Association, or the
                       macroeconomic policy framework shall not
                       have become consistent with the objectives
                       of the Program, then the Association may,
                       by notice to the Borrower, cancel the
                       unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any
                       part thereof.
Page  5
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
    Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
    (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the
accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time to
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next
payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
    (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as
may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the
provisions of that Section.
    Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
    Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
    Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each May 1 and November 1
commencing May 1, 2006 and ending November 1, 2035. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on
November 1, 2015 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent
(2%) of such principal amount.
    (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded
$790 in constant 1985 Dollars for five consecutive years; and
(ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association
and after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not
yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have
been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association
may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all
of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant
element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
    (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly,
Page  6
the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of
installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
    Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                           Particular Covenants
    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall
from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange
views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and
the actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
    (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association for its review and comment a
report on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
    (c)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the
Association on any proposed action to be taken after the
disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of
materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any
action taken under the Program, including any action specified
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
    Section 3.02. Upon the Association's request, the Borrower
shall:
    (a)   have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
    (b)   furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the date of the
Association's request for such audit, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
    (c)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the Deposit Account and the audit thereof as the
Association shall have reasonably requested.
                                ARTICLE IV
                      Additional Event of Suspension
    Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it
improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof,
will be carried out.
                                 ARTICLE V
                                Termination
    Section 5.01. The date of July 11, 1996 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of
Page  7
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
    Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
          Secretaria de Estado en el Despacho de
          Hacienda y Credito Publico
          Tegucigalpa, MDC
          Honduras
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                HACIENDA                 1308
                Tegucigalpa              HACIENDA HO
    For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                INDEVAS                  248423 (MCI)
                Washington, D.C.          64145 (MCI)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
                       REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
                       By /s/ Roberto Flores Bermudez
                                                Authorized Representative
                       INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       By /s/ Sri-Ram Aiyer
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                          Latin America and the Caribbean
                                SCHEDULE 1
                           Excluded Expenditures
    For purposes of Section 2.02(c) of this Agreement, the
proceeds of the Credit shall not be used to finance any of the
following expenditures:
1.  expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or
services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
2.  expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract
which any national or international financing institution or
agency other than the Bank or the Association shall have
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under a
loan or another credit;
Page  8
3.  expenditures for goods included in the following groups or
sub-groups of the Standard International Trade Classification,
Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in
Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC),
or any successor groups or sub-groups under future revisions to
the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the
Borrower:
Group              Subgroup          Description of Items
    112             -                    Alcoholic beverages
    121             -                    Tobacco, unmanufactured,
                                         tobacco refuse
    122             -                    Tobacco, manufactured
                                         (whether or not
                                         containing tobacco substitutes)
    525             -                    Radioactive and associated
                                         materials
    667             -                    Pearls, precious and semi-
                                         precious stones, unworked or
                                         worked
    718         718.7                    Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                         thereof; fuel elements
                                         (cartridges), non-
                                         irradiated, for nuclear
                                         reactors
    728.43         -                     Tobacco processing machinery
    897         897.3                    Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                         platinum group metals
                                         (except watches and watch
                                         cases) and goldsmiths' or
                                         silversmiths' wares
                                         (including set gems)
    971           -                      Gold, non-monetary (excluding
                                         gold ores and concentrates);
4.  expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption;
5.  expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for
purposes of this paragraph the term "environmentally hazardous
goods" means goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; and
6.  in furtherance of the purposes of Section 5.01 of the
General Conditions, expenditures (a) in the territories of any
country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods procured
in, or services supplied from, such territories or (b) on
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of
goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of
the Charter of the United Nations.
                                SCHEDULE 2
          Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) (i) (C)
                and (ii) (C) of this Agreement
Part I.
1.  The Borrower has issued and put into effect regulations of
the Framework Law for the Telecommunications Sector on
Page  9
concessions, licenses and permits for the provision and
operation of basic telephone services.
2.  The Borrower has assigned a budget for the operation of
CONATEL and has initiated the operations of CONATEL.
3.  Hondutel has issued final bidding documents with respect to
the enterprise or enterprises that shall be established by
Hondutel pursuant to article 3 of Hondutel's Law, as amended by
article 53 of the Framework Law for the Telecommunications
Sector, such bidding documents to solicit bids for investments
in such enterprise or enterprises, for the purposes of the
operation of basic telephone services with coverage --at least-
- in the cities of Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula.
4.  The Borrower has entered into a concession contract
(concesion) for the management and operation of at least one of
its airports with regular international traffic; or the
Borrower has entered into at least one concession contract
(concesion) to operate some of the Airport Services in at least
two of its airports with regular international traffic.
5.  The Borrower has carried out a study to determine the
geographical regionalization of electricity distribution in the
Borrower's territory in order to facilitate private sector
participation in the distribution of electricity.
6.  The Borrower is implementing the Institutional Restructuring
Action Plans in accordance with the benchmarks established in
such plans.
7.  The Borrower is complying with the measures for
rationalization of public employment and salary structures in
accordance with the benchmarks established in the Action Plan
for the Reform of Employment in the Civil Service Regime of the
Central Government and the Decentralized Institutions.
8.  The Borrower is implementing the Action Plan for Human
Resources Management Control in accordance with the benchmarks
established in such plan.
9.  The Borrower is implementing the Integrated Financial
Management and Public Investment Programming Action Plan in
accordance with the benchmarks established in such plan.
Part II.
1.  The enterprise or enterprises that shall be established by
Hondutel (pursuant to article 3 of Hondutel's Law, as amended
by article 53 of the Framework Law for the Telecommunications
Sector) to operate basic telephone services: (a) are operating
--at least-the telephone services of the cities of Tegucigalpa
and San Pedro Sula and the management and the operation of such
telephone services is under the control of investors other than
the Borrower or Honduran public sector entities, in accordance
with legal means acceptable to the Association; and (b) are
substantially owned by such investors;
2.  The Borrower has entered into a concession contract
(concesion) for the management and operation of one of its
airports with regular international traffic, other than the
concession contract entered into pursuant to paragraph 4 of
Part I hereof; or the Borrower has entered into at least one
concession contract (concesion) to operate some of the Airport
Services in at least two of its airports with regular
international traffic, other than the concession contracts
entered into pursuant to paragraph 4 of Part I hereof.
3.  The Borrower has awarded at least one contract
(concesion) for the distribution of electricity in accordance
with the recommendations of the study carried out under
paragraph 5 of Part I hereof, such contract to cover at least
Page  10
35% of the electricity consumers in the Borrower's territory.
4.  The Borrower is implementing the Institutional Restructuring
Action Plans in accordance with the benchmarks established in
such plans.
5.  The Borrower is complying with the measures for
rationalization of public employment and salary structures in
accordance with the benchmarks established in the Action Plan
for the Reform of Employment in the Civil Service Regime of the
Central Government and the Decentralized Institutions.
6.  The Borrower is implementing the Action Plan for Human
Resources Management Control in accordance with the benchmarks
established in such plan.
7.  The Borrower is implementing the Integrated Financial
Management and Public Investment Programming Action Plan in
accordance with the benchmarks established in such plan.
