Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10619-ZR   Type: (PCR)                      ReportNo. 10619
ANDERSON, / X31676 / T9 111/ OEDD2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
FOURTH, FIFTH AND SIXTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECTS
(CREDITS 710-ZR, 998-ZR AND 1273-ZR)
APRIL 30, 1992
Industry and Energy Operations Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 Special Drawing Right (SDR) = 1.15 US
Year                      Value of USS
1985                          61.3
1986                          87.0
1987                         186.6
1988                         368.7
1989                         597.4
1990                        2845.3
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
DFI              -            Development Finance Institution
GDP              -            Gross Domestic Product
IDA              -            International Development Association
IFC              -            International Finance Corporation
SME              -            Small-and Medium-Scale Enterprises
SOFIDE           -            Societe Financiere de D6veloppement
FISCAL YFAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFCIAL USE, ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Directnr-Gerwal
Oper ati    Evauatin
April 30, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECTs      Project Completion Report on Zaire
Fourth, Fifth and Sixth Development Finance Projects
(Credits 710-ZR. 998-ZR and 1273-ZR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Zaire - Fourth, Fifth and Sixth Development Finance Projects
(Credits 710-ZR, 998-ZR and 1273-ZR)" prepared by the Industry and Energy
Operations Division, South-Central and Indian Ocean Department of the Africa
Regional Office, with Part II contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFMFCUAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
FOURTHR FIFTH AND SIXTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECTS
CREDITS 710-ZR, 998-ZR AND 1273-ZR
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pare No
Preface   .   . .   . .   . .............   .   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *  ±...... 
Evaluation Summary lii
Part .  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK' S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity                                               1
2. Background                     .1
Introduction1
Economic Background   .................                     2
3. Project Objectives   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . *     4
4. Project Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     7
5. Project Results  .                                             8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
Subprojects   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     10
6. Project Sustainability   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . a . .     11
7. Lessons of Experience    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     12
jolt 1. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . .       15
Part  II. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Annex  It Related Bank Loans and/or Credits      .                19
Annex  2: Project Timetable       . . . .     .  .                20
Annex  3:  Loan Disbursements   *...........                      21
Annex  4:  Status of Compliance with Major Covenants    . . .     22
Annex  5: Mission Data   . . . . . * . . . . . . . . . . . .      23
Annex  6: Evolution of Share Capital Structvre   . a . . . .      24
Annex  7: Projected and Actual Financial Performance   . . .      25
Annex  8: Evolution of Arrears Situation   . . . . . . . . .      32
Annex  9: Chronology of Events and Performance, 1980-89    *      33
Annex 10: Lending and Profitability    . . .   . . * . . . . .    36
Annex Ils Impact of Inflation on Capital Requirements    . .      37
Annex 12:  Experience with Subprojects    . .  . . . . a . . .    38
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfiormance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
PROJECI COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
FOURTH. FIFT3 AND SIXTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECTS
(CREDITS 710-ZR, 998-ZR AND 1273-ZR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Fourth, Fifth and
Sixth Development Finance Projects in Zaire, for which Credits 710-ZR, 998-ZR
and 1273-ZR were approved (in 1977, 1980 and 1982, respectively).   The
Credits totalled US$10 million, US$20 million and SDR 20 million,
respectively.   The sixth Credit closed in December, 1988 and was fully
disbursed. The PCR covers the period 1980-89.
The Evaluation Summary and Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared
by the Industry and Energy Operations Division of the Africa Country
Department III.  Preparation began in October, 1990 and is based on inter
alia, the Staff Appraisal Reports, Credit and Project Agreements, Supervision
reports, r( orts by cofinanciers, correspondence between the Bank and SOFIDE
and internal Bank memoranda. Part II was prepared by SOFIDE after reviewing
the draft of the sections prepared by the Bank. Part II is SOFIDE's unedited
product.



iii -
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
FOURTE, FIFTH AND SIXTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECTS
(CREDITS 710-ZR, 998-ZR AND 1273-ZR)
EVALUATION SIMWARY
1.      Obiectives. The Fourth, Fifth and Sixth Development Finance Projects
provided foreign exchange term finance to the Societ6 Financibre de
Developpement (SOFIDE), and represented a continuation of the assistance
provided under three earlier lines of credit (annexes in Part III provide
project details, including the project timetables, mission and disbursement
data and compliance with credit covenants, as well as projected and actual
financial performance).   Both IDA and IFC have been involved w.ith SOFIDE
since its inception in 1970. The fourth, fifth and sixth Credits used SOFIDE
as IDA's exclusive intermediary for foreign exchange loans to industry,
agriculture and services in Zaire (para. 3.01).   These credit lines also
sought to implement some institutional reforms within SOFIDE, including the
diversification of its lending activities (para. 3.02).
2.      Implementation Experience.  In general, IDA's experience with these
Credits was  disappointing.    SOFIDE played  an  important  role  in  the
development of the industrial sector in Zaire by providing investment
financing and foreign exchange resources and by supporting new enterprises
when other financial institutions were unwilling to take risks (para. 5.04).
In addition, SOFIDE developed technical expertise in project evaluation and
supervision, and enjoying considerable prestige in Zaire until the mid-
eighties, provided a training ground for managers that moved on to run other
zairian institutions.11  However, SOFIDE's performance during the period
under review (1980-89) was worse than projected (see Annex 7 for projected
and actual financial results).   The main reason for the disappointing
performance was the lack of consistency in the management of the economy and
the apparent lack of commitment of the Government to reform (para. 2.05).
Big swings in macroeconomic and sectoral policies made it almost impossible
for an institution such as SOFIDE to operate satisfactorily. Other problems
related to the relative weakness of SOFIDE'S management which was either
unwilling or unable to improve collections and portfolio quality (para 4.02).
In addition, the effects of passing the foreign exchange risk to the final
beneficiary which began under the Fifth IDA Credit were not sufficiently
taken into account by the Government, SOFIDE and the Bank (para. 4.01).
Lastly, IDA staff was consistently optimistic in its assessment of the
macroeconomic conditions and of SOFIDE's ability to operate in Zaire's
uncertain environment (para. 4.01).   Bank staff viewed SOFIDE as a well
l/   Takes into account SOFIDE's comments to initial draft of the PCR.



- iv _
functioning institution in the Zairian context, and introduced few tough
conditions in the operations (para 3.04). SOFIDE's management has not be-n
able to come to grips the difficulties of working in Zaire's volatile
environment, and the institution has not evolved from its original
objectives. It still requires considerable technical assistance, it has not
successfully diversified into new areas, or been an innovator in the
provision of financial services. However, SOFIDE's performance needs to be
viewed in the context of the development of DFI's in Africa, most of which
have performed poorly. Given the macroenvironment in which SOFIDE operated,
it is not surprising that its performance was below expectations (para.
4.04). A chronology of events and of SOFIDE's performance in the 1980-89
period is given in Annex 9.
3.      Re ults.   SOFIDE's portfolio deteriorated dramatically during the
19809, with the percentage of the portfolio affected by arrears increasing
from 202 at the beginning of the decade to over 9O0 by 1989, while arrears as
a percent of the outstanding portfolio increased from 13Z to 28Z during the
same period (para. 5.01). Profitability has also suffered, particularly in
1989 when SOFIDE took long o-verdue loan loss provisions (with provisions
expense in that year exceeding revenues). The poor portfolio condition and
persistently high inflation have eroded SOFIDE's capital base: in 1991, it
has negative net worth.   A primary reason that SOFIDE has been able to
survive this long has been IDA's agreeing to "roll over" its lines of creait
into *quasi-equity*, thus shoring up SOFIDE's balance sheet. This technique
worked until 1989, when the massive loan provisions ate into all of SOFIDE's
paid-in and quasi equity.
4.      SOFIDE also did not achieve what was expected  in the way of
institutional development (para. 5.02).   Progress was made in developing
technical expertise in project appraisal and supervision. However, appraisal
of projects in distorted environments is difficult to carry out, a problem
which was compounded by the optimistic evaluation of markets and management
capabilities of clients of SOFIDE's staff. A more important weakness has
been the inadequacy of financial management. SOFIDE's problems are now more
intractable than they were 10 years ago.   The new management has made a
serious effort and has succeeded in improving collections, and carried out an
administrative  reorganization and cutbacks  in staff.   However,  a more
comprehensive program would be required if SOFIDE is to operate as a viable
financial institution.
5.      As  mentioned  above,  SOFIDE  played  an  important  role  in  the
development  of  the  industrial  sector  in  Zaire.    The  performance  of
enterprises financed under the credits appears to have been mixed.   IDA-
financed projects seem to have followed the trend for SOFIDE as a wholet
large marufacturing projects in the main urban centers fared bettez than
projects in the rural areas. Given that SOFIDE was not well equipped for
lending for small projects in the rural areas, and that Zaire has massive
problems of transportation and communications, this result is not difficult
to explain (para 5.05).



- v -
6.      The credits had little impact on the financial sector, since they
worked exclusively with SOFIDE and included no general sector conditionality.
In an attempt to shift the orientation of its financial sector work, in 1985,
IA began a dialogue on sector issues, and in 1987 made a first credit to the
batnking  secl;or  through  an  APEX  institution.    However,  the  unstable
macroeconomJc environment has hampered these efforts.
7.      Sustainability.  SOFIDE's future is in questinn at this point (para.
6.01). IDA suspended commitments on the 8th line of credit in 1989, other
donors have delayed increasing their share capital and SOFIDE has undergone
a change in management in the past year. If SOFIDE is to have a future in
.re, it will need to undergo fundamental restructuring, well beyond a
financial recapitalization. Serious consideration must be given to whether
or not a DFI can survive in the present macroeconomic and political
environment. Even if the answer to that question is positive, fundamental
changes in staffing, organization, internal incentives, its cost structure
and lending rates as well as the legal framework will be necessary.
8.      Lessons Learned.  Section 7 of the text provides a lengthy list of
lessons learned. Experience in Zaire confirms the view, broadly held in the
Bank now, that financial intermediation loans in highly distorted
environments are likely to be troubled projects. These projects will also
require  significant supervision resourcen.   IDA should also discourage
government from propping up failing institutions unless the Government and
the institution demonstrate their commitment to serious reforms in the
enabling environment and within the institution. The subsidies provided to
SOFIDE reduced accountability and delayed action on collections.   At the
institutional level, an important lesson is the need to examine carefully the
full implications in a change of strategy -- in the case of SOFIDE, from
large, stable industrialists located in the main urban centers to small and
medium-scale enterprises often located in isolated areas. SOFIDE proved that
it did not have the staff, nor the financial strength to handle this
diversification of its portfolio. Another important lesson learned on the
institutional side is that the management oc institutions operating in
uncertain environments need to be especially conservative and knowledgeable
of the financial implications of decisions taken. Lastly, DFIs are probably
ill-advised to borrow in foreign currency in a high inflation environment,
unless their paid-in capital is also denominated in foreign exchange - which
is not the case for SOFIDE. Even if the economy were to stabilize, SOFIDE
should probably borrow as much as possible in local currency. In general,
when borrowing from bilateral and multilateral sources, SOFIDE should pay a
fee to the Government for bearing the foreign exchange risk of the loans.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
FOURTH. FIRTH AND SIXTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECTS
(CREDITS 710-ZR, 998-ZR, and 1273-ZR)
PART It PROJECT REVIEW FROM WORLD BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Prolect Identity
Name            i Fourth, Fifth and Sixth Development Finance Projects
Credit Numbers  : 710-ZR, 998-ZR, 1273-ZR
RVP Unit        : Africa Region
Country         : Zaire
Sector          : Industry and Finance
2. Background
2.01    Introduction.  The World Bank Group has been intimately linked with
the development of the Soci6t6 FinanciAre de D6veloppement (SOFIDE) since its
inception in 1970. SOlIDE is the only development finance institution (DFI)
in Zaire and is jointly owned by the Government of Zaire (40S), several
international donors (including IFC) and local Zairian shareholders (see
Annex 6 for details of shareholding). Over the years, SOFIDE has weathered
numerous difficulties, not the least being the highly uncertain economic
environment in which it has operated. In addition, from the beginning it has
experienced managerial difficulties, and had to satisfy the often conflicting
aspirations of its many donors.
2.02    This Project Completion Report covers the period 1980-89 and the
fourth, fifth and sixth IDA credits to SOFIDE. Subsequent to the Credits
under review, IDA approved two additional lines of credit to SOFIDE and
included it in a small-scale enterprise project (Annex 1). Because of its
poor performance, IDA finally suspended new commtments to SOFIDE in 1989
under DPI VIII.
2.03    At the time that the fourth line of credit was approved (1977),
SOFIDE's fin.ncial position and managerial capabilities were weak. It was
hoped that continued IDA support would enable SOlIDE to become a stronger
institution. Unfortunately, SOFIDS's performance continued to deteriorate
and today, SOlIDE is bankrupt. (See Annex 9 for a brief chronology). The
story of SOFIDE is filled with lessons for DFI managers, donors and
governments.   Perhaps most distressingly, many of the warning signs of
SOlIDE's difficulties emerged long ago. The two previous Project Completion
Reports noted the deficiencies in project appraisal and supervision, the
inadequate loan loss provisions and the difficulties of operating in the
Zairian economy. Only in 1989, with the suspension of commitments from of



interest rates closer to the market and improve access of the
private sector to credit and foreign exchange. It w&s far less
successiul, however, in improving the allocation and control of
public expenditure, incluiding puolic investment.
In 1990, the Government again discontinued its adjustment efforts,
especially as regards public expenliture, inflation and credit
targets, avoidance of external and domestic arrears and parapublic
sector reform.
2.06    Concurrent  strong stabilization and adjustment measures yielded
pnsitive result6 during the initial phase of t5'e adjustment program. Over
the 1984-86 period, most key indicators showed sign icant improvements. GDP
growth averaged 3.31 p.a., up from 0.7% in !he preceding three years; gross
domestic investment expanded by 91 p.a., compared vith 41 p.a. in the
preceding three years; export earnings grew by 4.8Z p.a. on average in
current dollar tarms while imports contracted by 1.11 pa.; Government's net
recourse to d=*mistic credit averaged 1.11 of GDP, compared to 3Z in the
preceding three-year period; inflation decelerated from 762 to 241; and the
overall fiscal deficit averaged 0.31 of GDP, compared to 2.1Z during the
1981-83 period.
2.07    Equally swift was the negative response to the reversal of adjustment
in  late  1986.    In  1987-89,  despite  expanding  export  revenues  and  a
significant increase in net external transfers, GDP growth averaged only 0.61
p.a.; the current account deficit, at 7.61 of GDP, was 7OZ higher than in the
preceding three-year period; and inflation soared, particularly in 1987-88.
Economic performance reflected the uncertain economic environment, thc rapid
deterioration of infrastructure and public services, and the deteriorating
public finance situation.
2.08    Because  revenues  declined  without  a  similar  adjustment  in
expenditures, the overall fiscal deficit of 0.3Z of GDP in 1984-86 increased
to 2.4Z in 1987 and peaked at 6.31 in 1988.  Since most of the def4 1t was
financed with domestic bank credit, money supply more than quadrupled between
1986-88, inflation (year-end) reached 106.5% in 1987 and 92.51 in 1988, and
the availability of domestic credit (in real terms) and foreign exchange to
the private sector declined sharply. Government's attempt in 1988 to control
inflation by delaying exchange rate adjustments and restricting interest
rates and p-.. ^es backfired, furthe- depressing economic activity.
2.09    The resumption of the stabilization program in 1989 and the favorable
external environment yielded some positive financial results, but could not
generate growth because it was short-lived. Higher taxes and improved tax
administrasion spurred revenues and expenditures dropped with lower debt
service payments.   Monetary creation was sharply curtailed and inflation
declined to 601 on an annual oasis. However, private investment and growth
remained sluggish. GDP is estimated to have declined by 21 in 1989, and per
capita inuome contracted by about 5Z,



4 
2.10    Given the extreme variability of economic condition., the severe
shortrges of foreign exchange and ktgh and variable inflation, it is not
surprising taat SOFIDE's portfolio deteriorated over the 1980-89 period.
Even the most sophl.sticated bankers would have found operating in this
onvironment challenging.  The persistently high inflation contributed to
SOPIDS'. decline in two way.:  (1) its equity base was eroded in real te me
despite three capital infusion., relatively high lending spreads and low
(relative to t.e health of the portfolis) loan loss provisions; and (ii) the
highly volatile environment  increased the default risk emanating  from
individual  projects.    In  particular,  once  the  Government  (with  the
concurrence of IDA and other donors) decided in 1980 that SOFIDE borroweas
would have to carry the foreign exchange risk of their loans"1, the default
risk of the portfolio increased significantly.
3. Pro4ect Objectives
3.01    The fourth, fifth and sixth lines of credit to SOFIDr (approved in
1977, 1980 and 1982, respectively) were a continuation of the support
provided to the institution since its incepto6on. (See Annexes 2-5 for the
project timetable, mission and disbursement data, and compliance with credit
covenants for these three creditn).  These projects used SOFIDE as IDA's
exclusive intermediary for foreigiu exchange loans to industry, agriculture
and services, and sought to strengthen it through institutional reforms. IDA
did not begin to use other intermediaries until 1988 with the approval of the
small-scale Jtndustry project.
3.02    An ancillary objective of the IDA Credits was to assist SOFIDE in
diversifying its lending operations. In its early years, SOlIDE focused its
efforts on serving large industrial concerns in the major cities (primarily
Kinshasa).21  Because many of these original clients were at least partially
foreign-owned, it became more and more difficult for SOFIDE (especially after
the zair±anization measures) to continue lending only to this market segment,
even th-sugh it was probably the most profitable. Moreover, other donors were
encouraging SOFIDE to assist small-scale entrepreneurs and move into other
regions. The steps taken to diversify SOFIDE's operations were taken without
making substantive changes in its mode of operations in support of this new
lending strategy. Thus, SOlIDE began to make loans in areas of the country
in which it had no presence and no way to communicate with borrowers; it
began to lend to small enterprises just as it began to pass on the foreign
exchange risk to its borrowers; and it appears that SOFIDE never prepared a
comprehensive business plan or funding strategy to support these changes in
',   Prior to 1980, Government had borne the forelgn exchange risk. As the
currency continued to devalue, the Government apparently decided that
it could not afford that cost.
To this day, SOFIDE's portfolio remains highly concentrated with 10% of
the number of loans comprising 70% of amounts outstanding.



-5-
operatione.. Thus, an important part of any DPI project, eepecially one
which is dedicated to the development of a single institution, is the
preparation of a sustainable strategy and business plan, agreed with all the
shareholders and donors (and the financial and managerial implications of any
changes thoroughly votted).
3.03    Another weakness with project design was the reliance on a single
institution.  IDA's exclusive relationship with SOFIDE for so many years
limited its Impact on the financial sector as a whole, both in building
relationships vith other institutions as well as in influencing financial
sector policy. This was evidenced by the fact that throughout most of the
period interest rates for loans in domestic currency were negative in real
term. IDA began working on a financial sector adjustment credit in the mid-
eighties, and provided a first APEX line in 1986. The problems associated
with the reliance on one institution were compounded by the fact that SOPIDE
had become isolated from the financial system: its effective lending rates
were much higher than the other Zairian banks, it offered only one product,
and thus less and less aleievant to its clients.  Moreover, increasingly, it
was able to operate because of substantial subsidies.'1
3.04.      Adeauacv of Project Preparation.  As noted above, the lack of a
clearly articulated st:'ategy for SOFIDE hampered its performance during the
1980s. Some of the gaps in project preparation include:
u ptimistic assumptions about achieving macroeconomic stability in
Zaire. The appraisals predicted that inflation would be reduced
to levels below 252. In spite of actual performance (in which
inflation averaged SO) none of the appraisals seem to have
prepared projections for SOFIDE assuming similar rates of
inflationg
o despite the poor collections and portfolio condition, none of the
three lines of credit under review called for strict measures for
improving loan supervision and collections. Only the seventh line
of credit showed any muscle vis-a-vis reform of the portfolio
management systems;'"
3/   Had it done so, chances are that its interest rates would have been
increased substantially, and its staff would have been redeployed to the
regions.
"/   80sFIDB   borrowing costs are effectively subsidized in a variety of
ways:   the rollovers of IDA lines of credit at very low (grossly
negative in real terms) ratesc low borrowing costs on some of Lts other
doaor funds; it pays no income tax; many of its loans are guaranteed by
the Government of Zaire.
S/   It required SOFIDE to prepare action plans for some of its larger
troubled project..  It did not set specific performance targets for
collectLons or Lmproving arrears ratios.



0 there was an underestimation of the financial difficulties that
SOFIDE was experiencing because of the low collection rates.
SOFIDE appears to have experienced liquidity problems as far back
as 1981. These liquidity problems were masked for the past decade
by the "rollover" of the IDA lines of credit (allowing SOFIDE to
retain those funds for operations rather than repay the
government). Thus, SOFIDE was relying on a mismatch of assets and
liabilities for its survival (borrowing long at concessional rates
and lending short at market rates). Appraisal reports noted the
mismatch, but did not seem to worry that this reduced the
incentives for SOFIDE to take corrective action and was the seed
of future trouble;
during the 1980s, IP4 staff argued for higher spreads for SOFIDE,
citing the high administrative costs of its lending program, the
need to cross-subsidize certain lines of credit from other donors
which had higher interest rates, and the high loan losses. This
increase in interest rates (to a spread of over 122 by 1981)
effectively priced SOFIDE out of the market, especially vis-a-vis
its original, relatively creditworthy client base.   As noted
above, other structural changes to support the move to small-scale
lending were not taken, so that SOFIDE was unable to implement the
change in strategy successfully.   Then, realizing it had priced
itself out of the market,s SOFIDE (with IDA's approval) began in
1984 to bring lending rates (and spreads) down -- just at the time
when it needed those spreads to cover the growing loan losses in
the portfolio. These moves show very little consideration given
to the market-impact of financial changes, and then, the financial
impact of a change in market.
0 insufficient financial assessment of SOFIDE. As noted above, IDA
did not act in the early part of the decade even though it was
clear that SOFIDE's operations had become unsustainable without
the IDA rollovers. In addition, some appraisal reports projected
a return on assets of 42  -- when the most efficient financial
institutions in the world generally operate on a 1-2Z return on
assets.  Appraisals also did not do a detailed assessment of the
quality of the portfolio, the impact of continued low collections
on cashflow and the equity base and the impact of inflation and
devaluations on the balance sheet, all key aspects of SOFIDE's
operations.
'/ Much of the problem vis-a-vis other lenders was the foreign exchange
risk, which effectively pushed the SOFIDE loan rates well above any
other in Zaire.



-7-
4. Project Imolementation
4.01    SOFIDE's performance during the 1980-89 period was disappointlng.
The main reason for the disappointing performance was the lack of consistency
in the management of the economy and the apparent lack of commitment of the
Government to reform. Big swings in macroeconomic and sectoral policies made
it difficult for an institution such as SOFIDE to operate satisfactorily.
However, the relative weakness of SOFIDE'S management reflected in its
inability or unwillingness to improve collections and portfolio quality, also
contributed to the problem. In addition, the effects of passing the foreign
exchange risk to the final beneficiary, which began under the Fifth IDA
Credit, were not sufficiently taken into account by the Government, SOFIDE
and the Bank. Lastly, IDA was consistently optimistic in its assessment of
the macroeconomic conditions and of SOFIDE's ability to operate in Zaire's
uncertain environment.   Bank staff viewed SOFIDE as a generally well
functioning institution in the Zairian context, and introduced few tough
conditions in the operations. IDA's appraisal reports projected solid and
improving profitability during the 1980s (Annex 7) -- it ended up with a
bankrupt institution.
4.02    One of the greatest disappointments during the 1980. was SOlIDE's
persistent deterioration in collections performance. Various measures were
taken during the period to strengthen this aspect of SOFIDE's operations --
organization changeo, assignment of additional staff to supervision, etc. --
with no tangible results. A major factor in the portfolio problems was the
brutal change in borrowers' obligations brought about by passing the foreign
exchange risk to the borrower, and the regular devaluation of the Zaire
starting with the massive devaluation of 1983.  Other factors affecting
portfolio performance were the weak appraisals, Inadequate information
systems  (particularly  information  about  projects  beyond  Kinshasa),
insufficient collateral, weak management and a legal environment which makes
foreclosures  difficult.    SOPIDE  appears  to  have  relied  heavily  on
rescheduling as a means of working out loan repayment problems, thus further
masking the difficulties in the portfolio. It does not have the technical
staff to prepare sustainable workout programs with distressed clients. Also,
although, SOPIDS has been able to operate with substantial independence by
Zairian standards,  it has not been immune to political influence as
demonstrated by the fact that it has a few clients which simply have been
unwilling (rather than unable) to pay.
4.03    Another gap in project Implementation was the lack of strong
management. Throughout the 19700, SOlIDE was run with the help of expatriate
managers and advisors, but slowly moved toward a completely local management
team which tended not to take into account the views of foreign partners and
advisors. In the early 1980s, IDA staff pointed to weaknesses in SOPIDE's
accounting and computer systema, and provided technical assistance (both
staff and equipment) to cure this deficiency.  While SOPIDP's accounting
systems seem to have improved because of this assistance, it never developed
a strong financial planning capability. This is an unfortunate gap for an
institution operating in such a volatile and complex environment. Had SOPIDE
had a stronger financial management capability In place, perhaps its
liquidity problem  would have come to light much earlier and greater urgency



-8-
attached to improving collectioas. Management information systems remain
weak, particularly in providing coniistent and accurate information about the
portfolio and between the regions and headquarters.
4.04    Most unfortunately, after nearly 20 years existence, SOFIDE is still
not a mature institution. Its appraisal and supervision capabilities remain
underdeveloped; it has continued to rely exclusively on Government and donors
for funding; its information systems are still ubn.ophisticatedl and it has
not developed any additional products or services for its clients. At this
polnt, if it is restructured, it will still need to concentrate on basic
lending operations. It should be noted that the experience with SOPIDE is
similar to that of most development banks in Sub-Saharan Africa.
5. Proiect Results
5.01    Annex 7 details SOFIDE's projected and actual financial operations
during 1980-89. The key aspects of its performance are highlighted below:
gortfolio  Performance:       SOFIDE's  portfolio  deteriorated
dramatically during the 1980s, with the percentage of the
portfolio affected by arrears increasing from 202 at the beginning
of the decade to over 902 by 1989, while arrears as a percent of
the outstanding portfolio increased from 132 at the beginning of
the decade to 282 at the end (Annex 8)  Collections have averaged
about 602 of amounts falling due during the period, and SOFIDE has
not yet seen a sustained period (i. e. , more than a year) of
improved collections. Loan loss provisions were generally well
below the necessary levels. When a portfolio audit was done in
1989 and substantial provisions taken, they wiped out SOFIDE's
capital base.'1  The poor portfolio performance lies in (i)
inadequate project appraisal and supervision: (il) passing on of
foreign exchange risk to borrowers unable to carry the risk5 (111)
high nominal and real rates of interest, which over time attracted
only the most marginal borrowers, and thus further undermined
portfolio quality; and (iv) the difficult and erratic economic
environment, which would have weakened any institution's
portfolio. Although banks in Zaire are probably profitable, they
incur in little risk by concentrating in trade financing.
° profitabilitv: SOFIDE's book profitability, as measured by return
on assets and equity, averaged 1.12 and 182, respectively between
1980 and 1988.   The relatively high return on equity arises
because of the low capital base.  In 1989, both ratios turned
sharply negative because of the large portfolio losses which were
recognized in that year. Annex 10, however, shows that when the
low  collections  performance  is  factored  in,  the  actual
profitability was much lower in the years before 1989. Indeed,
7    lt Le expected that addltLonal provlsions wlll be necessary,  as
collection  remaln low and a signifLcant portion of the portfolio
remairs nonperformlng, wlth questionable underlying collateral.



- 9 -
because of relatively high administrative costs in its early years
(averaging over 51 even between 1980 and 1984), to remain
profitable SOFIDE needed to collect at least 751 of amounts
falling due with a 7.51 spread.   Since SOFIDE's collections
averaged about 601, SOPIDF continually pressed for higher spreads.
The high spreads reduced the incentive for collections. Later,
when it had priced itself out of the market and brought down both
its lending rates and its spreads, it failed to increase
collections and thus further eroded Its real profitability. The
impact of this poor performance was finally realized in 1989, when
SOFIDE's loan loss provisions exceeded revenues and simultaneously
wiped out its capital*'
° canital structuret In 1989, the massive loan loss provisions
wiped out SOFIDE's capital base. This accounting step, however,
was simply a long-overdue recognition of the decapitalization
which had been happening for years.  In addition to the loan
losses, SOlIDE's capital structure was inappropriate to economic
conditions. SOFIDE's debts were denominated primarily in foreign
exchange, while its capital was In zaires. The continuous cycles
of inflation/devaluation ensured that SOFIDF's capital was being
eroded each year, whether or not it made losses on its lending
operations. Aa shown in Annex 11, with inflation averaging 501
per year for 5 years, SOlIDE would have had to increase its
capital by 50001 just to maintain a 3:l debt:equity ratio
(assuming that operations remain at the same level in real terms).
SOFIDF had two sources of capital: (L) its shareholders, who made
two contributions during the period under review; and (ii) IDA, in
the form of rollovers (which were treated as "quasi-equity"). By
1988, before the loan write-offo, the quasi-equity from IDA
represented nearly 901 of SOFIDE', total capital and quasi-equity
(thus makir3 IDA de facto SOFIDE'a largest shareholder, even
though the liability remains with the Government). This quasi-
equity also represented a subsidy to SOlIDS in its borrowing
costs, as SOlIDF only needed to pay 2-4Z in zaires on the funds,
while Inflation has averaged over 501 per annum.
5.02    In addition t, the poor financial performance, SOlIDE did not achieve
all that was expected in the way of institutional development.   SOFIDE
achieved Improvements In accounting and computer systems. Progress was made
in developing technical expertise in project appraisal and supervision.
However, appraisal of projects in distorted environments is difficult to
carry out, a problem that was compounded by the fact that SOlIDE staff, often
motivated by what some perceived as SOlIDS's development role, tended to be
optimistic in their evaluation of markets and management capabilities. A
more important weakness has been the inadequacy of financial management.
Administrati's costs were not excessive, given the high transaction
costs (smaller loans, long dLitances), and may have been inappropriately
curtailed in the latter portion of the decade to help reduce costs.



- 10 -
SOFIDE'. problem, are now more intractable than they were 10 years ago. As
noted earlier, the lack of good management allowed SOFIDE to drift along in
this condition for over a decade.  Indeed, the rollovers and additional
equity infusions papered over the liquidity crises in 1981 and 1986, rather
than imposing tougher portfolio management efforts.   In retrospect,  it
appears that the Government propped up the institution by allowing increased
spreads on IDA lines of credit and the rollovers of IDA funds. At the same
time, the other donors (at least those who were shareholders) were being
repaid their lines of credit and receiving dividends.91 The projects have
also had little impact on the financial sector as a whole.   IDA began
discussions on sector issues in 1985, but these were not tied to the SOFIDE
operations.
5.03    The decision to move SOFIDE away from large industrialists to smaller
entrepreneurs also shows mixed results.  At first glance, SOFIDE's own poor
financial state as well as the poor record of the SMEs that it financed would
argue that this move was a strategic mistake (at the end of June 1990, the
ratio of arrears to total outstanding averaged 19Z for the large clients and
452 for the small- and medium-sized clients. At that time, large enterprises
accounted for 382 of the total outstanding portfolio).   Given the poor
project preparation and the weak capabilities within SOFIDE, however, perhaps
this was simply a failing in implementation. Given the need to create jobs
in Zaire, the move to SMEs and local resource-based projects may have been
the right step for SOFIDE in contributing to the economy.   Because of
Weaknesses in the institution, poor entrepreneur selection, the lack of
internal controls and comprehensive planning, and the lack of appropriate
resources, SOFIDE was not organized for the task. Had it been structured
differently (far more decentralized, domestically-sourced finance, different
cost structure and lending rate structure, etc.), and paid greater attention
to making good loans to worthy entrepreneurs, SOFIDE may have had better
success with SMEs. The poor transportation and communications in Zaire would
have required special efforts for the strategy to succeed.
Subnroiects
5.04    The main characteristics of the subprojects financed under the
fourth, fifth and sixth lines of tedit are given in Annex 12. A review of
the subprojects, which include so. ie of the most important manufacturing
enterprises In the country, confirms the view that SOFIDE played an important
role in the develcpment of Zaire's industrial sector by providing investment
finance and foreign exchange resources at a time when few financial
institutions were extending much domestic credit. The provision of foreign
exchange fund. for rehabilitation and working capital loans was also
important during the period, given the scarcity of foreign exchange in Zaire
(the fifth line of credit provided working capital resources to 13 out of 45
projects).   Moreover, the fifth and sixth lines of credit assisted new
entrepreneurs (about 202 of the loans extended under the fifth line and one-
'/ Given the poor collections performance, SOFIDE should not have been
paying dividends during the 1980. -- another sign that no one was
looking at cash flow management.



- 11 -
half of those under the sixth). Finally, during the period covered by these
three project., SOFIDE began to give 8reater emphasis to non-manufacturing
projects, such as agriculture, forestry and local services. While the fourth
1 ne financed almost exclusively manufacturing projects, by the time of the
sixth, manufacturing accounted for only about 1/3 of the projects financed.
5.05    It appears that the IDA subprojects suffered many of the same
difficulties of other projects  financed by SOFIDE:   weak management,
insufficient initial capitalization and inadequate working capital (often
because of insufficient funds on the part of the entrepreneurs). Indeed, the
lack of sufficient risk capital, coupled with continued devaluations and
denominating the subloans in foreign exchange, dealt a severe blow to a large
portion of SOFIDE's portfolio, including the IDA subprojects. In general,
IDA-financed projects seem to have followed the trend for SOEIDE as a whole:
large manufacturing projects in the main urban centers fared better than
projects in the rural areas.
6. Proiect Sustainabilitv
6.01    SOFIDE's future is highly uncertain at present.   IDA suspended
commitments in January 1989, the other donors have delayed increasing their
share capital, and SOFIDE underwent a change in top management in April 1989.
If SOEIDE is to have a future in Zaire, it will need to undergo fundamental
restructuring, well beyond a write-off and recapitalization exercise.
Government, SOFIDE management and the donor community should consider
seriously the following issues in reconstituting SOlIDE:
o Can any financial institution be successful in Zaire as long as
the macroeconomic framework is so distorted and variable? Is the
Government serious about macroeconomic reform? If not, financial
intermediation loans are probably inappropriate.
° Does Zaire need a development bank? Can it be put on a profit-
making basis, or will it remain (at least partially) a channel for
Government and donor programs?   If SOFIDE's goals are to be
principally welfare-oriented, there may be less expensive ways to
make these transfer payments, such as grants through NGOs.
o Can SOPIDE survive if the rest of the financial sector is in
disarray?   Is there a m -ket segment in which SOFIDE can be
competitive? Would SOlIDE be more successful if it were making
short-term rather then long-term loans?
6.02    The reptructuring  of SOFIDE would need to go well beyond  a
reconstitution of its balance sheet.   Depending on the market segments
selected, serious consideration will need to be given to (i) the pricing and
sourcing of funds for SOEIDE -- making sure that it does not continue to rely
on subsidized funding, and ensuring that it has appropriate funds for the
types of products it is offering; (ii) assembling an appropriate cadre of
staff (and probably including expatriates); (iii) the legal framework in
Zaire, and SOFIDE's ability to secure its loans and enforce its interest when
the loans go bad; (iv) sufficient managerial autonomy to reduce political



- 12 -
influence in the institutions and (v) the ability to price loans at market
rates and still cover its administrative and funding costs.  As implied
above, the macroeconomic and sectoral environment in Zaire may be so
distorted that it would be foolhardy to expect an institution to survive
until those distortions are removed.
7. Lessons of Experience
7.01    Don't make  financial  intermediation  loans  in hiahlv distorted
environments: IDA started to address broader financial sector issues in the
mid-eighties. Although progress was made in introducing some reforms in the
sector, work was frustrated by the deterioration in economic management and
the macroeconomic environment.  A quick glance at the Zairian financial
sector shows that the entire system is weak, reflecting the severe
instability of the economy. The best use of IDA funds (particularly in the
near future) might be technical assistance to the financial sector to sort
out institutional weaknesses (portfolio audits, training, better information
systems, etc.) in preparation for more stable times.
7.02    Foreian exchante risk:  DFIs are probably ill-advised to borrow in
foreign currency in a high inflation environment, unless their paid-in
capital is also denominated in foreign exchange - which is not the case for
SOFIDE. Even if the economy were to stabilize, SOFIDE should probably borrow
as much as possible in local currency.  In general, when borrowing from
bilateral and multilateral sources, SOFIDE should pay a fee to the Government
for bearing the foreign exchange risk of the loans.
7.03    Plversifv institutional base for intermediation loans:   IDA has
relied on SOFIDE as its vehicle for financial Intermediation loans in Zaire
for some 16 years, and is still developing an alternative channel for future
operations.   Considering IDA'. financial contributions,  it had limited
influence on the evolution of SOFIDE, whose course was determined to a
considerable extent by the wishes of other donors who were shareholders.
7.04    Examine carefullv changes In stratety and manate conservatively:
SOFIDE diversified away from a relatively strong customer franchise just as
the economy was on the brink of collapse. It then moved into market segments
for which it was ill-prepared (not close enough to the client, wrong type of
funds). The same way that sub-borrowers are expected to prepare feasibility
studies for new projects, DFIs also need to explore fully the implications
for any change in strategy. The diversification may haxa been the right idea
-- but it was poorly executed in the case of SOPIDE. A related lesson is
that the management of institutions operating in volatile environments needs
to be especially conservative and knowledgeable of the financial implications
of decisions taken. These institutions should not grow fast, and should stay
close to their original client base during periods of extreme instability.
7.05    Need to do more rigorous financial assessments of institutions:  DPI
analysis should include cash flow scenarios (especially in inflationary
environments and with institutions with low collections), not rely on
debttoquity ratios and "resource statements" as measures of liquidity. The



- 13 -
relative profitability of various lines of business should be examined as
well.
7.06    Remove subsidies:  High spreads and the rollover of IDA credits
provided a comfortable cushion which forestalled any significant efforts to
reform the institution. The first mistake was providing this cushion, rather
than making SOFIDE compete on an equal footing with other institutions. This
was compounded by providing the subsidies without any concrete and sustained
lmprovements in SOFIDE's performance.
7.07    Accountability:   Pscause  of  the  subsidies,  SOFIDE  had  little
incentive to take responsibility for its own performance.   Most of the
actions taken until 1989 seemed designed to soften the blow and delay the
"day of reckoning."   These steps, however, distanced SOFIDE further and
further from any market tests of viability.
7.08    Lendlnz rate policies:  It is not good enough to look at whether
lending rates for a DFI are sufficient to cover costs and are positive in
real terms. As SOFIDE continued to push up its lending rates to cover its
(unrecognized) loan losses, it priced itself out of the market, at least for
good credit risks. By attracting the marginal borrowers, it contributed to
the deterioration of the portfolio and further losses.   In addition, as
interest rates for SOFIDE were positive, IDA did not dwell on the overall
level of interest rates, which was negative for most of the decade.



- 15 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
COMMENTS ON THE COMPLETION REPORT ON THE
FOURTH. FIFTH AND SIXTH IDA CREDITS
1. ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT
The Fourth, Fifth and Sixth credits were negotiated during the
eighties when, because of a tiumber of factors (inflation, difficulties of
supplying the country with fuel and spare parts, export problems, shortage of
foreign exchange, etc.), the country's economy was already showing obvious
signs of serious deterioration.
2. LACK OF AN OPERATING POLICY APPROPRIATE TO THE MACROECONOMIC SITUATION
Bowing to pressure from donors and from the government, and taking
no account of the uncertainties of the economic environment, SOFIDE stepped
up its operations in high-risk sectors (SMEs and agriculture).
In addition, efforts were made to decentralize its activities in
favor of regional projects, while the economic situation should have
counseled greater caution and greater project concentration in urban centers,
targeting sectors with relatively little vulnerability to the factors
mentioned above.
3. FOREIGN EXCHANGE RISK
When the Government decided on February 18, 1980 to pass on the
exchange risk to the final borrower, and on September 9, 1983 to allow the
zaire to fluctuate, SOPIDE was unable to tailor its operations accordingly.
It continued to operate without making appropriate arrangements to
adapt its resources, or the way in which they were used, to take account of
the possible impact of the exchange risk on the cash flow of projects which,
being executed in an uncertain economic environment, presented a greater risk
of losing than of gaining foreign exchange.
In light of that experience,
- SOFIDE's future operating policy should definitely be based
on selective exchange risk coverage.
Oualitv of evaluation
- SOFIDE succeeded in setting up teams of well-trained local
analytical technicians that many similar African institutions
would envy.



- 16 -
The main problem with its management teams has been a lack
of contact with reality, a situation explained by the fact
that monitoring and evaluation have been treated as separate
functions and the supervision reports have been consistently
disregarded.  A further factor has been the absence of a
coherent evaluation policy and the comparative inexperience
of the team members, all relatively young because of the
constant drive to "entice" the best workers into senior
positions in the public sector.
- Thus, the eighties were characterized by the departure of the
first-generation managers, people who would have been able
to serve as the General Manager's "support group" in the
areas of evaluation, monitoring and financial management.
If it does not adopt a policy to attract experienced staff,
SOPIDE will remain a young inetitution, inexperienced, and
in need of outside assistance to prevent a decline in the
quality of its reports.
4. JUSTIFICATION OF SUBSIDIES
The indirect subsidization of SOPIDE by the Government, represented
by the consolidation of IDA credits and the very favorable cost of those
credits, may be explained by the very high cost of financial intermediation
linked to the (almost public) development function entrusted to SOFIDE.
Until the very recent past, SOFIDE was regarded as the only credible
national structure available to the Government and donors for the channeling
of resources intended for investment promotion and development.
5. INTEREST RATE POLICY
SOFIDE's interest rate policy is justified by the quasi-public
function entrusted to it, whereas banks carry on activities that are
basically commercial and highly profitable.
Moreover, it is significant that before 1984 SOFIDE's foreign
exchange loans were granted on the same terms as loans in local currency, for
the following reasons:
- up until 1980, the Government assumed the entire foreign
exchange risk; customers' obligations were denominated in
zaires;
- from 1980 to 1983, although taking over the foreign exchange
risk, SOPIDE's customers enjoyed an 801 subsidy on the actual
cost of their foreign exchange purchases, by reason of very
strong overvaluation of the Zaire.
The monetary reform of September 1983 logically enabled SOLIDE to
adjust interest rates on foreign exchange loans, bringing them down from 201



- 17 -
to 13.52 a year. At that lovel, there was still a margin doemed relatively
excessive, but justifiable on the basis of th need for stronger provisiona*
6. SO01DB ES AT PRESENT IN SUSPENSION OF PAThENTS"1
We do not subscribe to this affirmation.  S0PIDE pays its debt.
regularly under the contracts signed with its donors.
7. 
- It Is certainly true that at the beginning of 1989 SOFIDE'a
*ltuation was viewed as very precarious, if not uncertain,
In light of the deterioration of the principal financial
ratios, and, more particularly, of the recovery rate, which
reached Its lowest level (42Z) in 1987.
But it is also true that the absence of a rapid reaction to
this situation was the main reason why the situation
continued to deteriorate.
- The recovery program, set up In 1989 and completed In June
1990, made it possiblo not only to arrest the deterioration
but to stabilize and even Improve the portfolio situation.
Tho measures taken made it possible to raise the recovery rate
quite spectacularly, from 56.252 in 1988 to 752 in 1989. In 1990,
despite further deterioration in the macroeconomic environment,
this rate was maintained, and may have even been slightly
exeeded.
Moreover, SO1IDZ's seriously shaken111financial structure is
tending to right itself, thanks to a policy of spending curbs
and to the decision to on-lend to SOFIDE the benefits of
cancellation of bilateral governmental debts (at least those
carried by 80ID).
Coumment by World Bank staffs SOVIDE's comment refers to para. 4.01 of
Part 1, which discusses SOPIDE'S bankruptcy, but which was initially
translated into French as cessation of payments. SOlIDE is correct that
lt has never stopped honoring its obllgations.
'V flZU&hft (sketched out) presumed in error for branl60 (shaken) -
Translator.



- 18 -
8. CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE PROSPECTS
- In light of the situation prevailing during the eighties, and
considering the causes of the deterioration of that
situation, it is important to study SOFIDE's structure in
this new decade, its field of activities, the nature of its
resources, the structure of its organization, and the extent
of the involvement of the Government, SOFIDE's principal
partner.
Pending such a study, we can already state with certainty that:
1.   SOFIDE will no longer be the traditional development bsJe it was
designed to be in the seventies.
2.    The  Government  needs  to  opt  between  a  SOFIDE
specializing in the financing of large and medium-
sized enterorises, sufficiently well structured and
offering a greater guarantee of repayment, and a
SOFIDE geared to the financing of industrial and
aaricultural SMEs, scattered throughout regions very
remote from the capital, difficult to reach, and
presenting a very real risk of insolvency.
If the Government and the external partners opt for
this latter solution, SOFIDE will need to be given
certain guarantees, both financial (nature and cost of
resources,   operating   terms,   etc.)   and   legal
(constraints and privileges pertaining to borrower
ties) to avoid a return to the present situation.
3.    SOFIDE will have to give very serious consideration to
diversifying its instruments in order to reduce the
risks of medium- and long-term financing.
Opportunities to be explored include the money and
capital market, and the use of local resources to
finance the working capital requirements of credible
large enterprises.
4.    SOFIDE will also need to look for opportunities for
coasortium   financing   with   local   banks   and
international financial institutions (IFC, EIB, CCCE,
ADB, etc.) in order to reduce the risks of insolvency.
Pending consultations in greater detail concerning SOFIDE's future,
and taking account of the country's economic environment, it is essential to
continue the freeze on all new operations.



- 19-
Annex 1
PART m: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
POURTH pUI AND SATH DEVElLOPMENT FINANCE PROJCTS
(Credits 710-ZR, 998-ZR and 1273-ZR)
Related Bank Credits
Credt TIe               Pupose                                           Year  of Statu
Approval
190-ZR                  Funding for coumencement of operations.          1970                 Fully
disbursed
271-ZR                  Long-term   finance    for    productive         1971                 Fully
Investments; strengthen SOFIDEfs appralsal                           disbursed
capabilities.
463-zR                  Long-term    f Inance    for   productive        1973                 Fully
lnvestments; strengthen SOFIDE's appraisal                           disbursed
capabilities.
710-ZR                  Funding  for  Import content of SOFIDE           1977                 Fully
subtrojects.                                                         disbursed
998-ZR                  Funding  for foreign  exchange  cost of          1980                 Fully
productive  Investments In Zaire; staff                              disbursed
training, technical assistance & equipment
for SOFIDE.
1273-ZR                 Funding  for foreign  exchange  cost of          1982                 Fully
productive Investments In Zaire; technical                           disbursed
assistance & policy studies for Coverrment;
trainsig, equipment & seminars for SOFIDE
& CEPETEDE.
1492-ZR                 Foreign exchange ffnancing for investment.       1984                Disburse-
ments to
close
December,
1990
1685-ZR                 Foreign exchange financing for Investment.       1986                Comnitments
suspended
January,
1989



-20-
Annex 2
Project Timetable
a. 710-ZR
Item                                       Planned                   Revised                   Aatual
Identification                                                                                 12/75
Appraisal Mission                          5/76                                                5/76
Postappraisal Mission                      8/76                                               8/76
Credit negotiations                        2/77                                               3/77'
Board Approval                             5/77                                               5/77
Credit Signature                           8/77                                               8/77
Credit Effectiveness                       10/77                     11/77                     12/77*
Credit Closing                             6/81                      12/81                     12/82
Credit Completion                          6/79                      1/81                      1/81
b. 998-ZR
Item                                       Planned                   Revised                   Actual
Identification                                                                                12/77
Preappraisal Mission                                                                           5/78
Appraisat Mfssion                          9/78                                               s9/7r
Credit negotiations                        3/79                      4/79P                     5/794
Board Approval                             7/79                                                318e
Credit Signature                           f/80                                               6/80
Credit Effectiveness                       8/80                      11/80                     1/81'
Credit CLosing                             6/84                      6/86                      12/86
Credit Completion                          6/81                      6/83                      12/86
a. 1273-ZR
Item                                       Planned                   Revied                   Actua
Preappraisal                                                                                   5/81
A4praisal Mission                          9/81                                                9/81
Credit negotiations                        4/82                                               4/82
Board Approval                             7/82                                               6/82
Credit Signature                           8/82                                               8/82
Credit Effectiveness                       9/82                                               3/837
Credit Closing                             12/84                     12/87                     12/88
Credit Completion                          12/84                     12/85                     12/88
1. Staff constraints within the World qank.
2. Delays due to missing Presidential (rdonnance and legal opinlons.
3. Macsoeconomic conditions to be evaluated before beginning of negotiations.
4. Delayed to fit with Zairian officials' schedules.
S.  IDA waited for Goverrnent to reimburse SOFIDE for past foreign exchange losses on all its
direct and Indirect borrowings and to establish OGEDEP mechanism for covering foreign
exchange risk.
6. Delays due to missing subsidiary loan agreement and legal opinion.
7. Delays due to missing subsidiary loan agreement and legal opinion.



- 21 -
Annex 3
Loan Disbursements
a. 710-ZR
Disbursements (in $ millon)
Fiscal Year       Estbiated         Actual            Actual as %       Actual as X
Cumulative        Cumulative        of Esthkated      o f   I D A
Standard
1978               1.5               1.4               93.3%            700.0%
1979               3.9               6.4              164.1%            918.6%
1980               7.2               8.4              116.7%            644.6%
1981               9.4               9.3               98.9%            309.3%
1982              10.0               9.7               97.0%            197.8%
1983                                 9.8               98.0%            149.1%
1984                                10.0              100.0%            124.8%
b. 998-ZR
Disbursements (in S million)
Fiscal Year       EstImated         Actual            Actual as %       Actual as %
Cumulative        Cumulative        of Estimated      o f   I D A
Standard
1981               3.2               0.0                0.0%              0.0%
1982               9.6               4.2               43.8%            301.4%
1983              17.2              12.1               70.3%            466.2%
1984              20.0              15.3               76.5%            254.3%
1985                                16.9               84.5%            172.2%
1986                                18.8               94.0%            142.4%
1987                                20.0              100.0%            113.6%
c. 1273-ZR
Disbursements (in SDR million)
Fiscal Yea        Estilated         Actual            Actual as X       Actual as %
Cwnulative        Cumulative        of Estknated      o f   I D A
Standard
1983               1.0               0.0                0.0%              0.0%
1984               8.8               3.7               42.0%            267.1%
1985              16.8              10.8               64.8%            414.6%
1986              20.0              15.7               78.5%            262.0%
1987                                16.5               82.5%            168.2%
1988                                16.7               83.5%            126.2%
1989                                20.0              100.0%            106.6%



-22-
Annex 4
Status of Compliance with Major Covenants
Covenant                                              Stat. of Complnc
1. SOFEDBsa  cany out to Project in                   In compliance
aocordance with its Statutes dnd Statement of
Policy.
2. SOPIDsh furish to the Asociation all               In compliance.
iwh inomaton a  th  Assoiaton shall
raonbly requst co nin the adminisaon,
operations and finanial condition of SOPIDE.
3. SOFIDE  hal funish to the Asociadon                In complia
Wauid financi dsaements not dte tn six
monhs after the and of the fiscl year.
4. Ihe ratio of SOPIDE's long-term debt to its        Generally  not in  compliance becs  of
equity pls quas-equity shal not exceed 5:1.           devaluations. hmo     briy in 1984 with
capital nwbsrption wmoramd sediy fthouh
1989 (native net worth).
S. SONDE sa take steps atdsfty to the                 In compliaone. n 1980, th Goveronnt d up
Asoato a shl be necery to protectiself                though OGEDP an administative mechanism
agnt risk of loss ret  from chnges in the             to trnsfr to it al liabilie  isg out of past
ate of echa    betwee thvarous c ncis                 fiovign  xchag  borrwing  of SOPID.
(including Zaidw) usd in its borrwing and             SOPIDE   e  ben to p         aon all foign
lendn opoeation                                       excag risk to its boe
6. SOFIDE's total invesment in a singl                Gally in complianc
entepris in limited to not more thn 20% of
SOFIDE' paidd-n shae capital, unimpaired
reees ad qua-qi ty.



- 23 -
Annex 6
Use of S.k  eoutroe -  ieisa Doaw
Stage of           Date    No. of       Days In   Sp  lllzation            Prformance    Typos of
Proj3et Cycle        mo/yr   persons    tfold         Reprrsented           Rating Status   Problem
CREDIT nO-UR
Throush Agoralal
Appralsal            06/76        2          14
Post Apprasal         06/76       1          28
Suoervision
Supervision          07/79        2          12       Op. Off icr                    2            F
Suporvision       08-09/79        4          14       Op. Officer,                   2            F/M
Financial Analyst
Suporvision          08/S0        8          10       Op. Officer/VP                 2            F
Supervision           12/60       2          10       Op. Officer/YP                 2            F/U
Suporvision and       06/81       8          14       Op. Officer                    2            F/"
Preappralsal IDA VI
Suporvision          09/82        2          10       Op. Officer                    2            F/U
Suporvuison          08/88        1           6       Op. Offlcer                    2            U
CREDIT 90-DR
Throuch Aaoratlal
Preappralsal          05/76       8          10
Appraisal             09/76       8          12       Op. Officer
Suporvision
Superviston and       05/81       8          14       Op. Officer                    2            F/U
Preappralsal IDA VI
Suporvision          09/62        2          10       Op. Officer                    2            F/U
Supervision          08/88        1           8       Op. Officer                    2            U
Suporvision and       10/88       6          21       Op. Officer, Consultant,       2            F/O
Appraisal IDA VII                                    Agriculturalist
Supervision          09/64        2          12       Op. Officer/VP                 2            F/"
Supervision          07/86        2           a       Op. Officer                    2            F/U
Suporvision           11/86       8           4       Op. Officer                    2            F/U
Suporvision          08/87        1          10       Op. Officer                    2            F/U
CREDIT 1273-UR
Throuch Appraisal
Preappralsal          05/81       8          14       Op. Officer
Appraisal             09/S1       4          21       Op. Officer, Consultant,
Agricultural ist
Suoervision
Suporvision          09/62        2          10       Op. Officer                    2            F/U
Suporvision           08/88       1           6       Op. Officer                    2            U
Supervision and       10/88       6          21       Op. Officer, Consultant,       2            F/O
Appraisal IDA VII                                    Agriculturalist
Suporvision          09/84        2          12       Op. Officer/YP                 2            F/O
Suporvision          07/86        2           a       Op. Officer                    2            F/M
Supervision           11/86       8           4       Op. Officer                    2            F/U
Supervision          08/87        1          10       Op. Officer                    2            F/U
Supervision          07/88        8          16       Op. Officer                    8            F/M
Supervision           04/89       S          10       Op. Officer                    8            F/M
Supervision           09/89       2          21       Op. Officer                     8           F
Suporvision           02/00       2          14       Op. Officer                     8           F



-24-
Annex 6
SOFDE: Eoduidn of Sare Capitd Structue
(in portges)
I" 1k               end-1989
Totd Share Cpital (mnlion anim)                2                   260
Shareholder
-arian Public Secto                            35.00               40.00
Govemment of Zaire                             12.50               20.00
Bak of Zaire                                   12.50               20.00
ComercWi banks                                 10.00                0.00
Zairian Privae Sector                          20.00               27.20
Commercial Baks                                 0.00                13.85
Other privat iuveaom                           20.00               13.35
Foregn Aid ntfituions                          20.94               27.88
CCCE                                            2.19                7.50
DEG                                             0.00                7.88
IFC                                            18.75                10.00
BED                                             0.00                2.50
Foinp Bnks                                     24.06                4.92



SWfIDE: Projected and Actual Lending Operations (1977-199) 1]
(Z mi lion)
1977           1976           1979            1980           1981            1982           1988
PrjVL. Actual  Pro3.  ctual  Proj. Actual  Projl98. AC       Pro . Actua P' oj. A           Proj. Actual'
APPROVALS                        -Actual               _____           ___      --                    ___  
-G-ans                10.8   21.7    9.4   22.4   10.4   50.4   11.5   66.9   12.8  134.9   98.2  100.4  128.5  416.0
Equity Investents        0.2    0.4    0.2    0.2    0.2    1.3    0.2    0.2    0.3    0.0    0.8    3.1    1.1    0.0
Total Approval.       10.7   22.0    9.6   22.6   10.6   61.7   11.7   66.1   12.9  184.9   98.9  103.5  129.6  416.0
=               =               =             =                == 
COMIT - nS
Loing                   10.3   16.6    9.9   17.6   10.0   17.8   11.0   38.6   12.1  148.8   70.4   83.2  115.0  620.9
Equity investments       0.2    0.0    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.0    0.2    0.2    0.3    0.0    0.8    0.0    1.1    0.0
Total Comitments      10.4   16.8   10.1   17.8   10.2   17.6   11.3   38.8   12.4  148.8   71.2   83.2  116.1  520.9
==   =   =   =                                                               =   =
DISBIUSEMENTS
Loans                    9.1    6.4  10.1    11.0   10.0   28.2   10.5   64.6   11.6   48.4  148.3   93.8  146.9  617.8
Equity investment.       0.2    0.2   0.2       0.5    0.2             0.2    0.2    0.3    0.0    0.8    0.0    1.1    0.0
Total                  9.8    6.0  10.8    11.6   10.2   23.2   10.7   64.6   11.6   48.4  149.0   93.8  147.0  617.8                 1
=             =         -                      =3                          -                =n
1984           1986           1966            1987           1988            1989
APROVALS               LProi Actual  Proi. Actual  Proi. A            Proj. Actual  ProjL  Actua  fPo. Actual
Loans                  169.0  941.6  179.8  1689.9 1780.0  1288.9 2488.0 4820.4  3126.0 6972.4 4116.0  1196.0
Equity investments       1.6    8.2    2.1    0.0   10.0    0.0   14.0    0.0   16.0    0.0   26.0             0.0
Total Approvals      160.5  944.8  161.4  1689.9  1740.0  1238.9  2447.0  4320.4  3144.0  6972.4  4142.0  1196.0
=_==                                                        =    =  =
COIZITMENTS
Lons-                  145.2   683.8  169.6  1900.0 2050.0 2642.0 2816.0 2781.0 2977.0 4742.0 8925.0  1682.6
Equity lnvestment.       1.6    8.2    2.1    0.0   10.0    0.0   14.0    0.0   16.0    0.0   26.0             0.0
Total Comitments    146.7  567    171.7 1900.0 2080.0 2842.0 2880.0 2781.0 2995.0 4742.0 3961.0  1582.6
=                                            ==    =    ==
DISBWSEMENTS
Loans                  112.4  761.5  146.6  1795.0  1971.0 4764.0  1998.0 8946.1 2640.0 6688.1  8480.0 11,011.1
Equity Investment.       1.5    5.4    2.1    0.0   10.0    6.1   14.0    0.0   18.0    0.0   26.0             0.0
Total                118.9  756.9  148.9 1795.0 1961.0 4770.1 2012.0 8946.1 2a68.0 6686.1 8506.0 11,011.1
=                =                 -            =-                          =                                 X___ 
11 SWIRCES:                                                                                                                           _
Pro ected Data: 1977-81, IDA appraisal of SOfIDE IV; 1962-65, IDA appraisal of SOFIDE VI; 1988-69, IDA appraisal of SOfIDE VIII.
Actual Date 1977-79, Supervision Report of 07/27/81; 1980-83, Supervision Report of 11/19/84; 1984-88, Supervision Report of 05/28/89;
1969, the corresponding Annual Report.



SIKEs Projecte  Ins Statemsts (116O - 160  11
l960    1961     1962    ls6      1094     1965    196s    1097       1908     199
Loan Portfolto
Intersts and
Commissions on Loans             13   22.07   87.61   56.01    67.71    60.22         u9s     1196    1804    2077
Investment Intr.st               0.9     0.21     0.51     1.02     1.31     1.04       14       19       44       70
DivIdbdI                         0.1     0.06    0.06      0.11     0.16     0.22    }        )        )        )
Otr Inc-    -   -   -    -    -    18  20  }6 a40
Total Ineo                          14   22.84    38.2   56.14    69.16    81.48         671     1288    1684      2167
EXPES 
Administration Coste             4.8   11.29    16.86   22.78    81.1   41.69          121      155      194      244
Provisions 2]                    1.5      1.6      6.4    8.85      1.88      2.1      269      860      447      517
Depreciation                     0.1    0.66      0.65     0.75    0.86      0.99       10       80       43       54
Borrowing Cost                   6       8.89    18.66   28.22    29.89   88.88        288      487      616      865
Total Expenses                   6.4   22.34    87.08    50.1   62.68    76.51         708      982     1300    ls6
Net Profit                       7.6      -       1.12    6.04       6.5    2.97       168      256      884      519
Allocated to:
Logal Resrve                   -        -       0.11      0.6    0.66       0.8
Dividends                      8.6      -       1.01      1.2      1.2      1.2       40       46       5588
1] For 1900 as per IDA appraisal of SOFIDE V, for 1981-45 as per IDA appraisal of SOFIDE VI,
for 1906-1989 as per IDA appraisal of SOFIDE VIII, FOR 1990 as per SOFIDE Budget.
23 Provisions include the Provision for General Risks.
x



SOfIDE: Actual looono Statemennt (1960 - 190)
(Z Pi Iion)
1980    1981    1982    1903    1984    1986       1986   1987    1988    1969
Loan Portfolio
Inter es and
Commissions on Loans   10.1    22.8    86.4    92.8   216.7   488.0   844.0  1978.5  t882.0  5302.8
(interst)        (8.7)  (19.1)  (80.8)  (89.1)  (198.1)  (444.5)  (821.2) (1905.6) (3218.4) (5189.4)
Invostment Interest     0.8     0.4      0.7     7.0    16.1    82.7    15.0    20.2   164.7   786.8
Othrr Inco              1.0     1.3      1.9    36.9    20.1    28.4    32.8   114.1   264.4  1680.2
Total Inoe               12.0    24.4   38.0   186.7   262.9   644.1   M.8  2107.6  3811.1  7649.9
EXPNSES                                                                                                                      I
Administration Costr      6.7     9.1    14.9    28.9    06.7   103.8   164.8   286.6   616.8  128.7
Provisions                0.8     5.0      4.9    46.2    90.4   226.0   858.1  1026.4  1996.0  9019.8
Depredatton               0.8     0.6     0.7      5.9     9.6    18.0    12.2    22.3    69.7   160.0
Borrowing Costs           3.9     9.6    15.4    41.1    68.1   160.5   295.1   698.1  1087.8  2606.1
Other Expns                                                         .8      -       -       15.8     0.9
Total Expenrm            10.8    24.2    85.9   122.1   226.8   502.1   815.2  2081.4  3788.6 18111.6
Net Profit,               1.2     0.8     2.1    14.6    24.1    42.0    77.1    76.4    77.6 -6461.6
A l ocated to:
LgPI Resrv                               0.4             2.4      4.2     7.7      7.6     7.7     -
DIVIdende                                1.1   ) 2.6    14.8    81.2      -        -      39.0     -
Retaine  Erniugs                         0.6    12.0     6.9      6.6    69.4    68.6    80.8      -
x



SOFIDE: Projected Balono Sheat. (1900-90) 1]
196      1981     102      106     1984     1986     1986     1907     1906     1989
i'iU rrent Asets 2  83]             12.2   (18.1)    (7.6)     24.6     52.7     c4.4    286.0   1115.0  1687.0  8078.0
Loan Portfolio                      06.8    154.5    265.8   849.2   862.4    484.6  4682.0  6626.0  9265.0  11868.0
Lee Provisions                     (8.5)   (4.21)  (10.61)  (18.96)  (15.29)  (17.89)    (620)    (960)   (1427)   (1944)
Not Loan Portfolio                  06.8    160.8   254.6   886.2   387.1    417.8   4212.0  5646.0  7829.0  9909.0
Equity Investment                    4.2      2.0      2.7      3.7      6.2      7.8    49.0      68.0     61.0   107.0
Not Fixed Asset.                     0.9      5.7      6.2      6.9      7.6      6.6    807.0   208.0   275.0   255.0
Tot l                              112.6    144.6    265.9   870.5   482.6   486.1   4865.0   7117.0  9022.0  18842.0
ASLITIESM
Special Fund for Agriculture         0.6     10.7     11.6    10.5       9.2      7.9)
Term Foreign Currency Loans         67.9     69.6   190.9   281.0    811.2    847.7  8787.0  56s6.0  6006.0  10872.0
- not Indexed                      -       20.6    22.5    24.5    20.4    16.8          --       -        -
- Indexed                          -       69.1   168.4   256.6   290.9   881.5          --       -
Sub-total                           67.9    89.6    190.9   201.0    811.2    847.7   8737.0  5669.0   6005.0  10872.0
galS ELU M
gov  rn nt L5o 6.0                            5.0      5.0      5.0      6.0      5.0      6.0      5.0      5.0      5.0
Government advanc                    1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0
Rolled Over IDA                     18.1    24.4    88.0    68.9    81.8   102.7    706.0    608.0   666.0   1070.0
Sub-total                           19.1     80.4     89.0    69.9      87.8   106.7   712.0   614.0   874.0  1076.0
3!ir--Capital                        4.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0   260.0   26.0  M2600    260.0
Reserves *nd Retained Earnings       1.0      2.1      2.2      7.1    12.4    18.8   144.0   854.0   668.0  1184.0
Sub-total                            6.0    14.1    14.2    19.1    24.4    26.1   404.0   614.0    943.0  1894.0
Tot.l                              112.6   144.6   255.9   870.5   482.6   490.5  4865.0   7117.0  9622.0  18842.0
1] For 1980 as per IDA appraisal of SOFIDE V, for 1981-865 as per IDA appraisal of SOFIDE VI, for 1986-1989 as per IDA
appraisal of SOFIDE VIII, FOR 1990 as per SOFIDE Budget. As a consequence,from 1980 to 1981 and froe 1986 to 1986 there           C
are Inconsi stencies betsen Salanco Shoots and Incom  Statements due to changes In the structure of the expectations              X
21 Net Current Assets Include current maturities on term debt and portfolio. 
8] The negative current asse t  refl ct minly short torn obilgations of tho government to SOFIDE in respect of the foreign
exchange risk guaranteed by Government. These are covered adequately In tho Protocol- d'Accord negotiated between SOFIDE
and the OC£DEP acting for the Governmnt.



SOFIDE: Actual Balance Sheets (1980-90)
1980     1961.    1962.    1963     1964     1965    1986       1967     196s     1989
ASSETS
2rrt  Aemato                      83.9   86.8   180.0    672.8    766.0  1579.5  1407.7   8174.1  772s.7  11414.0
Net Current Assto                 18.7      61.1    66.8   677.6 5     65.7  1208.0    940.6  1969.6  6615.0  8704.0
Loan Portfolio 13                 90.2   123.5    173.1   590.5  1276.3  2495.2   5900.0  14044.1  24967.7  60606.0
Less Provisions 23                 2.7       7.7     10.8     58.9   142.9    67.0    720.1  1618.9  8690.6  20784.4
Net Loan Portfolio                67.5   116.6   162.8   563.S   1185.4  2128.2  5179.8  12280.2  21277.1  29628.6
Equity Investment.                 1.6       2.0      2.3    26.2    81.6    40.1    46.1          77.6    86.6    78.0
loe  specific Provisions           -        -        -        -         1.5      8.3      3.8      8.8      8.8      21.4
Other AssWs 83                     0.1                         0.4      0.6     47.9   825.2   664.6   490.4
Not Fixed Asst                     5.t8      6.4      7.7     5.8 .    6.1    161.4    268.4    506.7   842.2  4780.6
Total                             128.6   212.9   802.7  1286.7  2015.5  3953.6   7218.6  16649.9  80420.6  46020.0
LBULMTES
Current Liabilities                20.2     27.7      44.7     96.8    110.4    876.5    467.1   11U4.5   2118.6   2710.0
Term Foreign Currency Loans        78.1    144.2    207.9   1016.9   1581.8   3065.5   5817.6  12982.5  23068.1  88984.0
(not Indexed)                       -        -        -       167.4    174.5    264.7     66.8    622.6  1641.3   5088.0
(Indexed)                           -        -        -       646.6   1866.8   2600.8   5762.1  12459.7  21421.6  83951.0
Other LiabiItites 43                1.0                         2.5      2.9      S.1      9.6      19.9     42.3    116.0
Sub-total                          99.8    171.9    252.6   1118.6   1644.6   8460.1   6294.0  14186.9 25219.0  41610.0
GowrWn tlGoamn                      5.0       5.0      5.0     12.5     15.0     40.0     13.8      12.9     11.2      9.0
Govrnmnt advace                     1.0       1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0       1.0      1.0      1.0
Rolled Over IDA                     9.2      20.7     29.8     66.6     64.8    161.6   652.5   1869.9   4611.7   9296.0
Rolled Over ACDI                    -         -        -        -        -        -        -    124.9  175.8    -
Sub-total                          15.2     26.7      35.3     79.0    100.6    222.6    66.    2028.7   4799.7   9306.0
W-RCapital                         12.0      12.0     12.0     12.0    260.0    260.0    260.0    260.0    260.0    260.0
Reserv  and Retained Earnings       2.1       2.8      2.6    68.9      10.2     20.9     97.9    174.8    141.6  -58S5.0
Sub-total                          14.1      14.8     14.6     95.9    270.2    260.9    867.9    484.8    401.6  -5096.0
Total                             126.8    212.6    802.7  1266.6  2015.5  3958.6  7216.7  16649.6  80420.5  46020.0
1] Including the bed debt., with the exception of 1961 and 192 where thy are part of the Current Assets. Se  not. below.
9  include the  Provision for General Risk.                                                                                           m
8  consits  of guarantAe  granted.                                                                                                   x
43 consiotr of guarantee  received, subsidies, social funds and of an outstanding Central Bank participation                          >4
to SOFIDE's recent capital Increase.                                                                                               m
SOURCE: S.A.R. of IDA VII. Under this formet the trm foreign currency loans Include the amounts coming due.



SIFUEa Projee  Finanlial Iti.. (1990) 13
Ia190    261    1082    190       1984    1968    199e    1907    19s8    1909
Inco s t8e.0mnt *n X                           
of Averats TotaI Asset.
Intersts and Commisions on Lomns 14.4    17.0    16.7    17.5    16.3    17.4    19.5    18.7    18.0    16.9
Invt bnk Intrest                   1.0     0.2      0.3      0.8     0.8      0.2     0.8      0.8      0.5     0.6
Other Inco.                        0.1      0.06    0.04    0.04    0.04    0.06    0.4        0.4      0.4     0.8
Toa l Inco.                       15.5    17.8    19.0    17.9    17.2    17.7    20.2    19.4    18.9    17.8
Ad inIstr.tivo ExLps.              5.3      9.0     8.2      7.3      7.7     9.0      2.8     2.4      2.2      2.0
Prowisions                         1.7      1.8     8.2      1.1     0.8      0.5      6.7     6.6      5.0      4.2
D)preciation                       0.1      0.4     0.8      0.2     0.2      0.2      0.2     0.5      0.5     0.4
Borrowing Cost*                    6.6      7.1     6.8      7.4     7.8      7.8      6.7     6.8      6.9     6.9
Total Exposs                      18.7    17.8    18.5    16.0    16.6    17.1    16.4    15.4    14.6    18.6                     1
0
Not ProfIt                         1.8      0.0     0.6      1.9     1.6      0.6      3.8     4.0      4.3     4.2                0
Profltability Indicator (X)
Income from Loans as X
of Averoe Loan Portfolio         18.0   17.6    18.2    16.8    18.9    19.9    88.1    21.6    21.2    20.7
Financial Exponrs as *
of Averge Loan Portfolio          7.7    7.0      6.5      7.6     8.0      8.8    10.9      7.6      7.8      8.1
Average Sprsad                     10.8   10.6    11.7    10.7    10.9    11.7    22.1    14.0    13.4    12.6
Return on Equity                   82.0    0.0      7.9    81.7    26.7    11.4    40.8    41.?    40.7    37.2
Return on Aseste                    1.4    0.0      0.4      1.6     1.5      0.6      3.7     4.0      4.8      4.2
Financial Structure Indicators
Term D.bt/Ovorall Equity            8.6    2.0      386      8.0     2.8      2.6      83.     4.0      4.4     4.4
x



SIFIDE: Actual Fitsoclal Ratios (1960-40) 1]
1960    1981    1962    1968    1964    19865    1996    1967    1988    1969
Income Statemnt as X
of Averae Total Asset
Interes  and Conmissions on Loans  11.1    14.5    14.9    17.1    15.2    18.5    17.8    16.4    16.1    18.1
Investmont Interest                 0.9     0.2      0.8      1.8      1.1      1.2      0.8      0.2     0.7      1.9
Other Incom                         1.1      0.8     0.8      6.6      1.4      0.9      0.7     0.9      1.8      8.9
Total Incu .                       13.1    15.6    16.0    26.2    17.6    20.6    18.3    16.4    17.1    10.9
Administrative Expense              6.2      5.8     6.8      5.8      4.6      8.9      8.2      2.2     2.8      8.8
Provisions                          0.6      3.2     2.1      8.5      6.4      6.6      7.2      8.0     9.0    22.8
D1preciation                        0.4      0.4     0.3      1.1      0.7      0.7      0.2      0.2     0.a      0.4
Borrowing Costs                     4.8      6.1     6.5      7.6      4.4      5.7      6.0      6.4     4.7      6.4
Total Expenses                     11.6    16.4    15.1    22.6    16.1    19.0    16.7    15.6    16.8    82.4
Net Profit                          1.8      0.2     0.9      2.7      1.7      1.6      1.0      0.6     0.3   -18.5                  w
1
Profitability Indicetor, (X)
Incom from Loans as X
of Average Loan Portfolio         14.5   19.6    28.4    28.9    28.4    25.6    22.2    18.5    18.2    18.7
Financial Expenss as X
of Average Loan Portfolio          6.7    6.2    10.2    12.6        6.8      7.9      7.6      6.5      S.6     6.7
Averag  Spread                       6.9   11.6    18.2    16.1    16.6    17.7    14.4    12.0    12.6            7.0
Reurn on Equity                      9.0    2.2    14.2    86.6    10.0    16.7    25.7    20.6    28.8   127.7
Return on Assoet                     1.1    0.2      0.7      8.2      1.5      1.4      1.8      0.6     0.4   -14.1
Financial Structure Indicator,
Term Debt/Overall Equity             2.1    2.8      8.7      4.6      8.6      5.1      6.8      6.8     4.4      9.8
oo



-32-
Annex 8
Evoluto of Amrars Siuation
(Z moon)
Poiffoli Can
xUiLDd                    Loan9                     Affem    W
1980
1981                        148                     13%                       46%
1982                        211                      7%                        25%
1983                        804                      4%                        17%
1984                       1,312                     9%                        38%
1985                      2,809                     12%                        53%
1986                      5,943                     23%                        65%
1987                      12,995                    27%                       79%
1988                      31,107                    29%                        88%
1989                      50,808                    28%                        90%
Qolaotiau   kn
bdw                                   ~~~~~Congu Ratio
1983                                                67%
1984                                                62%
1985                                                71%
1986                                                52%
1987                                                40%
1988                                                49%
1989                                                75%
1. Armw dhe miha or am          a pmeretap of total portfolio.
2. Portfolo dtDhixd by anemrs of dthe months or nxmo.
3. Axunts rpaid a a percentae of amounts failing due duing the year.



SOFIDE -  Chronology of Events  nd Performmn, 1960-69
YER            MACRO SITUATION                               MY6 EVENTS/ACTIONS                            SOFIDE PERFORMANCE
196O           Promise of improvem_te.   Inflation           SOFIDE capital Increased throe-fold.          Arrears affected portfolio
50-651(down frorm  1OO); CDP growth          Chief Accountant die:, with disastrous         M. Liquidity threatened.
1.61.                                         results for financial managomnt.  IDA        D/E ratio 2.7:1.
5 approved.
1961           Continued improvements in performance         SOFIDE implements maor reorganization         Arrears affected portfolio
In early portion of yer, yielding            to delegate authority. Improve quality        28X.     D/E  ratio  3:1.
2.69  CDP growth and inflation at 38%.       of appraisols and followup, improve           Evidence of local currency
Reversals towards end of year result         coordination and information. Lending         gap.
in suspension of EFF, acceleration of        rates  increased  to  171  for  fx
Inflation,   increas    In   budget          reources, 20X for local (local  Is
deficit.  Currency devalued by 071.           still   negativo  in  real   term).
Subsequntly Increased again to 201
and  80X,  respectively  to  cover
increased administrative costs and
cross-subsidize other line  of credit
with lmer spreads. CEPETEDE creoted.
1982           ODP contracts 2.6 percent. Inflation          IDA 6 approved.  SOFIDE encountering         Arrers affected portfolio
running at noerly 80X with the budget        delays   in  project   implementation         35s.       10X   of   loans
deficit at 9X of GDP.                         because   of   difficult   economic           rescheduled  in one year.
environment.  Arrival of now DOM and         Local currency and general
Belgian accountant results In major           liquidity problems noted.
improveents  In accounting  systems.         D/E ratio 8:1.
Operations down In real terns.  IDA
decides SOFIDE Is not a Oproblem'
project and plans yearly rathor than
*sI-annual supervision isWsions.
1968          sInflation 76, GDP growth  a scant             IDA 6 credit rolled over to SOFIDE to        Collections 765. D/E ratio         0
0.9X.   Covernmet implemten  msosiv           provide  liquidity, cover Governnmnt          increases  to  7:1  after         _
devaluation  (1261)  as beginning of         contribution to capital increase and          devaluation,    prompting
adjustmnt progrm with IF.                    Government guarantes on som  failing          recapital lizatio.                 ° 
project.



YEAR          MuaCO SrITATION                               KEY EVENTS/ACTIONS                           SOFIDE PERFORMANCE
1964           IIF Standby  In pice* as Governmt            SOFIDE    lmplebente    another              Collections 50. D/E ratio
continue   with  adjustment  progrm.         reorganization, creating 8 divisions         3:1  after  nrw  capital.
Interbank market In fx created.  CP          for the 7 deprtmnts.  DOM becomes            Arrears affected portfolio
growth  recovoe  to 2.7X, Inflation          advisor. Capital incr"se completed.          3e8.
slws to M2X.                                 FX rates lowered to 15.5X to offst
unattractiveness   of  fx   risk  to
borrowers. IDA 7 approved.   SOFIDE
prepes action progrm  to deal with
arrers.
19"            Inflation vlews further to 24X, owing        Continuation  of  focus  on  action          Arrears affected portfolio
in port to  vre credilt squeeze by           progrm  for  reduction  in  arrears,         623,   collections   71X.
lovernms.-st  (incrase   in   rserve         including reschodulings, indexstlon,         Because    of    continued
requirements, higher interest rates).        lgl  stpa.    SOFIDE  reduces  FX            currency dpreciation, D/E
UDP growth 2.5.                              lending rate to 14X. SOFIDE decides          ratio worsen  to B:1.
that It cannot pay dividends until
after providing for at lenst 7X of the
potfolilo.
1966          GP growth slows to  1K., Inflation            IDA 8 approved, with continuation of         Collections  525,  arrears
accelerates to 47X.  ISAC approved,          actlon program  for arrrear, agreed          affected portfolio 75X. D/E
ove r-ment suspends foreign exchange         collection targets. SOFIDE finding It        ratio 18:1. Local currency
auction.                                     difficult to place fx loans and has          gap identiflid.
negligible local currency resources.
Preoccupied    with    spiralling
collections probleme.
1987           Massive devaluation (88K). Inflation         SOFIDE and IDA staff pushing fx risk         Collections drop to 40X,
running  at  over 90X.   Govrranmnt          as    major    problem    confronting        with 79X of the portfolio
considers taking foreign exchange risk       institution.    SOFIDE  requ*st.  and        affected. D/E ratio 38:1.
on foreign borrowings (including for         secure  approval of reduction In fx
SOFIDE).                                     lending rate to 18X. IDA 8 A 7 rolled
over, Without formal IDA approval.
00
0 X



YEAR           MACRO SITUATION                                KEY EVENTS/ACTI ONS                           SOFIDE PERFORMANCE
1963           Adjustmnt progrm abandoned and many            IDA supervision mission  notes  that          Over  9OX  of   portfolio
prior reform  (Including thom under           portfolio difficulties not confined to         affected, collections 49X.
the  ISAC)  reversed.    In financial         tx loans. Appralsal quality declining
markets, Central Coemittee announc            with departure of key staff.  SOFIDE
maximu   20X  interest  rate, despite         denied request for IDA 9.
Inflation at -x.
1969                                                         Neb  GM  appointed.    IDA  suspends           Ovor  901  of  portfolio
disburemente  on  IDA  8.    SOFIDE           remains affected, despite
creates    separate    collections            Increase In collections to
department.  Shareholders  agre   to         7?g.  Increrad provisions
recapitalize,                                 wipe out existing capital.
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
In
0io
0



- 36 -
Annex 10
Lending and Profitability
Loan Amount                    100
Loan Term                      7 years
Grace Period                   2 years
Onlending Rate                 14.2%
Average Cost of Funds          6.7%
operating Expenses             3.3%
Bebt Funding                   90%
Tax                            0%
Collection Ratio               75%
Cash Zlowa
Year
0      1      2      3      4       5      6      7
Interest Received                10.6   10.6    9.9    8.3    6.7    5.1    3.5
Cost of Funds                     _§._Q  6.0  _5.4   4.2    3.0-  _ L    0.6
Net Interest Income               4.6    4.6    4.4    4.0    3.6    3.2    2.9
Cash Operating Costs              3.3    3.3    3.1    2.6    2.1    1.6    1.1
Loan Write-Off                   0. 0,0 0-R    10    10    1 .0   -1 0        21
Profit Before Tax                 1.3    1.3    0.4    0.5    0.6    0.7    0.8
Tax                              _C0    0.0  _.Q    0.0   .QQ    0.0    0..
Profit After Tax                  1.3    1.3    0.4   0.5    0.6    0.7    0.8
Add Back Non-Cash Charges         0.0    0.0    5.0    S.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Cash from Operations              1.3    1.3    5.4    5.5    5.6    5.7    5.8
Add Principal Collected           0.0    0.0   15.0   15.0   15.0   15.0   15.0
Loes  Principal Repayments        0.0    0.0   18.0   18.0   18.0   18.0   18.0
Equity Invested           tl.O Q                ,                      _      _
Not Cash Flow to Equity   (10.0)  1.3    1.3    2.4    2.5    2.6    2.7    2.8
memo tms
Principal Outstanding             100    100      85     70     55     40     25



- 37 -
Annex 11
impact of inflation on Capital Requlremeats
Year
1          2          3           4           5
InflatLon index           100.0      150.0       225.0      337.5       506.3
Debt:ZquLty Ratio            3:1
Net ROA                      2.0%
Total Assets             20,000     30,000     67,500    227,813   1.153,302
Total Debt               15,000     22,500      50,625    170,859     864,976
Total Equity              5,000      7,500      16,875     56,953     288,325
Retained Earnings           400         S00        975      2,953      13,811
New Pald-In Capital       4,600      2,000       8,400     37,125     217,561
growth ln Total gquity (%)              150      337.5     1139.1      5766.5



- 38 -
Annex 12a
Experience with Subprojects
Summary: Chaacteistics of Subprojects
A. Credit 710-ZR (US $ 10 million)
.19 projects financed
.14 above fiee-limit, 5 below
.all but dtree in manufacturing
.average above free limit loan - US $695,000
.average below fee limit loan = US $ 61,000
.5 rebabilitation, 11 expansions, 3 new projects
B. Cledit 998-ZR (US $ 20 million)
.45 projects financed (including 2 for technical assistance)
.14 above free-limit, 16 below, 13 workdng capital loans
.in investment loans: 11 rehabilitation, 8 new, 11 expansions
, average loan by category:
Above free limit industry = US $ 1.0 million
Above free limit agriculture = US $ 1.0 million
Below fre limit industry - US $ 150,500
Below fee limit agriculture = US $ 150,000
Working Capital = US $ 205,000
.secto-l distribution:
Manufacturng and Mining = 23
Agrculture and Forestry = 16
Services             4
C. Credit 1273-ZR (SDR 20 million)
.71 projects financed (including 28 technical assistance - 14 of which to CEPETEDE)
.21 above free-limit; 22 below
.im investment loans: 14 rehabilitation; 14 expansions; 14 new; 1 working capital
average loan by category:
Above free limit industry - SDR 768,000
Above free limit agriculture - SDR 1.0 million
Below fcee limit industry = SDR 79,000
Below free limit agriculture - SDR 63,000
Technical assistance - SDR 49,600
.actord distribution:
Manufaturing and Mining - 17
Agriculture and Forestry - 18
Seruvics            8



39 -
Annox 12b
Pop 1 of 2
Experionce with Subprojoe- Credits 710-ZR# 99O-ZR and 1278-ZR
Project No       X  Ovorrun    ROl       Comments
A. Credit 710-ZR
COBEGA               28X        1.85    Inflation ralsed Investment coats.
TISSAKIN             109X       88X      Change In project concept; devaluation.
ZAPAK                85X         .9X    Devaluation Increoasd costs.
BATA-ZAIRE           116X      soX       Local costs Incrased by Inflation.
CIMSHABA             841        2X       Delays In project lmplementation; devaluation.
CIZA                 100X       8X       Devaluation Incroaed Investment costs.
IUPRIZA               OX        no       no
B. Credit OW-ZR
COBECA               28X         1.81   Inflation.
SWANEPOEL            743X       48.C4    Investments Incresed by 1098 devaluation.
LENOSRAM             266         OX      Affected by 1988 devalutalon.
SOCOBE                12X        9X      Dolays In imple mntation.
BIKARI               785X        24S     Implementation delays; changs In project delgn;
foreign exchange risk.
YUNCERS             292X        na       Devaluations.
EQUATEUR FROID      2400%        na      Devaluations; delays In Implemetatlon;
Insufficient wo: king capital.
FERME ELEFERC         OX         na      no
SUCRIERE             1021         .6X    Dwaviuations.
LLI                   OX        no       no
SAGRICAF            427X        61.1X   Inflation; change In equip mnt.
EXFORZAM              01        811      na
DELTA                122X        OX      Devaluation; change In lnvoestmnt plan.
BONAL                881x        2.8X   Devaluation.
SIR                  114X       no       Devaluation.
COTTONIERE            0%         8X      no
BKTF                66M            1X   Need for additional generators.
CAP                  1881        8.56   198J devaluation.
VANOSCA               no        no       Project never Implemented.
MC DESIGN            178X       no       Local costs of construction rising.
SBC                    ?.8X     no       Dovaluation.
SAVINKAS             421X        no      Devaluation.
PLASTICA              421        no      Purchase of additlonal equipment.
BOUKIN               826X       98X      Devaluation.
MEUBLEFLEX            no        no       No data; uncooperative promoter.
NDUNCU                961        18.8X    Delays In project implemntation;
lack of working capital; Inflation.
CAMEZA               soX        no       Increase In local coset; devaluation.
UFUENI               2781       67.7X   Long delays in project lmplemntation and
lack of working capital, exposing project
to Inflation and depreciation.
SAT                   no         no      no
TF'8ET                431         8.26X  Inflation.
FITRACO             19791        na      Long delay In Implementation; Inflotion.



- 40 -
Annex 12b
Page 2 of 2
Project Nam       X Overrun     ROl       Comments
C. Credit 1278-ZR
DINTU BLOC            86.5X         .61    Inflation.
LUJEIIE               10X           .41   Devaluation.
IMPAZA               48UX        82       1988 devaluation; Inflation.
SOKIBOIS             871X         8.7X    19088 devluation; Increased costs.
MAZAL                120X           .1X    Devaluation.
KAWANA                 8X        28X      Inflation.
TELA NKOSI            40X        66x      Local Inflation.
PLEMICO              449X        no       no
UTN                  8091        n        Projoct not completed.
EXFORKA                4X        >OX      Local Inflation.
SCZ BIN"A           8640X        no       Project delays; devaluation; wek entreprenour.
MATSU                820X        s6o      Devaluation; higher prices for equipmnt.
ACEC-ZAIRE           261X        -5.4%    Doevluation.
ITENCO MARBREZA      846X        14X      Change In Invoetmnt plan; long delays.
ZAIRE ENGINEERING     47X       -15X      Inflatlon; devaluation; delys in
registering securitlie.
KABINDA              1B88        no       Delays; loan cancelled.
COPRA ZAIRE          212X        no       Devaluation.
SOEXfORCO              6.5X      40X      Inflation; devaluatlon.
TIIK                 688X        62x      Dovaluation.
CIMENT-LACS          670X       -64X      Devaluation.
ACP-SAKU             259X       820X      Long delays; devaluation; change  In equipmnt.
LUNQUANA              no         19X      no
MKL                  218X        19X      no
ACOMAR                 0%         4.91    no
SWANEPOEL             75X         9.61    Dovalustion.
TSHISIDZI             62X        no       Devaluation; long delays.
SIPROCOL             112X        no       Dovaluation; delays.
RIMAKI                na         no       no
MURA SWANEPOEL       0OOX         2.61    Devaluation.
BAT                    OX         :.6X    Partnor pulled out bause of exchange rate risk.
CARRICES               OX           .8X    Partial lmplmentatlon.
SCAM                  no         no       na
SDK                   no         no       Change of site and project concept;
uncooperative client.
SCIZAC                 OX        no       Lack of working capital credit.
SATRAFCOM             82X        28.8X    Doveluation.
SIFA                  20X        14X       1968 devaluation; inflation.
STEWERING              7X        27.45    Change In project equipmnt.



Characterltice of Subprojects Finwnced Under Credit no-ZR
IDA Credit  Date of IDA  IDA Credlt/                                      No. of      Jobs
Subprol ct   No.   Typ       USO thousa    Approval   Total Costs Sector   Activity        Locatlon   Employees  Created   IRR
ZAPAC         A-1    Exp.      1.122       12/19/77       75s      Manuf.   Paper          K Inshasa      113        30    lx
MAMA POTO     A-2    Rehab.   0.744        12/19/77       48x      Manuf.    Food          Kinshasa        es        -      85.6x
BATA          A-    Rehab.   0.920         12/19/77       01X      Manuf.   Shoes          Kinshasa     1,465       228    >sox
CIZA          A-4   Rohab.   1.265         12/19/77      6ox       Manuf.   Cement         L. Zaire       600        --     15.4X
SAVDNKAS      A-S   New        0.951       12/29/77       37x      Manuf.   Soap           W. Kasai                 166     24.3x
SOUICl        A-6    Rehab.   0.605        01/18/78       47X      Minin    Gold           Kivu        16,168        --     23a
TISSAKIN      A-7    Exp.      0.472       02/18/78       27x       anuf.   Textile        Kinshasa        80        20    21X
FNNA          A-     Rehab.   0.880        02/28/78       3ax      Manuf.   Metal Work    Kinshasa        676        --     20.71
s8K           A-9    Exp.      1.7s        08/06/78       26X      Manuf .    Beverage.    Shaba          259        40     27X
VA?           A-10   Exp.      0.402       08/11/78       34x      Manuf.    Food                         122        38    >501
IPRIMERIES
DU ZAIRE   A-11   Exp.       0.23        09/01/78       6ox      Manuf.   Printing       Kinshasa       125        --     a5.2x
SIFORZAL      A-12  Ne_        0.318       11/14/78        1X      Forestry Sawmil         Ma luku        n.n.      n.a.    81.7x
UPAK          A-13   Exp.      0.278       12/06/78       42x      Manuf.   Bakery         Kinshasa        71         4    >SOX
CHANIMETAL   A-14   Exp.       0.170       02/03/81       12X      Manuf.    Metal Work    Kinshasa     2,826       163    >sox
MAROZA        B-1    Exp.      0.075       01/18/78       70X      Manuf.   Loathor        Kinshasa       n.a.       20     81.2X
TCHIANA       B-2    N.        0.080       01/18/78        8X      Manuf.   Tyro Repair  Kinshasa          1S         7    >SOX
ZAIRE TRAVEL
SERVICE    B-8    Exp.       0.07       08/13/78       47X      Tranap.  Land Tranep. Kivu              89         8    >SOX
TORMAT        8-4    Exp.      0.057       03/18/78       76X      Manuf.    Metal Work   Kinshasa         68        28    >SO5
COBEGA        B-S    Exp.      0.088       10/10/78       821      Manuf.   Bottle Cape   Kinshasa        248               40.4%
XC
n-



Characteristics of Subproje.te Financed Under Credit US-ZR
IDA Credit  Date of IDA  IDA Credit/                                              EmpI-  Jobs
SubDroiect        No.      Typ     (US1 thou*)    Approval  Total Coats Sector    Activity               Location    oy    Created  IRR
ALDION            B-1      Rehab.    67          04/02/01       S8u       Transp.   Land Transport       Kinshasa       62     -     >)60
TRABET            0-2      Rehab.   174          04/10/81        745      Mining     Sand extraction    Kinshasa        no     -     >60X
SONAL             8-a      Rehab.    200         04/28/01        09X      Manuf.    Soft drinks          Kinshasa      150     -     >60X
B.K.T.F.          B-4      Nbo       240         08/21/81        41X      Manuf.     Ice Manuf.          Kinshasa       27     24     88X
NDENW             B-6      Rehab.   100          09/29/81        18X      Agric.    Land Transport       Kwilu          40     -      37X
UFUENI            B-6      New       100         04/08/82        40X      Retail                         Kinshasa       73      9    >505
EqAATEUR FRO0D    B-7      New       245         02/17/88        51x      Manuf.    Ice Manuf.           Equateur        0     18    >50X
1E11LEFLEX        B-8      Rehab.    78.3        09/16/85        15X      Manuf.    Furniture            Kinshasa       na    100    >60X
SAVDINKAS         W-A-I    -         860         11/11/81    Work. Cap.  Manuf.    Soap                  W. Kasai       40     -      --
MOBIMETAL         W-A-2    --        294.4       12/01/81    Work. Cap   Manuf.    Framwork              Kinshasa      179    -_      __
L    _NSWtAU      1-A-3              800         01/28/88    Work. Cap.  Manuf.    Light BuIbe           Kinshaosa       0     --     --
MAROZA            W-B-1     -        16O         10/07/81    Work. Cap.  Manuf.    Leather Products    Kinshasa        196     -      --
LADHA             1-8-2     __       208         10/07/81    Work. Cap.  Manuf.    Shoe                  Kinshasa      88      --     -
CASTOZA-SOUDOM     -8-      --       239.9       10/07/81    Work. Cap.  Manuf.      Electrodes solder  na              na    -       _
COBEGA            W-4-4     -        270         10/22/81    Work. Cap.  Manuf.    bottle caps           Kinshasa      118     -      --
TORMUT            W-B-6     -        100         10/29/81    Work. Cap.  Manuf.    Bolt-and-nut works Ki nuhasa         aS    -_      __
TUBETRA             86       _       267         10/29/81    Work. Cap.  Manuf.    Steel A PVC tuobe    Kinshasa        na o          __
SOGAKOR           W-8-7     ---       90         06/17/82    Work. Cap.  Manuf.    Soft drinks           E. Kasai      120     -      --
BATA              W4-8      --       288         09/27/82    Work. Cap.  Manuf.      Shoes               Kinshasa      990     --     --
SIR               W-B-9      -        40         10/07/82    Work. Cap.  Manuf.    Shoos                 Lubumbashi     na     -      _
SBC               W-8-10    --        76         06/12/83    Work. Cap.  Manuf.      Soft drinks         Bag-Zaire      91     --     --
SWANEPOEL         A-1      Rehab.   978          03/20/81        76%      Constr.    Civil engin- ring   Shaba       1,000     -      456
PLASTICA          A-3      Rehab.  1,170         09/14/81        78%      Manuf.     Plastic products    Kinshasa      614     48    >S0O
BOUKIN            A-4      Exp.    2,300         09/28/81        609      Manuf.     Bottles             Kinshasa      288     -      20%
CAMEZA            A-6      Exp.    1,200         02/02/82        56X      Manuf.     Rubber/plastic prod. Kinshasa     226     64     27X
LLI               A-6      Nsu       297         01/06/84        68X      Manuf.     Shoes               Kinshasa      429     22     86X
SDK e             A-7      Nea       195         01/28/85        3e6      Foretry                       I"  'Isai       na     --    >S0X
OTCZ *            A-8      Rehab.  1,200         11/06/85                 Transp.   Pass. land transp.   .t4hasa        na           )S >0X
LA COTONNIERE    AGR-A-1  Rehab.  1,176          02/06/81        64X      Agric.    Land transport       Kivu/Kasai  1,400     -      42X
BIKARI            AGR-A-2  Exp.      690         02/06/81        50X      Forestry                       Bandundu       68     13     46X
KWILU-NOONGO      AGR-A-3 Exp.    2,400          03/18/81        76X      Agric.     Maize/Manioc/Soja   Kwilu-Ngongo 4,600    --     12X
DELTA             AGR-A-4 Now        573         06/09/81        245      Fishing   Fish farming         Lebida         70     44     26X
FITRACO           ACR-A-S New      1,875         08/19/81        34x      Fishing    Fish trading        N. Shaba      264    120     17X
SOCOBE            AQR-A-8  Rehab.    269         04/08/82        47X      Agric.     Land transport      Equateur       90     --    >60X
KIDUE so          AGR-A-7 Exp.       255         03/16/83                 Manuf.     Mil IA transport    Shaba         127     -     >S0X
ELEFERC          AGR-B-I Exp.        105         11/24/81        50X      Livestock                      Shaba          62     18     48X
SAT               AGR-B-2 New        215         04/02/82        32X      Agric.    Land transport       W. Kasai       no     --    >605
RUKIMIRA          AGR-8-3  Exp.      216         02/17/83        68X      Agric.    Land transport       N. Kivu        21     --     --
CAP               AOR-B-4  Exp.       73.6       03/15/88        lOX      Livestock  Kitobola            Bas-Zaire     206     63     37X
YUNQI KIMENOA     AGR-S-6  Exp.      106         03/16/83        48X      Agric.    Transp. A *quip.   Kinshasa         30     --     --
DM5080            AGR-B-8  Exp.       79         03/16/88        42X      Livestock                      Haut-Zaire     68      3     20X
COCETRA          AGR-B-7  Rehab.   190           03/15/83        65X      Agric.    Land transport       Kivu           86      6     --
VANOS CARROLIDES AGR-8-8  Exp.       217         09/06/86        76X      Agric.     Coffee_land transp. Haut-Zalre    462     24    >60X 5
MATERIEL de PHONIE  T-2  New          32.1       01/14/86       1OO%      SOFIDE                                                               x
TECHNICAL ASSIST.    4               630.7                                SOFIDE
NOTE : s Becouse of specific delays tho overall amount of these loans was not fully disbursed
under this line of credit. The undisbursed balance (US3180,000) was transferred on CR 1273-ZR.
os Plus SOR 1,976,000 under Cr. 1492-ZR. Thes amounts represnt 63X of the total costs of the investment.
s Plus US8140,000 under Cr. 1273-ZR. Thes amounts represent 55X of the total costs of the investment.



CharacOeristics of Subprojects Finmnced Under Credit 1273-ZR
IDA Credit  Date IDA  IDA Credit/                                         Empl- t Jobs
Subproloct        No.      Typ   (SDR thous)  Approval  Total Costs Sector        Activity      Location    oyeos  Created   IRR
ACEC              A-1      Exp.      1000      03/18/83    471        Manuf.      Elec. Mach.   Kinshasa       244     72    >50%
IMPAZA            A-2      Rehab.     670      06/30/82     73X       Manuf.      Printing      Shaba         125     -     >5O%
TMK III           A-3      Exp.      1406      07/11/83     671       Transp.    Petro. Prod. Kivu            555      na   >5O%
CARRIAGRES        A-4      Rehab.     494.7   02/02/84      S8X       Mining      Stone Quarry  Kinshasa      181     -      >SOX
CIMENTS LACS      A-5      Rehab.    1450      11/10/83     63X       Manuf.      Cement        Shaba         427     -      >50%
SWANEPOEL         A-8      Rehab.    1145      11/16/83     8SX       Constr.    Civil Works   Shaba          620    98       19%
SAT-ZAIRE         A-7      Rehab.    1142.3   01/31/84      24X       Manuf.      Cigarette     Kinshasa      1031     na    49%
ELBEMA            A-8      Exp.       364      05/11/84     80%       Manuf.      Palo Oil      Sao-Zaire     175     -      >50%
UTN               A-9      New        808.8    08/02/84     6O%       Manuf.      Hydroelec.    Bar-Zairo     459      na    271
SATRAF            A-10     New        424.4   08/27/84      471       Transp.     Land A Water  Bandundu       -       65     381
SOEXFORCO         A-11     Exp.       460      10/06/84     281       Forestry    SawmI I       Bandundu       103    120    261
ZAIRE ENGINEERINO A-12     Rehab.    422       12/10/84     751       Constr.    Civil Works  Kinshasa        808     -      >5SO
KINSHASA MOTORS  A-13      Ne         51S      02/26/87     621       Manuf.      Brako Fluid   Kinshasa        -      18    >501
SDK sc            A-14     New  195 (USIthous) 01/28/85    386        For try                   W-Knsai            -  _    >60X
BATA c            A-1i     --   283 (USIthous) 09/27/82 Work. Cap.  Manuf.        Shoes         Kinshasa      990      -      -
SOKI8OIS          AOR-A-1  New       1400      06/27/83     321       Forestry    Sawmill       Bandundu       206            371
LUKOLELA PLANTON AGR-A-2 Rehab.    423         07/0/83     57X       Agric.      Cocoa         Equateur      463    47       271
SCZ               AGR-A-3 Rehab.   1900        11/09/83     761       Agro-ind.  Palm Oil       singe        6S10      -      261
DRALO             AGR-A-4 New        1420      12/11/84     50X       Manuf.      Mill          Kinshasa        -      98    32X
SIFA              ACR-A-6  Ne         710      07/08/84     51X       Forestry    Sanmill       Equateur        -      97     271
MURA-SWANEPOEL   AGR-A-6  Exp.        407      07/27/84     661       Agric.      maize         Shaba           19    39    811
TELA  KOSI NGOO   AOR-B-1  New         24      04/19/83     -         Agric.   Cassava/Orndnut Bae-Zaire       23       1    41X
KAWANAc           ACR-B-2  Exp.        27.8   04/19/83      --        Agric.      Coffee        Haut-Zaire   101       70    >5O%                g
PLEMICO.          AOR-B-8  Exp.        28.1   04/19/88      -         Agric.      Coffee/Maize Kivu            20       2    43X
TSHIISHADIc       AGR-8-4  New         27.8   04/19/83      -         Fishing                   Kinshasa       -       9     82X                W
COPRA ZAIREc      AGR-B-5  Exp.        64.6   04/19/83      -         Agric.      Transport    Bas-Zair,       na    na    >60%
OCWVI RUSSINGAc  AGR-B-6  Exp.         76      04/19/88     --        Livestock   Cottle        Haut-Zaire     26      na    >60X
MATSU*            AR-B-7 Now           80.3   07/26/88      -     Manuf ./Transp. Coffee        Bas-Zaire      -       na    386
LUEMBE.           AOR-B-8 Nw           57.2   04/19/83                Livostock   Chicken       Kinshasa       --     na     -
UKL.              AOR-B-9 Exp.          6.6   04/19/83            Forest/Transp.                W-Kasai        67    22    >5OX
LUNGUANA          AOR-S-10 Exp.        28.1   04/19/88      -     Agric.  Cassava/Maize/Orndnut  Bso-Zaire    200     -      391
SIPROCOL*         AGR-8-11 Now         66.4   04/19/88      -    Agric. Maize/Grndnut/Jute    Boa-Zaire        -      88     31x
ESCO ZAIRE        AOR-8-12 cancellation of the SR 162 000 granted to this sub-project.
NOUVELLE EXFORCA AGR-3-18 Rehab.    292        09/09/88     731   Forestry    Railway Sleepers W-Kasai        600     -      >60X
RIMAKI            ACR-8-14 Rebab.      75      06/10/86     18X       Manuf.      Paddy         Kivu           e6     -      43X
DIN7U BLOC.       8-1      New         18.1   04/19/88       8X       Manuf. Salt (Livestock)  Bee-Zaire              26    441
BOUULNC. KABINDAc 9-2      Ne          43.4   04/19/88      s0X       Manuf.      Bakery        W.Kasai        -      15     47X
ACP SAKU.         B-       Exp.        41.6   04/19/83      281       Manuf.      Woodwork      Kinshasa       50     71    37x
BOUIJNA. TSHOPOc B-4       Exp.         8.4   04/22/88       7%       Manuf.      Bakery        Haut-Zaire     26     14    >60X
MAZAL             B-6      Rehab.    162       05/18/83     31X       Manuf.      matches       Kinshasa      427     -     >60%
SAMUA-SAM         B-6      Rehab.      60      07/18/88     28X       Agric.   Land Transp.   Kuilu            8o    -      )S0X
ITEFCC-UARSREZA  B-7       Ex         217.6   04/06/86      75X       Constr.    Marbre         Kinshasa      490     15    >S0X           oo
MAZAI.            8-8      Rehb.      161      04/15/86    64x        Manuf       Match.r       Kinshasa      427      4    >60%
ETSMIW            9-9      Rehab.      16      02/26/87      61       Tranup.  Rivor Transp.   Kinshasa        32     -     >60%              M
0
NOTE: c These subprojects wre cancelled under OPEC 75 line of credit and approved under Cr 1273-ZR. For ACR-B-1,2,6,7,10 and 11,
the amounts quoted take into account the previous disbursemnts under OPEC 76.
se Because of specific delays thw noans, approved under the line of credit 998-ZR (respectively Nos.A-7 and WB8), were not
fully disburosd at its closing date. Therefore the undisbursed balance (US$ 180 000) was transferred under this line of credit.



Cheauo ia"   ttes of Ssb$poJeea Fi_ed Usdr Credit 1278-Z
sDA Credit     Doa  .t oDA Credit/
________cS                            Nb.   T       t(SODR thoud)  IDA Anoroval   Total Coot.    Swctor
INDUSTRY CASE STUDIES CEPETEDE        S-1    -           2.86      12/15/83         0OOX
W.J.L.ALLIEZ                          S-2    -         216         12/16/83        l0S          Ministry of Planning
)   228.8 *so
V.M.VAN WICHELEN                      S-      -        230         12/19/83         lOO1          Ministry of Planning
}   138.5 ** *  05/17/86
STUSY ON LOCAL CONSTRUCTIN MATERIALS  S-6    -          12.8       04/11/85          12.1SX       Ministry of Planning
RECENSEIENT NATIONAL DES ENTREPRISES   S-4    -        103.26      01/16/84         1005          Mlnlstry of Planning
KMN AUDIT-4SSETS REEVAUUATION STUDY    S-6    -         46.72      02/20165         1005         Ministry of Planning
GODICAS                               S-7    -          16.3       10/22/87         100X         SOFIDE
COWUTER                               T-1   NM          62         04/11/88         100X         SOFIDE
CONS. FOR SYSTEM  ANAL. ACCT          T-2   NM.         14.46      04/11/63         1005         SOFIDE
SOBEMAP-SOfTIARE DEVLPT.              T-3   N..        126         05/29/84         1005         SOFIDE
STAFF TRAINDNO IN COMUTER.            T-4               18         05/29/84         100X         SOFIDE
TUHILODOB                             T-5                2.98                       100X         SOFIDE
SWIODE'S PART TC-14 SDR 246.68        T-8
PROJET INFOhhlAIQUE SOP]DE            T-7               84.7       06/25/85         1005         SOFIDE
DDLI SEMINAR FOR CIT. MANGALA         T-8               15.8       09/13/85         1005         SOFIDE
BUSSERY CEPETEDE                      TC-1               6.2       11/07/83         1005         SOFIDE
KAYAMBALA CEPETEDE                    TC-2               4.00      11/09/83         1005         SWIDE
IVES BOU.ET CEPETEDE                  TC-a              18.4       02/06/84         1OOX         SOFIDE
DILOUTREMER CEPETEDE                  TC-4              27.11                                    SOFIDE
APPLE II A EqUIPMENT CEPETEDE         TC-5              13.9       05/11/84         100s         SOFIDE
KANDOLO-KABUA CEPETEDE                TC-8              18.47                                    SOFIDE
FRANCOIS CANTERINI                    TC-7              10         01/80/84          OOX         SOFIDE
COEUGNAS-CEPETEDE               TC-8/TC-11               4.65      07/27/84         lOOX         SWIDE
LUTROT VAWK ECHNIqUE SEMINAR          TC-9               8.95      07/27/U4         1OOX         SOFIDE
SOULET MANAGEMENT CONTROL SEMNDAR     TC-10              7.5       07/27/84         1OOX         SOFIDE
BUSSERY COURSE PROJECT APPRAISAL      TC-12              8.2       10/04/84         lOO1         SOFIDE
BOULET-EN. ACCOWTIN SEIINR            TC-1U              9.4       01/18/84         1005         SOFIDE
BOULET-S  ACCOWTNDO SEMINAR           TC-14              9.4       01/18/84         1005         SOFIDE
NOTE: so.  To fInane the extension of Mr. ALLIEZ's contract froe 12/01/85 to 11/30/87.
_l Mr. VAN WICHELEN had his appointment extended f ro 07/01/68 to 0C/80/90. rhlis mount represents
68.5X of the lnducd costa.Th. other part was ref Inanced under the line of credit 1492-ZR.
O x
0



- 45 -
Annex 12t
SWIdiM Fac_d Unde r CedIt l87-s o
Year of
Studies        Asoroval   Pursxs. as Defined at Appraisal       Status       msect of StUdV
1. Industry        1W8       - To be used by a sector mission      Completed   Ueeful Input to
Case                        and by CEPETEDE for training                   appraisal mission.
Studles                     purpos"s.
2. Companlos       19t4 e   - A complete census of the ZsirIan   Completed
National                    companies. An appropriate
Census                      tr  tment of the co looted date.
A rapid communication of the
reulIt to the uers.
S. Assets          lo"S      - To aosess the enforcement of        Completed
Revaluation                 the late Reevaluation Laws and
Study                       the accounting effecta of the
firs' indebtednos.
4. Study           loS       - To Identify viable projectt  to     Completed
on Local                    lmprovo the quality and supply
Construction                of construction materlsle In
Materials                   Konongr (W-Kasai), MBuji-Uavi
E-Kasal). Kisangani (U-Zaire)
and Uukavu (Kivu).
5. Special         19 7                                            Completed
Audit of
SOFIDE
* They constituted a full cosponent of this lIno of credit. They were selected by an ad hoc
Coelittee that Included senior officerc of the Ministry of Planning, of SOWDE and a
representlvo of the National Association of Zairian Entrepreneurs.  This component also
financed teo recruitment of two technical assistants:
M r. ALLIE2  appoint   as an Industrial Policy Advisor In the productive Sector Division of
the Planning Mlnletry, to assist In the formulation and implementateon of an industrlal
poiiOV for Zaire.
- r. VAN WICHELEN, appointed as an Industrial RhabilIltation Advisor In the Planning Minitry,
to strengthen the Ministry's capacity for Industrial policy review and analysis.
s  This subproject had two components
- Data proceolng (accessorios and maintennce)
- Training (locally and abroad).



