Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY              '$X i     t 4
Report No. P-3353-ZR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FOR A
SIXTH SOFIDE (SOCIETE FINANCIERE DE DEVELOPPEMENT) PROJECT
June 7, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit              Zaire (Z)               100 Makuta (K)
Z 1,00                     SDR 0.15
US$ 1.00                   Z5.5
Z 1.00                     US$0.18
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                 3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)            0.6215 miles
I square kilometer          0.39 square miles
(sq. km)
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB        African Development Bank
EIB        European Investment Bank
IDA        International Development Association
IFC        International Finance Corporation
IMF        International Monetary Fund
OGEDEP     Office de gestion de la dette exterieure publique (Office for the
management of external public debt)
OPEC       Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
OPEZ       Office de Promotion des Petites et Moyennes Entreprises Zairoises
PIP        Public Investment Program
SOFIDE     Soci6te Financiere de Developpement (Development Finance Corporation
of Zaire)
UNDP       United Nations Development Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZAIRE
SIXTH SOFIDE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Republic of Zaire
Beneficiary:              Societe Financiere de Developpement (SOFIDE)
Amount:                   SDR 18.3 million (US$21.5 million equivalent)
Terms:                    Standard
Relendi.ng Terms:         US$19.5 million of the IDA credit for investment
subprojects would be on-lent to SOF'IDE at an interest
rate of 8 percent per annum with a flexible amortization
schedule conforming to the aggregate amortization
schedule of SOFIDE's subloans, subject to a maximum
of 15 years including a grace period not to exceed 3 years;
US$2.0 million for studies and training would be passed on
to SOFIDE as a grant, with the exception of studies by consul-
tants for non-governmental agencies which would bear the same
terms as the investment subprojects. SOFTDE would relend the
funds at a minimum rate of 20 percent per annum to its
borrowers, who will bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project: Description:     The Credit would (a) finance the foreign exchange component
(US$19.5 million) of the capital investment requirements
of subprojects approved by SOFIDE in the agriculture,
transportation and industrial sectors (at least US$7.5 million
of the proposed credit would be for subprojects in the
agricultural and agro-industrial sectors); (b) provide
foreign exchange resources to SOFIDE to enable it to
upgrade its management and control systems and staff
capabilities (US$0.9 million);and (c) finance the
foreign exchange component of studies to improve industrial
sector policy formulation and project selection (US$1.1 million).
The main benefits of the project would be to help preserve
Zairets industrial capacity and revive agricultural production.
The main risks relate to the impact on SOFIDE and its
clients of continued high rates of inflation, shortage
of foreign exchange for the import of inputs and spare
parts and a tight local currency liquidity situation.
This risk is limited by the provisions governing the
investment component of the project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Disbursements
IDA FY                           1983             1984          1985          1986
--(US$ million)----------------
Annual                           1.0              8.5           8.5           3.5
Cumulative                       1.0              9.5          18.0          21.5
Appraisal Report: Report No. 3747-ZR, dated May 12, 1982.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXCUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FOR A SIXTH SOFIDE (SOCIETE FINANCIERE DE DEVELOPPEMENT) PROJECT
1.     I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed develop-
ment credit to the Republic of Zaire for the equivalent of SDR million (US$21.5
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to finance a Sixth Development Finance
Comparty Project. US$19.5 million of the IDA Credit would be relent by the
Zairian Government to SOFIDE at an 8 percent interest rate with a flexible
amortization schedule conforming to the aggregate amortization schedule of
SOFIDF's subloans, subject to a maximum of 15 years, including a grace period
not exceeding three years; US$2.0 million for studies and training would be
passed on to SOFIDE as a grant, with the exception of studies by consultants
for non-governmental agencies which would bear the same terms as the investment
subprojects.
PART I- THE ECONOMY 1/
2.     The last economic memorandum (Report No. 3287-ZR) was distributed on
June 8, 1981 and focused on developments in 1979 and 1980. The period since
then has witnessed a number of important developments regarding Zaire: on June
22, 1981, the IMF approved an extended arrangement in support of a medium-
term (1981-83) economic recovery program; the economic situation, performance
and prospects of Zaire were reviewed at a meeting of the Consultative Group
later that month; and, in early July, Zaire negotiated a new debt rescheduling
agreement with the members of the Paris Club. These developments and others
are reflected below. Country data are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.     Zaire is the third largest country in Africa in terms of area and the
fifth largest in terms of population, but its GNP per capita, estimated at
about US$260 in 1980, ranks among the lowest in the continent. Approximately
one-third of its population of about 28 million live in urban areas, and the
population density is 12 persons per sq. km. Urbanization has been proceeding
at a rate of about 7 percent per annum, or more than two and half times the
rate of population growth.  Although agriculture (commercialized  and subsistence)
normally accounts for 25 percent of GDP, it provides employment income for more
than three-quarters of the population. The mining and mineral-processing
industry normally accounts for about 24 percent of GDP; it has traditionally
been the largest source of public revenue and provides more than two-thirds
of the country's export earnings. (The shares cited are 1977-79 averages).
1/ This Section is substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report
for the Agriculture Technical Assistance Project (P-3130-ZR of April 22, 1982).
An economic mission visited Zaire in March 1982; its report is under preparation.



2 
4.      When Zaire gained independence in 1960, it was £ll-prepared for the
change, both technically and institutionally. The first 6-7 years following
independence were marked by violent political strife and a severe disruption of
the economy; but after the restoration of political order and stability in 1967,
GDP grew by about 7 percent in real terms annually until 1974. Since then,
however, Zaire has been experiencing serious economic difficulties, which have
brought about a continuous decline in per capita income.
Beginning of Current Difficulties
5.      Although the downswing of the Zairian economy started in 1975, the
current difficulties of Zaire are in many respects the result of developments
which took place in earlier years. Among these are: the progressive
accentuation of the country's dependence on the mining sector, accompanied by
the relative neglect of agricultural production; heavy external borrowing during
1973-74, mostly from private banks, at average terms inconsistent with Zaire's
level of development and for projects with long gestation periods and uncertain
economic benefits; and the attempts to drastically change the ownership
structure of the economy through the zairianization and "radicalization"
(nationalization) measures of 1973-74. Though since rescinded, the
zairianization and nationalization measures had particularly adverse and lasting
effects on the economy: they seriously damaged private sector confidence both
at home and abroad, severely disrupted the transport and marketing links between
urban centers and the interior, and resulted in the neglect of the country's
productive capacity and infrastructure. The deterioration of Zaire's terms of
trade in 1975, owing largely to the fall in the international price of copper,
was a major contributor to both the severity and the duration of the crisis.
6.      During 1975-77, the first three years of the crisis, Zaire's
commercialized GDP declined by about 10 percent in real terms. The Government
ran large budgetary deficits, domestic prices quadrupled, the overall balance of
payments deficit averaged more than US$450 million per year, and Zaire
accumulated about US$800 million of arrears on external debt, including
commercial credits and invisibles. Zaire adopted two stabilization programs,
with IMF support, during this period (in March 1976 and April 1977), but these
could not be fully implemented and failed to improve the situation.
7.      In 1978, commercialized GDP contracted by about 6 percent in real
terms. The overall budgetary deficit attained a record level of about Z 530
million, equivalent to about 12 percent of commercialized GDP; and deficit
financing, together with the worsening shortages of basic consumer goods, fuel
and intermediate products, pushed the annual inflation rate to about 50
percent. Between November 1, 1978 and January 2, 1979, the Government devalued
the zaire in four stages by a cumulative amount of 50 percent, or from Z 1.0 -
SDR 1.0 to Z 1.0 = SDR 0.5. Although the overall balance of payments deficit
was reduced to about $330 million, the deficit was financed primarily by a
further accumulation of arrears: total arrears (on public debt, short-term debt
and private non-guaranteed debt) increased from about US$800 million at the end
of 1977 to more than US$1.3 billion at the end of 1978.  Two debt rescheduling
agreements with the Paris Club during 1976-77 proved inadequate to alleviate the
debt situation.



-3-
Developments in 1979-1980
8.      Although the economic and financial situation of Zaire remained
difficult in 1979, the deterioration decelerated in several respects. According
to official estimates, commercialized GDP rose marginally (by 0.2 percent) and
the budgetary deficit was smaller both in nominal terms and as a proportion of
GDP than the year before. However, the budgetary deficit was again financed
entirely by recourse to the banking system.  This plus the acceleration of
credit to the rest of the economy continued to exert pressure on prices, which
rose by more than 100 percent in the capital city during the year. The balance
of payments also remained under strong pressure, as evidenced by a further
accumulation of external payment arrears. On December 31, 1979, arrears
(including those on short-term commercial debt and invisibles) amounted to about
US$1.8 billion. The zaire was devalued by another 25 percent against the SDR on
August 27, 1979 and by another 30 percent on February 22, 1980, modifying the
rate to Z 1.00   SDR 0.2625 - US$0.34 and bringing the cumulative devaluation
since November 1, 1978 to 74 percent.
9.      In August 1979, Zaire adopted a new stabilization program designed
essentially to contain the overall balance of payments deficit, curb the rate of
inflation (to 50-55 percent) and thereby create the conditions for a resumption
of economic growth. To these ends, the program called for, inter alia, a marked
reduction in the budgetary deficit and its monetary financing, a substantial
deceleration of domestic credit expansion, improved foreign exchange management,
and a flexible exchange rate policy. In support of this program, on August 27,
1979 the IMF approved a Stand-by Arrangement in the upper credit tranches of SDR
118 million for a period of 18 months. The implementation of the stabilization
program encountered some difficulties in 1979. However, Zaire met all the
performance criteria in 1980 and was able to purchase the full amount under the
Stand-by.  The program contributed, inter alia, to reducing the inflation rate
from more than 100 percent the year before to 47 percent, or below the level
envisaged in the program.
10     At the end of 1979, Zaire's external public debt, including undisbursed,
amounted to approximately US$4.6 billion. With the help of a banking group,
Zaire negotiated debt rescheduling agreements with the Paris Club (December
1979) and the syndicated banks (April 1980). The Paris Club agreement covered
debts totaling US$1.3 billion and comprising all arrears outstanding (including,
for the first time, arrears on insured short-term debt) as well as maturities
falling due in 1980. The syndicated banks agreed to reschedule all their
outstanding credits to Zaire (about US$400 million, of which US$290 million in
arrears) over a 10-year period, with a moratorium interest rate of LIBOR plus
1-7/8 percent during the first five years and LIBOR plus 2 percent thereafter.
During 1980, Zaire made a serious effort to respect these agreements; its actual
extiernal public debt service totalled US$315 million, compared to US$168 million
in L979.



-4
11.     In 1980, the external resource constraints of the Government remained
very tight. Export growth was held back by the deterioration of the world
cobalt and coffee markets. Disbursements of medium and long term aid remained
unchanged, but debt service payments nearly doubled (to 20 percent of exports of
goods and nonfactor services) and net transfers were negligible or nil.
Nevertheless, the supply situation eased somewhat. While official imports
(imports with officially acquired resources) declined in real terms, total
imports cleared through customs registered a gain.  Thanks to this gain,
according to official estimates, commercialized GDP registered an increase of
2.3 percent in real terms. The economic situation was also helped by an
increase of 17 percent in Gecamines' copper output, although heavy taxation and
the bearishness of the cobalt market caused a serious delay in the company's
rehabilitation program.
12.     During the years 1979-80, Zaire took a number of important steps under
the Mobutu Plan, which the Government views as a broad-based and multipronged
effort to achieve recovery in dialogue with and with assistance from the major
donors. These steps included the installation of an expatriate deputy governor
as well as technical advisers, all proposed by the IMP, at the Bank of Zaire.
Zaire also appointed an expatriate controller general, proposed by the UNDP, to
the Ministry of Finance. In addition, as part of an effort to reform its
customs operations, Zaire transformed the Customs Division of the Ministry of
Finance into a public organization known as the Office of Customs and Duties
(OFIDA). This new undertaking has received substantial technical and
administrative support from Belgium. Also noteworthy is the creation of a
Central Pay Directorate which is functioning with the assistance of French
experts. Moreover, the Government reaffirmed through various actions its
commitment to expanding the role of and its reliance on the private sector.
Seven inefficient "commodity offices" were dissolved; aome agricultural producer
prices were raised; under a scheme of "development agreements", an effort was
initiated to involve private industry in the rehabilitation of agriculture and
related infrastructure; a new investment code was promulgated; and a number of
reforms were undertaken in the management of state enterprises.
13.     In 1979, national and international attention concerning Zaire was
directed to the preparation of a medium-term public investment program (PIP),
and the Bank was asked to assist the Zairian authorities in this endeavor.  In
August 1979, the Government completed such a program for the period 1979-81,
focusing largely on rehabilitntion needs in priority sectors such as
transportation and agricultur,.. The execution of the PIP during 1979-80 was
constrained primarily by the shortage of resources and the execution of certain
on-going projects which had not been included in the PIP: only 40 percent of the
PIP could be executed in its first two years, compared to about 60 percent               =
foreseen under the program. Nevertheless, the experience proved valuable. The
preparation of the PIP constituted a first step toward the establishment of an
investment programming and budgeting process in Zaire. This process has been



- 5 -
yielding some of the desired results: technical experience has been building
up; programming and follow-up procedures are slowly being institutionalized;
and the agencies whose cooperation is crucial to the process are slowly
being sensitized to the importance of this very cooperation. In early 1981,
the Government prepared a new PIP for the years 1981-83, drawing on the
experience with the first program (see below).
Recent Economic Developments and Policy Reforms
14.     The year 1981 witnessed a number of national and international
actions to set Zaire on the path to economic recovery. First, Zaire
focused its investment program for 1981-83 more firmly on the priorities
for recovery, namely, the rehabilitation of existing productive capacity
(especially mining) and related infrastructure (especially transportation).
These two sectors account for nearly two-thirds of the program. Zaire also
continued the process of institutional reforms initiated in 1978-79. For
example, it established an External Resources Coordination Committee to deal
speedily with all matters relating to external assistance and particularly
with project implementation bottlenecks as they arise. The permanent
members of the Committee include the representatives of the UNDP, FED and
the World Bank. In addition, a major reorganization of the Ministry of
Agriculture, in cooperation with the Bank, is being studied, and a review
of the tax system is under way in cooperation with the IMF.
15.     In mid-1981, the Zairian authorities drew up, with the cooperation
of the IMF, a new program of economic and financial recovery covering the
period 1981-83. In conjunction with this program, the Zairian authorities
announced a number of interrelated measures toward stimulating and
expanding supply, keeping the growth of demand within appropriate limits,
and improving foreign exchange management. On June 19, 1981, the zaire was
devalued by a further 40 percent vis-a-vis the SDR as part of a flexible
foreign exchange rate policy involving frequent adjustments in the rate;
interest rates were adjusted upward; and the existing price controls on
most goods and services were removed in order to stimulate the private
sector. In support of the medium term program, on June 22, 1981, the IMF
approved an extended arrangement for the three year period ending June 21, 1984
in an amount equivalent to SDR 912 million; however, the program ran into
difficulties after August 1981 (see paragraph 16). In addition, Zaire
prepared an Agricultural Action Plan in order to bring about improvements in
the following key areas: (i) strengthening of institutions; (ii) policies
for pricing, marketing, credit and foreign exchange allocation; (iii) imple-
mentation of on-going projects; (iv) investment programming for the sector;
and (v) research, extension and training. The Action Plan as well as the
overall economic situation and prospects of Zaire were the subject of
discussions at the meeting of the Consultative Group for Zaire held
during June 1981. After a review of the Plan,



-6-
the participants decided to convene a meeting on agriculture in mid 1982, given
the importance of this sector and the need to assure follow-up as well as coor-
dination of policies and actions, both internally and externally. The meeting
is scheduled for June 22-24, 1982. Shortly after the meeting of the Consultative
Group, Zaire negotiated with the Paris Club the rescheduling of maturities falling
due in 1981 and 1982, including the postponement of some of the already rescheduled
maturities. Under the terms of the new agreement, which was contingent on com-
pliance with the EFF, the debt service due in 1981 was reduced from US$700 million
to US$490 million. However, a number of factors -- especially the swift and serious
deterioration of export markets (see below) -- prevented the implementation of the
latest rescheduling agreement.
Current Situation
16.       Although management and institutional reforms continued during 1981, the
physical progress of the economy toward recovery was thwarted due to a combination
of external and intenral factors. According to preliminary estimates, the weakness
of the copper, cobalt and coffee markets caused a 17 percent decline in merchandise
exports in nominal terms. Merchandise imports fell 13 percent short of the project-
ions under the IMF program and were about 8 percent lower in real terms than the
level of 1980. (As a result, in March 1982, Zaire was able to purchase the equivalent
of SDR US$106.9 million under the compensatory financing facility of the IMF.) Zaire
also experienced growing difficulties in meeting its debt service obligations and
began accumulating arrears in the second semester of the year. Developments in the
external sector (a major source of government revenue) had a very negative impact
on government finances. This, coupled with a weakening of budgetary discipline,
caused the budgetary deficit and its banking-system financing to exceed the program
targets for September 30 and December 31, 1981. Consequently, Zaire was not able
to purchase the third and fourth tranches under the IMF Program. However, the
inflation rate was reduced somewhat during the year; the Government continued
to refine its Agricultural Action Plan; it reaffirmed its intention to improve
the management of Gecamines and Sozacom (the state mining and mineral marketing
companies, respectively); and it announced its intention to transfer the owner-
ship of 37 public enterprises to the private sector.
17.       Copper and-cobalt prices have further weakened in 1982,
putting additional strain on the resources of Zaire and exacerbating
the short-term management problem. The allocation of resources has
suffered from this strain; in particular, efforts to curtail expen-
ditures have proven difficult or insufficient to prevent the budgetary
deficit from running at an annual rate higher than last year. The
outlook for the rest of the year remains difficult, owing to the
continued sluggishness of the commodity markets, and the debt problem
remains a serious constraint. As the balance of payments projections
on which both the IMF program and the July 1981 Paris Club debt
rescheduling agreement were based have proven to be optimistic,
revised follow-up agreements are indicated in both cases provided
that Zaire demonstrates greater financial discipline and a sustained
commitment to the reforms initiated in the last three years.  Bilateral
discussions on the optimum timing for the next Paris Club meeting are
currently taking place; and an IMF mission is currently in the field
in order to examine the evolution of the economic and financial
situation, Zaire's performance and their implications.
18.     Zaire retains a significant potential in mineral resources, energy and
agriculture. Its difficulties of the last few years have been aggravated
considerably by exogenous factors such as the protracted weakness of copper
prices and, more recently, those of cobalt. Economic developments in Zaire will
continue to depend on the vagaries of world commodity prices. Adjusting to the
resource constraints and other difficulties brought on by the crisis has been
seriously hampered by the overall weakness of iastitutions, the inadequacy of
administrative controls, and the deficiencies of economic decision-making.
*While oviercoming these difEiculties will take time, through the cooperation of



- 7 -
the Government with the major donors, including the IMF and the Bank, a set of
actions aiming at the progressive de-control of the economy has been mapped out
for setting Zaire more firmly on the path to recovery. Achieving the desired
recovery will require perseverance on the part of Zaire as well as continued
efforts by the donors to keep the external debt burden at a manageable level and
to replenish the project pipeline which has been severely depleted in the last
few years (from US$1.2 billion in 1975 to an estimated US$650 million at
present).
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
19.     Since 1969, Zaire has received 26 IDA credits totaling US$374 million
for transport, agriculture, development finance company operations, water
supply, power and education projects.  The Bank has also extended grants
totaling US$400,000 as contributions toward the cost of two planning assistance
projects in Zaire. In 1975, the Bank made a loan of US$100 million for the
Gecamines Mining Expansion Project, which was cofinanced by the European
Investment Bank and by the Libyan Arab Foreign Bank, and which provided for
special repayment arrangements linked to the project's export earnings. The
IFC, which has a US$760,000 equity participation in the Societe Financiere de
Developpement Economique (SOFIDE), approved a US$4.1 million loan for an
offshore oil production project in September 1978. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of March 31, 1982
and notes on the status of ongoing projects.
20.     A main objective of Bank Group operations in Zaire has been institutioIn
building. The development finance company (SOFIDE) was established in 1970 with
assistance from IFC and IDA. The major transport agencies, ONATRA, Societe
Nationale des Chemins de Fer Zairois (SNCZ), Regie des Voies Fluviales (RVF),
Regie des Voies Maritimes (RVM) and Office des Routes (OR), received technical
and financial assistance from the Association, which also helped establish the
National Livestock Development Authority. In the case of Gecamines, the Bank
loan originated a dialogue, still ongoing, intended to define ways and means to
strengthen the management, financial Dosition and planning of the company.
21.     In general, project implementation has been difficult due to the
country's inadequate manpower and management capability and, in recent years,
because of the economic crisis. In the last two or three years, release of the
required budgetary funds has been difficult periodically because of budgetary
constraints.  Lack of foreign exchange to finance spare parts anld fuel, and the
deterioration of the transport network and marketing system have resulted in
severe supply problems for most projects. Recruiting and retaining adequate
staff has also been difficult. In January 1980 the Bank undertook with Zairian
officials an overall review of Bank Group projects which for the first time
provided an integrated view of implementation problems.  This has resulted in an
acceleration and improvement in the utilization of the Bank's assistance,
particularly in the agriculture sector.
22.     Ten credits and one loan have been totally disbursed:  Credits 152, 292
and 536-ZR (First, Second and Third Highway Projects); Credit 255-CK (River
Transport Project); Credit 272-CK (Education Project); Credit 398-ZR (Livestock
Project); Credits 190, 271 and 463-ZR (First, Second and Third SOFIDE Projects);
Credit 625-ZR (Water Supply) and Loan 1090-ZR (Gecamines).



-8-
Completion reports have been issued for all projects except Water Supply,
Education, Livestock and Gecamines, and Performance Audit Reports have been
issued for the First SOFIDE and the first Highway Projects. The conclusion of
the audit and completion reports was that the Bank Group's impact on institution
building had been mixed. SOFIDE was evolving as an effective and competent
institution, and the Office des Routes, the highway agency, had been able to
establish an effective administrative set-up. On the other hand, ONATRA's
performance had not improved as a result of the first River Transport Project
but did improve under a follow-up project; implementation by RVF and RVM had
disappointing results, but financial results of operations had improved. All
entities had encountered operating difficulties beyond their control as the
economy deteriorated, financial resources grew scarcer and the problems
besetting the investment environment were exacerbated by Government's
zairianization/radicalization measures. Bank Group support to SOFIDE and the OR
is continuing under Fourth and Fifth SOFIDE projects (Crs. 710 and 998-ZR) and a
Fourth Highway Project (Cr. 916-ZR). RVF and RVM received assistance through a
second River Transport Project (Cr. 571-ZR); and ONATRA will benef it from a
recently approved Modernization Project.
23.     The rate of disbursement to Zaire is average for the East Africa
Region. For fiscal years 1979-81, disbursements totalled US$101 million
compared with new commitments of US$105 million. In this same period, the
average annual disbursement rate (ratio of change in disbursements to
undisbursed balance) was 24 percent; this compares favorably with an average
rate of about 20 percent for other countries of the region. While disbursement
performance in general is satisfactory, difficulties have arisen in several
projects. In the case of early credits for transport, education and livestock
(Credits 255-ZR, 272-ZR and 398-ZR), the lack of a strong project entity to
create an implementation momentum caused general delays. Economic conditions
were also a factor in slowing project programs in instances where government
counterpart funds were not available (Third Highway, Credit 660-ZR; Second
Education, Credit 624-ZR) and where the investment environment experienced slow
recovery from the aftermath of abrupt nationalization (Fourth SOFIDE, Credit
710-ZR). Future project implementation should be less affected by the above
influences given the strengthening of institutions under subsequent projects and
efforts by the Government to improve its budgetary support of IDA-financed .
projects. At end 1981, the Bank Group share of Zaire's total debt disbursed and
outstanding was less than 10 percent.
24.      In the past three years,the Bank Group's main efforts have been
directed towards assisting in the rehabilitation and development of the
agriculture and transport sectors, in part through the design and imple-
mentation of appropriate new policies. Investments in industry were also
emphasized through assistance to SOFIDE. Our lending will continue to
support industry, the transport sector (in particular the Voie Nationale)
and to assist the development of the agriculture sector within the framework
of the new Agricultural Action Plan (see para. 15 above) through the strength-
ening of agricultural institutions and the financing of projects designed to
increase the production of both fooderops and industrial crops, and to promote
the export of industrial commodities. In addition, support will be considered
for the mining sector.



- 9 -
PART III. THE INDUSTRIAL, AGRICULTURAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
The Industrial Sector
25.       The industrial sector (including agro-industry, but excluding
mining and basic metal processing) is relatively small, contributing some
9% of GDP and employing about 160,000 persons, or 22% of total employment
in the modern sector. Medium and large enterprises (over 100 workers),
which dominate most branches, account for nearly 90% of total manufacturing
value added. As in many countries at the same stage of development,
industrial production consists essentially of consumer goods for the
domestic market.   Indeed, the sector is dominated by agro-industrial
enterprise3, many of which are vertically integrated enterprises processing
the production of plantations. As in the rest of the industry, many
processing plants are old, badly maintained and have increasingly suffered
from inadequate replacement investment and shortages of spare parts.
26.       Over the last 10-12 years, there has been no significant change
in the structure of the sector or the location of enterprises. Zaire's
Lndustry is still closely linked with commerce, and many industrial firms
continue to have substantial commercial operations. Kinshasa, the capital,
remains the main center of industry, with Lubumbashi a secondary center.
These two urban areas contribute more than two-thirds of industrial value
added and employment.
27.       Until 1973, almost all major industrial enterprises were owned by
foreign and locally-based expatriate interests. However, the
"zairianization" measures of 1973-74 and the nationalization measures of
1974-75 transferred to Zairians ownership of about two-thirds of the firms
in the manufacturing sector, which nevertheless continued to be managed for
the most part by their former expatriate owners and managers. These
measures resulted in a severe dislocation of the distribution system of
manufactured goods, particularly in the interior, a drastic fall of
industrial investment, and a substantial deterioration in the relations
between the private sector and the Government. In 1976, in view of the
problems posed to the country by the poor managemedt and stagnation of the
nationalized and zairianized firms, the Government decided to return up to
60% of the shareholding in such enterprises to their former foreign
owners. Whereas the "retrocession" program has now been implemented, the
uncertainties created by the zairianization continue to inhibit the private
sector (particularly foreign) investment.
28.       Between 1970 and 1974, manufacturing output grew at an average
annual rate of 7%, but decreased thereafter at an even faster rate, so that
by 1979 output at constant prices was about 10% below its 1970 level. The
performance of industrial subsectors over this period varied considerably.
Non-essential consumer goods and intermediate and capital goods performed
poorly because of the reduced purchasing power of the population and the
general depressed state of the economy. In contrast, consumer goods



- 10 -
industries, in particular, food and beverages,expanded at a relatively fast
rate. Also, with the deterioration of the production and distribution
systems and the resulting insufficient supply of local inputs, the trend
has been away from processing local materials in favor of industries based
on imported materials. Zaire's industry is now faced with: (a) a
declining demand for certain manufactured products as a result of falling
real wages and incomes; (b) severe shortages of foreign exchange for
importing both inputs and capital equipment; (c) difficulties in supply
of inputs due to the dislocation of transportation services and the
deterioration of agricultural and forestry sectors; and (d) a tight
liquidity situation resulting from the strict credit control imposed by the
Central Bank. The impact of these factors on the financial situation of
industrial enterprises has been serious. Profitability has fallen
markedly, industrial capacity utilization is low (about 30% of installed
capacity) and the ability to reinvest and/or maintain the existing capital
stock has diminished drastically. In this environment, SOFIDE has become
the major source of term investment finance (particularly in foreign
exchange), and has financed much of the investment required to preserve
Zaire's industrial base and to restore commercial agriculture and
agro-industrial production.
29.       To regulate and promote industrial development, the Government
has used a number of policy instruments such as (a) a relatively flexible
price control system, which was even further relaxed recently to allow
companies to set prices themselves, with the only obligation to communicate
them to the Ministry of National Economy and Industry within 30 days; and
(b) an investment code under which the Government can grant tax exemptions
and guarantees for repatriation of capital investment, profit and interest
to foreign enterprises. It has also created a Pre-investment Fund to
finance feasibility or sector studies to improve the design and preparation
of projects and is trying to revive OPEZ, the office created in 1973 to
promote the development of small-scale enterprises. However, because of
the general economic climate and inefficient administrative framework, the
impact of these policy instruments on industrial activities has been
limited.
30.       Prospects for the industrial sector depend to a large extent on
the overall recovery of the Zairian economy, which will be a long and
difficult process. However, there are a number of sector issues which need
to be addressed now to improve the environment in which industrial firms
are working. The most important ones include: (a) the availability of
foreign exchange for spare parts and raw materials, which is the main
constraint to capacity utilization: the inability to obtain spare parts has
already forced some firms to substitute substandard domestically produced
spare parts, thus leading to rapid deterioriation of equipment, and it is
therefore essential that foreign exchange allocations by the Central Bank
take into account the need of the industrial sector; and (b) improvement in
project design and preparation: many industrial projects submitted to the
Investment Commission need additional preparatory work to become



- 31 -
economically viable; the Government is aware of this fact and has created a
pre--Investment Fund to finance feasibility or sector studies; however, the
fund does not yet have any foreign exchange resources, and the proposed
project includes funds for financing the foreign exchange cost of
feasibility as well as sector policy studies aimed at assisting the
Government to improve policy making and policy coordinations for the
industrial sector (see para. 55(c) below).
The Agricultural Sector
31.,      The agricultural potential of Zaire is considerable.  The
comntry's geographical location astride the Equator and the differences in
eleavation withirn the country result in several climates. This makes
possible a variety of agricultural activities. An estimated 70-85% of the
population derives its livelihood directly from agriculture and much of the
remainder is indirectly dependent on it for employment. Zaire has the
world's largest reserve of tropical hardwoods, and fishing could be
developed considerably in the country's extensive river and lake network.
Nevertheless, agriculture's contribution to GDP is only about 25%, of which
nearly 60% comes from the three to four million families growing food crops
matinly for their own consumption. The rest of the agricultural production
comes from the plantations which produce coffee, rubber, cocoa and tea for
export, and sugar$ palm oil and cattle for the domestic market.
32.       The financial needs of the commercial agricultural sector are
met by commercial banks and SOFIDE, whose financing of agricultural
investment projects has grown rapidly in the past four years. There is,
at present, no institutional credit for small farmers, except for that
minority that benefits from special agricultural projects set up under the
auspices of a number of outside lenders.
33.       The deterioration of general economic conditions, unfavorable
farm prices and the nationalization policies of the mid-1970s have resulted
in a decline in agricultural production since independence. Agriculture
has also suffered from the low level of public expenditures for the sector;
these averaged only 2.4% of Government current expenditures and 6% of
Government capital expenditures during the period 1973-79.  As a result,
the volume of export crops has decreased while imports of foodstuffs have
increased rapidly (yet remain insufficient) to meet the food requirements
of the population. Recently, the Government has reaffirmed its intention
to give priority to agriculture.   The Agricultural Action Plan presented
at the 1981 Consultative Group meeting outlined a series of steps for the
development of the agricultural sector. These include an increasing role
of the private sector, incentives to encourage investment, and a better
a.llocation of foreign exchange. The Government is currently drawing up a
Plan for agricultural recovery for discussion at the next Consultative
Group meeting.
The Financial Sector
34.       The financial sector in Zaire consists mainly of the Central
Bank, nine commercial banks and one development bank (SOFIDE). All these



12 -
institutions are based in Kinshasa, but some larger commercial banks and
SOFIDE have branches in major centers in the interior. Because of
deteriorating economic conditions and high inflation the commercial banks
have been very reluctant in recent years to lend on a medium or long term
basis. Thus, most of their lending is short term, although through some
revolving short-term credit they have also contributed to financing
industrial investment (in conjunction with SOFIDE for some projects). The
commercial banks play a particularly important role in the financing of
imports and exports, in which they act under regulation of the central
bank. The only source of long term finance and the only non-governmental
source of term foreign exchange financing is SOFIDE.
35.       During the years of economic expansion in 1973 and 1974, credit
controls had been relaxed, which resulted in a rapid growth in the money
supply. Since then, credit restrictions have been progressively
reinstated. In early 1979, reserve requirements were reintroduced while
overall credit ceilings were maintained to control the growth of lending.
Five sub-ceilings (agriculture, other productive sectors including
industry, transportation, distribution and other services) were also
established within that overall limit to regulate the proportions of
commercial bank lending to different sectors and uses. In 1981 credit
control was further tightened with the introduction of a new measure
limiting the access to the Central Bank's rediscounting facilities to only
three categories of credit: bills of exchange, treasury bonds and
short-term agricultural credits.
36.       Effective April 1, 1981, a new interest rate regime giving the
commercial banks more flexibility in the setting of rates was established.
Most rates are now freely negotiable. Maximum interest rates are set only
for a few categories of credit which are considered essential, such as
loans for agricultural and agroindustrial machinery. These rates range
from 11% to 22%, as compared to 7.5-20% previously.
37.       Until 1974, the Central Bank had delegated administration of
almost all foreign exchange transactions to the licensed commercial banks,
except for exports of copper, cobalt and diamonds. In the wake of the
deteriorating foreign exchange situaton, stricter controls were
progressively introduced.  At present, commercia.l banks can only retain
50-55% of the foreign exchange earnings  as 30% are reserved for the
Central Bank to service Zaire's external debt and 15-20% for the exporter.
On the other hand, the import system has been substantially liberalized and
this has contributed to reduce shortages of cons-umer goods.



- 13 -
PART IV.   THE PROJECT
38.       The staff appraisal report for this project, entitled "Zaire,
Staff Appraisal Report of a Sixth IDA Credit, Sociftg Financiere de
D6veloppement" No. 3747-ZR, is being circulated separately. The appraisal
mission visited Zaire in August/September 1981.  Negotiations were held in
Washington from April 19 to 21, 1982. The Government delegation was led by
Mr. Kazadi Membu, President and General Manager of SOFIDE.
The Institution Background and Objectives
39.       SOFIDE was established as a limited liability company in 1970
with IFC subscribing 19 percent of its initial share capital. It has so
far received five IDA credits totalling US$ 53.5 million. SOFIDE has
sttccessfully established itself as the only term lending institution in
Zaire and has been able to mobilize significant levels of resources from
several foreign lenders. In the crisis which has beset the Zairian economy
since 1975 SOFIDE has concentrated its investment efforts towards
maintaining intact existing industrial capacity and stimulating agriculture
Droduction. The bulk of SOFIDE's loan portfolio is composed of majority
privately owned companies.
4o.       In 1976 the World Bank Operations Evaluation Department conducted
a project performance audit of the first credit to SOFIDE (190-CK). The
conclusion was that SOFIDE had in general successfully fulfilled the
objectives set at its creation, although there was still room for
improvement. The report also suggested that SOFIDE should be involved more
closely in sector policy formulation. In the turbulent environment of the
past five years, however, this could only be done progressively and with
caution. In 1981, a project completion report was prepared covering the
evolution of SOFIDE and its relationship with IDA over the period 1975-80.
A project performance audit report for the same period is being finalized.
Both reports conclude that SOFIDE has made discernible progress in the
field of institution building, but that more could be done to attain this
fundamental objective. Three areas in particular deserve SOFIDE's
attention: (a) emphasis on activities which are consistent with the
(,overnment's objectives but which are commensurate with its processing and
resource mobilization capability; (b) adaptation of its organizational
structure and improvement of its accounting and management information
systems and procedures, in line with the volume and diversity of its
operations; and (c) strengthening of its supervision capability. Both
reports also comment on the substantial cost to SOFIDE of its efforts to
finance small-scale enterprises and projects iEn the interior of the country
in a difficult economic environment, and suggest that SOFIDE should adjust
its involvement in this activity to its managerial and financial resources.
SOFIDE has, as described below, moved rapidly to address these issues.



- 14 -
Share Capital-and Ownership
41.       In order to restore SOFIDE's borrowing base, which has been
eroded by the repeated devaluation of the zaire, in December 1980 SOFIDE's
Board approved a second increase of SOFIDE's authorized capital from Z 4.0
million to Z 12.0 million, of which Z 10.1 million was fully paid in by
June 1981; SOFIDE's management expects the balance to be paid in shortly.
Ownership of SOFIDE's share capital is presently distributed as follows:
public sector shareholders (including the Government and the Central
Bank), 40 percent; local commercial banks and private investors, 35.1
percent; IFC, 4.7 percent; and other foreign shareholders, 20.2 percent.
In addition to its share capital SOFIDE has long term, low interest
subordinated loans which are considered by IDA to have quasi-equity
characteristics. These consist of loans (Z 6 million) and "rolled-over"
IDA funds relent to SOFIDE by Government.
Management, Organization and Staff
42.       SOFIDE's Board consists of ten members and is chaired by SOFIDE's
President and General Manager. Although the composition of the Board of
Directors represents the various shareholders interests, it has not yet
been changed to reflect the changes in the share ownership of SOFIDE
following the last capital increase. SOFIDE also has an Executive
Committee, composed of the locally based directors, which meets more
frequently than the board and approves all loans below board limits. Board
and Executive Committee decisions have generally been sound, despite the
difficult environment in which SOFIDE operates. IFC's continued presence
on the Board remains important. SOFIDE's President and General Manager, a
Zairian national, joined SOFIDE in 1973. He is a competent manager and
well respected in the Zairian public and private sectors. The position of
Deputy General Manager has been filled by various Bank staff on secondment
from 1973 to 1981 when a high level expatriate manager was recruited.
SOFIDE's management has performed well in difficult circumstances. In this
it was assisted by its middle management (all Zairian with one exception)
which is very competent and well motivated. SOFIDE has proceeded over the
past year to review its organizational structure to respond to changing
needs and the increased volume of operations. Overall the new
organizational structure and quality of staff are satisfactory. SOFIDE is
actively promoting the establishment of a local training center for its
professional staff and that of Government, other para-public bodies and the
private sector, and is in the process of strengthening its regional
offices.
Policies and Procedures
43.       SOFIDE is managed according to operating and financial policies
approved by the Board and documented in a formal policy statement approved
by IDA and which remains a sound basis for operations under the proposed
credit. SOFIDE's promotion, appraisal, procurement, disbursement and loan
administration procedures are adequate. SOFIDE is also moving rapidly to
strengthen its supervision and loan recovery procedures.



-15-
Accounts and Audit
44.       The audited accounts covering the period ending December 31, 1980
were qualified because of inaccuracies in records of customer accounts and
fnreign exchange risks. At IDA's request. SOFIDE asked the auditors to
carry out a special audit of the balance sheet as of June 30, 1981. This
audit was not qualified. Audits of SOFIDE's accounts have generally been
satisfactory. However, the increase in the volume and complexity of
operations has necessitated a review of SOFIDE's accounting procedures and
organization to bring them into line with present requirements. Progress
in the implementation of these new systems has been satisfactory.
Lending Terms
45.       SOFIDE lends for maturities of between two and ten years.  The
average loan maturity is about 6.5 years. SOFIDE normally seeks to take
adequate security and not to accept subordination to other lenders.
46.       On foreign currency loans not tied to lines of credit with
specific onlending conditions, SOFIDE was charging until recently 17
percent per annum plus a commitment fee of 1 percent and an appraisal
commission of 2 percent, with the foreign exchange risk being borne by the
client. This interest rate has now been increased to 20 percent. However,
some foreign lenders limit SOFIDE's re-lending rate to substantially lower
levels in view of the developmental objectives they feel have to be
pursued. On untied local currency resources, the rate was until recently
20 percent (with the same commission structure), but has also been
increased to 30 percent. Although the interest rate on foreign currency
loans coupled with the foreign exchange risk is strongly positive, the rate
of local currency loans is negative in real terms, given inflation levels
in Zaire. The demand for term lending in local currency is rather limited,
however, even though SOFIDE is the only lending institution providing such
resources, because most investment is to rehabilitate machinery and
equipment and therefore requires foreign currency with very little local
currency content. Moreover, lending in local currency is largely for
agricultural and smaller projects in the interior that cannot as readily
absorb high rates of interest. The overall spread on SOFIDE's loans, given
its new rate structure, is adequate.
47.       SOFIDE's 1970 Establishment ''Convention'' provided for the
Government to assume the foreign exchange risk on SOFIDE's foreign currency
borrowings up to a ceiling of US$30 million. This did not cover the IDA
credits nor an OPEC Special Fund Loan for which the Government had provided
sepoarate guarantees for the full portion of the Credits/Loan on which the
subborrowers did not bear the foreign exchange risk. Following the
devaluation of the zaire in 1978 and 1979, SOFIDE incurred significant
foreign exchange losses which were initially covered out of its own
resources. In 1979 the Government advised SOFIDE that whereas it would
honor its engagements under the terms of the '"Convention'' on existing
borrowings, it would assume the foreign exchange risk on future borrowings
only in cases that would be agreed to in advance by the Government. By
early 1980 the Government repaid all the foreign exchange losses borne by
SOFIDE on its Government-guaranteed direct borrowings. In addition the
Government agreed to establish an administrative mechanism by which all



- 16 
subsequent foreign exchange losses on SOFIDE's Government guaranteed
foreign borrowings would be automatically covered by the Office of Public
Debt Management (OGEDEP), as they are incurred. This mechanism has
operated satisfactorily to date. In accordance with its Policy
Statement, which precludes it from incurring exchange risks, SOFIDE passes
on the full foreign exchange risk to its subborrowers which are not covered
by the provisions outlined above.
Operations
48.       Given the deteriorating state of the Zairian economy in recent
years, SOFIDE has had to adapt and reorientate its investment strategy and
operations to meet the most pressing needs of the economy. As a result,
agriculture became, in 1980, the most important sector, accounting for 39
percent of total approvals. The manufacturing sector is second with 33
percent followed by construction (10 percent) and transport (6 percent). A
substantial part of SOFIDE's investments both by number and value has been
for rehabilitation/expansion (76 percent by number and 78 percent by value
over the period 1970-1980). Investment in new projects has been limited to
high priority sectors. SOFIDE has also sought to increase its efforts to
finance small scale enterprises and projects in the interior. Total loan
approvals increased from Z 8.6 million in 1976 to Z 65.9 million in 1980,
representing a substantial real growth, despite inflation and the fall in
the value of the zaire.
Loan and Equity Portfolio
49.       As of June 1981 SOFIDE had Z 132.6 million outstanding in 191
projects of which 32, representing 40 percent in amount of the total
outstanding loan portfolio, were still under implementation. Arrears of
more than three months affected 26 percent of the loan portfolio
outstanding. This level, which has remained unchanged for the past three
years compares favorably with the situation of other DFCs in Africa. In
view of the difficult economic environment, the level of arrears, although
high, is not alarming and in general SOFIDE's portfolio, which includes
most of the better credit risks in Zaire, can be considered sound. As of
June 1981 SOFIDE had a small equity portfolio totalling Z 1.97 million of
equity investments in 8 companies.
Financial Situation
50.       The rapid increase in inflation from 1977 through 1981 and
repeated devaluations of the Zaire have seriously impaired SOFIDE's
profitability. Despite the fourfold increase in average total assets for
the period, SOFIDE's profits, after constituting relatively small
provisions for risks, did not show significant increases in absolute terms,
and as a percentage of equity, fell from 20.6 percent in 1978 to 10 percent
in 1979 and to 7 percent in 1980. This drop in profitability is due to the
impact of inflation on administrative costs (up to 8 percent of average
total assets in 1981), the fixed rate nature of SOFIDE's portfolio and the



- 17 -
restricted spread imposed on SOFIDE by some of its lenders (see 2.27). As
a result SOFIDE could not reconstitute its provisions for risk to their
previous levels (3-4 percent of the loan portfolio) and provisions had
falLen to about 2 percent of the risk assets by mid 1981. SOFIDE's management
has moved rapidly to improve profitability. Besides raising interest rates
(para. 46) it has made, with MDA's assistance, a concerted effort to
convince its major creditors to allow it -o increase the interest rates
charged on sub-loans financed out of their respective credits; it has also sought
recently to eliminate non-remunerative tasks, hold down the increase in
administrative costs and strengthen and streamline its project preparation/
appraisal procedures to adjust them to the current level and complexity
of operations. Even so, because the increase in interest rate will take
some time before having an impact on SOFIDE's revenues, SOFIDE's profitability
would remain precarious. This is why funds from the IDA Credit would be
on-lent to SOFIDE at 8 percent, resulting in a spread of about 12 percent
(see para. 56 below). Also, as a condition for the credit SOFIDE is undertaking
not to distribute dividends until it has reconstituted its provisions up to
4 percent of its loan and equity portfolio (Section 3.07 of the draft Project
Agreement). SOFIDE has already sought to reconstitute this level of provisions
in the distribution of its 1981 net income. With the recent capital increase
and the increased "rolled-over" IDA quasi-equity, SOFIDE's debt equity ratio
(irLcluding quasi-equity) stands at 1.9:1, well within the maximum 5:1 agreed
to with IDA (Section 3.03 of the draft Project Agreement). Overall, given
its diversity and quality of portfolio, capital structure, and management,
SOFIDE's condition is sound and creditworthy.
Resources
51.      SOFIDE has received local currency resources through share capital
increases, government loans, rolled-over IDA credits (repayments on subloans
under previous IDA Credits which are relent by the Government to



- 18 -
SOFIDE) and net cash generation. In addition, SOFIDE manages a Special
Agricultural Investment Fund (up to Z 13 million) for the Government and
receives a 4 percent management fee on monies invested in agricultural
projects from this Fund.  SOFIDE, with the assistance of IDA, has been
quite successful in diversifying its sources of foreign exchange. At
present SOFIDE has lines of credit from seven different foreign sources
including the European Investment Bank, the Opec Special Fund and the
African Development Bank. However a number of SOFIDE's borrowings are tied
to conditions regarding sector, size, interest rates, beneficiaries of
loans and procurement which limit the flexibility of their utilisation by
SOFIDE. However, SOFIDE, as sole lender of term foreign exchange
resources, cannot satisfy fully the demand for rehabilitation/renewal
investment
Prospects
52.       Project Pipeline.  As of June 1981, SOFIDE had a substantial
pipeline of over two hundred projects, involving over US$80 million, in the
industrial, agricultural and transport sectors. The promoters of the
projects are for the most part Zairian and locally-based private firms,
with some projects being joint ventures betwen Zairian and foreign
interests and Government and private groups. The majority of the projects
in the industrial sector are for modernization and/or expansion of existing
concerns. The agriculture sector pipeline shows a broad subsectoral mix
and a wide geographical spread; it is skewed towards modernization, and/or
expansion, but also contains a number of new projects. Most of the
projects in this sector are for the production of industrial crops for
export or for the purchase of transport equipment to facilitate the
collection and marketing of agricultural products.
53.       Financial Forecasts.  Approvals in 1981 were significantly higher
than in 1980 because the zaire equivalent was inflated by the June 1981
zaire devaluation and of an abnormally high level of approvals in the
summer of that year. Approvals in 1982 and subsequent years are forecast
to increase by 5 percent per annum in real terms for foreign currency loans
over the 1980 base figure, with 75 percent going to industry and 25 percent
to agriculture. Approvals in local currency would be held at the projected
local currency resource availability. The projected growth in operations
coupled with the increased interest rates, should enable SOFIDE to
reconstitute its provisions to at least 4 percent of its projected risk
assets, provided that SOFIDE restrains the increase in administrative costs
at, or slightly below, projected inflation rates. Net profits are expected
to rise to 0.5 percent in 1982, and to 1.9 percent of total assets in 1983
and decline slightly thereafter, due to the need to increase provisions and
to the rise in administrative costs. SOFIDE is exempted from paying income
tax.
54.       Resource Requirements.  As of June 1981 SOFIDE had uncommitted
foreign exchange resources of about US$24.0 million. SOFIDE's projected
foreign exchange resource requirements show that it would need an
additional amount of about US$56 million for new commitments through end
1984. SOFIDE has since negotiated a line of credit from the EIB for an



- 19 -
amount equivalent to US$7.12 million and is in the final stages of
scgotiating a credit from t. A,frican Devel pment Bank equivalent
to US$11.46 million. The investment component of the proposed credit
(US$19.5 million) would thus meet about 35% of SOFIDE's needs. SOFIDE is
aggressively pursuing other sources to enable it to reach and possibly
exceed its operations forecasz and respond to the large and unsatisfied
demand for term investment funds by the directly productive sectors.
SOFIDE's local currency resource requirements at the commitment level would
be met out of the increase in "rolled-over" IDA funds, the Special Fund for
Agriculture, net operational cash flow, and, if necessary, by recourse to
the Central Bank discount facilities.
Objectives of the Proposed Credit
55.       The proposed Credit would be part of IDA's continued support of a
young but effective financial intermediary, to enable it to continue to
develop its institutional capabilities, to assist selectively the directly
productive sectors and to provide the impetus necessary to further its
impact on the formulation of sector policies and project selection at the
national level. As such the specific objectives of the proposed credit
would be:
(a)  to provide foreign exchange resources for high priority
capital investments in: (i) the industrial, transport,
and agro-industrial sectors to assist in maintaining and
where necessary modernizing existing productive capacity;
and (ii)    the agriculture sector to promote production
to meet basic food needs, the raw materials requirements
of the agro-industrial sector and to increase agricultural
exports.
(b)  to maintain SOFIDE as an effective intermediary by
providing it with loanable funds that would enable it to
attain its forecast level of operations and retain
profitability and autonomy, and by providing foreign
exchange resources to enable it to upgrade its management
and control systems and staff capabilities.
(c) by providing foreign exchange resources, to be managed by
SOFIDE, to finance the foreign exchange component of
feasibility and policy related studies, for the
Government, parastatal bodies, SOFIDE and the private
sector, to foster a greater interaction between SOFIDE and
the Government in sector policy formulation.
Use and Terms of the Credit
56.       The proposed sixth Line of Credit to SOFIDE would be composed of
the following components and would carry the terms and conditions outlined
below:



X 20 -
(a)   Investment Component (US$19.5 million).  This component
would finance the foreign exchange costs of capital invest-
ments, including initial working capital, in subprojects
approved by SOFIDE in the industrial, transport, and agricultural
sectors. The eligible projects would have to be of high economic
priority, be selected by SOFIDE in accordance with its investment
strategy, and be ilustified on the basis of a full economic
analysis, including calculation of the economic rate of return
on all non-service sector projects.  This component would finance
projects aimed at mainitaining production capacity and rehabilitation
of existing enterprises; in accordance with SOFIDE's Investment
Strategy statement it would focus on transport projects, projects
aimed at increasing production of agricultural goods and projects
with a significant foreign exchange saving or earning impact.
Although SOFIDE does not apply a cut-off rate of return to
subprojects, the stringent application of economic criteria results
in high rates of return, usually of the order of 20 percent at least.
At least US$7.5 million would have to be used to finance projects
in agriculture and agro-industries (Section 2.02 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement) in accordance with projections of
eligible priority projects in these subsectors.
This component would carry the following terms and conditions:
(i) Onlending Rates and Foreign Exchange Risk. SOFIDE would
onlend at a minimum of 20 percent per annum and pass on the
foreign exchange risk to subborrowers. (Sections 2,01 (b) of
the draft Project Agreement and Section 3.01 (b) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).  This minimum on-lending rate would
yield positive real rates of interest on the subloans to be
made out of the line of credit. The Borrower would onlend the
proceeds of the investment portion of the credit to SOFIDE at
8 percent per annum, with a commitment charge of 3/4 of 1 percent
per annum on the undisbursed balance of the credit. SOFIDE
would thus derive a spread of about 12 percent, which is the
minimum necessary on the proposed credit to keep its overall
average cost of borrowed funds at a level that would allow it
to continue to operate profitably, reconstitute its provisions
for general risk to an adequate level and allow a modest stren-
gthening of its capital base.
(ii) Free Limit. The individual subproject free limit would be raised
from US$250,7000, under the fifth IDA Credit, to US$300,000 (as
compared to an average size of subprojects of about US$700,000
to 800,000) in recognition of price changes and the improving
quality of SOFIDE's appraisals.  The aggregate free limit would
be US$7.0 million (Section 2.02 (b) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement), permitting SOFIDE to review about 60 percent
of the amount of the Credit.



- 21 -
(iii)   Amortization Schedules.  The subsidiary credit
(Government to SOFIDE) would have a flexible
amortization schedule that would substantially conform
with the aggregate of the amortization schedules of
the subloans made by SOFIDE and financed under the
proposed IDA Credit, subject to a maximum of 15 years
including a grace period not to exceed three years.
In order to inhibit prepayment SOFIDE would impose an
appropriate prepayment commission on all subloans
financed out of this investment component, that are
repaid earlier than the initial amortization schedule
agreed upon between SOFIDE and the sub-borrower.
(iv)     Commitment Period.  The funds would be available for
commitment by SOFIDE until December 31, 1984.
(b)   Technical Assistance Component (US$0.9 million).  The current
acute shortage of foreign exchange in Zaire has prevented SOFIDE
from obtaining the necessary hardware, foreign technical
assistance, and overseas training for its staff to enable it to
improve its systems, efficiency and operations. Therefore up to
US$0.9 million of the proposed credit would be provided to enable
SOFIDE to upgrade its accounting and management information
systems, finance selective training of its professional staff in
project preparation and appraisal and in financial management, to
recruit foreign experts to run project specific courses at its
newly created training center, and to finance the purchase of
vehicles and other hardware necessary for its operations. This would
involve approximately 54 man/months of consultants at an average foreign
cost of US$8500 per month; such consultants would be recruited in accordance
with the Association's guidelines. The component would carry the following
terms and conditions:
The funds allocated for this component would be passed on as a grant
from the Borrower to SOFIDE (Section 3.01 (c) of draft Development
Credit Agreement) and would be available for commitment until
December 31, 1984. The Association would approve all requests for
financing under this component. Any balance of funds for this component
not used for the above stated purposes could be transferred at the
request of SOFIDE and with the approval of the Association to the
line of credit Investment Component ( (a) above) under the terms and
conditions applicable to that component.
(c) Component for Feasibility, Pre-Investment and Sector
Policy Studies (US$ 1.1 million)
The funds from this component, lent to the Borrower and to be
managed by SOFIDE, would finance the foreign exchange costs of
feasibility and industrial policy related studies for Government,
parastatal bodies, SOFIDE and the private sectors. It is expected
that a number of these studies would address specific policy related
issues aimed at improving the performance of the industry and
agro-industry sectors. SOFIDE after consultation with the Government



- 22 -
has drawn up an indicative list of such studies which was provided to IDA
at negotiations; also at negotiations, a list of criteria to screen study
proposals was adopted. Studies to be presented to IDA for financing would
include the following:
(i) studies to improve the design and preparation of projects; (ii) a review
of the investment code with a view to suggesting revisions aimed at improving
the framework for industrial investment; (iii) assistance to improve and
develop an adequate data base for the industrial sector; (iv) a review of tariff
protection and incentives for industrial development; and (v) a study of
SSE promotion focusing on aspects such as access to credit and legislation
changes to favour SSE development.
57.   Following an analysis by SOFIDE, study subprojects to be presented to
IDA financing would be selected by a Committee, already established, between
SOFIDE and the Ministry of Planning, and which will also include representatives
of the National Association of Zairian enterprises. Requests for financing
would be accompanied by an analysis and justification of the subproject;
a shortlist of consultants and recommendations for the selection; detailed
draft terms of reference for the study; and detailed cost estimates.
This component would carry the following terms and conditions:
(i) Charge for administrative expenses. SOFIDE would charge a one
time fee of 2X of the approved amount of each study accepted for
financing to cover the expenses it incurs in administering this
facility.
(ii) Cost recovery for studies by non-Governmental bodies. For studies
presented by non-Governmental bodies, SOFIDE would extend a loan
for the amount on the same terms and conditions as for the Investment
Component-of the Line of Credit except that the term of the loan
should not exceed four years. It would then aggregate repayments
arising out of this with the next maturing portion of its loan of
the Investment Component for transfer to Government.
(iii) Maximum amount for each study. In view of the limited amount and the
pilot nature of this component, no more than US$200.000 would be allocated
to a single study.
(iv) Commitment. The funds under this component would be available for
commitment until December 31, 1984.
Procurement and Disbursement
58.   Procurement for the subprojects (US$19.5 million) financed under the
Credit would be on the basis of competitive quotations from a number of different
suppliers, a procedure acceptable to IDA. Procurement of goods under the
technical assistance component (about US$0.4 million) would be in accordance with
local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Association; given the
relatively modest size of procurement packages, the scope for international
competitive bidding is most limited.



23 -
59.       The proceeds of the proposed Credit would be disbursed on SOFIDE
subloans as follows: (a)  100 percent of the c.i.f. cost of imported goods
or services for eligible subprojects; (b) up to 85 percent of the cost of
previously imported equipment which is purchased locally for the
subprojects; (c) up to 70 percent of the cost of equipment produced in
Zaire substantially from previously imported components or raw materials;
(d) up to 55 percent of the cost in zaires of construction works included
in subprojects and carried out by Zairian contractors (Section 2.02(a) of
draft Development Credit Agreement).
3enefits and Risks
50.       By providing resources to directly productive, mainly private
enterprises in Zaire, the project would help them to maintain intact and
rehabilitate existing industrial and transport plant and equipment as well
as revive agriculture production. In addition, continuing World Bank Group
support to SOFIDE would help enhance the capacity of the institution to
retain financial independence and autonomy of investment decisions. based
on objective economic criteria which have been discussed and agreed with IDA. It
would further SOFIDE's institutional development as well as increase its ability
to acquire additional lines of credit from external sources of foreign exchange
so that it can play an increasingly significant intermediation role in Zaire.
61.       The  risks related to SOFIDE's Management are minimal in view of
the Company's past and current performance (See paras. 41-42 and 47-49
above); the technical assistance component of the Credit will help
strengthen further SOFIDE's financial management and staff. The major risk
for the project is related to the impact of Zaire's overall economic and
financial situation on SOFIDE's borrowers: high inflation rates, shortages
of foreign exchange for essential imports and tight liquidity could affect
the Quality of SOFIDE's portfolio and its future profitability. While this
risk is limited by the provisions governing the investment component of the
Credit (para. 56(a)), it cannot be eliminated until economic recovery takes
place. This risk ,however, is justified by the contribution expected from
SOFIDE's operations to the maintenance and rehabilitation of productive
capacity.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUIMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Zaire and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between SOFIDE and
the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
63.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. An additional condition of credit effectiveness would be that
the subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and SOFIDE has been
entered into(Section 5.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 24 -
PART VI - RECONHENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
June 7,,1982
Washington, D.C.



-25 -                                                ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                   Page  1  of  5
ZAIRE - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ZAIRE                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                      - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOT'AL          2345.4                                MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     310.0              1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP i'ER CAPITA (US$)                100.0       170.0     260.0                 238.3                  794.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      97.6       105.4     102.5                  70.5                  707.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 17756.0     21638.0   27509.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 15.7        21.6      32.7                  17.5                   27.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      49.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       139.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2130
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        7.6         9.2      11.7                  27.7                   55.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     58.0        69.0      86.3                  73.7                  130.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         44.1        44.3      44.7                  44.8                   46.0
15-64 YRS.                         52.9        52.9      52.6                  52.4                   51.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.0         2.8       2.7                   2.9                    2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.2         2.0       2.7                   2.6                    2.8
URBAN                               ..         5.2       7.3                   6.5                    5.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    48.1         47.1      45.9                  46.9                   46.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    24.2         21.3      18.1                  19.3                   15.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.0         3.0       3.0                   3.1                    3.2
IAHILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..          ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)         101.0       101.0      88.0                  89.5                   89.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  100.0       101.0     104.0                  90.2                   92.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          36.0        37.0      36.0                  52.7                   52.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       13.0        13.0      10.0                  17.8                   16.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) N RTALITY RATE     35.7        31.6      25.4                  27.3                   20.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   40.0         42.9      46.8                  45.8                   50.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..          ..
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        11.0      16.0                  23.9                   27.4
URBAN                               ..        33.0      43.0                  55.0                   74.3
RURAL                               ..         4.0       5.0                  18.5                   12.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         5.0      22.0                  26.2
URBAN                               ..         5.0      67.0                  63.5
RURAL                               ..         5.0       6.0                  20.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         37621.6     29300.8   15529.3               31911.8                13844.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     3511.7      5067.3    1938.0                3674.9                 2898.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            230.9       320.0     339.0                1238.8                 1028.4
URBAN                             57.2        96.8     145.0                 272.8                  423.0
RURAL                            770.5      1066.7    2622.5                1745.2                 3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..         6.1
RURAL                               ..          ..       6.0
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..



ANNEX I
- 26 -                                                   Page 2 of 5
TASLE 3A
2ASRC BSOUAL INDICATORS DATA SHET
ZAIRE                          RUSERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVI AGES
- MDST RECENT ESTIMATI)
HOST RECENT            LOW INCaME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970  b ESTIMATS /b   AFRICA SOU1TH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTgD ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 60.0         88.0      90.0                  56.4                     73.7
MALE                  88.0       110.0      103.0                  70.7                    96.8
FEMALE                32.0        65.0       77.0                  50.1                    79.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  3.0          9.0      19.0                  10.0                     16.2
MALE                   4.0        13.0       23.0                  13.6                    25.3
FEMALE                 1.0         4.0       14.0                   6.6                    14.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. ( Of' SECONDARY)  27.0          10.0       13.0                   8.0                     5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO         -
PRIMAY                             40.0         43.0        ,                   46.5                    36.2
SECONDARY                          20.0         20.0      27.0                  25.5                     23.6
ADULT LITEKACY RATE (PERCENT)        31.Oc       13.0       15.0                  25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0          3.0       3.6                   2.9                     32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0          2.9       4.8                  32.8                    69.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ,           0.3       0.3                   1.9                      8.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   1.0          9.2        1.8                  2.8                     20.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.1           0.1       0.1                   1.2                      0.7
LABO  FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      8215.5       9464.8   11395.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   46.4         44.5      42.8                  34.1                    36.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              83.0         79.0      75.4                  80.0                     56.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  9.0         11.0      12.8                   8.6                    17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                46.3         43.7       41.4                  41.7                    37.2
MALE                                 51.9         49.8      48.2                   54.3                    47.1
FEMALE                               41.2         38.0      34.8                  29.2                     27.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0         1.1        1.1                   1.2                     1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT Of HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS .
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                                                     .
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                                          136.0                    381.2
RURAL                                ..                   80.0                  84.5                    156.2
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                     76.0                  99.1                   334.3
RURAL                                              .      43.0                  61.2                    137.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                                                           39.7
RURAL                                ..           ..      80.0                  68 8
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on avallabillty of data and Is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 196O refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
Ic   1962.
May, 1981



ANNEX I
- 27 -                                                                     Page 3ofS5
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAl, IttICdTlRS
noesftlh-&h  the detente  dreen fron so--e  generalY Judged e               - n~   auhoiatanto  and rel-ala, it should also be notd               'y anyno        toer
-sinl     oparable ha-u-  of the lank of  -nadsodoaaddefano..ad ronrap-s need ty dIfferent n PntIc to tlltig                                       the dat   -.o ..,
thale...t. ucful on deetoibe order  of segoitude,  adhi-t  trn.,ad  ho..r.oterlac  --et  Mjrdftrae  bteno ti
the rafernno anoup  ar a fI  the  antotrgooof eta sabj ann nanany sad (2)  anonaty greuP .uth  haeabtigoah                      oaae  o ..n.than the noo-rsy Irony
of  he  alentooutt  lanep   fr "apialSorin  Oic  fapurecre" Erot  abat  `Middle Inonur Nnrh oline and Middle tat"ich.e   loan
fnl-ula   fliunosel)   1 Itheref--nn   grou  data the s-erga. sea popularln   aelglned a eal    _ea. far soh lad i-de   and  hb.- only ah-n
eaoit    f the c...ntries in P rupIedat  for- that lad iator,  tiar  the nooSrag  of o--nt-eaacua   eke indicaor  daed   rohaallitoo  dais
and .in .tan   .of .o nanion  _use be ieernusei   rlaing a-etage  of ate trdi--tornosnotla.  Thosa cotge                     .r only  aflI cpeigtoOnaf
fgritn-tor    -_ltnt   failnina    raad Inrporarily or y--nanly                                     Fntahci    Ila  an  ponZ  tlatealan  epc e  lea                   :Pnyitl andre-
for   ron, parurc, arint ad  ittnhct g            tdeeorn  lie  munf.ll  aa_eilttoootr.Inyta    r  eaten                                          i ahatat   pemaenl  atafe
GN                               1979 d-.                  -~~~~~~~~~~~by  oleat   oe  hyinn-  i_t...lanatn   prtang   nnopll         no
1970, and 1979 dat-.. i-                 Wl   .kAI.(977   .i)   9                                    ncdtta.od lsone!   ane  sid -te  eh : ohit            nift  in-pttansahonao-
tIttt CltthtPtlli il  IAPTA  , Anual  nnanpnio  of  oanenia  caegy  (oel  iocipoopce.urba                   IYsit-lflanud b ttl  pn hynpafge-raiboapiaby
and  ignte,penolan,  unnl gs ad bdro, nrler ad gonhrea  elo-        ad rralbasitag lnalondenai orpitl--                 nd  ediil  td   atenit
trotf  tklgra    fcoleulcenpa   aia;ll,  90   nd1T                          enea   ieiiitd-ainl   r  mo dndndol-                     ndttoa 
Total Poniatlon.Mad-yearltbooeaoe)    da PitJuy-; 1960. 1970,  and 1979             HIltIhl
daa.   ilraa gl                                                                                           o  n.e.od  pesoaIethnc loidf-nonl  _rdo  an    url
aeogcutlo -; 1      t1 ..7.. and 197  dA.                                                 tha housatoidtIn0aten 1n7cal putyonen
difatnInyaf---  orn    oulto   rjenuettlae   n11                                                    her.o  Idren  per noo  in all urao  andi rualocupednnne,If
loE              ,,Onecac.nh.n   onaco nYi-t-  noty' -       perij,  Ifnn td- onadon tenl  Iletiiylenn   fdeinn       ne.nbn   n   uo
Ine,  n  lml  ll  epctoysth nng  c7.5yar.th    it-Cano tn:ddi Ig  nt 7a9iot  i   iin u_tr
aeeefrten  it   anas   onertlnssann    aln   no   oa,ahn  and! riAl dt    I dS-                                                                           bretrateinnln
tnationanrornldnf   n-Ins  ano  mety   1 PupaiontheeI nd   groceb alone                    Pr1icaynbo      tota, manIan   fe-aInt    poti,  ae nd                   l
ma -ooat--yTi  it       rheodolyatab-tiltyrte   eoieyopnMrpnno-gepplains n-dlyin)ntecil  eeaed                                                                         dl
fIn inil  --ao d107  an  th   ae      elt   flriiyrc    oaliin                                   endr   ooi-tnl  aest   eao-lsua    sooo   eodr
Thieno        -i-rolyfu    fltlid _.aadllotltlie-aofgtcunnpodrcnonresregecrl'ly
Poonlebnton InnIIIedty                                                                          cuoludedP-.
Peia.  in     Id-nu   hoiutc   atoa               Itfaer(t   lhere            ofpntatona  enrllnn    tnn   facnan  -oatnicaouln
An rerci.  nd reloed   ll pata ed roar  asYanatae   of- aidl -penn 000Porepnig  aa
laion;- lt..17.  sa-       97c  an,adl  itrcyfcelere                                                                                -,teat.ur    In .n..e. den   rie
Porulnnoolnorh lte I eonan  - ecal -  ronalmottoParseof noal an-  seapercetage  f tonl adnt copiatto  nordft pata so  coat
yearq pouaions to    po91-hO,-          _ 19 f, _an  1 ,_171-7__9.f,,,d
laluafo   ll-n,190f. and.-d. 190-9              -Pectan  as   artoora.reloln                                                                     I.a.sae  cur cIaprlc   atu
finds titllane fyrn9      nenj-  ntnIlnelit   prthonndn dnd-ynar                                   car   scain  las ...... lil  pean;-         o  oi       hi  mn.tasa   a
i.Rll, tr   ars  nnly  ie-et  nrgandigit11,b91,ad  99                                                 taoonnlabllhd   iedl9
rannlnrlanlna-Accenore,Aooo'InnnncetA I'       -h..- eoarolnfetesr t.teotner, -er Ifotardtnn "lanolt   eeur   o   rate
of-- bnt-ctr   anoeadroa0oao   aina   alypanigpnrn                                                  enrlpbi   artosn__ulrIn    nbte'i c e                                 I_nccnr
196091litIO                                                                                    en70be-"daily" --  in h appear  an in.a  fotI d-he.ane.k-
ladn 6o)fod P  9doclo raRalt   1h-1h1      noopruianul                                     Com   AilOrnac   e  Captaca   tAl-naed  o  the                                   -dnh   u
rourIonctof Rall lcdcaodto. rrdctnecdc ce   n  fn                                              nioet  saId duigte.          er.n..da   d.tanst  i  n-
in op caledar pent  Ands.   Iemod       d-tna tcrer prbnary  -oda.(e.g. sgaroano            andioil le..tntd
ratIoal atrals  irdioo  prIe anulca;I9hl-S. 190, an  1979dana.Tona  Iabo  ~forefib onedaf  99             -blih                  Y-nolpno actIo  bumo -P-bl ui-g
Per cat ta  urnir  f colnIes lrrorh of. reonfre-acofaf -b. Ioptdfosamdfre  andune                                       i_pe  to    nldo   bneor,etdoa    t.
car day --7e1lu-l-  -o d-te   -onrl-  doIstlc,-' _rouolyor, .irn   ns                             no  cmpraled160..7.an.119da.
botdn     .se   o.udpocana,anioae   n   titynon    euIe                                irritr  (ton                     h- abrfoc   n      Iuin fIrely,bninVn
"eIl   neon eat- Isaied by~ (Phi4 been   on p     -byloclIt--c-fo  d-ia- ati-                     fishPin   as    "rlnal  r2  tota  labor (Iron; 19-   1971 and 1979 nat.
oiyad h.....eteine            Iontct   epeaa_,boy_cgindgetdntoItnenl-  aorfrc-n  i o.coeriric    nafc drn
DANDaedlInulropouou,aralit NUTRIoToIfrONnt  itan  elorliy  eseran                                                                     l-an fas   Leciiane of toa- ihrk   ot; .
Pn  etnarlo ol ,net1tone per d-n -  - d-Proei   toren  of ptcpta                        PnltrtntdaIart -                  total. nLe.- so  fe-derattopoaoh
si rcoo    l.d-ae  ofItota  proteI  par-65 day 7and PP d 1t9nc9 ar-  urh1-, 90.a                                 ..10   data,  fleet are. Jased on- Onptrp-ona
-orl- fond Irn;1(-I  19f2aid ifr                   -,d~- duto.                                   nothoro-u  taI It f lt.b.   I
tIred  fror  ft..l and_nsa  ti96n yt  up,101-97190  nn197ddte1t979ioltdout-
odc  aru0-Po nOo                             -dca    rabhe t,nadno                         rreeaeo,rcaolco Ib-                nIc tn lilout an  -, l- h.   ..... L- ci obra
h-Int    1dooudone   IpcItot96        ;  b     17   n 19709ddata.                                  97 hon 19n9odun.
_it npcnny at nfldjPyarSfy- Notoogep turfner ot yanca d oftl-nnli9merloitg   ar asn   r   eyuytl,otau                                                          pcrty  lonels
uchirtl,19t1,ll _atdl    I. ....                                                             anitbcldblnteprondot-con- dntalunotcoo
of aga  ot ilucand'lIo   hour      ~I  1 -`            -beoluinh_rerny  Iccoo't helItia    onel-oP                                                      I- I  Illo   aci  a-edtrA
oroeeetotfeAacerj-arcar.tIpo~nlatotf-cnnoorhac,_udrutal-ls-                            ruirnionallnnrqnace  denpc-c unun' .ono-tocfrauirr-eo-
net of  peole-icl,utn  und19    toul  0mb1jPr rana.a. Iabcse i to~ sale          d                acfordahia    .         l                                   s   dv
parcnotunenotclrlrrapeot toe popnlut- o7 .  In no  cean arnapul--
1. 196I-11,                       ynnoalnosaur97o(e). CrIp   enlndei7efrrenrra
fanlly' a otter needa 
ocpeeatcloorcra lcsroaai>..jp     96noo 19of p uai o-dota9 9 d-.at nsa rural -.
la -insc1960ct19s0 ..ec979199 
Potoluinon ~ ~           ~             ~             ~            ~            .hldb-'    p"                           ' or   hci a   -PplaccIt  adnponaco   ratoogpyi
clsneqo L  _-tflef         ..oeu)aaLool~ aconon-icplre               -
Oonots00  _utt   _Peosu   I fopAlu..t-n dioidtd  byt nonh-cof-yeborcctng,
sa-eanoftalegrndutencraod  focla.naaadaaseince



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ZAIRE - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Amount
(million US$ at      Share of GDP at Market Prices (M)         Annual Growth Rates_L()
current prices)               (at current prices)             (at constant 1970 prices)
1980                           1980                      1978       1979       1980
Gross Domestic Product.L         5,948.0                          100.0                     -5.3        0.3        2.4
(GDP Commercialized)            (4,749.7)                          -                       (-6.3)      (0.2)      (2.3)
Agriculture                    1,760.4                           29.6                      0.0        3.1        2.3
Industry                       1,408.7                           23.7                     -8.6       -6.4        4.3
Services                       2,563.4                           43.1                    -5.1         4.7        4.5
Consumption                      4,456.5                           74.9                    -12.02,     -3.2        3.9
Gross Investment                 1,241.5                           20.9                    -52.0-      43.5       37.2
Exports of GNFS                  2,154.4                           36.2                     27.0      -17.0        2.7
Imports of GNFS                  1,904.4                           32.0                    -21.8       -6.7      -5.1
Gross national savings           1,502.0                           25.3                      8.7         6.0       0
PUBLIC FINANCE'/ (Central Government)                  (million  )                         % of GDP
A c t u a 1                    (at market prices)
1977        1978          1979            1977        1979
Current revenues                             731.0       1,930.0       3,738.6          13.3       22.4
Current expenditures                       1,145.2       2,171.0       3,456.5         20.9        20.8
Current deficit                             -414.2        -241.0         282.1         -7.6         1.7
Capital expenditures                         113.8         129.0         246.4           2.1        1.5
Overall deficit                             -528.0        -370.0         35.7          -9.6         0.2
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                                  1978             1979               1980
(million 3 outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                                    1,854.5          2,084.9            3,367.3
Bank Credit to Public Sector                             1,578.3          2,062.2            2,329.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector                              641.0            878.7            1,014.3
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money (as % of GDP - market prices)         33.8             18.8               20.2
Consumer Price Index (1975 . 100)41                        453.4            912.7            1,339.0
Annual percentage changes in
Consumer Price Index                                      48.5            101.3               46.7
Bank Credit to Public Soctor                                49.6             30.7               13.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector                               20.1             37.1               15.4
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average
exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
1/     At market prices; components are expressed at factor cost and will
not add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
2/     Figures for 1977/78 are inconsistent with other trends in the
economy and should be used and interpreted with caution.
3/     Cash operations only; excludes foreign grants and expenditures
financed by foreign sources.
4/     Consumer price index for the city of Kinshasa.
February 22, 1982



ANNEX I
24                            Page 5 of 5
ZAIRE - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                 1978         1979        1980
(million US$ at current prices)
Exports of goods and services                     1,665.0       1,914.6    2,087.1
of which:  Merchandise F.O.B.                   1,575.4       1,834.0    1,953.6
Imports of goods and services                     1,786.6       1,967.3    2,219.9
of which:  Merchandise F.O.B.                   1,024.6       1,106.9    1,201.3
Net transfers                                         38.8          67.6       133.3
Current Account Balance                             -82.8           14.9         0.5
Public Capital (net)                                 122.7         -49.6        23.8
*                                     Private Capital and
errors and omissions                             -369.4        -220.4      -278.5
SDR Allocation                                         -            20.4        20.6
Other Financing 1                                    405.0         297.2       265.5
Net international reserves (-   increase)           -75.5          -62.5      -31.9
EXCHANGE RATES:
January 2, 1979-August 27, 1979                           8 1.00 - SDR 0.5
August 27, 1979-February 22, 1980                         8 1.00 = SDR 0.375
February 22, 1980-June 19, 1981                           g 1.00 = SDR 0.263
Since June 19, 1981                                       8 1.00 = SDR 0.158
Average exchange rates
1978                                                    US$ 1.00 =8 0.836
1979                                                   US$ 1.00 = 9 1.729
1980                                                   US$ 1.00 = 8 2.800
1981                                                    US$ 1.00 = Z 5.407
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (1980)           million US$       %
Minerals and Petroleum                  1,536.6      78.7
Others                                    417.0      21.3
Total                                1,953.6    100.0
EXTERNAL DEBT, June 30, 1982-                       (million US$)
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                          4,175.1
Non-Guaranteed                                           350.0
Total outstanding & Disbursed                          4,525.1
3/
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1980-                                %
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                             16.1
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                                3.3
IBRD/IDA LENDING                       US$ million
(As of March 31, 1982)                 IBRD    IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed               84.18    192.37
Undfsbursed                             c       139.93
Outstanding, incl. Undisbursed        84.18    332.30
1/  Includes payments arrears, debt rescheduling, emergency
assistance, and profit on gold sales.
2/ These figures show the position as at June 30, 1981 after
account is taken of the estimated effect of the Paris Club
Agreement of July 1981.
3/  Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor
services. Represents actual payments.
February 22, 1982



-30 -                           ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of March 31, 1982)
Loan or
Credit      Fiscal                                     Amount in tS$ million
Number      Year       Borrower                   Bank         IDA IJ  Undisbursed
Prior
to June   Congo &    Transport       91.58 2/
1960      Otraco      Infrastructure
One Loan Fully Disbursed                         100.00
Ten Credits Fully Disbursed                                   119.50      0.79 3/
571       1975       ZAIRE       Rail-River II               26.00       1.80
624       1976       ZAIRE       Education II                21.00      9.24
660       1977       ZAIRE       Cotton Reha-
bilitation                 8.00       3.61
697       1978       ZAIRE       Ituri Livestock
Development                 8.00      3.05
710       1978       ZAIRE       Fourth DFC                  10.00        .38
796       1978       ZAIRE       Oil Palm                     9.00      8.37
902       1979       ZAIRE       Railways                    20.00     19.23
916       1979       ZAIRE       Highway IV                  26.00     14.31
998       1980       ZAIRE       Fifth Dev. Finance          18.50      16.01
1040       1981       ZAIRE       Smallholder Maize           11.00      9.94
1089       1981       ZAIRE       Kwilu Ngongo Sugar          26.40     24.30
1152 4/    1982       ZAIRE       Kwango-Kwilu                 2.90      2.90
Technical Assistance
1180 5/    1982       ZAIRE       ONATRA Modernization        26.00      26.00
Total (less cancellations):                      191.58       332.30      139.93
- of which has been repaid                     110.95         0.47
Total now outstanding:                          80.63       331.83      139.93
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/ Guaranteed by the Kingdom of Belgium.
3/ Credit 255-CK, originally US$7.0 million, and Credit 272-CK, originally
US$6.5 million, have closed with undisbursed balances of US$80,000 and
about US$480,000 respectively which will be cancelled; Credit 398-ZR has
several withdrawal applications pending which, when paid, will leave a
balance of about US$60,000 to be cancelled.
4/ This credit was signed July 23, 1981, but is not yet effective.
S/ This credit was signed March 10, 1982, but is not yet effective.



ANNEX II
- 31 -                  Page 2 of 7
Amount sold:                     54.47
- of which has been repaid       54.47
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/                80.63      331.83
Total Undisbursed:                                0.0                 139.93
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT 11 (As of March 31, 1982)
Fiscal                             Type of        Amount in US$ Millions
Year       Obligor                Business       Loan  Equity   Total
1970        Societe Financiere de
Developpement(SOFIDE)   DFC            -      0.76    0.76
1979        Zaire Gulf Oil Company  Oil Company  2.50   -          2.50
1979        Zaire Petroleum Company Oil Company  1.61   -          1.61
Total gross commitments                4.11  0.76    4.87
less cancellations,
terminations, repayments
and sales                              0.83   -       0.83
Held by IFC                            3.28  0.76    4.04
C.    PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/ (As of March 31, 1982)
Credit 571-ZR          Railway and River Transport Project; US$26 Million
Credit of July 11, 1975; Effective Date: November 18,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project included: (a) technical assistance to ONATRA including a
comprehensive training program; (b) financing of a major part of ONATRA's
1975-77 investment requirements for river transport equipment, railway
improvements and track renewal; (c) additional river markings on the
Kinshasa-Ilebo waterway; (d) port studies; and (e) a preliminary engineering
study for the Ilebo-Kinshasa rail link. Project implementation was initially
slow due to a combination of management shortcomings and financial constraints
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do
not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weakness in
project execution.



ANNEX II
- 32-                             Page 3 of 7
which improved during execution.   All procurement is now completed or underway;
and credit funds are fully committed.  ONATRA's financial performance has
improved significantly as a result of tight controls.  Operations have improved
in the ports, in river transport, in the shipyards and in the railway.  Overall
project execution is proceeding satisfactorily atnd the credit is expected to
close as scheduled.
Credit 624-ZR           Second Education rroject; US$21 million Credit
of December 28, 1976; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: Si.ptemb 30, % 82
The project consists of construction and equipment for five new
rural primary teacher training schools, the rehabilitation and re-equipment of
six agricultural technicianl training school.s and one hlgher agricultural
institute, technical assistance and fellowships for these inatitutions, and
evaluation of the new programs promoted in the project and the carrying out of
preinvestment studies in preparation for further education projects. Because of
implementation delays and exceedingly high inflation, the total cost of the
project substantially exceeds available ftinds. Fellowships training of teachers
and several preinvestment studies have been successfully carried out. The
ability of the Project Unit to implement the remaining components or a revised
project is, being assessed and a decision on utilization of thie remaining credit
balance will be made before the clos ing date.
Credit 660-ZR           Cotton Rehabilitation Project - US$8 million Credit of
December 28 1976; Effective Date: May 31, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982, Cfnnced   Belium
Project implementation has been very slow from the beginning due to
various administrative obstacles and the dissolution of ONAFITEX, the National
Cotton and Project Implementing Agency, in May 1978. Coton-Zaire, a public
enterprise, was created in December 1979 to replace the former ONAFITEX regional
Office. An Amendment Agreement reflecting these changes was signed on October
10, 1980; Government counterpart funds for investments were transferred to
Coton-Zaire and the technical assistance team was integrated in the company with
clear responsibilities. The cotton campaigns since 1979 have been carried out
on a regular schedule and production, although still very low, is increasing.
Producer prices were doubled for the purchases of the campaign which began in
December 1981. The sale of textile stocks has stagnated, however, owing to a
dramatic increase in the import of used clothing.  The Government is exploring
appropriate measures to reduce the impact of the sales decline which has created
a severe liquidity problem for the cotton companies. These measures will form
part of a program of a proposed Second Cotton Rehabilitation Project.



ANNEX II
- 33 -                             Page 4 of 7
Credit 697-ZR          Ituri Livestock Development; US$8 Million Credit of
August 2, 1977: Effective Date: December 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982; Cofinanced by the
French Ministry of Cooperation, the Federal Republic
of Germany and Canadian International Development Agency
The project aims at improving livestock production in the Ituri
subregion through the provision of improved animal health and production
services, the training of staff and pastoralists, development of three ranches
to finish range cattle and rehabilitation of marketing and slaughter facilities
including two abattoirs. Project start up suffered from delays in the provision
of counterpart funds, supply shortages due to deterioration of the
Kisangani-Bunia road and lack of foreign exchange to import the necessary
conmodities, insufficient support from central services in Kinshasa, and delays
in setting up of the training program financed by German aid. Constraints
remain the very high costs in the project area, high rates of inflation, the low
prices for beef, late receipt of government counterpart funds, and the so far
unresolved problem of incomplete exchange of bank notes in December 1979. The
ranch component has not yet started and it is envisaged to delete it. Despite
the constraints and the delayed start up remarkable results have been achieved.
They include;(i) the establishment and operation of a veterinary and livestock
extension serice; (ii) the implementation of a training program for extension
officers and livestock producers; (iii) the establishment of a livestock
producer cooperative which arranges the supply of veterinary products; (iv)
vaccination and drenching of about 200,000 cattle annually (two thirds of the
project's objective); (v) initiation of pasture development; and (vi)
establishment of regular livestock markets. Future emphasis in the subsector
should be placed on expansion of marketing.
Credit 710-ZR         Fourth DFC; US$10 Million Credit of August 2, 1977;
Effective Date: December 3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
SOFIDE was established in January 1970 and the Bank Group provided a
substantial share of its initial resources through an IFC equity investment of
US$750,000 and a First IDA Credit of US$5 million. Three other credits of US$10
million each were granted in 1971, 1973 and 1977.  SOFIDE started operating on
July 1st, 1970, with a General Manager seconded by the Bank.  In May 1973, a
Zairian General Manager, assisted by an expatriate Senior Advisor, replaced the
Bank-seconded General Manager. The institution has developed into a well run
r          and capable development bank, despite the policies of zairianization
retrocession which have disrupted the industrial and financial sectors. SOFIDE
has recently diversified its activities by increasing its operations in key



ANEX II
34 -                           Page 5 of 7
economic sectors, especially agriculture and transportation.  SOFIDE has also
decentralized its operation and has recently opened three regional offices. In
1976, the Bank's Operation Evaluation Department conducted a project performance
audit of the First Credit to SOFIDE and found that SOFIDE had been generally
successful in fulfilling its objectives and had developed into a competent
organization. The original closing date (December 31, 1981) was extended by one
year to permit disbursement of the remaining credit funds which were fully
committed to subprojects. The credit will close at end 1982 as scheduled.
Credit 796-ZR          Oil Palm Project - US$9 Million Credit of June 8, 1978:
Effective Date: January 30, 1981; Closing Date: December
31, 1985; Cofinanced by African Development Fund (ADF)
Banque Arabe pour le Developpement Economique en Afrique
(BADEA) and Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
(CCCE)
The project consists of a five-year program to support the
rehabilitation of existing oil palm plantations through investments for
replanting and new plantings, renewal of oil mills and transport equipment,
improvement and expansion of social infrastructure; the employment of additional
staffs and training of staff.  Effectiveness was delayed by the difficulties
which arose between the companies and the Government over the role of the
companies in the Project; by administrative bottlenecks, particularly in the
Ministry of Agriculture; and by the complex cofinancing arrangements. One of the
three companies which was to participate in the project has withdrawn and the
investment and financing plans were revised. Of the remaining companies, one
has begun a planting program out of its own resources but has delayed a major
decision on rehabilitation of its oil mills. The second company has placed
equipment orders for vehicles and oil mill parts to start its planting and oil
mill rehabilitation program.
Credit 902-ZR          Railway Project: US$20.0 million Credit of June 14, 1979;
Effective Date: January 27, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983; Cofinanced by the Saudi Fund for
Development; Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau; the
OPEC Special Fund; and the African Development Bank
The Project supports the 1979-1982 investment program of the Societe
Nationale des Chemins de fer Zairois (SNCZ) and includes trach rehabilitation,
equipment and operational investments to increase SNCZ's effective capacity.
The project finances: (a) renewing and upgrading 210 km of track and ballasting
another 285 km; (b) 100 ore wagons, 9 shunting locomotives and 12 passenger
coaches; (c) spare parts for locomotives and wagons; (e) extension of Ilebo port
facilities; (f) social infrastructure; and (g) middle/senior technical and
management staff training and consultant services. Effectiveness of this credit
was delayed in particular by slow progress in completing cofinancing
arrangements. Disbursements have also been slow owing to the weakness of
purchase and storage controls Twhich prevented placing purchase orders in a
timely manner. Technical progress of project implementation has been
satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
- 35 -
Credit 916-ZR          Fourth Highway Project: US$26 million Credit of
June 14, 1979; Effective Date: July 16, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982; Cofinanced by
the EEC Special Action Fund and the Saudi Fund
for Development.
The project was designed to help finance the 1979-81 road
maintenance and rehabilitation program of the Office des Routes (OR). It
comprises the maintenance and rehabilitation of about 40,000 km of roads,
including 800 km of paved road; strengthening and replacement of bridges;
construction of workshops and warehouses; procurement of motor and cable ferries
tand replacement motors, and of highway maintenance equipment, spare parts and
fuel; improvement of the National Public Works Laboratory, and technical
assistance and training. Implementation of the project had to be postponed
owing to a one year delay in credit effectiveness. Procurement of equipment and
spare parts is now substantially completed, and the maintenance/
rehabilitation program which has been extended to include 1982, has become fully
operational. Decentralized maintenance operations are being carried out
effectively in Bas Zaire and Bandundu and are serving as models for other
areas. A fifth project designed to consolidate maintenance/rehabilitation
activities and operations during 1983-85 has been appraised.
(Credit 998-ZR         Fifth DFC; US$18.5 Million Credit of June 16, 1980
Effective Date: January 22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
As of March 31, 1982 US$15.5 million of this Credit had been
committed under the investment component. SOFIDE has also committed funds in
excess of US$1.5 million for the working capital component and these are being
reviewed. Disbursement of credit funds is expected to accelerate rapidly in the
latter half of 1982 following the normal IDA and SOFIDE approval of sub-projects
and the placement of orders.
Credit 1040-ZR         Smallholder Maize Project: US$11 million Credit of
October 9, 1980; Effective Date: May 11, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987; Cofinanced by the International
Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) and African
Development Bank (ADB)
The project aims to improve existing farming systems in an area
covering about 26,000 km2 around Mbuji Mayi, increase maize production from
about 80,000 tons to about 120,000 tons per annum and increase the incomes of
aLbout 53,000 farmers. The Project includes (a) provision of inputs including
fertilizer and improved maize seeds, transport, distribution and sales services
and storage facilities for inputs; (b) development of the private marketing
s,ector; (c) development of improved extension, training and research facilities;
(d) development of road and drinking water infrastructure; and (e) technical
assistance in support of the above activities. Project implementation is
proceeding well after initial financial and personnel recruitment problems.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
- 36 -
Credit 1089-ZR         Kwilu-Ngongo Sugar Project: US$26.4 million Credit of
January 7, 1981; Effective Date May 28, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986; Cofinanced by the French
Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE)
The Project include (i) rehabilitation and extension of an existing
plantation, including provision of equipment for land preparation, cultivation
and harvesting; (ii) rehabilitation of transport infrastructure, and provision
of equipment for sugar cane transport and track maintenance; (iii) civil works
for the rehabilitation and expansion of processing facilities and construction
of offices and staff housing; (iv) design and implementation of an applied
research program on sugarcane; (v) purchase and installation of a data
processing and management information system; (vi) staff training; (vii) pilot
projects to promote food crop production. Project implementation is progressing
satisfactorily, and procurement is well advanced. Foreign exchange allocations
to the Compagnie Sucriere (implementing agency) for operation and maintenance
have been below the agreed level; Government has been informed and has indicated
that remedial action will be taken promptly.
Credit 1152-ZR         Kwango-Kwilu Technical Assistance Project: US$2.9 million
Credit of July 23, 1981; Terminal date for eftectiveriess
postponed to June 23, 1982.
The Credit is not yet effective.
Credit 1180-ZR         ONATRA Modernization Project: US$26.0 million
Credit of March 10, 1982; Terminal date for effectiveness:
J-uly 9, 1982. Closing Date: March 31, 19306.
The Credit is not yet effective.



- 37 -                            ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
ZAIRE
SIXTH SOFIDE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I. Timetable of Key Events
Because this Credit (the sixth to SOFIDE) is a repeat operation
with an institution which has been closely monitored by the Bank Group since
it was created in 1970, the project did not require special preparation before
the appraisal mission visited SOFIDE in August/September 1981. Negotiations
were completed on April 21, 1982. The Planned date of effectiveness is September
30, 1982.
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
III. Special Conditions
(a) SOFIDE would hold down its dividend distribution until its
level of provisions has reached 4 percent of its loan and equity portfolio
(para.50 );
(b) SOFIDE would maintain its debt/equity ratio below 5:1 (para.50);
(c) SOFIDE would charge its sub-borrowers a minimum interest rate
of 20 percent per annum and pass on to them the foreign exchange risk (para.56
(a) (i));
(d) the individual subproject free limit would be raised from
US$250,000 to US$300,000 and the aggregate free limit would be US$7 million
(para.56 (a) (ii));
(e) an additional condition of effectiveness would be that the
subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and SOFIDE has been entered
into (para. 62).



a                                                                                                                     VI



IBRD 356OR7
ga.
CtNTkAL'           _AFR'CAN            REPUBLtC                                             U t) A N
REPUBLIC   OF  ZAIRE
-4                                                                                                              BAS- UELC
'ADMINISTRATIVE DIVISIONS
Pravincial "pjtal                                                                                                            HA(JT- UELE
0   Distfiot $40t                                                  (       MONGAI A
U B A N G, I
Provindal boundaq                                             f          Lisoia
H   A    U    T      ^'Z_ A  )I  R  F
2                   Bunm
0Basork?_sj                                                            ITURI
Yongambi
u q
Boende                         HAUT-ZAIRE
D-
(,-,r'UGANDA
T S H U A PA
0.
GABON                                                                                                                                        Goma
K"4
Buk.v    ;RWANDA
m            0 m 8                                                     I
Q                                 r                                     walunguO (rf-\
Cl                         u                                                                                SUD-KIVU
JBURUND I
MANIEMA
ANKU
4'
0
Kinshasa
I_                      KW  LU
M                                     Ke e
0  ng
lp Lusamb                                              NZANIA
r-(_-A'7ARACTFS'-P-
VE7          Mb    N
JB       ' I i,                                             Luebo A)\
z         "'T          c
Kol.mm
0,
Mb-ii-Mayi
0 himb.ly
AtIonti                                                                                          T                               A N G A N I K A
'M=22.'='. "2                     KWANGO
Ocean
W.-    ft.r9k.w. .6,
HAUT- LOMAMI
Nt6ER
A N G 0 L A
w,
S"    H      "-A     B      A
EQuAT                                     'IT                                                       LUALABA                             HAUT-
Gum.                                     m                                                                                           SHABA         Z A M  8:1 A
ivOAWAk W                                                                   Kolwezio
REPUBLIC   ('.
OF
zAIRE                                                                                                   Likosi
-TANZANtA
`ipushi
ft.Es
ANGOLA'
400    aoo    3(   :4?0    Soo                          Z A M  B I A
ZAMal A, -1 i .    '        '                            I



