CREDIT NUMBER 1273 ER
Development Credit Agreement
(Sixth Development Finance Company Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
and
INTEENATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                              , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1273 ZR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                                     , 1982,
between REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE (her inafter called the Borrower or
Zaire) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Section 3.01
of this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter pro-
vided;
(B) the   Project will be    carried  out  by  the   Socidt6
Financiare de D6veloppement with the Borrower's assistance, and
as part of such assistan-ze, the Borrower will make available to
the Soci6t6 Financiare de Developpement the proceeds of the
Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(C) the Association is willing to make the Credit available
upon the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and the Socift6 Financi6re de D6veloppement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the following modifications thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of
the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the
General Conditions):
(a) The following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01:
"14. The term 'Project Agreement' has the meaning set
forth in paragraph (b) of Section 1.02 of the Development
Credit Agreement."


﻿-2-
(b) The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for the
words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(c) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association.       If
(a) the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the
Credit Account shall have been suspended with respect to any
amount of the Credit for a continuous period of thirty days
or (b) by the date specified in Section 2,02 (e) of the
Project Agreement no applications for approval or requests
for authorization to withdraw from the Credit Account in
respect of any portion of the Credit shall have been
received by the Association, or having been so received,
shall have been denied or (c) after the Closing Date an
amount of the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from the
Credit Account, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, terminate the right to request such approvals and
authorizations or make withdrawals from the Credit Account,
as the case may be, with respect to such amount or portion
of the Credit. Upon the giving of such notice such amount or
portion of the Credit shall be cancelled."
(I) The words "and the Proj-ct Agreement" are added after
the vords "the Development Credit Agreement" in Section 6.06.
(e) The words "or the Project Agreement" are added after
the words "the Development Credit Agreement" in Section 10.02.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "SOFIDE" means the Societf Financi&re de DAveloppement,
established pursuant to authorization given under Ordonnance-loi
No. 70/001 of the Borrower dated January 9, 1970.
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and SOFIDE, as such agreement
may be amended from time to time.


﻿-3-
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and SOFIDE pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement.
(d) "Sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to
be made by SOFIDE to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment
Project or to a non-governmental entity for a Study Sub-Project
out of the equivalent of the part of the proceeds of the Credit
relent to SOFIDE under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
"free-limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan, as so defined, which
qualifies as a free-limit Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
(e) "Investment" means an investment, other than a Sub-
loan, made or proposed to be made by SOFIDE in an Invest--lent
Enterprise for an Investment Project out of the equivalent of the
part of the proceeds of the Credit relent to SOFIDE under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(f) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which
SOFIDE proposes to trake or has made a Sub-loan or in which it
proposes to make or has made an investment.
(g) "Investment Project" means a specific development
project included in Section 3.01 (a) (i) of this Agreement to be
carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of
a sub-loan or investment.
(h)  "Study   Sub-Project"  means   a  specific   sub-project
consisting of feasibility and/or policy studies included in
Section 3.01 (a) (iii') of this Agreement.
(i) "Zaires" and "Z" mean the currency of the Borrower.
(j) "Foreign currency" means the currency other than the
currency of the Borrower.
(k) "Statutes" means the statuts of SOFIDE approved on
January 11, 1970, as amended on March 16, 1972, April 19, 1973,
April 17, 1975, September 20, 1977 and December 2, 1980, as
further aiended from time to time.
(1) "Statement of Policy" means the Declaration de Politi-
que Gen&rale of SOFIDE as adopted and approved by its Board of
Directors on February 10, 1970, as amended on March 14, 1973 and
December 18, 1978, as further amended from time to time.


﻿-4-
(m) "Prior Credit Agreements" means the development credit
agreements (Nos. 190 CK, 271 CK, 463 CK, 710 ZR and 998 ZR)
between the Borrower and the Association dated May 28, 1970,
September 24, 1971, February 10, 1974, August 2, 1977 and
June 16, 1980, respectively, and "Prior Credits" means the
credits provided for therein.
(n) "Government Loans" means the advance and the loan
totalling 6,000,000 Zaires authorized to be granted by the
Borrower to SOFIDE pursuant to Ordonnance-loi No. 70/002 of
January 9, 1970 as supplemented by Ordonnance No. 78-180 of
April 28, 1978.
(o) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is
owned or effectively controlled by SOFIDE or by any one or more
subsidiaries of SOFIDE or by SOFIDE and one or more of its sub-
sidiaries.
(p)  "Convention" means the Convention d'Etablissement bet-
ween the Jorrower and SOFIDE dated January 15, 1970, as amended
from time to time.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various cur-
rencies equivalent to nineteen million four hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 19,400,000) for use by SOFIDE.
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs
(b), (c) and (d) of this Section, SOFIDE, on behalf of the Bor-
rower pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement, shall be
entitled to withdraw from the Credit Account:
(i) the equivalent of the foreign exchange cost of
goods and services referred to in Section 3.01 (a)
(ii) of this Agreement, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $900,000;
(ii) the equivalent of the foreign exchange cost of
services for the studies included in Section 3.01


﻿-5-
(a) (iii) of this Agreement, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $1,100,000;
(iii) amounts expended (or, if the Association shall so
agree, such amounts as shall be required to meet
expenditures to be made) for the reasonable cost
in foreign currency of imported goods (except
goods described in paragraph (c) of this Section)
and services required for carrying out the Invest-
ment Project in respect of which the withdrawal is
requested;
(iv) the equivalent of eighty-five per cent (85%) of
the invoiced price paid for goods purchased for
Investment Projects as set forth in paragraph (c)
(i) of this Section;
(v) the equivalent of seventy per cent (70%) of the
invoiced price paid for goods purchased for In-
vestment Projects as set forth in paragraph (c)
(ii) of this Section; and
(vi) the equivalent of fifty-five per cent (55%) of
the cost in Zaires of civil works included in
Investment Projects and carried out by Zairian
contractors;
provided, however that:
(A) not more than the equivalent of $12,000,000
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
withdrawn on account of expenditures other
than for Investment Projects in the agri-
cultural and agro-industrial sectors;
(B) no amount shall be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in respect of an InvestmenL Project
unless:
(1)  the Sub-loan or investment for such In-
vestment   Project   shall   have   been
approved by the Association; or
(2)  the Sub-1oan shall be a free-limit Sub-
loan for which the Association shall


﻿-6-
have authorized withdrawals from the
Credit Account; and
(C) no amount shall be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in respect of expenditures under
paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section unless (A)
the   Study  Sub-Project   shall   have  been
approved by the Association, and (B) no more
than the equivalent of $200,000 (or such
other amount as may be agreed upon from time
to time between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion) shall be withdrawn from the Credit
Account on account of any individual Study
Sub-Project.
(b) A free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for an
Investment Project in an amount to be financed under the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement which, together with any other amount or
amounts previously financed for the same Investment Project under
the Development Credit Agreement or under any Prior Credit Agree-
ment, and not repaid, shall not exceed in the aggregate the
equivalent of $300,000 and which, when added to all other free-
limit Sub-loans financed under this Development Credit Agreement,
shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of $7,000,000,
the foregoing amounts being subject to change from time to time
as determined by the Association.
(c) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, with-
drawals from the Credit Account may be made on account of expen-
ditures in the currency of the Borrower only for: (i) goods pre-
viously imported into its territory through normal trade channels
and frnm countries which are members of the Bank (or from
Switzerland or Taiwan); (ii) goods produced in the territory of
the Borrower to a substantial extent from components or raw
materials so imported, and purchased by Investment Enterprises to
carry out Investment Projects; and (iii) construction works as
described in subparagraph (vi) of paragraph (a) of this Section.
(d) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
no withdrawals shall be made on account of: (i) expenditures
made for Investment Projects, Study Sub-Projects or expendi-
tures with respect to Section 3.01 (a) (ii) of this Agreement
prior to June 24, 1982; (ii) expenditures made in respect of a
Sub-loan subject to the Association's approval or of an Invest-
ment, more than ninety days prior to the date on which the Asso-
ciation shall have received the application, evaluation and other


﻿- 7-
information required under Section 2.02 (b) of the Project
Agreement; and (iii) expenditures made in respect of a free-limit
Sub-loan more than ninety days prior to the date on which the
Association s:iall have received the request and evaluation
required by Section 2.02 (c) cf the Project Agreement.
Section 2.03. SOFIDE is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1986 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower and SOFIDE of such
later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge (hereinafter called commitment charge) at the
rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time.
The commitment charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after
the date of the Develapment Credit Agreement to the respective
dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Febru-
ary 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 1992 and ending


﻿-8-
February 15, 2032 each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on February 15, 2002 to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment there-
after to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Description of the Project;
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. (a) The Project for which the Credit is
granted consists of: (i) the financing by SOFIDE of economic
development in the territory of the Borrower through loans for
productive purposes to enterprises in such territory, and through
other productive investments in such enterprises, all for speci-
fic development projects and in accordance with the Statutes and
Statement of Policy of SOFIDE; (ii) the acquisition of equipment,
vehicles and supplies for SOFIDE, the improvement of SOFIDE's
accounting and management procedures and operations, and the
training of SOFIDE's staff; and (iii) the financing through loans
or grants of feasibility and policy studies related to the
industrial and agro-industrial sectors in Zaire.
(b) For the part of the Project described in paragraph (a)
(i) of this Section, the Borrower shall relend part of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit or the equivalent thereof to SOFIDE under a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and SOFIDE containing terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Association, including a term not exceeding 15
years, a grace period not exceeding three years, an interest rate
of at least 8% per annum, a commitment charge of three-fourths of
one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the undisbursed amounts,
and the requirement that the foreign exchange risk be borne by
the Investment Enterprises.
(c) The Borrower shall (i) make available to SOFIDE on a
grant basis the proceeds of the Credit or the equivalent thereof
to be used for the part of the Project described in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section; and (ii) with respect to the proceeds of
the Credit or the equivalent thereof to be used for the part of


﻿- 9 -
the Project described in paragraph (a) (iii) of this Section (A)
in the event where a Study Sub-Project shall be carried out for
the account of the Borrower or any of its agencies or entities
fully owned by the Borrower or for the account of SOFIDE, make
available to SOFIDE that part of the proceeds of the Credit on a
grant basis and (B), in the event where a Study Sub-Project shall
be carried out for the account of a non-governmental entity,
relend to SOFIDE that part of the proceeds of the Credit on the
terms and conditions set out in paragraph (b) of this Section.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the
purposes of the Credit and, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend,
abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision
thereof.
Section 3.02. When making dotations sp(-ciales of foreign
exchange to industries in the agro-industrial and industrial
sectors, the Borrower shall: (i) exchange views with SOFIDE on
the priorities to be given to industries and agro-industries in
allocating foreign exchange, and (ii) subsequently take into
account the views of SOFIDE when making such dotations.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall not take, or permit any of
its political subdivisions, or any of its agencies or instru-
mentalities, or any agency or instrumentality of any political
subdivision, to take, any action which would prevent or mate-
rially interfere with the carrying out of the Project or the
performance by SOFIDE of any of its other obligations under the
Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and shall
take or cause to be taken all reasonable action which shall be
required on its part in order to enable SOFIDE to carry out the
Project and to perform such other obligations.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall permit SOFIDE to retain, as
quasi-equity and for purposes of financing SOFIDE's lending and
investment operations, amounts due to the Borrower under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement entered into by the Borrower and SOFIDE
pursuant to the Prior Credit Agreement No. 998 ZR.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) a default shall occur in the performance of any obliga-
tion of SOFIDE under the Project Agreement or under any other
project agreement between the Association and SOFIDE;
(b) the Statutes of SOFIDE shall have been amended so as to
affect materially and adversely the operations or financial con-
dition of SOFIDE;
(c) a change shall have been made in the Statement of
Policy of SOFIDE without the consent of the Association;
(d) a change shall have been made in the terms and condi-
tions of the convention or of the Government Loans without the
consent of the Association;
(e) SOFIDE shall be unable to pay its debts as they mature
or any action or proceeding shall have been undertaken whereby
any of the property of SOFIDE shall or may be distributed among
its creditors;
(f) any part of the principal amount of any loan to SOFIDE
having an original maturity of one year or more shall, in accord-
ance with its terms, have become due and payable in advance of
maturity, as provided in the relative contractual instruments, or
any security for any such loan shall have become enforceable;
(g) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of SOFIDE or for the suspension of its operations; and
(h) a Subsidiary or any other entity shall have been
created or acquired or taken over by SOFIDE, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the conduct of
SOFIDE's business, its financial situation, the efficiency of its
management and personnel or the carrying out of the Project.


﻿- 11 -
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
Geneial Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d) or
(h) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall
continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower and SOFIDE;
and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (e), (f) or (g) of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has beca
entered into by the Borrower and SOFIDE, respectively.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Association, namely, that:
(a) the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, SOFIDE, and
constitutes a valid and binding obligation of SOFIDE in accord-
ance with its terms; and
(b)  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation
of, the Borrower and of SOFIDE in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date &0k0A Cut ) Vlts hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of
Section 4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or
on a date sixteen years after the date of this Agreement, whih-
ever shall be the earlier.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Subject to the provisions of Section 2.03 of
this Agreement, the Commissaire d'Etat charg6 des Finances of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
D6partement des Finances
Botte Postale No. 12997
Kinshasa 1
Republic of Zaire
Cable address:                    Telex:
DENFIN                              298 KIN/GOMBE
Kinshasa
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting tht agh their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
egional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   (e tk    day of
198 2.
FOR SECRETARY


