Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3746 KH 
GRANT NUMBER H034 KH 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Provincial and Peri-Urban Water and Sanitation Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
CENTER FOR DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated June 15, 2010 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3746 KH 
GRANT NUMBER H034 KH
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated June 15, 2010, entered into between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) and CENTER FOR 
DEVELOPMENT (“CFD”) in connection with the Amended and Restated Development 
Financing Agreement of the same date between the Kingdom of Cambodia (the 
“Borrower”) and the Association.  The Association and CFD hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Amended and Restated Development Financing Agreement, the Preamble to this 
Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings 
therein set forth.  
ARTICLE II 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 2.01. (a) CFD declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Amended and Restated Development Financing Agreement, 
and, to this end, shall carry out Part A.2 of the Project with due diligence and efficiency, 
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for such part of the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and CFD shall otherwise agree, CFD shall carry out Part 
A.2 of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement, the CFD Good Governance Framework and the Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines. 
 
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants’ services required for Part A.2 of the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Financing shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. (a) CFD shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of 
Page  3
-
2
-
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Part A.2 of the Project. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, CFD shall: 
 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and CFD, a plan for the future 
operation of Part A.2 of the Project; and 
 
(ii) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with CFD on said plan. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) For the purposes of carrying out Part A.2 of the Project, CFD 
shall enter into a Subsidiary Grant Agreement with the Borrower, under terms and 
conditions acceptable to the Association. 
 
(b) 
CFD shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement, and it shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement in such 
a
manner so as to protect its interests and those of the Association, and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Financing.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, CFD shall 
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 2.05. (a) CFD shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of Part A.2 of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Financing. 
 
(b) CFD shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part A.2 of the Project, the accomplishment 
of the purposes of the Financing, or the performance by CFD of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Management and Operations of CFD 
 
Section 3.01. CFD shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering, technical and sound 
environmental and social standards under the supervision of qualified and experienced 
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers. 
Page  4
-
3
-
.
Section 3.02. CFD shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a)  CFD shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with accounting 
standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its 
operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to Part A.2 of the Project. 
(b) CFD 
shall: 
(i) 
have its records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with auditing standards under terms of reference 
acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;  
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, for such year as so audited, (B) an 
opinion on such statements and report of such audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested and (C) CFD
’s Management Letter 
recording the audit findings and recommendations on internal 
control; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Financing Accounts were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, CFD shall: 
Page  5
-
4
-
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Financing Accounts was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon its progress reporting obligations set 
out in the provisions of paragraph 3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, CFD shall prepare 
and furnish to the Association interim unaudited financial reports, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for Part A.2 of the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
showing separately funds provided under the Financing, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned uses of such 
funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in implementation of Part A.2 of the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and explains variances between the actual
 
and planned 
Project implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under Part A.2 of the Project, 
as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first interim unaudited financial reports shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than 45 days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the 
Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure 
under Part A.2 of the Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, 
each interim unaudited financial reports shall be furnished to the Association not later 
than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter. 
Page  6
-
5
-
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Amended and Restated Development Financing Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of CFD 
thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates: 
 
(i) 
the date on which the Amended and Restated Development 
Financing Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms;  
or 
(ii) 
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
If the Amended and Restated Development Financing Agreement 
terminates in accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this 
Section, the Association shall promptly notify CFD of this event. 
 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such
 party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.   The addresses so specified are: 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Page  7
-
6
-
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
   
Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
For CFD: 
 
Center for Development 
#41A, street 371 
Trapeang Chuk, Sankat Teuk Thla, Khan Ruesei Keo 
Phnom Penh 
Kingdom of Cambodia 
 
Faximile: (855) 23 99 58 18 
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of CFD may be 
taken or executed by the General Director of CFD or such other person or persons as said 
Director General shall designate in writing, and CFD shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person. 
 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Phnom Penh, Kingdom of Cambodia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: /s/ Annette Dixon 
Authorized Representative 
 
CENTER FOR DEVELOPMENT  
 
By: /s/ Sovann Narak 
Authorized Representative 
Page  9
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement 
A. General
1. Goods.
 
All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth 
or referred to in Section I of 
the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans 
and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 and revised in October 2006 (the Procurement 
Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Schedule.  
2. 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
“Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 and revised in October 2006 (the Consultant 
Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
3. Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
4.
 
Anti-Corruption.
 
CFD shall carry out the procurement in accordance with the 
Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods
1. 
Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping 
subject to incorporation of the additional procedural improvements listed in the 
CFD Good Governance Framework. 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
C
onsultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
(i) Selection based on the Consultants’ Qualifications and (ii) Selection of 
Individual Consultants. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
The CFD Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject 
to the Associatio
n’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post 
Review by the Association. 
E. 
Borrower’s Manual on Standard Operating Procedures for Externally 
Assisted Projects
1.
 
For the purposes of this Schedule, guidance for implementing the Procurement 
Guidelines and the Consultant Guidelines is provided in the Kingdom of 
Cambodia’s 
Externally Assisted Project Procurement Manual: Goods, Works 
and Services
,
issued under 
Sub-Decree 14 dated February 26, 2007
,
on
Promulgating of the Standard Procedure for Implementing the World Bank and 
the Asian Development Bank Assisted Projects. 
 
Page  11
-
10 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program For Part A.2 of the Project 
1. 
CFD shall establish and maintain, until completion of the Project, the CFD PMO, 
headed by a qualified and experienced officer, with such functions, responsibilities and 
funds, satisfactory to the Association, and with competent staff in adequate numbers, as 
shall be required for implementation of Part A.2 of the Project, including: (i) engaging 
the services of contractors and consultants to carry out implementation of Part A.2 of the 
Project; (ii) approval of payments to contractors and consultants for expenditures 
incurred for carrying out Part A.2 of the Project; and (iii) monitoring and evaluation of 
impacts under Part A.2 of the Project, including its environmental and social impacts.  
2. CFD 
shall: 
(a) 
carry out Part A.2 of the Project in accordance with the CFD Project 
Implementation Plan, satisfactory to the Association, which shall include: (i) 
implementation arrangements; (ii) the procurement procedures set forth in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement and standard procurement documentation as set forth in the CFD 
Procurement Plan; (iii) reporting requirements, financial management procedures and 
audit procedures as set forth in Article IV of this Agreement; (iv) the project performance 
indicators set forth in a supplemental letter No 2 herewith; (v) measures required under 
Guidelines on Resettlement and Compensation of Land and Other Assets, the Ethnic 
Minorities Development Strategy, and the Environmental  Assessments; and (vi) 
procedures for monitoring and reporting of the progress of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
shall not amend, waive or abrogate the provisions of the CFD Project 
Implementation Plan without the prior concurrence of the Association.
 
3. CFD 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of Part A.2 of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about December 31, 2010, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of Part A.2 of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of Part A.2 of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
Page  12
-
11 - 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by February 28, 2011, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of Part A.2 of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the As
sociation’s views on the matter. 
 
 
