Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3746 KH 
GRANT NUMBER H034 KH 
 
Amended and Restated
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Provincial and Peri-Urban Water and Sanitation Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
PHNOM PENH WATER SUPPLY AUTHORITY 
 
Dated June 15, 2010 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3746 KH 
GRANT NUMBER H034 KH
 
AMENDED AND RESTATED PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated June 15, 2010 entered into between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) and PHNOM PENH WATER 
SUPPLY AUTHORITY (“PPWSA”) in connection with the Amended and Restated 
Development Financing Agreement of the same date between the Kingdom of Cambodia 
(“Borrower”) and the Association.  The Association and PPWSA hereby agree as 
follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Amended and Restated Development Financing Agreement, the Preamble to this 
Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings 
therein set forth.  
ARTICLE II 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 2.01. (a) PPWSA declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Amended and Restated Development Financing 
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part B of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, 
technical and public water supply utilities practices and sound environmental and social 
standards acceptable to the Association, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for such 
part of the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and PPWSA shall otherwise agree, PPWSA shall carry out 
Part B of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the PPWSA Good Governance Framework and the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines. 
 
 
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for Part B of the Project and to be 
Page  3
-
2
-
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. (a) PPWSA shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Amended and Restated Project Agreement and 
Part B of the Project. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, PPWSA shall: 
 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and PPWSA, a plan for the 
future operation of Part B of the Project; and 
 
(ii) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with PPWSA on said plan. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) For the purposes of carrying out Part B of the Project, PPWSA 
shall enter into a Subsidiary Financing Agreement with the Borrower, under terms and 
conditions acceptable to the Association and which shall include those set forth in 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
PPWSA shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Financing Agreement, and it shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Financing 
Agreement in such a manner so as to protect its interests and those of the Association, 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Financing.  Except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, PPWSA shall not take or concur in any action which would have the 
effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Financing 
Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 2.05. (a) PPWSA shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of Part B of the Project, the performance 
of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Financing Agreement, 
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Financing. 
 
(b) 
PPWSA shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part B of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing, or the performance by PPWSA of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Financing Agreement. 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE III 
 
Management and Operations of PPWSA 
 
Section 3.01. PPWSA shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering, technical and public water 
supply utilities practices and sound environmental and social standards under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers. 
 
Section 3.02. PPWSA shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial,  technical and public water supply utilities practices and sound environmental 
and social standards. 
 
Section 3.03. PPWSA shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and 
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
 
Section 3.04. Except in the ordinary course of business, PPWSA shall not, unless 
mutually agreed in advance between the Association and PPWSA, sell, lease, transfer or 
otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets which are required for the efficient 
conduct of its operations and the carrying out of Part B of the Project. 
 
Section 3.05. PPWSA shall maintain its existence and right to carry on its 
operations, and it shall promptly take all measures necessary to acquire, maintain, renew 
and otherwise exercise any and all rights (including, without limitation, land rights), 
powers, privileges and franchises required for the proper conduct of its operations and the 
prompt carrying out of its obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Financing 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a)  PPWSA shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with 
accounting standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, adequate to 
reflect its operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to Part B of the Project. 
Page  5
-
4
-
(b) PPWSA 
shall: 
(i) 
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards under terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association, consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;  
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, for such year as so audited, (B) an 
opinion on such statements and report of such audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested
,
and (C) PPWSA’s Management 
Letter recording the audit findings and recommendations of 
internal control; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Financing Accounts were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, PPWSA shall: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Financing Accounts was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. 
Page  6
-
5
-
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon its progress reporting obligations set 
out in the provisions of paragraph 4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, PPWSA shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association interim unaudited financial reports, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for Part B of the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
showing separately funds provided under the Financing, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned uses of such 
funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in implementation of Part B of the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and explains variances between the actual
 
and planned 
Project implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under Part B of the Project, 
as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first interim unaudited financial report shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than 45 days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the 
Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure 
under Part B of the Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each 
interim unaudited financial report shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter.  
 
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association and PPWSA shall otherwise agree, 
PPWSA shall maintain, for each of its Fiscal Years, after its Fiscal Year ending on 
December 31, 2003, a ratio of total operating expenses to total operating revenues not 
higher than fifty percent (50%). 
 
(b) 
Before November 30 in each of its Fiscal Years, PPWSA shall, on the 
basis of forecasts prepared by PPWSA and satisfactory to the Association, review 
whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) above in respect of 
such Fiscal Year and the next following Fiscal Year, and shall furnish to the Association 
the results of such review upon its completion. 
 
(c) 
If any such review shows that PPWSA would not meet the requirements 
set forth in paragraph (a) above for PPWSA’s Fiscal Years covered by such review, 
PPWSA shall promptly take all measures, if necessary, with the Borrower’s assistance in 
Page  7
-
6
-
order to meet such requirements in accordance with paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to the 
Amended and Restated Development Financing Agreement. 
Page  8
-
7
-
(d) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses related 
to operations, including administration, adequate maintenance, 
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding depreciation, 
interest and other charges on debt. 
 
(ii) 
The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources related to operations. 
 
(iii) 
The average current gross value of PPWSA’s fixed assets in 
operation shall be calculated as one half of the sum of the gross 
value of PPWSA’s fixed assets in operation at the beginning and 
at the end of the Fiscal Year, as valued from time to time in 
accordance with sound and consistently maintained methods of 
valuation satisfactory to the Association. 
 
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, PPWSA shall 
not incur any debt, unless the net revenues of PPWSA for the Fiscal Year immediately 
preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later twelve (12) month period ended prior 
to the date of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be at least 1.3 times the 
estimated maximum debt service requirements of PPWSA for any succeeding Fiscal Year 
on all debt of PPWSA, including the debt to be incurred. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of PPWSA maturing by 
its terms more than one (1) year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred. 
 
(ii) 
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan, contract, 
or agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for 
the modification of its terms of payment on the date of such 
contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee 
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been entered into. 
 
(iii) 
The term "net revenues" means the difference between: (A) the 
sum of revenues from all sources related to operations adjusted 
to take account of PPWSA's tariff rates in effect at the time of 
the incurrence of debt even though they were not in effect during 
the twelve-month period to which such revenues relate and net 
non-operating income; and (B) the sum of all expenses related to 
operations including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes  
Page  9
-
8
-
and payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for 
depreciation, other non-cash operating charges and interest and 
other charges on debt. 
 
(iv) 
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference 
between: (A) revenues from all sources other than those related 
to operations; and (B) expenses, including rates and payments in 
lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above. 
 
(v) 
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate 
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) 
of, and  interest and other charges on debt. 
 
(vi) 
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of 
the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other 
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, 
on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Association. 
 
Section 4.05. PPWSA shall maintain the structure and level of its water supply 
tariffs, in accordance with a sound and consistently applied methodology acceptable to 
the Association, so that under conditions of efficient operation at reasonable levels of 
capacity utilization PPWSA shall cover its operating costs (including taxes), earn an 
adequate return on funds invested, meet its financial obligations (including those 
provided in Sections 4.03 and 4.04 above), and otherwise make a reasonable contribution 
to future investment for expansion of capacity.  The Association and PPWSA shall, from 
time to time at the request of either party, exchange views with respect to the adequacy of 
said tariffs, and PPWSA shall promptly thereafter take any and all action required 
consistent with the Association’s recommendations pursuant to any of said exchange of 
views. 
 
Section 4.06. PPWSA shall carry out, not later than September 30, 2005, a 
revaluation of its fixed assets in operation as of December 31, 2004, all in accordance 
with sound and consistently applied method of valuation acceptable to the Association. 
 
Section 4.07. PPWSA shall ensure that, as of December 31, 2003, its average 
water billing collection period shall not exceed eighty (80) days, all in accordance with a 
sound and consistently applied methodology acceptable to the Association. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Amended and Restated Development Financing Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
PPWSA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates: 
 
(i) 
the date on which the Amended and Restated Development 
Financing Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms; 
or 
(ii) 
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
If the Amended and Restated Development Financing Agreement 
terminates in accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this 
Section, the Association shall promptly notify PPWSA of this event. 
 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.   The addresses so specified are: 
 
Page  11
-
10 - 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
   
Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
For PPWSA: 
 
Phnom Penh Water Supply Authority 
 
North of Cambodia Railway Station 
 
Phnom Penh 
 
Kingdom of Cambodia 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(855- 23) 427-657 
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of PPWSA may be 
taken or executed by the General Director of PPWSA or such other person or persons as 
said Director General shall designate in writing, and PPWSA shall furnish to the 
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature 
of each such person. 
 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
 
Page  12
-
11 - 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Phnom Penh, Kingdom of Cambodia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: /s/ Annette Dixon 
Authorized Representative 
 
PHNOM PENH WATER SUPPLY AUTHRORITY 
 
By: /s/ Ek Sonn Chan 
Authorized Representative 
Page  13
-
12 - 
SCHEDULE 1
 
Procurement 
Section I. 
Procurement Prior to the Effective Date of the Amended and 
Restated Development Financing Agreement.  
The procurement of 
goods and works and employment of consultants where the procurement 
process was initiated prior to the Effective Date of the Amended and 
Restated Development Financing Agreement shall be governed by this 
Section I. 
Part A:  
Procurement of Goods and Works 
1. General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the 1999 Procurement Guidelines) and the following provisions of this 
Part A. 
2. International 
Competitive 
Bidding 
(a) 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 3 of this Part A, goods and 
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the 1999 Procurement Guidelines and 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
(b) 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 2. 
(i) 
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to 
cost $600,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in 
accordance with the procedures applicable to specialized 
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the 1999 Procurement 
Guidelines. 
3. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
(a) Procurement 
Planning 
Page  14
-
13 - 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid 
for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 1999 
Procurement Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 
1. 
(b) Prior 
Review 
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 1999 
Procurement Guidelines shall apply with respect to: (i) each contract for 
works estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, and (ii) 
every contract for goods procured in accordance with the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 2 above. 
(c) Post 
Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph 3, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
1999 Procurement Guidelines shall apply. 
Part B:  
Employment of Consultants 
1. General 
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the 2002 Consultant Guidelines), 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of 
Section II of this Section. 
2. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 3 of this Part B, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II 
of the 2002 Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 
thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
3. 
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
(a) Individual 
Consultants 
Page  15
-
14 - 
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 2002 Consultant Guidelines shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 2002 Consultant Guidelines. 
4. 
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
(a) Selection 
Planning 
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and 
procedures, shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for 
proposals.  Such plan shall be updated every twelve (12) months during 
the execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to 
the Association for its review and approval.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as 
updated from time to time) as shall have been approved by the 
Association. 
(b) Prior 
Review 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants, the report on the comparison of the qualifications and 
experience of candidates, terms of reference and terms of employment of 
the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review 
and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval 
shall have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the 2002 Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
(c) Post 
Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by subparagraph 2 of this 
paragraph 4, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
2002 Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II. 
Procurement On or After the Effective Date of the Amended and 
Restated Development Financing Agreement.  
The procurement of 
goods where the procurement process was initiated on or after the 
Effective Date of the Amended and Restated Development Financing 
Agreement shall be governed by this Section II. 
A. General
1. Goods.
 
All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth 
Page  16
-
15 - 
or referred to in Section I of 
the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans 
and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 and revised in October 2006 (the Procurement 
Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Section II.  
2. Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines. 
3.
 
Anti-Corruption.
 
PPWSA shall carry out the procurement under this Section II 
in accordance with the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.  
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.  The provisions of 
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, providing for domestic 
preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the 
territory of the Recipient. 
C. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
The PPWSA Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be 
subject to the Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to 
Post Review by the Association.
 
D. 
Borrower’s Manual on Standard Operating Procedures for Externally 
Assisted Projects
1.
 
For the purposes of this Section II, guidance for implementing the Procurement 
Guidelines and the Consultant Guidelines is provided in the Kingdom of 
Cambodia’s 
Externally Assisted Project Procurement Manual: Goods, Works 
and Services
,
issued under 
Sub-Decree 14 dated February 26, 2007
,
on
Promulgating of the Standard Procedure for Implementing the World Bank and 
the Asian Development Bank Assisted Projects. 
Page  17
-
16 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program For Part B of the Project 
1. 
PPWSA shall maintain, until completion of the Project, the PPWSA PMO, 
headed by a qualified and experienced officer, with such functions, responsibilities and 
funds, satisfactory to the Association, and with competent staff in adequate numbers, as 
shall be required for implementation of Part B of the Project, including: (i)  engaging the 
services of contractors and consultants to carry out implementation of Part B of the 
Project; (ii) approval of payments from the PPWSA Special Account to contractors and 
consultants for expenditures incurred for carrying out Part B of the Project; and (iii) 
monitoring and evaluation of impacts under Part B of the Project, including its 
environmental and social impacts.  
 
2. PPWSA 
shall: 
(a) 
carry out Part B of the Project in accordance with the PPWSA Project 
Implementation Plan, satisfactory to the Association, which shall include: (i) 
implementation arrangements; (ii) the procurement procedures set forth in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement and standard procurement documentation; (iii) reporting requirements, 
financial management procedures and audit procedures as set forth in Article IV of this 
Agreement; (iv) the project performance indicators set forth in a supplemental letter of 
even date herewith; (v) measures required under Guidelines on Resettlement and 
Compensation of Land and Other Assets, the Ethnic Minorities Development Strategy, 
and the Environmental  Assessments; and (vi) procedures for monitoring and reporting of 
the progress of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
shall not amend, waive or abrogate the provisions of the PPWSA Project 
Implementation Plan without the prior concurrence of the Association.
 
3. 
PPWSA shall: (a) design chart of accounts and install a specialized financial 
management software for the PPWSA PMO, (b) appoint a project accountant and an 
assistant accountant with terms of reference satisfactory to the Association for the 
PPWSA PMO, and (c) provide accounting and disbursement training to the staff of the 
PPWSA PMO; all in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
4. PPWSA 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Page  18
-
17 - 
Association, the carrying out of Part B of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about December 31, 2005, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of Part B of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of Part B of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by February 28, 2006, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of Part B of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations 
of
the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
 
 
5. 
(a)  
Not later than June 30, 2004, PPWSA shall furnish to the Association for 
its review its proposed Business Plan for the period 2004-2007. 
 
(b) 
Promptly thereafter, PPWSA shall formally adopt and carry out said 
Business Plan with due diligence and efficiency, incorporating the Association’s 
comments and recommendations thereon. 
 
(c) 
The Association and PPWSA shall, from time to time at the request of 
either party, exchange views with respect to the progress achieved by PPWSA in 
implementing the Business Plan. 
 
(d) 
PPWSA shall not amend the Business Plan, or otherwise abrogate, waive 
or suspend any part thereof, without the prior approval of the Association. 
 
Page  19
-
18 - 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Terms and Conditions of the Subsidiary Financing Agreement 
 
The Subsidiary Financing Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and PPWSA, pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.02 of the Amended and Restated 
Development Financing Agreement and Section 2.04 of this Agreement, shall include, 
inter alia
,
the following principal terms and conditions: 
 
1. 
PPWSA shall repay to the Borrower the aggregate amount of the 
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from time to time from the Credit Account allocated to 
Categories set out in the table in Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Amended and Restated 
Development Financing Agreement and available to finance the carrying out of Part B of 
the Project (the "Subsidiary Loan") over a period not to exceed seventeen (17) years, 
including a grace period not to exceed five (5) years. 
 
2. 
The Subsidiary Loan shall be denominated in United States dollars and 
repaid by PPWSA to the Borrower in Riels, at least semi-annually at the official rate of 
exchange as determined by NBC on the respective dates on which the proceeds of the 
Subsidiary Loan are withdrawn from the Credit Account. 
 
3. 
PPWSA shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Subsidiary 
Loan, withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a fixed rate per annum equal to 
eight and one half percent (8 1/2%). 
 
4. 
PPWSA shall pay to the Borrower the commitment charges payable 
under Section 2.06 of the Amended and Restated Development Financing Agreement, 
allocable to the part of the proceeds of the Credit relent but not withdrawn by PPWSA. 
 
