                                           54227

                      CAMBODIA
               PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
             REQUEST FOR BOARD APPROVAL

PROVINCIAL AND PERI-URBAN WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
            IDA Credit No.3746 KH, Grant H034-KH
                   PROJECT ID - PO73311
                                       Table of Contents



   Memorandum of the President

   Data Sheet

   I.     Introductory Statement                                  5

   11.    Background and Reasons for Restructuring                5

   111.   Status of Implementation                                6

   IV.    Proposed Changes and Outcomes                           7

   V.     Implementation Arrangements and Risks                   9

   VI.    Governance                                              12



                                            Annexes


Annex 1         Proposed Changes to Part A.2 and Part B           13

Annex 2         Original and Proposed Allocation of Funds (SDR)   14

Annex 3         History of Recent ISR Ratings                     15

Annex 4         Procurement Arrangements                          16

Annex 5         Project Indicators                                23
                              CAMBODIA
        PROVINCIAL AND PEN-URBAN WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
                            PROJECT PAPER
                             DATA SHEET

Country: Kingdom of Cambodia                              Sector Director: John Roome

                                                          Environmental category: B

Borrower: Kingdom of Cambodia
Responsible agency: Ministry of Industry, Mines & Energy (MIME) & Phnom Penh Water
Sumlv Authoritv (PPWSA)
Revised estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$ million)
FY                                    2003-2010             2011             2012
Annual                                                      6.35              0.50
Cumulative                                12.32             18.67            19.17
Current Closing Date: June 30,2010
Revised Closing Date: June 30,201 1
Indicate if the restructuring is:

Board approved        -
                      J
RVP approved          -

Does the restructured project require any exceptions to Bank policies?                -Yes JNo
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                          -Yes -No
Is approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                           -Yes -No
                                                                                  I

Revised Project Development Objective (PDO)/outcomes

The PDO will remain the same: to assist the Kingdom of Cambodia to move forward in fulfilling
the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) in water supply and sanitation by 20 15. However,
this objective will be adjusted in the Development Financing Agreement for the wording to be
exactly aligned with the PDO as given in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD).

While the outcomes will show a reduction in the number of towns with improved water supply
from 20 to 11, the number of households with sanitation facilities in the project provinces and
PPWSA's water supply connection capacity to the poor households in the peri-urban areas of
Phnom Penh will greatly increase through the restructured project.
Does the restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies? No




IDA Grant
Local Communities
I.         Introductorv Statement

 1.     This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to introduce the following
changes in the Provincial and Peri-Urban Water and Sanitation Project (PPUWSP) (IDA Credit No.
3746-KH and Grant H034) and all accompanying amendments to the project's legal documents.
The proposed restructuring would: (a) close the Provincial Water Supply Component (Parts A. 1 and
A.3, implemented by the Ministry of Industry, Mines and Energy (MIME) -the MIME
component), and transfer the remaining available funds to support: (i) the scaling-up of the
Sanitation Component (Part A.2, being implemented by the NGO "Center for Development" (CfD)
-the CfD component); and (ii) additional investments to expand water supply in the Peri-urban
Water Supply Component (Part Byimplemented by the Phnom Penh Water Supply Authority
(PPWSA) - the PPWSA component); and (b) adjust the Key Performance Indicators (see paragraph
14). This Project Paper also proposes to extend, for the second time, the Credit Closing Date, from
the current closing date of June 30,2010 to June 30,201 1,for a total extension of three years (see
paragraph 15).
2.       While the proposed new activities have been assessed to be in accordance with the original
Project Development Objective (PDO) as formulated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD),
which is . to assist the Kingdom of Cambodia to move forward infulfilling the Millennium
            '6..

Development Goals (MDGs) in water supply and sanitation by 2O1Sy,the objective defined in the
revised legal agreement has been amended so that the wording is exactly the same as in the PAD.'
The changes to the subcomponents are outlined in paragraphs 10 through 15 below and described in
detail in Annex 1.

3.    The overall outcomes of the restructured project do not differ significantly from the original
outcomes as stated in the PAD.

4.      The amount of the Credit/Grant to be re-allocated through project restructuring is SDR5. 18
million, or some 35% of the total original IDA Credit. Details are listed in Table 1 below. Annex 2
includes a table showing the original and proposed allocations by component.

11.       Background And Reasons For Restructuring

5.     The blended IDA Grant and Credit were approved on April 22,2003 and became effective
on November 16,2003. The original PDO was to assist the Kingdom of Cambodia to move
forward in hlfilling the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) in water supply and sanitation by
2015. The original project consisted of two parts as described below:

Part A: Provincial Water Supply and Sanitation (the MIME Component)

      0   A. 1 Undertaking construction of water supply infrastructure and connecting to low-income
          households in about 20 communities in the Project Provinces;



'     In the Development Financing Agreement "The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to achieve its
      Millennium Development Goals through implementation of its Socio-economic Development Plans with respect to
      public potable water supply and sanitation".

                                                          5
        0   A.2 Improving sanitation conditions in low-income households, selected schools, hospitals
            and public markets through the construction and installation of sanitation facilities in about
            20 communities in the Project Provinces; and

            A.3 Supporting project management in-the carrying out of Part A of the Project, through the
            provision of technical assistance for procurement, auditing and accounting activities;
            construction management and supervision; preparation for additional water supply facilities;
            and the provision of office equipment and vehicles.

    Part B: Peri-Urban Water Supply (PPWSA Component)

            B. 1. Expanding water supply infrastructure and connecting to low-income households in
            about five communities in the peri-urban areas of Phnom Penh municipality; and

        0   B.2. Supporting project management through the provision of technical assistance for
            construction supervision of works under Part B.1 of the Project.

'   111.    Status Of Implementation

    6.      Good overall progress has been achieved towards the PDO. Under Part A, the MIME
    satisfactorily implemented 11 contracts with private operators' investment of US$ 1.06 million in
    the 11 systems that are currently being operated by the investors. The CfD completed the pilot stage
    of the provincial town sanitation component (Part A.2) under a grant from the Japan Social
    Development Fund (JSDF), reaching 1,075 poor households with improved sanitation facilities, and
    finalized the studies for the second stage that would involve 6,072 poor households.

    7.      Under Part B, PPWSA has completed all the originally foreseen works on the network and
    has connected, through individual water connections, 6,783 poor families in the outskirts of Phnom
    Penh. These works also included the laying of 594 km of pipeline and the completion of three
    elevated reservoirs. In addition, a good financial management system has been established and is
    fully functional.

    8.     In 2006, after the declaration of mis-procurement in seven contracts under Part Al, MIME
    decided not to pursue any further procurement activities under Part A. 1 and A.3. The government
    proposed that the unutilized funds in A. 1 and A.3 of Part A be reallocated to A.2 to scale-up the
    provincial sanitation services to the poor households and to Part B to expand water supply
    connections to the poor in the peri-urban areas of Phnom Penh.

    9.      Overall implementation of the project has been moderately satisfactory in large part because
    of the delayed implementation caused principally by the 2006 mis-procurement. The project has
    been 58% implemented with SDR7.86 million of the Credit/Grant disbursed and SDR5.68 million
    remaining. Under the proposed arrangements to implement the remainder of the project by PPWSA
    and CfD (which have successfully implemented Parts B and A.2, respectively, since project
    approval), overall implementation is expected to improve significantly. Annex 3 includes a history
    of recent ISR ratings.




                                                      6
IV.     Proposed Changes And Outcomes

10.     The Project was originally intended to expand water supply services to poor households in
20 communities in the Project Provinces and to provide water supply infrastructure to low-income
households in five communities in the peri-urban areas of Phnom Penh. Thus far, the project has
delivered clean water to poor households in 11 communities in the project provinces and water
supply has been expanded to almost 6,800 poor households in peri-urban areas. With the
restructuring, the Provincial Water Supply component (Parts A. 1 and A.3) will be closed and the
available funds will be transferred to the Peri-urban Water Supply component. This will allow the
project to make water connections to an additional 8,436 new households, or a total of over 15,200
poor households connected to water supplies at the end of the project. With regard to the
construction of sanitation facilities, the project thus far has installed, as a pilot program, 1,075
sanitary facilities and completed studies for a further 6,072 facilities. With the restructuring, those
6,072 facilities with studies completed will be constructed and installed, with some 3 1,600 people
benefitting from the scale-up of the scheme. In total, the project will then finance construction of
7,147 sanitation facilities in 20 communities benefitting almost 43,000 people.

1 1.    The proposed changes involve the reallocation of funds based on the availability of
unutilized funds under Part A. 1 and A.3 of the project, It is estimated that around SDR5. 18 million
(35% of project) will be available from the unutilized funds from these two Parts. Of this amount,
SDR0.29 million will be transferred to Part A.2 (to be added to the original allocation of SDRO.5
million, for a total of SDR 0.79 million) and SDR4.89 million will be transferred to Part B.

12.    The proposed changes include:

       a. Scaling-up the sanitation component (Part A.2 implemented by CfD) for low-income
          households in the project provinces by building 6,072 additional toilets; and
       b. Expanding water supply services to 8,436 poor households through additional pipes and
          connections in the Greater Phnom Penh area as part of the Peri-urban Water Supply
          component (Part B).

13.    The estimated cost of the activities to be implemented by the CfD and PPWSA is shown in
Table 1 below:
                            Table 1: Budget for Proposed Activities (SDR)




                                                   7
14.     The restructuring will reduce the number of beneficiaries for clean water supply in the
Project Provinces while the number of clean water supply beneficiaries in the peri-urban areas of
Phnom Penh and beneficiaries for sanitation facilities in the Project Provinces will be increased.
Overall, the major outputs and outcomes remain unchanged and will be in line with the PDO. Table
2 below summarizes the key outputs/outcomes of the original Project, the achievements so far, and
the outcomes/outputs to be achieved through the restructuring. Details are provided in Annex 1.

                                    Table 2: Key Project Outputs/Outcomes

 Component        Expected under the          Achieved So Far            To Be Achieved in              Total Project
                       Project                                            the Restructured              Achievement
                                                                                Project
Part A          A.l: (i) provide clean     A. 1: provided clean        A.l: No further             A.1: provide clean
                water to poor              water to poor               activities.                 water to poor
                households in 20           households in 11                                        households in 11
                communities in project     communities in project                                  communities
                provinces; and (ii)        provinces.
                project financial
                management system
                fully operational in
                Project Management
                Office (PMO).

                A2: (i) construct and      A2*: (i) constructed        A2: (i) additional 6,072 A2: (i) total of 7,147
                install sanitation         and installed, as a pilot   sanitation facilities will sanitation facilities
                facilities in about 20     program, 1,075              be constructed and         constructed and
                communities in the         sanitation facilities,      installed in 20            installed in 20
                project provinces; and     and completed studies       communities in project communities to benefit
                (ii) 20 clean water        for fiu-ther 6,072          provinces; and (ii) a      42,974 people in total
                groups representing        facilities in 20            fh-ther 3 1,574 people     in the project
                149 villages in 20         communities in project      will benefit through the provinces; and (ii)
                towns with improved        provinces; and(ii)          scale-up of the scheme. people in 20 clean
                sanitation and hygiene.    11,400 people have                                     water groups (CWGs)
                                           received direct                                        representing 149
                                           education and                                          villages in 20 towns
                                           awareness on water                                     will benefit through
                                           sanitation and hygiene.                                improved capacity in
                                                                                                  undertaking their role
                                                                                                  and responsibility as
                                                                                                  social intermediaries.
Part B          PPWSA: (i) provide         PPWSA: (i) completed        PPWSA will expand          (i) total 708 km
                water supply               all the original works      water supply to poor       pipelines, 15,219
                infrastructure and         with expanded 594 km        households through an connections to poor
                connections to low-        pipelines and 6,783         additional 114 km of       households and other
                income households in       poor household              pipelines, reservoirs      infrastructure facilities;
                five communities in        connections; and (ii)       and connections to         and (ii) a fully
                peri-urban of Phonm        project FM system           8,436 new households. functional FM system.
                Penh; and (ii) establish   fully functional in
                a fully functional FM      PMO.
                system in PMO.

         *Implemented by CfD through Japan Social Development Funds (JSDF).




                                                           8
15,     To complete implementation of the restructured project, a twelve-month extension of the
Credit Closing Date, from June 30,2010, to June 30,201 1 will be required. All the prerequisites
for a closing extension have been adequately met: (a) the PDO remains fully achievable; (b) plans
are in place to ensure satisfactory project implementation; and (c) the revised Procurement Plans
based on the schedule were received from PPWSA and CfD and were found to be acceptable for
completing the project within the extension period.

V.     Implementation Arrangements And Risks

16.     All proposed new activities will have a positive effect on the original economic, financial,
technical, institutional and social dimensions of the project, as appraised. Implementation
arrangements used in the original project remain applicable for the restructured project although
there are some adjustments: (a) the role of MIME will be reduced, as it will no longer be an
implementing agency but which will provide overall coordination and leadership; and (b) CfD is
added as an implementing agency for Part A.2. Part B will continue to be implemented by the
PPWSA, which has had a good implementation track record from 2003 to the present.

 17.    Procurement Arrangements. Procurement under the restructured Project will be carried
out in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines:Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
dated May 2004, revised October 2006, and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers " dated May 2004, revised October 2006. The Royal Government of
Cambodia (RGC)'s Standard Procurement Manual for Externally Assisted Projects (PM), mandated
by Sub-Decree No. 14 dated February 26,2007, would additionally be applicable to guide
procurement under the restructured Project, as it sets out procedures for administrative processing
of procurement, including RGC's internal review and approval requirements, and also elaborates
the procedural requirements to facilitate implementation of the provisions of IDA'S Procurement
and Consultant Guidelines, including standard bidding documents for procurement under National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) and Shopping.

18.     The current procurement capacity of the Implementing Agencies (1As)-PPWSA and
CfD-was reviewed again by the Bank in April-May 2009 to verify each IAs' ability to carry out
the remaining procurement under the restructured project. Based on the review, it was concluded
that both PPWSA and CfD staff possess adequate knowledge and experience of Bank Procurement
Guidelines and procedures to be able to satisfactorily carry out the remaining procurement under the
restructured project. PPWSA staff are also experienced with the use of the PM. CfD will be
provided training in the application of this PM to the extent that is applicable to the small-value
procurement expected under Part A.2 of the restructured project.

19.     Cambodia is a country with high fiduciary risks associated with the overall weak governance
environment which has an impact on procurement. Three IDA-financed projects in Cambodia,
including PPUWSP, were suspended following declarations of mis-procurement in 2006 after
allegations of corruption were substantiated by the Bank. However, the suspension of PPUWSP
and the mis-procurement of seven contracts under the project were associated exclusively with Part
A. 1,which was implemented by MIME at the time. This component has since been dropped and is
excluded from the restructured project. There have been no indications in the past or at present to
raise concern about the procurement performance of PPWSA and CfD, which were implementing
Parts B and A.2 of the Project, respectively.


                                                  9
20.     In the restructured project, there are only about four procurement packages of pipes/fittings
remaining to be procured by PPWSA under Part B. All will be procured through International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) and will be subject to the Bank's prior review. Under Part A.2, CfD
will handle: (a) small value and simple procurement packages of construction material for toilets;
(b) hiring of a few individual consultants; and (c) some very small value contracts requiring hiring
of consulting firms. Furthermore, a wide range of procurement risk mitigation measures has been
incorporated in the restructured project to increase transparency and accountability. Despite the
high fiduciary risks in the country the residual procurement risk under the project is determined to
be "substantial" (see section B of Annex 4).

2 1.    With due consideration of the risks and the extensive mitigation measures, PPWSA and CfD
would be responsible for carrying out by themselves, in compliance with the applicable
procurement procedures, the remaining procurement under their respective components of the
restructured Project. Details of the procurement arrangements and risk mitigation measures are
provided in Annex 4.

22.      Financial Management (FM). The existing arrangements for PPWSA including the flow
of funds, the Designated Account and FM procedures, structure and controls have been reassessed
and found adequate to ensure effective and proper use of funds for the intended purposes. These
arrangements would remain in effect and will continue to operate after the restructuring. It has also
been noted that the management and staff at PPWSA are well qualified, and that the FM systems
and procedures for externally funded projects that have been developed and are in use by PPWSA
are reliable and able to produce timely information.

23.    PPWSA has so far complied with the financing covenants including maintenance of
adequate FM system, procedures and control in place in managing project funds, timely submission
of quarterly Financial Management Reports (FMRs), and annual audit reports as well as
maintenance of strong financial ratios for its revenue earning entity (see Table 3 on selected key
performance indicators for PPWSA).

24.     For CfD, the proposed restructuring is built on the previous JSDF Grant TF050943
following CfD's internal controls and its updated FM manual. CfD will use direct payment and
reimbursement methods of disbursement under which CfD will pre-finance the eligible expenditures
incurred under the project up to US$50,000, then claim reimbursement from the Bank. The
reimbursement applications, as well as the applications for direct payments, will have to be
submitted to the Bank through the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF). The related
documents will be retained at CfD and made available for the required annual financial audits as
well as to the Bank supervision missions upon request.




                                                 10
                               Table 3: Key Performance Indicators for PPWSA




25.     The audit reports for the project have been received on time and there are no outstanding
audit reports. The audit opinions for both implementation agencies, MIME (closed in June 2008)
and PPWSA (on-going component), were "unqualified".

26.      Safeguards. Activities to be carried out under the restructured project are a continuation of
the previously completed activities, including water supply connections and family-based latrine
facilities. They do not change the Environmental Category of the project (Category B) or trigger
any new safeguard policies. The additional investments will not involve any exceptions to Bank
policies. During the remaining implementation period, environmental and social safeguard
supervision will be carried out through regular Bank supervision missions as well as follow-up as
needed by the Bank's Country Office specialists between the missions.

27.     Project Implementation Arrangements. Under the restructured project, MIME is no
longer an implementing agency, leaving implementation to be carried out by PPWSA and CfD, both
with solid performance track records. Therefore, the project's residual risk rating is "moderate".
PPWSA will continue to apply the current implementation arrangements under the restructured
Project. CfD will implement Part A.2 based on experience gained from the JSDF pilot sanitation
program and will carry out project activities under the guidance of the Government. Both
implementation agencies will continue to report to MIME as the Government Ministry responsible
for the water supply and sanitation sector



                                                  11
VI.    Governance

28.      The Anti-Corruption Action Plan adopted for Parts A.l and A.3 of the project upon the
lifting of the Credit suspension is no longer applicable, as these components will now be closed. As
part of the restructuring, Good Governance Frameworks (GGFs)-available in the project files-
have been prepared and agreed with PPWSA and CfD on December 6 and 23,2009, respectively.
Their main features include:

       Monitorable actions in eight required areas (procurement, financial management, disclosure
       of project information, civil society involvement, a complaints and remedies mechanism, a
       code of ethical conduct, sanctions for wrong-doers, and project specific risk mitigation);
       Disclosure requirements on the respective websites with regular project updates , including
       implementation progress and procurement updates; and
       Continued use of existing partnering arrangements with civil society and handling of
       complaints through existing complaint and remedies mechanisms. Continued use of the
       established codes of ethical conduct for all staff, which include sanctions against wrong-
       doers.




                                                12
                                     Annex 1
                       Proposed Changes to Part A.2 and Part B

Part A.2 - Provincial Water Supply and Sanitation - Improving sanitation conditions
Budget: 787,672.34 SDR

1.       The Center for Development (CfD), the NGO implementing the sanitation
component, has successfully completed the pilot sanitation component by building 1,075
household toilets. They have finalized the feasibility study for providing improved sanitation
facilities for additional 6,072 households. The additional funds under the restructured project
would be used for building toilets for households keen to participate in the scaled-up project.
This component will:

(a) Enable 6,072 additional poor households (approximately 3 1,574 people) to have access to
improved on-site sanitation in a sustainable manner;

(b) Improve the capacity of 20 clean water groups (CWG) representing 149 villages in 20
towns to carry out their role and responsibility as social intermediaries; and

(c) Provide 11,400 people direct education and awareness of good practice on water,
sanitation and hygiene to support behavior change, while increasing the awareness of the
general public on these matters through provincial and national media.

Part B - Peri-urban Water Supply - PPWSA Component
Budget: 4,890,892.70 SDR

2.      PPWSA will use the additional funds allocated to extend the network in unserved
areas of the city to connect poor households in the peri-urban areas of Phnom Penh.
Specifically the restructuring will support:

(a) Completion of the construction of Takhmao elevated water tank (capacity 1,500 m3)in
order to boost pressure and supply to better serve consumers during peak demand periods;

(b) Expansion of the water distribution network by an approximately additional 114 km,
serving more consumers (including low-income households) in additional peri-urban areas of
Greater Phnom Penh;

(c) Extension of consultant services to supervise the construction of the Takhmao Water
Tower; and

(d) Expansion of the successhl component for subsidizing domestic water connections to
low-income residents in the Greater Phnom Penh area by about 8,436 more connections.




                                              13
          x
          W                    m         W
               CI
               2
                     0
                     r-        2         '?
                                         m

          x
          00         3         d         m

                     :-        chn       2
               m     Q\
     0

     8    3
          r-
               2
               W     3
                               3
                               0
                               m
                                         OI
                                         (u



3
9
               :2
          d    W                         d


2 2
W
W
     (u
          2          0                   7
                                         W
  d
          3
               2     0
                                         d
m
          z    m-
                     3
          *
          -                    0

3                              8
                                         "!

                                         N
     (
     W
      u
          m    141   W
                                         0
                                         N



          0

          8    0               m         0

     2         8 8             2         8
     (u              0
          0
          8
     z
               0               d         0
     d
          0
          r,
           -
               2 8
               W
                     0         Q?
                               3
                               0
                                         8
                                         0
     m    3    (u    00        m         m



     co   0                              0
     -
     d
      7   0
          d
               0
               0               m         8
     IC
     cy
          0
          0
               d
               0
               0     0
                               2
                               d
                                         0
                                         8
                     8
     -
     .
     r    '
          0
     P         --.
               IC-                       0
                                         m


0         0
Y
0    0    8    0
               8 8   0

2 8
0         0

     0    8    0
                     0
d
                     8
               0,
W!
     0
     0
      ,   E!   0
               w
W    00   3    w     00




2
0                         r-
                          2
2
m-
0
d
     0

     8
          0

          8
               0

               8 8
                     0    s=o8
                          m


                          ;
                                         0

                                         8
0         0
8    0    8    0

               8 8   0

8 8
0         0

     0    8    0
               8     0

3 8       E!
v,                   0-
     00   3    3     0
                     00




                     2
                     T?
                     w
                     L
                     Y


                     a"              2
                 z
                                     Y
                                     L

               2 8                   k

                     5
     T?   ?
     c
               Y
          SQ   L
     Y
     L
          L
          Y
               k W
     k    k
               s
               E3

     g    8    z
          ; 88
     0               W
     0
     W
                                              Annex 3
                                   History of Recent ISR Ratings

                                                             ISR 8          ISR 9         ISR 10         ISR 11
                                                           06/29/200      06/28/200      06127/200      04/30/200
                                                               6              7              8              9
 Overall Development Objective (PDO)                           S             MU             MS             MS

 Overall Implementation Progress (IP)                         Mu             MU              MS             MS

 Project Management                                           MU             MU              MS             MS

 Financial Management                                           S            MU              MS                 S

 Counterpart Funding                                            S              S              S                 S

 Procurement                                                   U              U             MS              MS

 Monitoring and Evaluation                                      S              S              S                 S

 Comp. 1 - Provincial Towns Water Supply                      MU             MU             MS             MS

 Comp. 2 - Provincial Towns Sanitation                          S              S              S                 S

 Comp. 3 - Provincial Towns Project Mgmt                        S              S              S                 S

 Comp. 4 - Peri-Urban Water Supply In Phnom
 Penh                                                           S              S              S                 S

Note: Comp.1 corresponds to Part A.1, Comp.2, to part A.2; Comp. 3, to parts A.3 and A.4 and Comp. 4, to part




                                                      15
                                         Annex 4
                                 Procurement Arrangements

A. General

 1.     Procurement under the restructured Provincial and Peri-Urban Water and Sanitation
Project (PPUWSP) will be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's "Guidelines:
Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004, revised October 2006, and
 "Guidelines: Selection and Employment o Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May
                                           f
2004, revised October 2006. The Royal Government of Cambodia's standard Procurement
Manual for Externally Assisted Projects ( RCG Manual) mandated by Sub-Decree No. 14 dated
February 26,2007, would additionally be applicable to procurement under the restructured
Project with respect to the administrative processing of the procurement and the elaborated
guidance provided therein for facilitating implementation of the provisions of IDA'S
Procurement and Consultant Guidelines. The general description of various items under
different expenditure categories is given below. For each contract to be financed by the Project,
the procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the need for prequalification or post-
qualification, estimated cost, prior review requirements and time frame have been agreed
between the Borrower and the International Development Association (IDA) in the Procurement
Plan of the restructured project. The Procurement Plan will be updated annually or as required
to reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements in institutional capacity.

2.      Procurement of Goods. Goods procured under the restructured Project are expected to
primarily include (i) Ductile Iron and High Density Polyethylene Pipes and Fittings (total of
four contract packages approximately ranging between US$O.6-$2.2 million per contract) under
Part B of the Project implemented by PPWSA; and (ii) construction material for toilets
construction in provincial towns comprising of small value contracts under Part A.2 of the
Project implemented by the Center for Development (CfD). Goods under Part B of the Project
shall be procured through the International Competitive Bidding (ICB) method using IDA's
applicable Standard Bidding Documents (SBD). Goods under Part A.2 of the Project may be
procured through the Shopping method in accordance with Paragraph 3.5 of IDA's Procurement
Guidelines and the procedures, including standard bidding documents satisfactory to IDA, set
forth in the aforesaid Sub-decree and Procurement Manual.

3.    Procurement of Works. No new procurement of civil works is expected to be financed
by IDA under the restructured Project.

4.      Selection of Consultants. Consulting Services under the restructured Project are
expected to be limited to hiring of a few individual consultants, such as Project Accountant and
Assistants to Community Facilitators, and some very small value contracts requiring hiring of
consulting firms (expected to cost less than US$20,000 per contract) under Part A2 of the
Project implemented by CfD. The selection of individual consultants will be carried out in
accordance with Section V of IDA's Consultant Guidelines and using sample contract forms
acceptable to IDA, and hiring of consulting firms will be carried out through Selection Based on
the Consultants' Qualifications (CQS) in accordance with paragraph 3.7 of the Consultant
Guidelines.


                                               16
B. Assessment of the Agency's Capacity to Implement Procurement

5.     The current procurement capacity of the Implementing Agencies (1As)-PPWSA and
CfD- was reviewed again by IDA in April-May 2009, to verify the respective IAs' ability to
carry out the remaining procurement under the restructured Project.

6.      PPWSA has a separate Procurement Unit which is staffed with three dedicated
procurement professionals whose responsibility includes handling externally financed
procurement. These staff were assessed to have sound procurement knowledge and extensive
experience of the procurement procedures of various external development partners including
IDA, ADB, JICA, and also of the Government's Procurement Manual for Externally Financed
Projects. PPWSA also has a Procurement Review Committee set up specifically for IDA
financed projects. PPWSA also has established procedures for complaints handling. The
Procurement Unit with its own resources has been carrying out procurement of goods and works
financed by external development partners and government's own budget at an average total
value of about US$5 million per year. The Procurement Unit has also previously carried out
procurement of numerous packages of goods (including pipes and fittings) and civil works
under PPUWSP, and the quality and timeliness of the previous procurement undertaken was
considered to be satisfactory.

7.      CfD has one qualified procurement staff with sufficient procurement knowledge and
experience in carrying out small value and simple procurement of goods and consultant services
financed by CfD's own resources and also by IDA under PPUWSP. CfD will be provided
training in the application of the Government's Procurement Manual for Externally Financed
Projects to the extent that is applicable to the small value procurement expected under Part A.2
of the restructured Project. It has been agreed that a qualified Procurement Assistant (local
individual consultant) will be engaged by CfD for at least 15 months to assist the existing
procurement staff in managing the procurement workload under the restructured Project.

8.      IDA has concluded that both PPWSA and CfD staff possess adequate knowledge and
experience of IDA'S Procurement Guidelines and procedures to be able to satisfactorily carry
out the remaining procurement under the restructured Project.

9.      The assessment has also taken into consideration the substantial fiduciary risk associated
with the overall weak governance environment in Cambodia which impacts procurement.
Specific issues are the general risk of collusion during the bidding process, biased bid
evaluations, and supplier/contractor offering informal payments as incentives for favorable
treatment. Three IDA-financed projects in Cambodia, including PPUWSP, were suspended
following declaration of mis-procurement in 2006 after allegations of corruption were
substantiated by the Bank. However, it should be noted that the suspension of the Project and
the declaration of mis-procurement of seven contracts (three Design-Build-Lease, and four
Design-Build-Operate) under the Project were associated exclusively with Part A. 1 of the
Project which was implemented by MIME, has since then been dropped, and is excluded from
the restructured Project. Part A.2 and Part B of the Project which were implemented by CfD
and PPWSA respectively, were also reviewed by the Bank but no findings of integrity issues
under this Part of the Project were revealed, which supports this assessment's determination on
the adequacy of PPWSA's capacity and past performance.


                                               17
 10.    Following the mis-procurement under Part A. 1 of the Project and the subsequent
suspension of the Project, the Bank required an Anti-Corruption Action Plan and the use of an
International Procurement Agent (IPA) for only the MIME implemented Part A, with the
exception of Part A-2 which was implemented by CfD. The Bank did not require the use of the
IPA or an Anti-Comption Action Plan for Part B of the Project which was implemented by
PPWSA. The Government, however, subsequently decided to require the IPA for all on-going
Bank-financed projects. The IPA was engaged by the Ministry of Economy and Finance
(MEF) in December 2007. In mid-2008 the Government and the Bank agreed for all on-going
projects to exclude the IPA requirement for any procurement to be carried out through Direct
Contracting, Procurement from UN Agencies, Single Source Selection of Consulting firms and
Sole Source Selection of individual consultants. Accordingly in July 2008, the legal agreements
of the three formerly suspended projects, including PPUWSP, were amended to incorporate
these additional exceptions. Further, in December 2008, the Government and the Bank agreed to
exclude specified small value and simple competitive procurement packages from the IPA
requirement and to allow these to be procured by the project implementing agencies themselves
as it was not practically feasible for these to be procured through the IPA. However, since the
time of suspension of the Project in 2006, there has been no new procurement carried out under
PPUSWP either through the IPA or by PPWSA itself.

 11.    Specifically for the restructured PPUWSP, the use of the IPA is not considered
necessary, keeping in view: (i) the risk mitigation measures listed in Section F below; (ii) the
procurement capacity of PPWSA and CfD has been verified as being adequate for carrying out
the remaining procurement under the restructured Project; (iii) the Project component which
was formerly implemented by MIME and under which mis-procurement was declared in 2006
has now been dropped from the Project; (iv) there have been no concerns raised about the past
procurement performance of PPUWSA and CfD; and (v) there are only about four procurement
packages of pipes/fittings remaining to be procured under Part B of the Project implemented by
PPWSA which will all be subject to IDA'S prior review, and small value and simple nature of
the procurement packages of construction material for toilets and hiring of a few individual
consultants and some very small value contracts requiring hiring of consulting firms under Part
A.2 of the Project implemented by CfD which generally fall below the level agreed between
the Government and the Bank for not requiring the IPA and these contracts will be subject to a
higher level of ex-post review. Therefore, PPWSA and CfD would be responsible for carrying
out by themselves, in compliance with the applicable procurement procedures, the remaining
procurement in their respective components of the restructured Project.

12.    However, keeping in view the overall weak governance environment in Cambodia, the
procurement risk (before mitigation) under the restructured Project was still determined to be
High. This risk will be mitigated through a wide range of strengthening measures that have
been incorporated in the design of the restructuring as listed in Section F below. With the
incorporation of the strengthening measures, the residual procurement risk under the Project is
determined to be Substantial.




                                               18
C.      Procurement Plan

13.     PPWSA has submitted to IDA a procurement plan for Part B of the restructured Project
consisting of only four procurement packages for pipes and fittings to be procured through ICB.
CfD has also submitted a procurement plan for its expected remaining procurement consisting
of small value procurement packages for construction material and hiring of a few individual
consultants and firms. The agreed procurement plans, which form the basis for the procurement
methods, will be available in the database of PPWSA and CfD and their respective websites.
They will also be available in the World Bank's external website. The procurement plans will
be updated in agreement with the Bank at least annually or as required to reflect actual project
implementation needs.

D.     Frequency of Procurement Supervision

14.    In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out by IDA, the capacity
assessment of the IAs recommends that procurement supervision missions, including ex-post
review, be conducted bi-annually. Furthermore, procurement and financial management staff
based in Phnom Penh will jointly conduct integrated ex-post procurement and financial
management reviews to include checks for compliance with agreed procedures, capacity issues,
adequacy of documentation and record keeping arrangements, as well as indicators of collusion,
and verification of deliverables and end-usage.

E.     IDA Review Requirements

15.    The contracts under the restructured Project which will be subject to prior review by
IDA will be specified in the procurement plan agreed by IDA and will include each contract for
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, each contract for hiring of
consulting firms regardless of value, and the contracts for hiring of Project Accountant and
Procurement Assistant as individual consultants. All other contracts shall be subject to ex-post
review by IDA. The percentage to apply for contracts subject to ex-post review is 30%.

F.     Agreed Strengthening Measures for Managing Procurement Risks

16.      One qualified procurement staff each to be assigned by PPWSA and CfD will serve as
the focal point for coordination and follow-up of procurement activities between the IAs, MEF,
and the Bank. CfD will engage a qualified Procurement Assistant (local individual consultant)
for at least 15 months to assist the existing procurement staff in managing the procurement
workload under the restructured Project.

 17.    PPUWSP and CfD would support capacity building efforts to further strengthen the
procurement capacity of project staff. These capacity building efforts will be coordinated with
the Government-wide Public Finance Management Reform Program (PFMRP). Furthermore,
IDA will provide procurement training before start of procurement under the restructured
Project and then at least once a year.




                                               19
18. `  Under the restructured Project the applicable versions of IDA'S Procurement and
Consultant Guidelines have been changed to the latest version of May 2004, revised October
2006, which include additional provisions against fraud and corruption, and requirements for
complaints mechanisms and disclosure of contract award information. Additionally, PPWSA
and CfD will follow the provisions of the Government's Procurement Manual for Externally
Assisted Projects (SOP/PM), mandated by Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) Sub-
Decree No. 14 dated February 26,2007 (RCG Manual), which sets out procedures for
administrative processing of the procurement, including Government's internal review and
approval requirements, and also elaborates the procedural requirements to facilitate
implementation of the provisions of IDA's Procurement and Consultant Guidelines, including
standard bidding documents for procurement under National Competitive Bidding (NCB) and
Shopping, as well as providing additional procedural requirements for further enhancing
competition, transparency and accountability.

19.     The thresholds for use of the various competitive procurement methods have been
rationalized and also made consistent with the RCG Procurement.

20.     Low threshold for prior review by the Bank. All contract packages remaining to be
procured by PPWSA and approximately 70% by value of the contracts to be procured by CfD
under She restructured Project will be subject to World Bank's prior review and no objection,
with the additional requirement for submission of copies of the bids/proposals along with the
bid evaluation reports. On the whole, approximately 95% of the contracts by value under the
restructured Project will be subject to IDA's prior review.

21.     A higher percentage (30%) and expanded scope of ex-post reviews will apply as part of
integrated procurement and financial management reviews by IDA, and will include checks for
compliance with agreed procedures, capacity issues, adequacy of documentation and record
keeping arrangements, indicators of collusion, and verification of deliverables and end-usage.

22.     Good Governance Frameworks (GGFs) have been agreed by PPWSA and CfD
(available in Project files) for adoption under the restructured Project which will be legally
binding through cross-reference in the amendment to the legal agreements for restructuring.
The GGFs include various elements for improving transparency and accountability through
strengthened procurement arrangements, strengthened financial management, enhanced public
disclosure, involvement of civil society, a complaints mechanism, a code of ethnical conduct,
sanctions, and by addressing project-specific implementation risks.

23.    Procurement-specific actions that have been incorporated in the GGFs include the
following:

For PPWSA

24.     Additional provisions will be included in the Invitation for Bids advertisements, and
where needed in the bidding documents (through the Bid Data Sheet), to highlight the
provisions against fraud and corruption and for sanctions based on IDA's Procurement
Guidelines; include additional requirements for bidders and suppliers to sign Declarations of
Ethical Conduct with a further amendment to clarify the application of the declaration to also
the contract implementation phase (in addition to the procurement phase); and also specify the

                                              20
points of contact for submission of complaints to PPWSA, MEF, and to the Bank, including
hotline numbers, along the same lines as provided in RCG Manual.

25.    Invitation for Bids for the procurement of pipes and fittings shall in addition to being
published in UNDB online and DgMarket and in at least one newspaper of national circulation
in Cambodia, will also be sent to all foreign embassies in Cambodia.

26.     All invitation for bids advertisements, bidding documents and bid evaluation reports
shall be prior reviewed and approved by the Procurement Review Committee constituted in
accordance with the RCG Manual. As required in this manual, all members of the Committee
shall sign the Declaration of Ethical Conduct, with the further amendment to clarify the
application of the declaration to also the contract implementation phase (in addition to the
procurement/selection phase).

27.    Contract award information shall be published in accordance with IDA's Procurement
Guidelines, and additionally also require publication of quarterly summary reports in
accordance with the Government's Procurement Manual for Externally Financed Projects.

For CfD

28.     Use of improved model Invitation for Quotation advertisements and Request for
Quotation documents, subject to IDA's concurrence, based on the standard Request for
Quotation documents provided in the Government's Procurement Manual for Externally
Finance Project, and to include at a minimum the description of the goods, required quantities
and minimum technical specifications, require submission of sealed quotations by a stipulated
deadline date and time at a specified place, and also indicate that the quotations will be publicly
opened in the presence of bidder's representatives and any member of the community who
choose to attend. The model documents will also include provisions to highlight the provisions
against fraud and corruption and for sanctions based on IDA's Procurement Guidelines; include
additional requirements for bidders and suppliers to sign Declarations of Ethical Conduct; and
also specify the points of contact for submission of complaints to CfD, MEF, and to the Bank,
including hotline numbers.

29.     Invitation for Quotations shall be advertised in accordance with the RCG Manual and
also posted on CfD's website. In addition, copies of the advertisement will also be posted on
the bulletin board of the local commune/CfD office and also be sent directly to vendors of
construction material in the concerned towns.

30.    Representatives of the CWG and the Commune Chief shall be required to attend the
public opening of quotations.

3 1.    All Invitation for Quotation advertisements, Request for Quotation documents, Request
for Expressions of Interest, Invitation for CVs of individual consultants, evaluation reports and
draft contracts shall be prior reviewed and approved by a Procurement Review Committee
constituted in accordance with the RCG Manual. All members of the Procurement Review
Committee shall sign a Declaration on Ethical Conduct.



                                                21
32.     A quarterly summary of contract award information shall be published in accordance
with the RCG Manual. In addition, immediately after award of any contract, the contract award
information of each contract, in a form acceptable to IDA, shall be posted on 0 ' s website and
on the bulletin board of the local commune/CfD office.

33.    CfD shall establish and maintain a data-base of cost of construction material procured in
each town, and post the information on CfD's website with quarterly updates.

G. Details of the Procurement Arrangements Involving International Competition
   During the Remaining Life of the Restructured Project

1. Goods, Works, and Non Consulting Services

Contract packages to be procured following ICB and direct contracting:

 1     2               13             4            5    16               7          8          9

 Ref   Contract        Estimated      Procureme    P-       Domestic     Review     Expected   Comme
       (Description)   Cost           nt           Q        Preference   by Bank    Contract   nts
 No.                                  Method                (Yes/No)     (Prior I   Signing


                                                   1
                                                                         Post)      Date
       High Density
                        2,2 18,280
 01    Polyethylene                   ICB          No       Yes          Prior      Apr-10     PPWSA
       Pipes
       High Density                                I
 02    Polyethylene
       Fittings
                       636,690.00     ICB           Prior
                                                   No   I   Yes
       Ductile Iron
 03                    2,093,605      ICB          No       Yes          Prior
       Pipes
                                                   I
       Ductile Iron
 04                    1,090,607.09   ICB          No       Yes          Prior      Apr-10     PPWSA
       Fittings

Note: Invitation for bids and bid opening of all the above packages will be done at the same
date and time.




                                                  22
                                                  Annex 5
                                             Project Indicators
Project                Outcome / Impact                 Current Status                Outcome/Impacts
Development           Indicators (as per PAD)                                         Indicators after
Objective                                                                             Restructuring
1, Consumers in       1. Resolution of conflicts        1. Consumers in 11 towns      1. Consumers in approx 20
approximately 28      between districts/customers       in participating provinces    participating towns are
participating         and Operators without resort      and 5 peri-urban              provided with sanitation
subprojects are       to contract cancellations in at   communities are provided      services, while consumers
provided with         least 70% of PSP contracts.       with clean and sustainable    in 16 towns/communities in
clean and                                               water supply, and a pilot     participating provinces and
sustainable water                                       sanitation program            peri-urban areas of Phnom
supply and                                              completed for over 1,000      Penh are provided with
sanitation.                                             households.                   clean and sustainable water
                                                                                      supply.

2. Private            2. Operators have invested        2. $1.056 million             2. No change.
operators attracted   own equity of at least            investment from private
by project rules.     $750,000 in expanding             investors in 11 water
                      concessions.                      supply systems.

3. Project            3. At least 50% of                3. A pilot sanitation         3. No change.
approach provides     households without                program implemented with
RGC with new          sanitation improve in-house       over 1,000 households
institutional         sanitation facilities.            having improved in-house
designs to achieve                                      sanitation facilities
MDGs in water                                           installed.
and sanitation.
                      4. Average of 80% of              4. At least 14,000 poor       4. No change.
                      consumers satisfied with          households in the peri-
                      service performance after         urban areas of Phnom Penh
                      systems are operational.          served with individual
                                                        service connection,
                                                        benefiting fiom the grant
                                                        subsidy, since the
                                                        beginning of the project.

                      5. PPWSA maintains a              5 . Achieved (0.39 in 2008)   5. No change.
                      Working Ratio of less than        and maintained.
                      0.50 during project
                      implementation.

                      6. PPWSA maintains a debt         6 . Achieved (3.18 in 2008)   6. No change.
                      service ratio greater than 1.3    and maintained.
                      during project
                      implementation.
Output from each       Output Indicators (as per        Current Status                Revised Output Indicators
Component             PAD)                                                            after Restructuring
1. Water supply       1. At least 15 additional         1. Provided clean water to    1. At least 11 additional
systems are           communities with BOO,             poor households in 11         communities have services
successfully          lease and management              communities through OBA,      managed through OBA,
constructed in        contracts by the end of           lease and management          lease and management
project towns.        project.                          contracts in project          contracts by the end of
                                                        provinces.                    project in the project
                                                                                      provinces and total 708 km
                                                                                      pipelines.



                                                          23
                     2. At least 50% of             2. Provided clean water to     2. Eleven communities in
                     households in service area     poor households in 11          project provinces and
                     receiving improved water       communities in project         15,2 19 households in 5
                     supply services.               provinces and completed        communities in peri-urban
                                                    all the original works with    Phnom Penh with
                                                    expanded 594 km pipelines      connections to improved
                                                    and 6,783 poor household       water supply services and
                                                    connections in peri-urban      other infkastructure
                                                    of Phnom Penh.                 facilities.

                     3. Majority of contractual     3. 11,400 people have          3. People benefit from 20
                     disputes mediated and          received direct education      clean water groups (CWG)
                     resolved by CWGs.              and awareness on water         representing 149 villages in
                                                    sanitation and hygiene in      20 towns through improved
                                                    CWGs in the project            capacity in undertaking their
                                                    communities.                   role and responsibility as
                                                                                   social intermediaries,
                                                                                   through which contractual
                                                                                   disputes are mediated and
                                                                                   resolved.
2. The MIME-         Capacity to process proiects   1. PMO fully operational        1. No change.
PMO is able to       1.PMO fully operational in     for implementation until
effectively manage   MIME.                          2006, and for overall
project                                             management and
implementation.                                     coordination throughout the
                                                    project.

                     2. Project FM System fully     2. A fully functional          2. A fully functional
                     operational in MIME and        financial management           financial management
                     PPWSA PMOS.                    system in place in PPWSA       system in PPWSA PMO.
                                                    PMO.
3. Mitigation of      Adverse environmental         Constructed and installed,     Total 7,147 sanitation
adverse impacts      impacts due to wastewater      as a pilot program, 1,075      facilities constructed and
from the increase    and sanitation problems        sanitation facilities, and     installed in 20 communities
in wastewater        absent in project towns.       completed studies for          to benefit 42,974 people in
through on-site                                     fiu-ther 6,072 facilities in   total in project provinces.
sanitation                                          20 communities irproject
improvements.                                       provinces.




                                                      24
