                                     Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                         Report No: ICR2095



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                   (IDA-37460 IDA-H0340 TF-50943)

                                       ON A

                                      CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 12.4 MILLION
                       (US$ 16.9 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     AND ON A

                                      GRANT

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 2.3 MILLION

                           (US$3.1 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO THE

                          KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA

                                      FOR A

    PROVINCIAL AND PERI-URBAN WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT


                               February 29, 2012




Sustainable Development Department
Southeast Asia Country Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2011)

                         Currency Unit = Riel (KHR)
                          KHR1.00 = US$0.000253
                           US$ 1.00 = KHR 3,959

                              FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1 – December 31


                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB      Asian Development Bank
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CC       Coordinating Committee (of the Borrower) for Water Supply and Sanitation
CfD      Center for Development
CNDWQS   Cambodian National Drinking Water Quality Standards
CWG      Clean Water Group
DBL      Design-Build-Lease
D&D      Decentralization & Deconcentration
DFA      Development Financing Agreement
EA       Environmental Assessment
EMP      Environment Mitigation Plan
FMR      Financial Management Report
GGF      Good Governance Framework
IDA      International Development Agency
INT      Department of Institutional Integrity (of the Bank)
IPA      Independent Procurement Agent
ISR      Implementation Status Report
JICA     Japanese International Cooperation Agency
JSDF     Japan Social Development Fund
KPI      Key Performance Indicator
MDGs     Millennium Development Goals
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MEF      Ministry of Economy and Finance
MIME     Ministry of Industry, Mines and Energy
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
OBA      Output-Based Aid
O&M      Operations & Maintenance
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PDO      Project Development Objective
PSP      Private Sector Participation
PWO      Private Water Operators
PPWSA    Phnom Penh Water Supply Authority
QAG      Quality Assurance Group (of the Bank)
QALP     Quality Assessment of Lending Portfolio
RGC      Royal Government of Cambodia
SOP      Standard Operating Procedures
TA       Technical Assistance
TTL      Task Team Leader
WASH         Water, Sanitation, and Hygiene
WATSAN       Water and Sanitation
WBI          World Bank Institute
WHO          World Health Organization
WSS          Water Supply and Sanitation
WTC          Willing to Connect




                                  Vice President: Ms. Pamela Cox, EAPVP
                                Country Director: Ms. Annette Dixon, EACTF
                                 Sector Manager: Mr. N. Vijay Jagannathan, EASIN
         Acting Sustainable Development Leader: Ms. Julia M. Fraser, EASTS
                            Project Team Leader: Mr. Lixin Gu, EASIN
                               ICR Team Leader: Mr. Lixin Gu, EASIN
                                KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
                   Provincial and Peri-Urban Water and Sanitation Project



                                                      CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ...................................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ...................................................... 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .............................................................................................. 10
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................... 15
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ............................................................ 16
  6. Lessons Learned .......................................................................................................... 19
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ..................... 20
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ............................................................................... 21
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ...................................................................................... 22
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ....................................................................... 24
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes....................... 29
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ................................................................................ 31
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results.......................................................... 32
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .............................. 35
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ................................ 44
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents………………………………………………………45
  Annex 10. PPWSA’s Operations Projections…………………………………………………46
  Annex 11: Details of the 11 DBL/OBA Water Supply Facilities……………………………..48
  Annex 12. PPWSA Water Quality Standards…………………………………………………50
  Annex 13. Pictures from the project

  Map IBRD 39143.......................................................................................................... 57
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Provincial and Peri-
Country:                Cambodia                Project Name:             Urban Water and
                                                                          Sanitation Project
                                                                          IDA-37460,IDA-
Project ID:             P073311                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                          H0340,TF-50943
ICR Date:               2/29/2012               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          KINGDOM OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          CAMBODIA
Original Total
                        XDR 14.70M              Disbursed Amount:         XDR 11.48M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 13.58M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Industry, Mines and Energy (MIME); Phnom Penh Water
Supply Authority (PPWSA) and Center for Development (CfD)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process             Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       06/21/2001     Effectiveness:            11/16/2003         11/16/2003
Appraisal:            02/21/2002     Restructuring(s):                            04/14/2010
Approval:             04/22/2003     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                  06/30/2008         06/30/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory            Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                        Moderately              Implementing     Moderately Satisfactory
Quality of Supervision:
                        Unsatisfactory          Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank            Moderately Satisfactory Overall Borrower Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                             None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     15                   14.5
Sanitation                                                            5                     4.5
Water supply                                                          80                   81


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other human development                                               17                   10
Participation and civic engagement                                    17                   5
Pollution management and environmental health                         33                   10
Urban services and housing for the poor                               33                   75

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Pamela Cox                           Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:          Annette Dixon                        Ian Porter
Country Manager            Qimiao Fan
Sector Manager:            N. Vijay Jagannathan                 Keshav Varma
Acting Sustainable
                           Julia Fraser
Development Leader
Project Team Leader:       Lixin Gu                             N. Vijay Jagannathan
ICR Team Leader:           Lixin Gu
ICR Primary Authors:       Sati Achath, JoAnne Nickerson




                                               ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The original PDO was to assist the Kingdom of Cambodia to move forward in fulfilling the
Millennium Development Goals1 (MDGs) in water supply and sanitation by 2015.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

Objective was not revised

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target       Formally       Actual Value
                                              Values (from          Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                                approval            Target        Completion or
                                               documents)           Values        Target Years
                Resolution of conflicts between districts/customers and operators without
Indicator 1 : resorting to contract cancellations in a majority of private sector participation
                contracts.
                                                                                Two conflicts
                                                                               arose and were
Value                                                                          resolved between
quantitative or 0                          Not available                       the CWGs and the
Qualitative)                                                                   operators without
                                                                               resorting to contract
                                                                               cancellations.
Date achieved 28-Feb-2002                  30-June-2008                        30-June-2011
Comments        This indicator was included because experience in other countries had
(incl. %        demonstrated significant risks when conflicts arose and were not resolved,
achievement) resulting in contract cancellation and under-achievement of the PDO.
Indicator 2 : Operators own equity invested in the lease and OBA contracts
Value
quantitative or 0                          $750,000                            US$1.06 million
Qualitative)
Date achieved 28-Feb-2002                  30-June-2008                        30-June-2011
                Achieved. Nine Design-Build-Lease (DBL) and two Output-Based Aid (OBA)
                water supply facilities were built in four project provinces. With private
Comments        operators’ equity for the 11 subprojects, the volume of private financing for
(incl. %        water supply reached $1.06 million, thereby exceeding the target of $0.75
achievement) million. The equity contribution from private providers was based on the 10%
                equity requirement for the DBL investments plus the upfront investments for the
                OBA projects.
Indicator 3 : Percentage/Number of households with improved in-house sanitation facilities
Value           0                          30%                  7,147           7,147 sanitation



1
  MDG targets were the following: (i) Target 7.10: Increasing the proportion of rural population with access to safe
water source from 24% in 1998 to 50% in 2015; and (ii) Target 7.12: Increasing the proportion of rural population
with access to improved sanitation from 8.6% in 1996 to 30% in 2015.


                                                        iii
quantitative or                                             sanitation    facilities
Qualitative)                                                facilities

Date achieved 28-Feb-2002                                     30-June-2011 30-June-2011
Comments
                Achieved. This indicator was originally a percentage but was changed to an
(incl. %
                output following M&E difficulties after 2006.
achievement)
                                           Original Target      Formally       Actual Value
                                            Values (from         Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                              approval            Target       Completion or
                                             documents)           Values       Target Years
                Average no. of consumers satisfied with service performance after systems are
Indicator 4 :
                operational.
                                                                            Water quality 92%
Value                                                                       (Excellent 46%;
quantitative or                           80%                               Good 46%)
Qualitative)

Date achieved 28-Feb-2002                  30-Jun-2008                      30-Jun-2011
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved. See Section 3.6
achievement)
                Phnom Penh Water Supply Authority (PPWSA) maintains a Working Ratio of
Indicator 5 :
                less than 0.50 during project implementation
Value
quantitative or 0.26                       <0.50                             0.39
Qualitative)
Date achieved                              30-Jun-2008                      30-Jun-2011
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved in 2008 and maintained ever since
achievement)
                PPWSA maintains a debt service ratio greater than 1.3 during project
Indicator 6 :
                implementation
Value
quantitative or 0                          >1.3                              3.18
Qualitative)
Date achieved                              30-Jun-2008                      30-Jun-2011
Comments
(incl. %         Achieved
achievement)




                                              iv
Indicator 7 : Consumers in approximately 20 participating towns are provided with sanitation
(New Indicator services, while consumers in 16 towns/communities in participating provinces
after project and peri-urban areas of Phnom Penh are provided with clean and sustainable
restructuring) water supply.

                                                                Sanitation: 20 Sanitation: 20
Value                                                           towns          towns
quantitative or 0                           N/A
Qualitative)                                                    Water Supply: Water Supply: 16
                                                                16 towns      towns
Date achieved                                                   30-Jun-2011 30-Jun-2011
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target   Formally      Actual Value
                                             Values (from      Revised       Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                               approval        Target       Completion or
                                             documents)        Values       Target Years
                  Communities with services managed through OBA, lease and management
Indicator 1 :
                  contracts
Value
                                            20 OBA/DBL          11 OBA/DBL 11 OBA/DBL
quantitative or   0
                                            facilities.         facilities. facilities.
Qualitative)
Date achieved     28-Feb-2002               30-June-2008        30-June-2011 30-June-2011
Comments          Achieved. Original target in the PAD was 20 communities. In 2006, 18 systems
(incl. %          were procured, but misprocurment was declared in 7 of them. The remaining 9
achievement)      DBLs and 2 OBAs were completed and are operational.
                  At least 60% of households in service area receive improved water supply
Indicator 2 :
                  services
Value
quantitative or   0                         15,200 households                  11670 households
Qualitative)
Date achieved     28-Feb-2002               30-June-2008                       30-June-2011
Comments
(incl. %          Partially Achieved. See Section 3.2
achievement)
Indicator 3 :
                  People benefit from 20 clean water groups (CWG) representing 149 villages in
(New Indicator
                  20 towns through improved capacity in undertaking their role and responsibility
after after
                  as social intermediaries, through which contractual disputes are mediated and
project
                  resolved.
restructuring)
                                                                CWGs: 20      People benefited
Value
                                                                Villages: 149 from 20 CWGs
quantitative or NA
                                                                Towns: 20     representing 149
Qualitative)
                                                                              villages in 20 towns
Date achieved                                                   30-Jun-2011 30-Jun-2011
Comments      Achieved


                                                  v
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :
                A fully functional financial management system in MIME and PPWSA PMO.
                                                               To set up a
                                          To set up a fully fully              A fully functional
Value                                     functional financial functional      financial
quantitative or 0                         management           financial       management system
Qualitative)                              system in PPWSA management           was in place in
                                          PMO                  system in       PPWSA PMO
                                                               PPWSA PMO
Date achieved                             30-Jun-2008          30-Jun-2011     30-Jun-2011
Comments
(incl. %      Achieved
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
        Date ISR
No.                            DO                              IP               Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     06/05/2003         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     11/25/2003         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      0.00
  3     05/18/2004         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      0.79
  4     12/17/2004         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      0.98
  5     06/14/2005         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      1.52
  6     06/20/2005         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      1.52
  7     02/17/2006         Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory               4.50
                                                          Moderately
  8     06/29/2006         Satisfactory                                                      5.47
                                                        Unsatisfactory
                           Moderately                     Moderately
  9     06/28/2007                                                                           7.58
                         Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
 10     06/27/2008    Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory             10.99
 11     04/30/2009    Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory             11.93
 12     05/18/2010    Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory             11.94
 13     06/16/2011        Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                    15.71




                                                vi
H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
  March 29,                                          See Section 1.7
                          MS    MS           10.99
    2010

I. Disbursement Profile




                                      vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

At appraisal in 2003, Cambodia was still suffering from the fall-out of 30 years of social
disruption, genocide and international isolation. Despite several years of relative peace, poverty
remained extreme with per capita income at $276 per annum, and 36% of the population living
below the poverty line. The national physical infrastructure lay in ruins. Donors had begun
basic rehabilitation and sectoral institutional rebuilding at the national level. However, lack of
access to basic services, such as clean water and sanitation was revealed in Cambodia’s very low
human development indicators and coverage rates under the Millennium Development Goals
(MDG) for those sectors.

Inadequate coverage of safe water and sanitation. In Phnom Penh, the Phnom Penh Water
Supply Authority (PPWSA) was the utility in charge of public provision of water. With
investments from various donors, including the IDA-financed Urban Water Supply Project (Cr.
3041-KH), PPWSA was able to increase coverage and expand services to the urban poor.
Unfortunately the success of PPWSA could not be replicated in provincial water utilities. There,
coverage was very low, financing minimal, and institutional capacity practically nonexistent,
resulting in water service coverage rates of only 15%. At this level of coverage, people resorted
to self-provisioning, and in many cases, they entered long-term arrangements with service
vendors on payment of service fees. As for sanitation, open defecation was commonly practiced.
Those who could afford it constructed pit latrines and septic tanks for their houses.

Private provision of water. Over the decade preceding appraisal, with the return of peace,
refugees returned and towns and peri-urban communities grew rapidly. Private entrepreneurs saw
unfulfilled demand for water and started investing in piped water supply infrastructure to serve
the expanding market. Many operators invested significant sums of money, but pumped poorly
or untreated water into communities. In the absence of an adequate regulatory framework, low
quality and inequitably distributed service resulted, and the poor were unable to afford market-
based tariffs.

As outlined in its sector policy framework, the Royal Government of Cambodia (RGC) stated its
mission in the water supply and sanitation sector as one of ensuring that all residents have access
to efficient, equitable and sustainable water and sanitation services. However, financing the
necessary infrastructure to fulfill that mission was a daunting challenge, as government resources
were meager and available donor cofinancing was woefully inadequate. Therefore, RGC decided
to redefine its role from that of public service provider to one of facilitator and regulator of
autonomous water utilities in the public and private sectors, in order to tap all available financing
resources. RGC sought a project to operationalize its sector policy framework that would (a)
provide communities with options for choosing the level of water and sanitation service they
wanted and were willing to pay for; (b) institutionalize consumer voice in decision-making
(setting tariffs and service levels, overseeing private operators) through the creation of
community-based Clean Water Groups (CWGs); and (c) create incentives for sustainable service
provision through Cambodia’s private sector water enterprises. The project would also help
mitigate the anti-poor bias of existing tariff policies and develop appropriate sanitation policy for
provincial towns to reduce fecal contamination and associated health hazards.

Rationale for Bank assistance: The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), discussed by the Board
in February 2000, had four key thrusts: (a) supporting good governance, through measures in the
Governance Action Plan, including decentralization of political authority and de-concentration of



                                                 1
administrative responsibilities; (b) building physical infrastructure; (c) rebuilding human capital;
and (d) facilitating private sector development. The project supported all four thrusts.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The objective was to assist the Kingdom of Cambodia to move forward in fulfilling the
Millenium Development Goals (MDGs) in water supply and sanitation by 2015. The key
indicators given in the PAD were:

       At least 15 additional communities with Output-based Aid (OBA), lease and management
        contracts by the end of project;
       At least 60% of households in the service area receive improved water supply services
        after completion of subprojects;
       At least 30% of households have improved excreta disposal arrangements after
        completion of subprojects;
       Majority of contractual disputes with operators mediated and resolved by Clean Water
        Groups (CWGs); and
       Volume of private financing for water supply infrastructure equals or exceeds $0.75
        million.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The PDO was not revised, but the key indicators were modified in the 2010 restructuring. Details
are in Section 1.7.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

At appraisal, primary beneficiaries were estimated at about 100,000 mainly low-income
residents of provincial towns and peri-urban areas of Phnom Penh through improved water supply
services and improved excreta disposal arrangements. Secondary beneficiaries included
PPWSA, which would benefit from (a) expanded water supply infrastructure in peri-urban areas
of Phnom Penh, and (b) institutional capacity building in the construction of elevated tanks.
Another secondary beneficiary were the CWGs, who would benefit from institutional capacity
building to enable them to target the needs of vulnerable groups; promote greater participation
and transparency in planning and decision making at grassroots level; create a sense of
community ownership and responsibility of infrastructure; and enhance their organizational
capacity to maintain oversight of the system operators. The Ministry of Industry, Mines and
Energy (MIME), also stood to benefit from technical assistance (TA) in project management,
procurement, financial management and monitoring and evaluation. Finally, the Cambodian
private water operators (PWOs) would benefit as the project aimed at facilitating a robust track
record of successful deals. After the 2010 restructuring, an additional secondary beneficiary was
the NGO, Center for Development (CfD), who gained experience in procurement and
construction of latrines. The final number of primary beneficiaries is estimated at about 133,350
for improved water supply and 43,500 for improved sanitation.




                                                 2
1.5 Original Components

As shown in the Development Financing Agreement (DFA), the project had two components.

Part A: Provincial Water Supply and Sanitation (implemented by MIME, total cost: $16.5
million). This programmatic component would finance the costs of civil works for improving
water supply systems in participating provincial towns and districts, and consisted of three sub-
components:

Part A.1 was to finance civil works and equipment in water supply infrastructure and piloted two
approaches: (a) Output-based Aid (OBA), and (b) preparation of feasibility studies, preliminary
design, and Design-Build and Lease contracts (DBL).The constructed systems would be primarily
operated and managed, as far as practicable, through lease and management contracts with PWOs
(US$12.5 million).

Part A.2 was to finance on-site sanitation facilities at the household level, including the collection,
treatment and disposal of wastewater flows due to augmented water supply. These improvements
would use a community-driven process, supported by capacity building in CWGs who would
disseminate knowledge on hygiene education and the importance of safe disposal of human waste
to communities, once the corresponding water supply facilities were improved (US$1.0 million).

Part A.3 supported MIME by providing TA for institutional capacity building in procurement,
auditing and accounting; construction management and supervision; preparation of additional
water supply facilities; and the provision of office equipment and vehicles (US$3.0 million).

Part B: Peri-Urban Water Supply (implemented by PPWSA, total cost: $6.70 million),
comprised two sub-components:

Part B.1 would finance new investments in civil works and goods to expand water supply in the
Municipality of Phnom Penh. Five peri-urban communities (Svay Pak, Samraong Kraom,
Trapeang Krasam, Dangkao and Cheung Aek) were to be provided with water supply services
with pipeline extensions from PPWSA’s distribution network. Part B.1 also continued the pilot
program of making house connections in low-income communities, a program started under the
Cambodia Urban Water Supply Project (US$6.4 million).

Part B.2 supported project management through the provision of TA for supervision of
construction works under Part B.1 (US$0.3 million).

1.6 Revised Components

Under the 2010 restructuring, Parts A.1 and A.3 were curtailed due to misprocurements and their
undisbursed balances were used to scale up Parts A.2 and Part B. Details are in Section 1.7.

1.7 Other Significant Changes

Project Restructuring. From July 2004 to September 2005, the Bank undertook a fiduciary
review of its Cambodia portfolio. Eventually the Bank’s Department of Institutional Integrity
(INT) conducted further investigations which uncovered evidence of corrupt, collusive and
fraudulent practices in seven Bank-assisted projects including this one. On June 6, 2006 the Bank
issued a letter declaring misprocurement on seven ongoing contracts (three DBL and four OBA
contracts, all with the same operator) under Part A.1, and issued a partial suspension of Parts A.1
and A.3 of the project. A partial refund of disbursed funds was requested, including SDR
49,534.94 from the Credit and SDR 16,297.60 from the IDA Grant.


                                                  3
After the declaration of misprocurement, MIME decided not to pursue any further procurement
under Parts A.1 and A.3. RGC then proposed that the remaining funds in Parts A.1 and A.3 be
reallocated to Part A.2 to scale up the provincial sanitation services to poor households and to
Part B to expand water supply connections to the poor in the peri-urban areas of Phnom Penh in
order to continue making progress toward the MDGs. The Bank agreed with the proposed
restructuring, which was finally approved by the Executive Directors on a no-objection basis on
April 14, 2010. Under the restructuring:

        the Provincial Water Supply Component (Parts A.1 and A.3 implemented by MIME) was
         closed and the undisbursed balance of SDR 5.18 million was reallocated. SDR 0.29
         million was transferred to Part A.2 to scale up the sanitation component to build 6,072
         additional toilets. SDR 4.89 million was reallocated to Part B to expand water supply
         services to another 8,436 poor households through additional pipes and connections in
         the Greater Phnom Penh area;

        the wording of the PDO in the DFA was amended to exactly match the one in the PAD;2

        MIME relinquished its role as an implementing agency, but did retain project
         coordination and oversight activities. Part A.2 was implemented by CfD and Part B by
         PPWSA; and

        the KPI were changed as shown below. The first indicator was reduced to 11 additional
         communities as that was the number of successfully awarded contracts to-date without
         misprocurement. The second indicator was changed from a percentage to a simple output
         target because the denominator was not available.

Outcome /Impact Indicators, PAD                     Outcome/Impact Indicators, Restructuring Paper

At least 15 additional communities with             At least 11 additional communities have services
OBA, lease and management contracts by the          managed through OBA, lease and management
end of project                                      contracts by the end of project in the project provinces
                                                    and total 708 km pipelines.
At least 60% of households in service area          11 communities in project provinces and 15,200
receive improved water supply services              households in peri-urban areas of Greater Phnom Penh
                                                    with connections to improved water supply services and
                                                    other infrastructure facilities.
Majority of contractual disputes mediated           People benefit from 20 CWG representing 149 villages in
and resolved by CWGs                                20 towns through improved capacity in undertaking their
                                                    role and responsibility as social intermediaries, through
                                                    which contractual disputes are mediated and resolved.
Adverse environmental impacts due to                Total 7,147 sanitation facilities constructed and installed
wastewater and sanitation problems absent in        in 20 communities to benefit 42,974 people in total.
project towns                                       (These had the effect of mitigating adverse environmental
                                                    impacts.)
Project FM System fully operational in              A fully functional financial management system in
MIME and PPWSA PMOS.                                PPWSA PMO.

Project Schedule. The closing date of the project was extended twice. It was extended the first
time for two years, from June 30, 2008 to June 30, 2010, so that PPWSA could complete the
expansion of its distribution networks and the construction of an elevated water tank near Ta


2
 The DFA stated the PDO as: "The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to achieve its Millennium
Development Goals through implementation of its Socio-economic Development Plans with respect to public potable
water supply and sanitation".
                                                      4
Khamo, and to make full use of the remaining balance of Part A, which was to be transferred to
PPWSA and the CfD, once the restructuring was completed. The closing date was extended a
second time to June 30, 2011 to enable completion of all the new activities added under the
restructuring.

Good Governance Frameworks. As part of the restructuring, Good Governance Frameworks
(GGFs) were prepared and agreed with PPWSA and CfD in December 2009. Their main features
consisted of actions to mitigate risks related to eight elements which included: procurement;
financial management; disclosure; civil society role; a complaints and remedies mechanism; a
code of ethical conduct for staff; sanctions; and various project specific issues.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Preparation. As part of project preparation, the sectoral background was studied, the main sector
issues were analyzed in depth, and RGC’s strategies to deal with water and sanitation issues were
considered. The project was the product of several years of consistent engagement in the water
sector with RGC through its Coordination Committee. The approval of the water supply policy
framework in 2000, and excellent performance of PPWSA under the first project (and in
partnership with other donors) illustrated borrower commitment to the sector.              Project
preparation was carried out with a grant of US$540,000 from the Japanese Social Development
Fund (JSDF) to prepare feasibility studies and preliminary designs for approximately 18 water
supply and sewerage infrastructure subprojects.

Project design was innovative for Cambodia where private sector provision of water supply was
to be used by the Bank for the first time. However the design had only two components and two
main implementing agencies, both with prior Bank experience, so it was not overly complex.
Originally the project design included a municipal sanitation component for Phnom Penh because
it was feared that increased water supply could augment sanitation problems. However, the Bank
rightly decided to drop that component to maintain primary focus on ensuring access to water,
especially for poor households.

The Bank incorporated lessons learned from other operations in the sector and region. One
lesson was on developing partnerships between the public and private sector. The Bank designed
the project to capitalize on the vibrant private sector presence in water supply provisioning using
two approaches, the Design-Build-Lease (DBL) scheme, and the Output-based aid (OBA) scheme.
Under the DBL schemes, it was thought that the contractors would be more careful with the
design and construction if they were also responsible for maintaining the system. (At the time,
this contracting arrangement was being successfully demonstrated in the Philippines.) For the
OBA contracts, it was thought that they could decrease the reliance on government funding
because the private sector would finance the trunk lines and the primary and secondary networks,
leaving IDA funds to finance the actual connections, and OBA operators would not pay lease fees
to RGC. Both systems had mechanisms to lead to sustainability.

Another lesson was the importance of community-driven development. Project preparation
incorporated the beneficiary participation by establishing the CWGs who were empowered to
speak on behalf of their communities. A second JSDF Grant (TF50943) of US$773,900 for
Capacity Building and Basic Service Provisioning to Water Groups was obtained in early 2003 to
assist the CWGs. Community participation was also used when preparing the Environmental
Assessments (EA) and the EA sections of the Operational Manual.

Safeguard preparation was done to a high standard especially for a category “B?. Twenty-four
good quality EAs with environmental management plans were drawn up for different size

                                                5
projects (above and below 2000 connections). An Indigenous Peoples’ Framework as well as a
Policy Framework on Involuntary Resettlement and Compensation for Land and Other Assets
were also prepared to satisfactory standards and disclosed.

Risks assessment. The main risk assessment in Section F of the PAD identified the risk of
political interference in bidding and during the operational phase as “moderate?, but the risk of
potential corruption related to procurement was not identified. However, the procurement risk
assessment in Annex 6A of the PAD appropriately assigned a “high? rating and proposed special
procurement missions, post-reviews and audits to help mitigate the risk. This risk was borne out
during implementation, when it became a major factor in the decision to curtail Part A.

Quality at Entry shortcomings. First, the project design did not include TA operations to train
prospective private operators in Bank procurement procedures and to assist them with preparation
of responsive technical and financial bids. At appraisal, it was thought that the Mekong Private
Sector Development Facility would help train bidders, but no special arrangements were made to
provide access to that training. A more carefully targeted TA might have enhanced private sector
response, and possibly reduced the temptation for collusion, particularly on preparation of
financial bids, an onerous task for nascent private operators. Second, the PDO was over-stated
for this small a project to move the country forward in meeting its MDGs in the water sector and
sanitation. A simpler formulation might have been “to improve access to water supply and
sanitation in the project areas?. Also the PDO in the PAD and the DFA should have been
identical. Third, some of the KPI were not well linked to the actual PDO and social indicators
were missing. For example, the KPI on resolution of conflicts was not clearly linked to fulfilling
the MDGs in water. Fourth, a water consumption survey which was done during project
preparation stage was too optimistic in its assumption on the water consumption rate. As water
consumption has deep financial implications, conducting such a survey could have avoided the
possibility of over estimating consumption. Finally, some of the community consultations were
conducted too early in project preparation, and a fair number of poor households in the
participating provinces were missed and could not benefit from the project. On the whole,
however, the project’s innovative design was well targeted to the country’s needs and RGC’s
objectives for the sector, and these shortcomings did not diminish the project’s ability to provide
access to water and sanitation, as witnessed by the substantially larger number of final
beneficiaries compared to the appraisal estimate. Therefore, this evaluation agrees with the 2008
assessment of the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) that quality at entry was satisfactory.

2.2 Implementation

 Role of the CWGs in implementation. The CWGs played a pivotal role in project
implementation. At a time when political patronage was the norm, when community-based
organizations were virtually nonexistent, and when community participation was constrained by
skepticism and the challenges of daily survival, the volunteer members of the CWGs rose to the
occasion, breaking down barriers and helping communities express demand for improved water
supply services. In particular:

(a) In areas where CWGs were formed prior to finalizing network designs, poor households (or
    more of them) were included compared to those sites where CWGs were absent during
    preparation;
(b) The selection of CWG representatives through election, resulted in a pool of enthusiastic,
    committed individuals who were (and continue to be) willing to work without compensation.
    These individuals found fulfillment in helping their communities access safe water, and
    became empowered through their exposure to new knowledge and experiences; and
(c) The baseline surveys and maps initially prepared by CfD and updated by CWGs and other
    community representatives were used to monitor progress on service coverage, including
    those of poor households, and on the health-related conditions of the communities. These

                                                6
    surveys and maps promoted transparency of information as they were prepared and updated
    with community involvement.

At project’s end, many CWGs had budgets and work programs, and some CWG members had
been promoted to community councilor positions. The CWGs clearly played a key role in the
project’s success and their use should be considered in any future water project in Cambodia.

Role of CfD. A local NGO, CfD, was hired to facilitate the process of forming and training
CWGs as community intermediaries in each identified service area. CfD played an important
role in helping the CWGs realize their potential through raising awareness about the importance
of clean water and proper hygiene, which were instrumental in creating and maintaining demand
for those services in provincial areas. After the restructuring, CfD was designated as an
implementing agency and oversaw the installation and construction of latrines.

Timing of demand surveys. The DBL project preparation and implementation process did not
sufficiently include the poor families in the project areas. The initial water demand surveys to
identify those households willing to connect (WTC) were conducted about two years prior to
project start-up, before the communities in general, and the poor families in particular, had any
real awareness of the benefits of safe water supply. The consequence was that in DBL project
areas, many poor families did not appear on the WTC list, and as a result did not qualify for a free
connection under the terms of the DBL contract. When these families became aware of the
benefits of safe water and wanted to connect to the system, the operator was entitled to charge a
connection fee (around $45) and receive a deposit ($50-$100), neither of which was affordable to
poor households. For these reasons, some eligible households could not benefit from the project.

Challenges for small-scale water supply systems. During implementation, the PWOs faced
several challenges, both financial and physical: (a) the upfront connection fee (US$45-60/per
connection) and the additional meter connection fee (US$0.25/per meter for houses over 20
meters from the main pipe) were reported as serious obstacles to service expansion; (b) the
relatively small number of connections, low household water consumption rates and high
operating costs due to rising prices of fuel (for diesel generators) and chemicals, as well as labor
costs and their inability to raise tariffs, made it difficult for PWOs to achieve financial viability.
(However, in the absence of data on the financial situations of PWOs, the extent to which these
factors affected their financial position is unknown.)              Geological challenges included
unproductive boreholes and water resource stress which made it difficult for some PWOs to
access reliable water sources and maintain good water pressure and expand service coverage.

Impact of suspension. Shortly after misprocurement was declared in June 2006, the Bank
downgraded the project to Moderately Unsatisfactory where it remained until June 27, 2008. The
project's suspension was lifted on January 30, 2007 after RGC took all measures under the anti-
corruption plan, including the engagement of a Procurement Compliance Auditor, use of the
services of an independent procurement agent (IPA) except under Part A.2 and Part B of the
Project, and adoption of the GGF. The Bank also insisted that overdue financial audit reports be
submitted before management would consider a requested two year extension of the closing date,
needed to complete a number of pending activities. After these incidents, MIME, no longer an
implementing agency, appeared to lose interest in day-to-day oversight of the project and did not
fully meet its monitoring and evaluation role, leading to lack of information on the
implementation of the DBL/OBA component.

Lack of progress on water regulatory law. Another unfortunate outcome of the suspension
related to Part A was that progress stalled on the draft Water Supply and Sanitation Regulatory
Law, which was covenanted to be submitted to the National Assembly for approval by December
31, 2003. The draft law had been discussed with representatives of the Bank, Asian Development
Bank and civil society and was finalized in English on November 12, 2004. However delays
ensued and MIME and the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) did not move forward with
                                                  7
submission to the National Assembly. After the June 2006 suspension, RGC seemed to become
extremely cautious about private sector involvement as defined in the draft law, and the DFA
covenant was never met.

Bank performance in supervision. After lifting the suspension in January 2007, implementation
progress was very slow until after the April 2010 restructuring. According to the Quality
Assessment of Lending Portfolio (QALP) carried out in October 2008 by QAG, the lack of
progress was due to the strained relationship between the Bank and RGC resulting from the INT
investigation and the high turnover of Task Team Leaders (TTL), with three TTLs between the
suspension and Credit Closing. Supervision was inconsistent, inadequate and under-budgeted for
a problem project. The restructuring took too long to complete, and this was partially responsible
for the three extra years required to complete the project. (Details are provided in Section 5.1(b).)

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design. Most of the project’s five core KPI were clearly defined with four of the five having
specific targets, although no baselines were available. However, as this was a pro-poor project,
social indicators (i.e. increase in water connection coverage) would have been desirable. One
KPI, “majority of contractual disputes with operators mediated and resolved by CWG? was not
well defined, as it was not clear what constituted a “dispute? or what “resolved? really meant.
(The genesis of this KPI lay in the fact that many private sector water supply contracts were
canceled in other countries such as the Philippines and Argentina, and those cancelations led to
under-achievement of the PDO.) Regarding the two financial performance covenants for PPWSA,
it was not entirely appropriate to include these as there was no TA to help PPWSA with meeting
those covenants. Generally the three implementing agencies -- PPWSA, MIME, and CfD -- had
adequate methods for collecting data related to their individual indicators.

Implementation. All three implementing agencies had adequate arrangements for providing
timely monitoring and progress reports. They regularly collected data according to the indicators
developed during preparation and those redesigned in the restructuring. MIME collected and
analyzed data appropriately until its implementation responsibilities were curtailed in 2006.
Project data were closely monitored and reported. Actual figures were compared with target
values for the purposes of making implementation adjustments.

Utilization. Appropriate data collected by the implementing agencies from monthly and quarterly
reports of indicators was evaluated and used for decision-making on certain activities. For
example, PPWSA used its data to develop a new pool of water connections and to track progress
on reducing Non Revenue Water (NRW). Likewise, CfD used the data collected from the pilot
program financed under the JSDF Grant to identify additional households eligible for sanitation
facilities after that component was scaled up in the restructuring.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards. As mentioned above, the project had available a “Policy Framework on Involuntary
Resettlement and Compensation for Land and Other Assets? as well as an “Ethnic Minorities
Development Strategy and Indigenous Peoples Framework? but neither came into play during
implementation as the project was not implemented in sensitive areas and did not require
resettlement. Land acquisition for well construction and treatment plants under Part A of the
project was minimal because one of the subproject selection criteria was readily available land for
infrastructure. The necessary land acquisition involved very small plots (in several cases 3m x
4m). Land was acquired by (a) private to public contribution (gift) to the project, (b) public to
public transfer (school land given over to water infrastructure), or (c) commune chief transfer to
provincial level MIME. The necessary public consultations were carried out and land transfers
were officially documented. As far as implementation of the EA goes, Bank environmental

                                                 8
supervision was fair during the years before the suspension, and very weak thereafter, as pointed
out in the QALP assessment. However, due to the close proximity of PPWSA’s works and the
very small nature of the DBL/OBA works, any environmental impact was likely inconsequential
and temporary.

Fiduciary. The project experienced major fiduciary issues with misprocurement being declared
on seven contracts as stated in Section 1.7. Another procurement issue arose in the final year of
the project when CfD undertook procurement of toilet construction materials. A number of
deviations in the bid evaluation process arose and one bidder registered a complaint. Eventually
the procurement process was canceled and the procurement was re-bid successfully by the IPA.

In addition, the audit reports for MIME for November 16, 2003 to December 31, 2006 and for
January 1, 2007 to June 30, 2008 were not received until August 2008. Part of the reason the first
extension and the restructuring were held up was because these audit reports were overdue.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

PPWSA is a state-owned, autonomous utility which is financially and institutionally strong, and is
considered a model water utility in the region. As shown in the three key performance indicators
below, its performance improved significantly between 2003 and 2011, and it is in a stable position
to carry out operation and maintenance (O&M) and serve its debt.

Key Operating and Financial Performance
 Indicators\Year  2003    2004     2005        2006     2007      2008      2009     2010      2011
 Water Losses                                                                                   5.85
                     17.11   14.1     9.17     7.38      6.24      6.19     5.94      5.85
 (NRW, %)
 Operating Ratio     0.26    0.27     0.29     0.34      0.36      0.39     0.36      0.37      0.40
 Debt/Equity Ratio                                                                              0.22
                     0.29    0.30     0.30     0.29      0.33      0.37     0.37      0.40
 (time)
Source: PPWSA

PPWSA’s efficiency improvements are mainly due to its success in reducing Non Revenue Water
(NRW). The pipes and water connections financed under the project have allowed PPWSA to
reduce its NRW to 6%, which further improved its financial strength. In addition, PPWSA
continues to make regular investments to control NRW using in-house financing. It has a system
where consumers can report on leaks and illegal connections, and it has an efficient system of
responding to complaints as well as incentive mechanisms for staff. Also, the company monitors
growth in the number of consumers and consumption. It is possible that, with the steady growth in
consumption, economies of scale and continuous improvement in operational efficiency, a tariff
increase does not have to be a priority at this stage to maintain financial viability. PPWSA keeps
detailed performance indicators and will continue to use these to monitor and improve its
performance. (See Annex 10 for these indicators and PPWSA’s financial projections.)

DBL/OBA facilities. All 11 facilities are currently sending water samples to MIME every quarter,
for verification that their water quality is meeting Cambodian National Water Quality Standards as
agreed during project implementation (see Annex 12). After MIME performs its verification, it
issues a certificate of compliance to the facility. If a problem arises, MIME expects the water
utility to correct the problem and report on how the problem was addressed in the next quarterly
report. (Compliance is not universally shared with the CWGs but should be to build and maintain
trust.) Performance of the PWOs will be monitored against the service standards defined in section
4.6 of their lease agreements which include professional engineering, accounting, and consulting
standards; sound management, commercial, technical and engineering practices; and appropriate
technology and safe and effective equipment and methods. MIME will continue to be responsible
for contract administration and regulation until a bill on establishing a water regulator is passed into


                                                  9
law. Expansion of the small water facilities is somewhat unlikely given low tariffs and rising costs
as discussed above.

CfD has gained ample experience in community water supply and sanitation through its work
with the CWGs. CfD organized several wrap-up workshops involving CWGs and Coordinating
Committee members and mobilized an exit strategy, which consisted of training and workshops
to households for proper maintenance of sanitation facilities constructed under the project. It
mobilized funds to facilitate its exit strategy plans for integrated community development. CfD
has added value to CWG’s social intermediary role by introducing income-generating community
development activities and measures to improve quality of life.

Sanitation facilities. Individual households are responsible for maintaining their toilets.
Through the project CfD provided training on proper latrine maintenance as well as simple
owner’s manuals. In addition, many households built superstructure for the toilets with their own
financing. No environmental problems have arisen or are envisioned.

Follow-on project. No follow-on project is under preparation, but the Bank has been conducting a
sector study on Cambodia’s water and sanitation sector, focusing on urban water supply, urban
sanitation, and rural water supply and sanitation, to advise RGC on options for the direction and
reform of the sector. MIME, Ministry of Public Works, MEF, Ministry of Rural Development,
PPWSA, provincial water supply authorities, PWOs and other development partners have
participated in this comprehensive review.

Future impact evaluation. An impact evaluation should be conducted by June 2013 (two years
after closing) in order to assess the sustainability of the project’s achievements, particularly those
of the DBL/OBA component, in view of the current lack of data and a regulatory framework.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The PDO remains highly relevant to Cambodia’s economic and social development and
appropriate to the country’s current needs in water and sanitation sectors. Cambodia’s health
indicators in terms of access to clean water and sanitation remain among the lowest in East Asia
and on par with those seen in Sub-Saharan Africa. RGC’s objective for the sector is still to
increase access to clean water and sanitation in order to improve its health-related statistics.

Due to ongoing relationship issues, the Bank and Cambodia do not have an up-to-date CAS, but
the project remained consistent with last CAS discussed by the Board in April 2005. In particular,
the PDO was fully consistent with CAS Pillar II on supporting a strategy and investments needed
to attain the Cambodia MDGs by supporting poverty reduction and by supporting under-funded
sectors, notably the water and sanitation sector. The CAS showed a proposed Second Provincial
and Peri-Urban Water and Sanitation Project foreseen for 2008 with an IDA allocation of US$15
million, and preparation of that project had indeed begun with strong demand for the DBL/OBA
component from the provinces.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Overall rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The PDO of helping the borrower move toward fulfilling the MDGs in the water sector was very
broad for such a small project, and the project’s exact contribution in percentage terms cannot be
pinpointed. However, Cambodia has made good progress between appraisal and completion, and


                                                 10
this project contributed to that success if only modestly. The baseline and latest known estimates
are provided below:


Indicator                    Baseline      MDG              # Additional people      2015
                                           progress as      with access as a         Targets
                                           of 2008*         result of project
Proportion of rural          24%           56%              As of 2008: 107,310      50%
population with access       (1998)                         As of 2011: 133,350
to safe water sources
Proportion of rural          8.6%          18%              As of 2008: 5,375        30%
population with access       (1996)                         As of 2011: 40,000
to improved sanitation                                      (plus additional 3,500
                                                            from neighboring
                                                            villages)
*Latest available figure from WHO-UNICEF Joint Monitoring Programme for the MDGs



Water Related Achievements. The project as a whole provided approximately 26,670
households, or about 133,350 people, with access to safe water supply. This figure exceeds the
appraisal estimate of 100,000 beneficiaries, although implementation took three years longer than
expected. Details by component follow.

Part A – MIME component. Although 18 subprojects were bid and works had begun, only nine
DBL and two OBA water supply schemes were completed, thereby meeting the target of the
restructured project. These schemes are operating and are serving approximately 15,000
households, or 75,000 people (56% of the project total).

According to a consumer satisfaction survey carried out in May 2011, approximately 86% of
consumers found the water supply service at least acceptable, which compares well with the
target of 80%. Although no statistics are available, it was reported that tap water generally
complies with Cambodian National Water Standards as verified by MIME. Tap water is used for
nearly all household purposes, and in some cases, for livestock maintenance. The cost of using
tap water (1,500 to 3,000 Riel/m3) is widely accepted (although not in every case) and thought to
be reasonable, based on the interviews with commune leaders, village heads, clean water group
representatives and villagers.

CWGs in 20 service areas in 149 villages improved their capacity in undertaking their role and
responsibilities as social intermediaries among their communities and local authorities and PWOs,
thereby preventing major conflicts that could have resulted in terminated contracts with the
PWOs.

Part B – PPWSA component. The project financed 629 km of pipelines, of which 299 km were
done before March 2010 and 300 km after that date, plus one elevated water tank to aid water
distribution and 11,670 house connections.. This infrastructure expanded PPWSA’s service
coverage and provided access to water to 11,670 poor households, or 58,350 people (44% of the
total), in peri-urban areas of Phnom Penh. The target of the restructured project was 15,200
households, but this target could not be fully achieved. The shortfall was due to the fact that the
average subsidy of $50 per household fixed at appraisal, had to be increased by PPWSA to an
average of $83 per household in 2010 due to rising prices for inputs such as pipes, meters, etc.,
necessary to make house connections. However the total envelope for poor household assistance
was not increased, so the project lost its ability to reach the last 3,530 households.

Based on data provided, the water quality supplied by PPWSA meets or exceeds the water quality
standards of the World Health Organization (WHO). (See Annex 12)
                                                   11
Sanitation Related Achievements. Per the target of the restructured project, the project provided
a total of 7,147 households with improved latrines. Early in implementation, CfD helped build
1,075 toilets under the JSDF Grant. Based on this pilot experience, CfD was brought into the
project during the restructuring to be responsible for implementing the scaled-up sanitation
component (Part A.2). After the restructuring, an additional 6,072 toilets with septic systems
were built. Thus a total of 7,147 sanitation facilities in 20 communities are now benefitting about
40,000 people in the project provinces. Further, about 3500 neighboring people also use these
new facilities, bring the number of sanitation beneficiaries to approximately 43,500. No adverse
impact on the environment is foreseen because the owners have owner’s manuals and have shown
commitment to cleaning and maintaining these toilets properly.

3.3 Efficiency

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
As shown in the economic analysis in Annex 3, the project has a cost-benefit ratio of 1.02 and an
internal economic rate of return at 12.7 percent. The Project’s rate of return and the cost-benefit
ratio for the project are relatively low. The project suffered significant delays between the
suspension in 2006 and the restructuring in 2010. These delays resulted in opportunity costs from
not realizing the intended benefits and opportunity costs of fixed investments expended. The
cash flows, the benefit flows in particular, considered in this analysis, accounts for such delays in
realization of benefits. Such accounting for delays penalizes the delayed benefits through
discounting.

In order to compute the health and other indirect benefits, since field level data specific to the
project were not available, the ICR used the results from the study on economic impacts of
improved sanitation and water supplies conducted by the Water and Sanitation Group in the East
Asia Region (results summarized in Table 4 of Annex 3) as parameters to estimate the benefits.
The benefits from capacity development activities implemented and training programs have not
been quantified in monetary terms and included in the computation of project benefits and rate of
returns. Other possible benefits that are not included in this analysis are benefits in the tourism
sector, in the form of increased revenues from tourism, as a result of the improvements in
sanitation and improved water supplies; value of improved environmental quality from improved
sanitation services through improved toilets. The ICR calculation does not account for the above
benefits due to lack of data on the above benefits and time constraints. However, accounting for
such benefits would further improve returns from the project.

In order to ensure long-run sustainability of the investment in water sector, tariff rates must be set
at sustainable levels. The review found that PPWSA is financially sustainable, which will enable
it to carry out regular O&M. It also has SOP and the Community Participation Program for O&M
of all facilities procured under its own and externally financed projects. Sustainability of the
DBL/OBA assets would depend on their financial viability, proper government regulation, and
continuous community education.

The economic analysis provided in the PAD covered only a few subprojects in the water sector
and did not consider health benefits and other indirect benefits. Further, the PAD did not provide
an economic analysis of the expected costs and benefits of the sanitation component. Hence, the
ICR was unable to compare final results with PAD estimates.

Financial performance. The operating and the financial performance indicators for Part B of the
project are presented in Table 2 in Annex 3. Table 2 shows that there has been steady
improvement in operational efficiency of the water supply component. The total quantity of
water sold increased from 40 million m3 in 2003 to 94 million m3 in 2010 and the NRW fell from
17.11% in 2003 to 5.85% in 2010, a significant increase in technical efficiency. The debt-equity

                                                 12
ratio shows that equity provides a majority of the financing although the ratio has been increasing
over the years. The debt-equity ratio remained below one, which means that equity is higher than
the debt. The operating ratio (ratio of operating expenses to net sales expressed as a percentage)
is less than 40% which implies that the utility has been operating somewhat efficiently. However,
it may be noted that it has been increasing since 2003. The total assets, water sold, operating
revenues and net income are showing an increasing trend during the period 2003-2010. The tariff
levels were also at an acceptable level as demonstrated by the beneficiary analysis.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.
The PDO remained highly relevant throughout the project period. Achievement of the PDO is
moderately satisfactory and efficiency is moderately satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

 Poverty Impacts and Gender Aspects. The project design included low-cost measures for
increasing water supply and household sanitation coverage. The IDA Grant was targeted at
making connection charges affordable or free. Poor households were given water connections at
subsidized rates, and the payment for connection fees could be paid in installments.

Further, the revolving fund for extending house connections to the poor was successfully used in
combination with the IDA Grant. The project financed house connections in PPWSA’s peri-urban
areas for pre-identified families living below the poverty line. (See Annex 10 showing the use of
the revolving fund to finance connections to poor households.)

As revealed during conversations with the CWGs during the technical audit conducted in late
2010, by receiving regular water supply, poor households can now utilize the time they used to
spend fetching water for more productive activities. Women are now able to work more hours
outside the home to augment their incomes, and more children are able to attend school for longer
periods. Further, by providing family latrines, women and girls have greater privacy.

Social Development. Also confirmed during CWG conversations was that the project’s
investments and CWG training improved the hygiene habits and overall health of the rural poor
who reported making fewer clinic visits thanks to decreased incidence of water-borne diseases.
(No data from local clinics was available, however). The CWGs also provided a mechanism to
resolve conflicts between communities and PWOs, although no conflict arose that would have led
to cancellation of a contract.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The project resulted in a substantial institutional development impact:

       The project created momentum for private sector participation in providing water supply.
        One indicator of increased activity is the growth of licenses. In 2004, RGC had issued
        only 24 licenses to PWOs; however by 2011 the number of licenses issued had increased
        to 122 – a 408% increase.

       CWGs have become the vectors through which: (a) clean water and improved sanitation
        concepts were introduced to peri-urban households with the purpose of initiating
        behavior change; (b) designated households were able to construct their own sanitation
        facilities with materials provided through CfD; and (c) local communities now play a role
        in planning, implementing and managing their clean water supply and sanitation facilities.

                                               13
       CWG and CC members benefited from Cfd-led workshops on carrying out their primary
        roles and responsibilities more effectively and efficiently, conflict management in the
        water and sanitation sector and gender mainstreaming.

       About 6,600 participants (41% female), benefited from workshops on: (a) roles and
        responsibilities of CWGs; (b) elements of the GGF and how poor household benefit from
        them; (c) toilet construction techniques and maintenance; (d) conflict
        management/resolution and networking, advocacy, and lobbying; (e) national drinking
        water quality standards (including consumer rights training as per the terms and
        conditions of the signed contracts); and (f) gender mainstreaming.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

       Private utility companies are keeping minimal water quality records for their own
        operational use (two or three parameters using a portable testing kit). All operators appear
        to be complying with the requirement to submit water samples to MIME for
        comprehensive quality testing on a quarterly basis. This mechanism was introduced
        through the project and it is now applied nation-wide.

       As mentioned above, CfD’s capacity in latrine procurement and construction was
        strengthened through the project.

       With their improved capacity, 78 CWG members have become commune councilors and
        some have become village leaders. Commune councils now have plans and budgets for
        sanitation support to the areas where water supply was expanded.

       People from villages adjacent to beneficiary villages, who did not benefit from the project,
        have constructed sanitation facilities similar to those promoted under the project, using
        their own funds.

       In addition to household connections, one PWO made connections to nearly two dozen
        institutional clients, including three medical facilities (two health centers and one referral
        hospital), four schools, four wats (Buddhist temples), three police stations, two fisheries
        offices, one irrigation office, one veterinarian, and one NGO. These will help the PWO
        maintain financial viability.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

CWG members, with support from project staff, undertook a consumer satisfaction survey in 13
towns who received clean water services. They interviewed 1,874 household representatives.
Care was taken to ensure an even gender balance and a broad geographical distribution. The
survey revealed the following:

Survey item          Excellent     Good          Poor                       Comments
Water quality         46.1%        45.7%         8.2%     Some complained about the smell of chlorine,
                                                          but they recognize that is an indicator of
                                                          water quality safety
Availability of        49%         35.7%        15.3%     Consumers complained of not having 24/7
piped water                                               supply
Water pressure          53          31%          16%      Consumers were not happy that water
                                                          pressure was too low to obtain water above
                                                          the main floor
PWO/consumer          49.8%        36.4%        13.8%     Some CWGs reported never seeing a PWO
relationship                                              representative. Data on water quality was not
                                                          shared.

                                                 14
As shown above, satisfaction on water quality was about 92%; on availability of piped water was
85%; on water pressure was 84%; and on PWO/consumer relationship was 86%.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Substantial
RGC's Current Water Policy. The latest government policy statement is the National Water
Supply and Sanitation Policy Framework approved in 2003 by the Council of Ministers. A
national strategy based on the approved policy framework was prepared in 2004 as well as a
MIME Action Plan for 2010. The proposed Water Regulatory Law and the Law on Concessions
have not yet been approved. A strong regulatory law is important for building public confidence
in public utilities and private sector operators, and plays a key role in providing a credible,
competent, transparent and impartial mechanism to equitably guard the interests of all
stakeholders. Without a clear policy framework, backed by a regulatory law, the risk to the
country’s ability to expand access to clean water through private sector participation, is high.

Private Sector Involvement in Water Supply. The sustainability of the DBL/OBA assets
depends much on their financial viability. With water consumption lower than forecast, prices
rising for fuel and chemicals as well as for labor, and tariff levels not very elastic, the PWOs may
already be facing financial viability challenges. Some PWOs are family-owned enterprises which
may not be able to absorb economic shocks, and further difficulties could force them to suspend
their enterprises, thus jeopardizing the continued delivery of clean water to provincial households.
Maintaining demand for clean water at affordable prices will be important to their sustainability,
and the role of the CWGs in educating communities about the benefits of clean water and in
expressing communities’ desire for clean water to PWOs will be very important. A few PWOs
are part of larger construction enterprises whose overall financial footing may be more solid and
able to absorb the possible lackluster performance of the water branch. With the regulatory law
still in abeyance, the risk of continued private sector involvement is rated high.

CWGs. The sustainability of CWGs is at moderate risk without the assistance of CfD whose
contract has been completed. MIME does not fully support the concept of CWGs, whom they see
as duplicating the role of the commune councils. Another risk is that of political change following
upcoming elections. Commune council support for CWGs could diminish after commune/sangkat
elections scheduled for mid-2012, when a change in the composition of political parties could
occur, to the detriment of the CWGs. The fact that the CWGs have a plan and budget already in
hand would solidify their position going into the elections season.

Forecast For Water Demand. Originally 27 DBL/OBAs were foreseen for this project and 24
EAs were prepared. By the time preparation of the follow-on project started in 2006, MIME had
already received 140 expressions of demand from the provincial, district and commune levels in
107 areas. If this level of demand is still present, it would seem that the demand for clean water
at affordable prices is high, and the risk of demand for the project’s output dropping is negligible.

PPWSA is a well managed, financially sustainable enterprise, capable of maintaining its assets on
a regular basis. It has SOP and a Community Participation Program for O&M of its facilities.
Water demand in Phnom Penh is relatively stable between apartment dwellers and peri-urban
households, and water bill collections are very high and timely. With no history of political
interference and with its financial situation being strong, the risk of PPWSA collapsing is
negligible.

Sanitation Achievements. Construction of self-financed super-structures by provincial
households shows that the latrines are a valued asset, and are therefore likely to be maintained.
The risk of returning to open defecation is negligible due to the training that households received
from CfD. Furthermore, demand for the project latrines is evident by the number of neighboring

                                                 15
people using project-financed latrines and the number of people “borrowing? the project design to
construct their own latrines. As these sanitary systems are small, environmental damage is
unlikely to occur.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory.
As described in Section 2.1 above, the Bank designed an innovative project that corresponded
well to the country situation and was not too complex for the implementing agencies. The Bank
incorporated lessons learned from global and regional experience in designing the private sector
participation component. The safeguards documents were thoroughly prepared, but there were
some shortcomings in the timing of participation and other areas as already discussed. Project
preparation was carried out with a sufficient number of specialists who provided the necessary
skill mix to address sectoral concerns. The Bank provided adequate resources in terms of staff
weeks and budgets to ensure good quality work.

This review agrees in large part with QAG’s findings on quality at entry that were expressed as
follows: (a) The strength of the project was in the more stable interventions including TA,
involvement of the private sector, and incredible participation of the affected communities and
NGOs; (b) the PDO was relevant and supported under the CAS. Adequate sector work was done,
leading to the strategy of moving out of Phnom Penh toward the provinces; and (c) the project
followed all Bank procurement guidelines and when problems occurred, the process was in place
to manage them. As far as QAG’s assertion that sanitation in the urban area should have been
addressed, the Bank made an explicit decision made to drop that component, in order to keep the
project focused on improving access to clean water services.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory.
The Bank’s performance was satisfactory from Board through 2006. The Bank switched TTLs
after Board, but the new TTL had been the team engineer during preparation, so team continuity
was assured. The Bank met with PWOs who had won DBL/OBA contracts to help them address
their technical concerns. The task team also met regularly with PPWSA to help resolve technical
issues and to make sure their performance indicators were on track. The team paid close attention
to MIME’s progress on drafting the regulatory law. The Bank hired a community development
specialist to supervise the JSDF grant financing CfD activities to make sure the CWGs were
formed quickly and trained to perform their duties. Bank supervision of procurement and
financial management aspects was adequate although supervision of environmental safeguards
could have been better. Upon the suspension of disbursements following the misprocurement, the
Bank drew up an anti-corruption action plan for lifting the suspension. It also ensured that the
key elements of that action plan would be sustained through the rest of the project by
incorporating them into the DFA as amendments.

After the suspension was lifted in January 2007, the Bank’s performance declined. The original
team engineer was re-assigned, and three successive TTLs assumed leadership of the project, two
of whom did not possess the necessary profile to complete the restructuring agreed in principle
with MIME in 2006. The result was the project languished: PPWSA could not access its share of
undisbursed funds to expand connections and CfD could not continue building additional latrines.
(The lack of progress in disbursement between 2008 and 2010 shown in the datasheet bear
witness to that slow-down.) QAG recommended in its October 2008 assessment that the project

                                               16
be restructured immediately, and the Country Management Unit commented likewise in the
Implementation Status Report (ISR) of 2009. In the end, the restructuring was completed only in
April 2010, resulting in valuable implementation time being lost.

During these intermediate years, the Bank extended the closing date of the project by two years.
After the extension, the PDO rating was upgraded to moderately satisfactory prematurely, as key
performance indicators had not changed. Supervision, particularly on the ground, was inadequate
and ISRs were filed only once a year instead of twice, and lacked specificity and analysis. When
the closing date was extended by two years in June 2008, and also at the time of project
restructuring, the Bank should have adjusted the formula for the provision of subsidies under Part
B for taking into account price escalations.

In late 2009, the third post-suspension TTL was appointed and Bank supervision improved to
satisfactory. This team succeeded in completing the restructuring, monitored implementation
progress and resolved issues in a timely manner.            This team carried out a technical and
operational review of the 11 DBL/OBA contracts and suggested the consumer satisfaction survey
to gauge PWO performance, an important step given MIME’s lack of reporting on performance
indicators. Unfortunately by this time, it was too late to revive progress on the regulatory law.

In the absence of a follow-on project and new CAS, the Bank can be credited with conducting
sector work to lay the foundation for eventual re-engagement in the sector.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately satisfactory
Quality at entry is deemed satisfactory although with several shortcomings, but quality of
supervision is rated moderately unsatisfactory. As the project still managed to achieve moderately
satisfactory results, the overall rating is justified.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Note: For the purpose of this section, MIME is considered part of Government performance.

RGC’s performance during preparation was satisfactory. As mentioned in Section 2.1, during
preparation, RGC showed its commitment to the objectives of the sector and the project through
several successive years of quality engagement with the CC. The approval of the water supply
policy framework in 2000, the fast-tracking of regulatory legislation, and RGC’s hands-off policy
toward PPWSA under the first project illustrated the borrower’s commitment and leadership.

RGC’s performance during implementation was moderately unsatisfactory. Early on, MIME
adequately prepared the technical and financial analyses of initial batch of towns vying for private
sector water supply bids, and had awarded 18 contracts. MIME systematically provided the
Bank with monthly implementation status reports; bi-monthly progress reports; quarterly
environmental monitoring reports; and financial management reports (FMR), although it was late
in providing audit reports. Until 2006, MIME’s reporting system was adequate to monitor and
evaluate project activities on an on-going basis, in accordance with the KPI. However, the Bank’s
fiduciary investigation uncovered evidence of corrupt, collusive and fraudulent practices in Part
A of the project, resulting in the misprocurement and suspension. RGC met the Bank’s
conditions to lift the suspension within about seven months. As mentioned in Section 2.1, the
government implemented a number of measures to minimize the potential for future corruption,
including the engagement of a Procurement Compliance Auditor, use of the services of an

                                                17
independent procurement agent (IPA) except under Part A.2 and Part B of the Project, and
adoption of the GGF. To MIME’s credit, they completed the seven contracts that were declared
as misprocured, so that those towns would have access to clean water. This shows MIME’s
commitment to expanding access to water.

After the misprocurement, MIME was less likely to heed the Bank’s requests for progress
reporting and it became difficult for the Bank to follow progress of the DBL/OBA water schemes.
Finally, the draft Water Supply and Sanitation Regulation Law was never submitted for approval
by the National Assembly.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory
PPWSA is a professionally run company that has achieved excellent results and is a credible
partner. PPWSA support for the peri-urban water supply component was strong. PPWSA had an
adequate financial management system with a well-staffed finance unit, and a good accounting
and reporting system. Its financial management performance was satisfactory and its overall
project management was highly satisfactory.

PPWSA staff had sound procurement knowledge and extensive experience with procurement
procedures of various external development partners and RGC’s Procurement Manual for
Externally Financed Projects. PPWSA also had a dedicated procurement unit which carried out
procurement of goods and works smoothly and efficiently. It had its own established procedures
for complaints handling. Also PPWSA displayed dedication to serving the needs of the poor. For
example, in line with its policy of “Clean Water for the Poor?, PPWSA set up three categories of
installment payments: 10 months, 15 months, and 20 months which can be chosen by the poor,
based on what they could afford. There is also a discount of 20% of connection fees for the poor
who live in suburban communities. In addition, PPWSA has applied a subsidy policy for the
poorest since May 2005: 30%, 50%, 70% and 100% of the total connections fee based on real
poverty rates.

PPWSA’s performance in implementing its GGF was satisfactory on all elements, including
procurement and financial management, disclosure, civil society role, complaints and remedies
mechanism, and code of ethical conduct and sanctions.

CfD performed its originally designated activities satisfactorily. It carried out extensive outreach
activities in the project communities. It provided project orientation training to its staff for
community facilitators, organized a series of training workshops to Commune/Sangkat council
members, CWG members, village leaders and various stakeholders. With CfD assistance, CWG
members reviewed and updated 149 target village maps of 34 communes/Sangkats and 20 towns
in four provinces. Five in-house training workshops were held for CWG and CC members in the
20 towns to enable them to undertake their primary roles and responsibilities more effectively and
efficiently.

After the restructuring, CfD became responsible for procurement and construction of latrines,
responsibilities for which it was less well suited. It initially undertook the procurement of toilet
construction materials itself, but at the bid evaluation stage, the Bank identified a number of
deviations from the procurement procedures, supported by a complaint from a bidder. Following
this incident the procurement process was canceled and the package was re-bid by the IPA. This
caused implementation delays of several months for both the delivery of the construction
materials and thus installation of household latrines. CfD’s performance in supervising the
contractors’ provision of latrines varied among the provinces. CfD’s financial management,
monitoring and evaluation, and implementation of its GGF are considered satisfactory. Even
though CfD was weak in procurement and construction supervision, its overall performance is
considered satisfactory.
                                                18
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Government’s performance was moderately satisfactory; PPWSA’s and CfD’s performances
were satisfactory. The project outcome was moderately satisfactory. In light of these ratings, the
overall Borrower performance is rated moderately satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

1. NGO role in community empowerment. As a local Cambodian NGO, CfD which worked
   for other donors as well, was effective in empowering communities to become actors in local
   development projects. CfD’s approach of awareness-raising, social mobilization, and
   increasing access to improved facilities can be considered a model for replication, especially
   for projects where demand needs to be triggered at the grassroots level. At the same time, it
   should be recognized that an NGO’s weak capacity and lack of familiarity with Bank
   procedures are challenges for an NGO to implement Bank-financed projects, and mitigation
   measures should be included.

2. Importance of CWGs. As social mobilization agents, CWGs provided clear benefits to their
    communities, including the PWOs, with little or no reward in return. Rather than relying
    solely on official local leaders at the village and commune levels, the CWG served as an
    effective, valued-added community representative for the success of local development
    activities.

3. Water consumption survey. It is important to conduct a water consumption survey during
   project preparation stage in order to get a clear estimate of the water consumption rate. As
   water consumption has deep financial implications, conducting such a survey could avoid the
   possibility of over estimating or underestimating consumption, thereby minimizing any
   potential financial loss for the utility company.

4. Service Delivery Using the Private Sector. On the whole, the private sector participation
   component was proceeding well until it was curtailed in 2006 due to misprocurement of
   seven contracts, all with the same PWO. Demand for water supply using the DBL/OBA
   system was evident during preparation of the follow-on project. Assuming demand for clean
   water at appropriate prices is still present in the provinces and assuming the Cambodian
   private sector in water supply still has adequate capacity and interest, this model is worth
   pursuing, subject to certain calibrations being made. This would include approval an
   appropriate water regulatory law and installation of an independent water regulator able to
   protect all interested parties.

5. TA Component for Building Capacity of Private Sector. Given the innovative private
   sector participation component for Cambodia, the project should have included a specific TA
   component to train prospective bidders on Bank procurement procedures, and on how to
   prepare responsive technical and financial bids, instead of leaving this task to the Mekong
   Private Sector Development Facility, which was not formally a part of the project. Such
   training may have stimulated private sector response even more.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

(b) Cofinanciers

                                               19
(c) Other partners and stakeholders

(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                           20
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                      Actual/Latest
                                  Appraisal Estimate                     Percentage of
           Components                                 Estimate (USD
                                   (USD millions)                         Appraisal
                                                         millions)
Part A: Provincial Water Supply and Sanitation (the MIME Component)
Water Supply                                    12.50               4.32          34.54%
Sanitation                                       1.00               0.85          85.12%
Institutional Capacity Building                  0.15               0.01           7.18%
Project Management Consultant                    2.90               2.32          80.04%
Incremental Costs                                0.12               0.40         335.15%
Part B: Peri-Urban Water Supply (PPWSA Component)
Water Supply                                     6.10              10.46        171.48%
Domestic Connections                             0.30               1.27        423.33%
Institutional Capacity Building                  0.30                  -                -
               Total                            23.37              19.63          83.99%
              Total Baseline Cost               23.37              19.63          83.99%
Physical Contingencies
                                                 0.00
Price Contingencies
                                               0.00
             Total Project Costs              23.37               19.63            83.99%
Project Preparation Fund                       0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                             0.00
     Total Financing Required                 23.37               19.63            83.99%


(b) Financing
                                                    Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                        Type of     Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
           Source of Funds
                                      Cofinancing    (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                    millions)   millions)

Borrower                                                   1.87            1.46    78.07%

 Local Communities                                         0.25            0.52      208%
 International Development
                                                          20.00           17.65    88.24%
Association (IDA)
 Foreign Private Commercial Sources
                                                           1.25               -          -
(unidentified)
Total                                                     23.37           19.63    83.99%

Note: In addition, there was also JSDF Grant of US$773,900 for Capacity Building and Basic
Service Provisioning to Water Groups.




                                            21
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Part A

MIME

The PAD identified the following expected outputs from the project: (i) Undertaking
construction of water supply infrastructure and connecting to low-income households in about 20
communities in the Project Provinces; (ii) Improving sanitation conditions in low-income
households, selected schools, hospitals and public markets through the construction and
installation of sanitation facilities in about 20 communities in the Project Provinces; and (iii)
Supporting project management in-the carrying out of Part A of the Project, through the provision
of technical assistance for procurement, auditing and accounting activities; construction
management and supervision; preparation for additional water supply facilities; and the provision
of office equipment and vehicles.

Actual Outputs:

At the end of project implementation in June 2008:
        Component A1: 9 DBL and 2 OBA water supply systems in four provinces were
         completed and operating.(If including Peam Chi Kang, which passed the
         commissioning test before the credit cancellation, 12 subprojects were completed,
         passed the commissioning tests, and became operational);
        Component A2: Due to discontinuation of Part A in 2006, the second phase of
         constructing 6,072 improved sanitation facilities was not carried out;
        Component A3: institutional capacity building for MIME staff, equipment and
         software purchases, and project financial audits; hiring the services of a project
         management consultant; and incremental costs for supervising and monitoring
         were carried out, although there were no formal capacity development trainings
         provided by the PMC to PMO personnel.

CfD

        6,072 (100 per cent) phase 2 toilets with septic systems were completed, with an
         additional 33,493 people now having access to improved sanitation. A total of
         7,147 sanitation facilities in 20 communities now benefit 39,511 people in the
         Project provinces; an additional 3,465 neighboring people also use these new
         facilities which are particularly important to young girls.
        During phase 2, 6,602 (2,658 female) participants benefited from seven training
         workshops: i) CWG role and responsibilities (refresher); ii) Good governance
         framework, complaint mechanism, and procurement manual; iii) Toilet
         construction techniques (including material specifications; iv) Conflict
         management/resolution and networking, advocacy, and lobbying; v) National
         drinking water quality standards (including consumer rights training as per the
         terms and conditions of the signed contracts; vi) Gender mainstreaming in the
         WASH sector; and vii) Toilet material specification monitoring;
        The public information dissemination component produced and distributed to the
         20 service areas 15,000 illustrated three-ply flyers, 850 illustrated all-weather
         small posters, and 10,000 large acrylic posters with illustrations and text. Two
         DVD videos, one a cartoon and the other a documentary, and a radio spot were
         produced. Two national television channels, CTN & KTV, broadcast one of the

                                               22
         video productions and the radio spot was broadcast by stations in the concerned
         provinces. Community screenings of the video productions were organized for a)
         students and teachers in 79 schools for 33,732 participants and b) populations at
         large in 149 community institutions (including Buddhist Pagodas and Muslim
         Mosques) for 84,272 participants. For data on the participants, see Annexes 8.1.
         and 8.2.
        Five exit (strategy) workshops were organized in the last month of phase 2 with
         101 CWG and CC representatives from the 20 service areas participating.


Part B

PPWSA

The PAD identified the following expected outputs from the project: (i) Expanding water supply
infrastructure and connecting to low-income households in about five communities in the peri-
urban areas of Phnom Penh municipality; and (ii) Supporting project management through the
provision of technical assistance for construction supervision of works under Part B.1 of the
Project.
Actual Outputs:

        Before restructuring, length of pipeline installed: 299 km (end 2010); number of
         PHHs receiving water connections: 6,462 (end 2010); and one elevated water tank.
        After restructuring, length of pipeline installed: 330 km (Semester 1 2011);
         number of PHHs receiving water connections: 5,208 (Jan to end of Jun 2011)
         (Semester 1 2011);
        Total length of pipelines installed: 629 km; total number of elevated water tower:
         one; and total number of PHHs receiving water connections: 11,670.




                                             23
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1.   Financial performance

The Part A of the project was to improve sanitation conditions in low-income households,
selected schools, hospitals and public markets and to support project management. Since this
component was to provide sanitation facilities we have not attempted a financial analysis for this
component.

The operating and the financial performance indicators for the (Part B) PPWSA component of the
project are presented in Table 1. There has been a steady improvement in operational efficiency
of the water supply component. The total quantity of water sold increased from 40 million m3 in
2003 to 94 million m3 in 2010 and the Non-Revenue Water (Unaccounted for Water-UFW) fell
from 17.11 in 2003 to 5.85 in 2010, a significant increase in technical efficiency. The debt-equity
ratio shows that equity provides majority of the financing although the ratio has been increasing
over the years. The debt-equity ratio remained below one, which means that equity is higher than
the debt. The operating ratio (ratio of operating expenses to net sales expressed as a percentage)
is less than 40 percent which implies that the utility has been operating somewhat efficiently.
However, it may be noted that it has been increasing since 2003.


 Table 1: Operating and the financial performance indicators for the Part B PPWSA component
     Operating & Financial
          Indicators             2003      2004          2005     2006       2007       2008      2009       2010
 Water Sold (000m3)              40,081    48,859     56,168      65,407    74,449     80,105     84,754    94,197

 Average Tariff (Riels)          953.56    976.79     978.03      990.49   1,000.29   1,002.46    994,05   1,000.59

 Water Losses (UFW)               17.11      14.1         9.17      7.38      6.24       6.19       5.94      5.85

 Service Connections             15,745    16,744     13,458      12,908    10,888     16,117     12,921    11,835

 Operating Ratio                   26.1      27.2         29.9      34.4       36.1       39.0      36.9       37.1

 Operating Revenues (Riels M)    49,445    56,962     67,743      78,664    89,910    101,455    105,600   120,053

 Net Income (Riels M)             7,609     9,211     12,654      15,817    22,404     24,436     26,934    32,286

 Total Assets (Riels M)         499,206   510,888    532,081     558,812   604,309     65,510    688,071   745,224

 Debt/Equity Ratio (time)          0.29      0.30         0.30      0.29       0.33       0.37      0.37       0.40


The total assets, water sold, operating revenues and net income are showing an increasing trend
during the period 2003-2010. The tariff levels were also at an acceptable level as demonstrated
by the beneficiary analysis. However, it may be noted that the number of service connections
reached the highest level in 2008 but has declined since then.

The projections financial and operating ratios for the PPWSA component from 2011 through
2020 with the project are presented in Annex 10. The financial performance ratios and indicators
show sustainability of the project. The net incomes, total assets, operating ratios and the
measures of operating efficiency show an increasing trend over the period considered.




                                                    24
2.   Economic analysis

2.1. Methodology and assumptions

The methodology followed incremental benefits approach, analyzing the benefits with and with-
out the project. The incremental benefits with the project are assumed to be the benefits from the
project.

The benefits from investment in sanitation include health benefits, water sector benefits, benefits
in the tourism and other welfare benefits. The health benefits include improved health status,
treatment costs and productive time losses avoided and premature death averted. The benefits to
water supplies include improved water quality and water-borne diseases averted. The other
welfare benefits include improved environmental quality, time losses for access to toilets, land
use and quality. There have been detailed studies on benefits of improved sanitation and water
supplies in developing countries. This literature has reviewed and assessed the health benefits,
water sector benefits, value addition in the tourism sector and other welfare benefits. The World
Bank’s water and sanitation group has estimated the above benefits of improved sanitation in
Southeast Asia including Cambodia. We have used the results of the above study to estimate the
project benefits. The parameters estimates used to compute the benefits from improved sanitation
and water supplies are presented in Table 2 below. The parameter estimates and the data on the
number of beneficiaries and extent of coverage were used to estimate aggregate project benefits.

Table 2: Financial and economic losses averted from access to improved water and
sanitation services in Cambodia
Impact                   Losses averted ($ per capita per year)
                         Financial losses                  Economic losses
Health                   1.0                               13.6
Water                    10.6                              10.8
Other welfare                                              2.8
Tourism                                                    5.3
Total                    11.6                              32.4
Source: Economic Impacts of Sanitation in Southeast Asia-A four country study. Research
Report 46351, Water and Sanitation Program, World Bank 2008


The benefits of the water sector component include incremental value of water sold, savings in
cost of water to the consumer, health costs and medical expenses averted from clean water
supplied, savings in value of productive time lost from water borne diseases, value of time saved
in water collection and savings in costs of boiling untreated water. The incremental values of
water sold that accrue to the water utility were estimated from the projections in financial
performance of the PPSWSA and from the data in project files.

Assumptions:

In order to estimate the costs and benefits streams the following assumptions were made:

     a. Benefits and costs are projected over a period of 20 years, corresponding to the
        expected life of 20 years for investments in water and sanitation.

     b. The opportunity cost of capital is assumed to be 12 percent and the cash flows are
        discounted at this rate.


                                                25
      c. The operation and maintenance expenses are a fixed proportion of the total project
         investment.

      d. Following WHO research findings, it is assumed that incidence of infectious
         water borne diseases with the project scenario is half its occurrence without the
         project.

      e. The benefits from capacity building and training programs are positive and
         significant but has not been evaluated and included in computation of benefits.

2.2    Project delays

There have been significant delays in project implementation, for up to two years in the middle of
the project, due mainly to strained relationships and the consequent suspension and restructuring
of the project. The delays resulted in opportunity costs from not realizing the intended benefits
and opportunity costs of fixed investments expended. The cash flows, the benefit flows in
particular, considered in this analysis accounts for such delays in realization of benefits. The
opportunity costs of fixed investment and the delayed benefits due to delays in project
implementation were captured through discounting of the cash flows.

3. Cash-flows and Economic Rates of Return

The discounted costs and benefits for the different components of the project are presented below
in Table 3.

Table 3: Discounted costs and benefits from the project (US $)
         Discounted cost      Discounted benefits
Year                          Water supply component          Sanitation           Total Project
                              PPWSA           MIME            MIME                 benefits
      1           669,643                -              -               -                     -

        2          3,507,653          345,313          417,188         243,495     1,005,995

        3          3,131,833          419,438          559,858         409,236     1,388,531

        4               889,725       380,853          493,518          599,124    1,473,495

        5                      -      345,722          440,641          534,932    1,321,295

        6          2,053,510          298,548          393,429         477,618     1,169,595

        7          3,141,713          388,263          510,422         483,336     1,382,021

        8               805,879       527,558          589,548          518,630    1,635,736

        9               719,535       471,034          528,546          463,062    1,462,642

       10               642,442       420,566          471,916          413,448    1,305,930

       11               573,609       375,505          421,066          369,150    1,165,722

       12               512,151       335,272          375,952          329,598    1,040,823
       13               457,277       299,350          335,671          294,284
                                                26
                                                                                      929,306

        14            408,283           267,277          299,707          262,754     829,738

        15            364,539           238,640          267,504          234,602     740,746

        16            325,481           213,072          238,843          209,466     661,380

        17            290,608           190,243          213,252          187,023     590,518

        18            259,471           169,859          190,404          166,985     527,248

        19            231,671           151,660          170,004          149,094     470,757

        20            206,849           135,411          151,789          133,119     420,319
Total
                  19,191,872          5,973,584        7,069,258        6,478,956     19,521,798

The analysis shows that the project has a Benefit cost ratio of 1.02 and Internal Economic rate of
12.5 percent.

The above return from the project is a respectable rate of return for a water supply and sanitation
project. Further, the suspension of the project in the middle of implementation has also affected
realization of the benefits in time and hence had opportunity costs. The above estimates of the
return from the project at completion are in line with the anticipated rates of return at project
development as presented in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD). It may be noted that the
estimates of return presented here do not account for the capacity development programs
implemented as part of the project and information dissemination programs as outlined in section
4.1. Accounting for the above benefits will further improve the benefits from the project.

The rates of return and the benefit: cost analysis presented in the PAD are for the 12 sub-projects
considering the economic benefits such as direct use benefits, consumer surplus and cost savings.
Those rates of returns do not include the health benefits and other indirect benefits. Further, the
PAD does not present an economic analysis of the sanitation component or for the whole project.
Hence we have not attempted a comparison of the ex-ante rates of return presented in the PAD
with the results presented in this section.

4. Conclusions

It may be noted that the rate of return and the Benefit: Cost ratio for the project is relatively low.
The delays in project implementation and the consequent opportunity costs of delayed benefits
and fixed investments might have affected the rates of return. Further, the benefits from capacity
development activities implemented and from the training programs have not been quantified in
monetary terms and included in the computation of project benefits and rate of returns. Other
possible benefits that are not included in this analysis are benefits in the tourism sector.
Accounting for such benefits would further improve the rates of returns from the project.

The financial projections for the PPWSA component show the long-term sustainability of the
water supply components. In order to ensure long-run sustainability the tariff rates have to be set
at sustainable levels. The review found that PPWSA is financially sustainable, which will enable
it to take care of O&M activities on a regular basis. It also has SOP and the Community
Participation Program for O&M of all facilities procured under its own and externally financed
projects. Sustainability of the DBL/OBA assets would depend on their financial viability, proper
government regulation and continuous community education

                                                  27
28
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
             Names                                        Title
Lending
Vijay Jagannathan              Task Team Leader
Luiz Claudio Tavares           Project Engineer
Aldo Baietti                   Financial Specialist
Santanu Lahiri                 Project Engineer
R.I. Gapalkrishnam             Procurement Specialist
P. Illangovan                  Environmental Specialist
Mei Wang                       Legal Counsel
Mariles Navarro                Economist
Declan Oleary                  Community Participation Specialist
Preethi Wijeratne              FM Specialist
Minerva Espinosa-Apurada       Program Assistant
Pramod Agrawal                 Resettlement Specialist
Supervision/ICR
              Names                              Title                 Unit
Lixin Gu                       Sr. Infrastructure Specialist (TTL)   EASIN
Aldo Baietti                   Lead Infrastructure Specialist        EASIN
Mario Alejandro Suardi         Senior Infrastructure Specialist      GPOBA
Veasna Bun                     Senior Infrastructure Specialist      EASTS
Kannathee Danaisawat           Financial Management Specialist       EAPFM
Jan Drozdz                     Sr Water & Sanitation Spec.           AFTUW
R. I. Gopalkrishnan            Consultant                             FFSFI
Seida Heng                     Financial Management Specialist       EAPFM
Karen Jonesy Jacob             Consultant                            EASIN
Mariles Navarro                Consultant                            EASIN
John Richardson                Consultant                            EACTF
John Smithson                  Consultant                            EASCS
Sreng Sok                      Procurement Specialist                EAPPR
Ahsan Ali                      Sr. Procurement Specialist            EAPPR
Latharo Lor                    Procurement Specialist                EAPPR
Luiz Claudio Martins Tavares   Lead Water and Sanitation Spec        AFTUW
Manida Unkulvasapaul           Consultant                            EASVS
China Chunn                    Team Assistant                        EACSF
Sandra Walston                 Team Assistant                        EASIN




                                       29
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY01                                       4                        27.89
  FY02                                      23                       122.39
  FY03                                      34                       202.85
  FY04                                                                 0.00
  FY05                                                                 0.00
  FY06                                                                 0.00
  FY07                                                                 0.00
  FY08                                                                 0.00
                          Total:            61                       353.13
Supervision/ICR
  FY01                                                                 0.00
  FY02                                                                 0.00
  FY03                                                                 0.00
  FY04                                     5                          50.06
  FY05                                    14                          57.26
  FY06                                    25                         108.21
  FY07                                    27                          65.95
  FY08                                    18                          71.54
 FY09                                     16.25                       55.7
 FY10                                     16.4                        91.0
 FY11                                     14.27                       75.8
                          Total:         135.92                      575.52




                                       30
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

See Section 3.6




                                      31
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

(i) Training and Orientation at the Community Level: In July 2010, 6 CFs and 12 ACFs that
were deployed to be based in the 20 towns in the 4 provinces, organized a series of training
workshops and orientations at the community level, and provided direct messages on the project
framework and key activities to 90 commune/Sangkat council members, 81 CWG members, 147
village leaders and 63 stakeholders namely schoolteachers, local influential elders, TLOs and
directors of local health centers. At the end of the training, participants were able to answer
questions correctly related to (i) the main project objectives, (ii) the project’s partnership and its
complementary approach, (iii) the importance of replacing the CWG members that had resigned,
(iv) the roles and responsibilities of the CWGs, (v) why the poor household lists needed to be
updated and reviewed using direct feasibility studies, and (vi) the roles and responsibilities of
CCs/SCs in the project. They expressed strong commitment in playing active roles in project
implementation, and they were happy with information that was provided.

(ii) Conducting training on the Good Governance Framework (GGF) and Complaint
Mechanism. In the first quarter of the project period, CfD and project management staff
provided training and capacity building on the GGF and the complaint mechanism to CCs/SCs
and CWGs in 6 training events over the 20 towns. A total of 172 people participated in the events,
of which 66 were females. The main aim of training was to build the capacity of CC/SC members
and members of CWGs in terms of the Good Governance Framework, Complaint Mechanism and
Procurement Processes within the SOP/PM, which were to be applied in the project, and to
inform the participants that they had key roles in the procurement process. In session 1, the
participants were split into small group discussion, each group consisting of 5-11 people and one
project’s facilitator. Participants went through the GGF and Complaint Mechanism that had been
previously translated into Khmer. In session 2, participants were invited to the plenary session
where the trainers provided training and explanation, and in session 3 there was an open question
and answer session where aspects that were still unclear to attendees were clarified.

(iii) Strengthening CWG & CC Roles and Responsibilities. Five in-house training workshops
were held for CWG and CC members in the 20 towns to enable them to undertake their primary
roles and responsibilities in a more effective and efficient ways. All the training was focused
around WASH.

       13 training workshops were held on conflict management in the Water and Sanitation
        (WATSAN) sector, which involved the participation of 155 key actors of whom 55 were
        female. The training content included (1) the causes of conflict; (b) how to understand
        and analyze conflict; (c) how to manage and resolve the conflict and (d) listening and
        negotiation skills. In their feedback, participants thanked the project for providing such
        important training, and expressed that the training has enabled them to not only manage
        conflict surrounding WATSAN related issues but also for other issues too.

       5 training workshops were held on Gender mainstreaming in the Water and Sanitation
        (WATSAN) sector which covered to 34 communes, 20 towns and involved participation
        of 107 key actors of whom 44 were females. The training content included (i) the general
        concept of gender; (b) roles of gender; (c) gender needs and (d) gender in WASH sector.
        In their feedback, participants thanked the project for providing such important training,
        and expressed that the training has enabled them to strengthen and promote their roles
        and function into WATSAN and but also on other related for other issues in communities
        too.

       5 training workshops were held on National Drinking Water Quality Standards
        (NDWQTS) and Term of Conditions (TC) which cover to 34 communes, 20 towns and
        involved to the participation of 111 key actors of whom 44 are females. The training

                                                 32
        content included (i) general concept of NWQS & TC; (b) key words & terms of NWQTS
        & TC; (c) CWG and CC roles and responsibilities in WASH sector in communities and
        (d) roles and responsibilities of operator water supply in community. In their feedback,
        participants thanked the project for providing such important training, and expressed that
        the training has enabled them to strengthen and promote their roles and function into
        (NWQTS & TC) and cooperation among CWG, CC and Operator in community.

       Project staff organized 20 refresher training events on roles and responsibilities of CWG,
        in the 20 towns which was participated by 151 key actors, including 83 females.
        Participants were asked to reflect and brainstorm about what their roles, responsibilities
        and functions are. Opinions from groups were expressed in the plenary session and
        project staff gave their thoughts and added extra explanations and descriptions.

       In conjunction with the above training, 151 CWG members were also trained on how to
        conduct participatory Consumers’ Satisfaction Surveys. A simple survey form was
        created in the training events using the ideas of the participants and the methodology for
        randomly selecting the interviewees was defined. A role-play activity was carried out to
        confirm whether the CWG members were able to put what they had learnt into practice,
        which generally they were able to do so. At the end of the training, the schedule for the
        field survey was prepared and agreed-upon.

(iv) Implementation of Exit Strategy of CWG/CC. CfD management organized 5 provincial
workshops (1 in SVR, 1 in PVG, 1 in KCM and 2 in BMC) with a total participant of 101 people
representing 20 town CWGs and 34 CC. The workshop covered four topics: (i) Reflection on the
role and responsibility of CWG; (ii) Assessment of CWG institutional capacity against their role
and responsibility; (iii) Capacity assessment of individual CWG members; and (iv) Participatory
define and develop exist strategy June 2011 to June 2013

The Results of the Workshops:

i) Reflection on the role and responsibility of CWG: The participants came up with the below
summary:

  Role: CWG is an intermediary group that will keep linking between local community, CC and
outsiders specially water operator, DIME and MIME. Mediation for improvement and increase of
access to WASH.

  Responsibility: mobilize people participations and protect consumers’ rights, but also
encourage people to respect their obligations

  Function: Assisting and reporting to the respective commune council, and reporting to
donors as well as local government.

  Performance Procedure: Monthly meeting, and public meeting with respective CC

ii) Assessment of CWG institutional capacity against their role and responsibility: Participants
responded that the below listed activities are what they can do confidently by themselves:
   Undertake local coordination and meeting with local stakeholders, as well as collect health data
from health centers;
   Organize village level meeting and education, this includes small group meetings and
household education;
   Solving problems that are related to WASH in the locality
   Moderate local screenings and provide popular education at school
   Data gathering related to WASH

                                                33
 Provide training to village on toilet construction technique and conduct technical
monitoring
 Mobilize people to connect to the water system
 Disseminate water quality to communities
 If together with CC, they can organize and meet with upper structure
 More confident in performance role and responsibility and have more social competent

iii) Capacity assessment of individual CWG members

In general, individual capacity of CWG members have improved from 20 score (assessed
in June 2010) to 92 score (assessed in early June 2011).




                                             34
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                         KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
PROVINCIAL AND PERI-URBAN WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT (PPUWSP, 2003-2011)
            DRAFT BORROWER’S EVALUATION REPORT (August 2011)

Introduction

(a) Strategic context: The lack of access to clean water and sanitation has been a major public
health issue in post-conflict Cambodia. The Kingdom of Cambodia has one the highest infant
mortality and morbidity rates in the world caused by water-borne diseases. Outside Phnom Penh,
treated water supply coverage has been limited. In a country that is 82 per cent rural, nearly 40 per
cent of the rural population in 2008 did not have access to safe drinking water and only 19 per cent
had access to toilets. In the same year, only 33.7 per cent of Cambodia’s population of 13.4
million had access to improved sanitation, an increase from 14.4 per cent in 1998.

Using a 1990 baseline, the Royal Government of Cambodia’s Millennium Development Goals
(No. 7, Targets 10 and 12) are to halve by 2015 the proportion of people without sustainable
access to safe drinking water and improved sanitation, goals that are likely to be achieved for
water, but not sanitation. The RGC’s National Strategic Development Plan (NSDP) is committed
to providing all citizens with clean and safe water and sanitation.

The RGC’s policy of decentralization and deconcentration (D&D) reforms implemented by the
National Committee for Sub-National Democratic Development (NCSNDD) in the Ministry of
Interior, building on earlier initiatives, provided an enabling institutional context for local
authority and end user community group involvement in the WATSAN sector.

(b) Objectives: The purpose of the Provincial and Peri-Urban Water and Sanitation Project
(PPUWSP – hereafter “Project?) was to assist the RGC in attaining its MDGs in water supply and
sanitation by 2015. Its main objective was to integrate business and community interests in the
provision of clean water and improved sanitation services. A secondary objective was to jump
start the process by connecting clean water and provision of sanitation facilities to low income
households in four provinces. Another objective was to extend the reach of piped water for low
income households in peri-urban areas of Phnom Penh.
(c ) Design: The Project design aimed at building a partnership between the government, private
sector, and community-based user groups in the provision of clean water and improved sanitation
in 20 service areas in the selected provinces (Kampong Cham, Prey Veng, Svay Rieng, and
Banteay Meanchey), ensuring the inclusion of poor households through an IDA subsidy. The
rationale for the design was that end user consumers and private water operators could be provided
incentives to participate as partners in development of the WATSAN sector.

The Project’s implementing agencies were the Ministry of Industry, Mines and Energy (MIME),
whose Department of Potable Water Supply is responsible for the regulation and provision of safe
water in the provinces; the Phnom Penh Water Supply Authority (PPWSA), a public enterprise
under nominal MIME oversight providing clean water for the greater Phnom Penh area; and the
Center for Development (CfD), a national community empowerment NGO responsible for the
community mobilization component. The MIME component closed June 2008 and in a Project
restructuring approved by the WB March 2010, PPWSA and CfD implemented a Project
extension through June 30, 2011.

           MINISTRY OF INDUSTRY, MINES AND ENERGY (2003-2008)
Outcome/Achievements
    Water supply systems for 25 subprojects or towns were planned for implementation under
      Design-Build-Lease (DBL) contracts and an additional 9 were planned for implementation
      under Output-Based-Aid (OBA), also called Design-Build-Operate (DBO) contracts, in
                                                35
       eight provinces;
      Of the 34 total, 30 towns were included in the May 2006 procurement plan.
      Only 18 subprojects (12 DBLs and 6 OBAs) were awarded to contractors. 12 subprojects
       were cancelled by MIME, and Bank credits were subsequently cancelled for 7 other
       subprojects (3 DBL and 4 OBA) for a total of 11 (9 DBL and 2 OBAs) in four provinces.
       (One OBA town, Peam Chi Kang, was completed prior to its credit cancellation).
      Under the restructured Project approved by the Bank in 2010, credits originally allocated
       to the cancelled subprojects were reallocated to Part B of the PPWSA and Part A2 was
       reallocated to the Center for Development (CfD) for completion.

Project outputs
At the end of project implementation in June 2008:
     Component A1: 9 DBL and 2 OBA water supply systems in four provinces were
        completed and operating. (If including Peam Chi Kang, which passed the commissioning
        test before the credit cancellation, 12 subprojects were completed, passed the
        commissioning tests, and became operational);
     Component A2: Due to discontinuation of Part A in 2006, the second phase of
        constructing 6,072 improved sanitation facilities was not carried out;
     Component A3: institutional capacity building for MIME staff, equipment and software
        purchases, and project financial audits; hiring the services of a project management
        consultant; and incremental costs for supervising and monitoring were carried out,
        although there were no formal capacity development trainings provided by the PMC to
        PMO personnel.

Achievement of KPIs (project development objectives) during Project period:
    At least 15 additional communities with water supply systems through OBA, lease and
       management contracts: the 11 (or 12, if including Peam Chi Kang) completed sub-
       projects were not enough to satisfy the 15 communities targeted for completion by the end
       of the project period;
    At least 60 per cent of households in service areas receive improved water supply services
       after completion of subprojects: nearly satisfied at 59 per cent, though with a wide
       disparity between the 3 ODA subprojects (20 per cent) and 9 DBL subprojects (79 per
       cent). ODA contracts provided initial connections to only poor households, with
       contractors reimbursed only after connections were verified by PMC;
    At least 30 per cent of poor households have improved sanitation facilities: partially
       completed; the pilot phase providing 1,075 sanitation facilities was implemented by
       Center for Development (CfD) under a Japan Social Development Fund grant; the 6,072
       sanitation facilities for phase two by MIME was not implemented due to its
       discontinuation of Part A; the total number of 7,147 toilets when including the
       restructured phase, when completed for a total of, would provide a 31.9 per cent average
       coverage of poor households in the 20 service areas;
    A majority of contractual disputes with operators mediated and resolved by Clean Water
       Groups (CWGs): Conflicts between customers and operators in the 11 service areas were
       resolved without resorting to contract cancellation;
    The volume of private financing for water supply infrastructure equals or exceeds $0.75
       million: this objective was surpassed, with operators’ equity for the 11 subprojects
       exceeding $1.05 million; for DBL subprojects, the RGC share was 90 percent of the actual
       cost, the contractors’ equity 10 per cent; for OBA subprojects, the RGC share was the
       IDA subsidy for providing service connections to poor households.
    An average of 80 per cent is satisfied with service performance after systems are
       operational: No surveys were conducted prior to June 2008 to determine the level of
       consumer satisfaction in the operating water supply systems. After Project restructuring,
       the CWGs with CfD backstopping conducted four (quarterly) consumer satisfaction
       surveys. The 3rd quarter survey completed in May 2011 of 1,874 (randomly selected?)
                                              36
        interviewees in 13 towns with water supply systems (including Pheam Chi Kang and
        Suong) covered questions about water quality, pressure, 24-hour availability, and
        customer relations. The indicated composite results: Very Good: 49.43 per cent;
        Acceptable: 37.25 per cent; and Poor: 13.33 per cent. For more details, see Annex

Factors Affecting Implementation.
Overall, project implementation of funded subprojects proceeded satisfactorily though at a much
slower pace due to:
     contractor’s limited financial resources, especially for OBA subprojects, with the
        simultaneous awarding of two or more contracts;
     contractor’s limited manpower resources;
     remoteness and accessibility problems of some subproject locations;
     timing of contract awards;
     land issues affecting some water treatment plant locations;
     contractor’s limited design capabilities; and
     delay of payments to contractors’ invoices.

Since Project restructuring:
     PWO reluctance to invest to improve existing infrastructure due in part to weaker than
        projected revenues with steady tariff structure, but also, for DBL plants in particular
        (which received 90 per cent of construction costs in credit) a tendency to wait for the
        government or Bank to solve problems;
     Public-private sector partnership and communication;
     Low disposable village income levels;
     Availability of alternative water sources a key constraint in decision to connect.

Transition arrangements.
    MIME’s Department of Potable Water Supply continues oversight and compliance
        functions, including water testing, with the 11 Project PWOs;
    PWOs adequately equipped to provide service in spite of some ownership management
        issues.
Risks for sustainability. Since Project restructuring:
    While connections for clean water in the 11 service areas increased in three years by 27
        per cent, from 11,600 in mid-2008 to 14,685 in mid-2011, consumer consumption has
        been lower than anticipated by a factor of approximately one-half, impacting profitability.
        Five of the 11 towns experienced declines in the number of connections and may be in
        need of management restructuring (see Annex 2. for details on the current status of the
        PWOs);
    Water quality assurance procedures difficult to enforce due to limited MIME capacity at
        district and line department levels.

Bank Performance. Quality at entry and of supervision, averaging two supervisory missions per
year, was rated as satisfactory. The Bank showed flexibility in administering the Project.

Borrower’s performance. The overall Borrower’s performance was rated satisfactory.

       MEF’s role was rated satisfactory, although at times it took longer than anticipated to
        process document approvals.

       PMO-MIME performance was rated satisfactory in terms of commitment and dedication,
        especially in terms of raising awareness of policy issues and building a participatory
        framework for involvement of major stakeholders. The PMO failed however to take
        adequate advantage of the consultant’s (PCU’s) capacity building possibilities in areas of

                                               37
       project design, supervision, and monitoring. When combined with the problem of
       maintaining sustained and full-time personnel, it led to shortcomings in construction
       supervision functions.

      PMU-MIME performance was rated fair to satisfactory. Project management unit
       personnel at the provincial level helped resolve issues, including and especially land
       issues, in working with the contractors and consultant, but inadequate technical skills
       impaired their effectiveness in the supervision process.

Since Project restructuring:
                              MIME’s overall coordinating role with the Project was limited. It
        provided assistance to CfD’s public information productions;
     As part of its water quality control function, MIME at least every quarter collected water
        samples provided by the PWOs for testing in Phnom Penh, and while test results were not
        routinely shared with CCs and CWGs, a number of PWOs posted results on their bulletin
        boards. There were no noteworthy water quality or safety problems reported, although
        CWGs reported some end user skepticism and complaints relating to taste (chlorination),
        coloring, and residues. Overall consumer satisfaction levels have been high according to
        surveys conducted by CWGs with CfD (see annex 3.).


Lessons Learned.
    The new DBL and OBA approaches used in implementation contracts attracted both local
       and foreign investors, although most of the latter chose not to proceed after noting the
       relatively small scope and scale of the investment ventures.

For OBA subprojects:
     Land for water treatment plants must be acquired before subprojects are begun and the
      potential for finding adequate water supplies needs to be confirmed before bids are
      tendered;
     Environment safeguards need to be integrated into the design and planning stages;
     Regular consultations with communities needed to coordinate construction, minimize
      disruptions, and address concerns.

For DBL subprojects:
     The period between project preparation and implementation needs to shortened, primarily
      by ensuring that land is available for WTP site construction;
     Better control needed of land use around well sites, especially in areas the water supply
      source is an unconfined acquifer;
     Better community understanding of groundwater problems would be useful in preparation
      and implementation of future projects. In general, strengthening community participation
      during project preparation will avoid misunderstandings especially with land issues;
     PWOs have learned the significance of including elevated storage tanks in the water
      system design. Such tanks minimize the generator’s operating time and energy cost and
      allow for 24-hour operation.

After Project restructuring:
     The demand-driven public-private partnership approaches (DBL and OBA) to piped water
        supply in the provinces have been partially successful as models. The number of total
        connections in the 11 towns increased 27 percent from mid-2008 (11,600) to mid-2011
        (14,685), with five of the 11 PWOs experiencing declines in connections (see Annex 2.);
     Consumer satisfaction with the water quality and services has been relatively high (see
        Annex 3.);
     The security of an adequate cash flow for PWOs has not been assured given a low tariff
                                              38
        structure (MIME regulated tariffs are determined by what consumers are willing to pay);
        substantially lower than projected household water consumption; and higher than
        projected fuel costs. Because tariff increases may further decrease both water consumption
        and the rate of new connections, maintaining sustained or generating new private sector
        interest in these approaches may prove challenging at least for the short term.

               PHNOM PENH WATER SUPPLY AUTHORITY (PPWSA)
Outcome/Achievements
    Achieved Project total of 89 per cent ?of water supply infrastructure/pipeline
      objective/KPI;
    Achieved Project total of 77 percent of PHH connections objective/KPI.

Project outputs
    Before restructuring, length of pipeline installed: 299 km (end 2010); number of PHHs
        receiving water connections: 6,462 (end 2010);
    After restructuring, length of pipeline installed: 330 km (Semester 1 2011); number of
        PHHs receiving water connections: 5,208 (Jan to end of Jun 2011) (Semester 1 2011);
    Total length of pipelines installed: 629 km; total number of PHHs receiving water
        connections: 11,670. See Annex 1. for this and other PPWSA provided Project data.

Factors Affecting Implementation.
    Internal quality of the organization biggest factor to success. Leadership and
       organizational culture have created positive institutional cooperation between the special
       authority and donor community;
    Less than adequate timeframes for implementation during both original and restructured
       phases, especially with regard to poor household connections;
    Project task team leaders played effective facilitation and cooperation roles with EA/IA to
       overcome the difficulties and issues during the project life cycles, including project
       formulation, implementation, and completion.

Transition arrangement
    Financially sustainable, which leverages appropriate O&M of the authority;
    Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) and the Community Participation Program for O&M
        of all facilities procured under its own and externally financed projects.
Risks for sustainability.
    Inflationary pressures. While tariffs have remained constant since 2001, fuel costs for
        electricity constitute 52 percent of operations budget compared to 40 per cent five years
        ago;
    Water quality and water levels of Tonle Sap River less consistent from year to year;
    Leadership turnovers;
    Unpredictability of MoWRAM water pricing policies.

Bank Performance.
    Effective and efficient, bank has provided management tools for problem solving. Rated
      satisfactory.

Borrower’s performance
    Ongoing need to improve efficiency (e.g., water loss) and profitability, ambitious goals
       not always easy to achieve. Rated satisfactory.
Lessons Learned.
    Effectiveness of RGC policy;
    Possible to provide water for all. Project development objectives achieved by assuring
       provision of clean water at affordable prices to everyone in greater Phnom Penh;

                                               39
       Close cooperation between the development lender and borrower achievable.
       Good management of bidding process attainable.

                           CENTER FOR DEVELOPMENT (CFD)
Outcome/Achievements
    Implementation of the sanitation component was satisfactorily met in phase 1. The larger
      logistical challenges (including procurement) occurring in phase 2 led to late starts and
      delays in the delivery of construction materials especially in some Kampong Cham service
      areas. Although the deliveries were completed, 24 per cent of the sanitation facilities were
      still under construction by the beneficiaries after the end of the Project period, whereas all
      constructions were completed in August 2011. See Annex 4.1 Progress to June 27 and 4.2.
      Progress to August 15. Annex 5 details the population served by new potable water
      system and Annex 6 details the population served by new household sanitation facilities.

       The public information dissemination component exceeded the number of people targeted
        to receive direct education and awareness of good WASH practices leading to behavior
        change. Local health clinics in Project areas reported dramatic drops (> 70 per cent) in
        admissions due water borne disease cases.

       Clean water groups (CWGs) in 20 service areas representing 149 villages benefited in a
        satisfactory manner through improved capacity in undertaking their role and responsibility
        as social intermediaries between PHH beneficiaries, whom they represented and local
        authorities, private suppliers and (where applicable) private water operators. With
        variations the general level of volunteer CWG representatives in terms of commitment,
        competence, confidence, and follow through representations was moderately high.

Project outputs
    As of August 15, 2011, 6,072 (100 per cent) phase 2 toilets with septic systems were
        completed, with an additional 33,493 people now having access to improved sanitation. A
        total of 7,147 sanitation facilities in 20 communities now benefit 39,511 people in the
        Project provinces; an additional 3,465 neighboring people also use these new facilities
        which are particularly important to young girls.

       During phase 2, 6,602 (2,658 female) participants benefited from seven training
        workshops: i) CWG role and responsibilities (refresher); ii) Good governance framework,
        complaint mechanism, and procurement manual; iii) Toilet construction techniques
        (including material specifications; iv) Conflict management/resolution and networking,
        advocacy, and lobbying; v) National drinking water quality standards (including consumer
        rights training as per the terms and conditions of the signed contracts; vi) Gender
        mainstreaming in the WASH sector; and vii) Toilet material specification monitoring;

       The public information dissemination component produced and distributed to the 20
        service areas 15,000 illustrated three-ply flyers, 850 illustrated all-weather small posters,
        and 10,000 large acrylic posters with illustrations and text. Two DVD videos, one a
        cartoon and the other a documentary, and a radio spot were produced. Two national
        television channels, CTN & KTV, broadcast one of the video productions and the radio
        spot was broadcast by stations in the concerned provinces. Community screenings of the
        video productions were organized for a) students and teachers in 79 schools for 33,732
        participants and b) populations at large in 149 community institutions (including Buddhist
        Pagodas and Muslim Mosques) for 84,272 participants. For data on the participants, see
        Annexes 8.1. and 8.2.

       Five exit (strategy) workshops were organized in the last month of phase 2 with 101 CWG
        and CC representatives from the 20 service areas participating.


                                                40
Factors Affecting Implementation
    Restructured project period short relative to scale of objectives and KPIs;
    The reimbursement method applied to a local non-profit NGO difficult when project
       running at full speed: during time between request and receipt of reimbursement, lacked
       upfront cash to continue implementing.
    Cumbersome procurement guidelines.

Transition arrangement
    Organized five wrap-up workshops involving CWG and CC members to prepare exit
        strategy plan. CfD committed to seeking funds to facilitate exit strategy plans for
        integrated community development.
    Existing CWG mechanism viable to continue WATSAN and other activities including
        with other organizations.
Risks for sustainability.
    CWGs risk loss or dilution of commune council support after commune/sangkat elections
        scheduled to be held in mid-2012;
    Implementation of exit strategies limited without NGO facilitation and donor support.

Bank Performance.
     Satisfactory communication with WB TTL and WB local staff who helped facilitate
project management and implementation, although procurement assistant under restructured
project occasionally incurred problems receiving clear and timely advice from the WB national
procurement specialist. Geographical remoteness of TTL occasionally limited opportunities to
deal with the issues requiring immediate input.
     Slow restructuring approval process caused loss of project momentum and uncertainty
among target groups in service areas.

Borrower’s performance
     2003-2007 and restructured project achievements rated satisfactory by independent
        evaluation team.
     With incurred delays, especially during restructured project period, KPIs satisfactorily
        achieved.
Lessons Learned.
     Local Cambodian NGO able to play proactive role in coordinating and cooperating with
MIME and MEF;
     Better communication and coordination with national and local stakeholders helps project
implementation and on-time achievement;
     CWGs, working on voluntary basis, able to function as social intermediaries supporting
their respective commune councils in accordance with article 27 of the Commune/Sangkat
Administration Law of RGC. They are a link between communities and other project stakeholders
including local water operators and provide relevant information and education as agents of
behavior change among end users;
     CWGs are able to play a participatory role consistent with the RGC’s NSDP and
rectangular strategy including[?] decentralization and deconcentration (D&D);
     Bank flexibility as problems arise helps project management and timely achievement of
objectives.

                  SUMMARY FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS




                                             41
The RCG agreed in this Project to test two demand-based approaches for public-private
partnerships involving community participation in the provision of clean water and sanitation
services in the provinces. Both approaches were based on the premise that water tariffs are what
end users have agreed to and were willing to pay.
      Design-Build-Lease (DBL) contracts, adapted from a model developed in the Philippines,
were awarded to 9 of the 11 Project PWOs. They were based on a community driven credit model
that provided financing for households willing to connect on the same terms (15 years) as the IDA
credit awarded to PWOs as a loan lease for up to 90 percent of their water treatment plant
construction costs. This made the impact on households of repaying the connection cost on the
monthly water bills minimal. It was also developed on the basis of a 20 per cent potential return to
PWOs after the lease fee payment.
      The Output-Based Aid (ODA) approach, an incentive subsidy model, provided no upfront
IDA financing for construction costs but subsidized connections from the IDA grant to all pre-
identified poor and vulnerable households, reimbursing PWOs for completed connections. The
subsidized connections were seen as jump starting the water supply system. As the amount of
financing available to PWOs in OBA contracts was substantially lower than with DBL contracts, it
was seen as substantially reducing the fiscal burden of the RGC to be the sole or main source of
financing water supply investment.
      Five of the 9 DBL systems experienced declines in the number of households connected
comparing mid-2008 to mid-2011, with only Neak Leoung achieving substantial growth. The two
OBA systems saw dramatic increases in the number of connections in the same period, increasing
by more than three-fold from 1,142 connections of poor & vulnerable households only to a total of
3,465. Although after mid-2008 the two OBA PWOs, Pa’av and Mesar Chrey, opened their water
supply systems to any household wishing to connect, a significant part of the increase was due to
USAID subsidies of new connections during a 6-month period in the second half of 2010. In
Mesar Chrey, whose connections increased from 751 to 2,185, a total of 1,200 of the 2,185, or
some 45 per cent, were due to the USAID subsidies.
      Apart from households, PWO total connections include from a half dozen to nearly two
dozen institutional clients. The largest, Neak Leoung, had 23 institutional clients including 3
medical facilities (2 health centers and one referral hospital), 4 schools, 4 wats (Buddhist temples),
3 police stations, 2 fisheries offices, 1 irrigation office, 1 veterinarian, and 1 NGO.
      The evaluation team met with PWO managers at the respective water treatment plants, not
with the owners. Without referring to specific figures, the managers, with the exception of Neak
Leoung, roughly estimated the owners’ profit margins as ranging from small to at or under the
break-even point.

Factors Affecting Implementation.
     Approval processes for both phases slowed project implementation between government
agencies/implementing partners and Bank procurement and reimbursement requirement and
contingency-related issues, including limited field monitoring system of Bank country office;
     Limited design and technical capacities of government staff and PWOs, affecting
construction of water treatment plants in particular;
     Although bidding documents were completed in April 2003, the bidding process for
PWOs did not take place until May 2006;

Transition arrangement
     N/A for PPWSA;
     MIME, playing facilitating role, maintains oversight and compliance functions vis-à-vis
PWOs;
     CfD adding value to CWG’s WASH role as social intermediaries by seeking to introduce
income-generating community development activities and moral/security measures to improve
quality of life. (Safe delivery of rural water and sanitation services is regarded by the RGC and
donor community to be central to more general task of poverty alleviation.).


                                                 42
Risks for sustainability
    Inflationary pressures, especially in fuel costs, for PPWSA and PWOs;
    Diminished CC support for CWGs as CC memberships turn over following elections;
    Limited incentives for PWOs to upgrade, expand, or even adequately maintain water
        treatment plants;
Bank and Borrower’s performance
     Bank performed satisfactorily during both phases, including and especially in its
facilitating role during supervisory missions. Approval delays were a constraint (see (a) above),
including the two-year time lag between phase 1 and the restructured project, possibly encumbered
by the high turnover of Bank TTLs during that period;
     Borrower performed satisfactorily given constraints of approval processes, bidding
procedures, and limited technical capacity in the provincial clean water component;

     Improved coordination and communication between government agencies/implementing
partners expedites approval processes;
     While not reducing requirements for transparency and accountability, streamlined Bank
procurement and, in particular, reimbursement procedures will result in more timely and efficient
project implementation;
     Require benchmarks for private contractors with penalties when benchmarks are not met;

Recommendations
      In the context of the public-private sector partnership piloted by PPUWSP, organize a day
of stock-taking and discussion of revenue, investment, O&M, and other problems faced by PWOs.
This could include discussion and sharing of practical remedial measures for under-performing
PWOs, including contingency liquidation procedures;
      Adopt realistic practical measures to strengthen the RCG’s regulatory environment in
WATSAN sector in general and MIME’s water quality control procedures, tariff policy, and PWO
service requirements in particular;
      Give CWGs a statutory function as autonomous subcommittees of CCs representing end
users in the WASH sector;
      A detailed assessment of the DBL and ODA approaches, viewed in the context of a wider
RGC WATSAN sector policy review to determine the feasibility of piped water supply for rural
Cambodia.
      Piped water supply may not be a technologically or, based on this initial evaluation of the
PPUWSP experience, financially viable option outside the provincial capitals and large towns like
Neak Leoung.
      Replicating the successful public enterprise model of the Phnom Penh Water Supply
Authority, a state-owned, MIME overseen enterprise statutorily possessing financial and
operational autonomy, has a number of arguments in its favor.
      Given MRD’s responsibility for un-piped and (non-commercial community-based piped)
water in the provinces, its ideal modus operandi would involve consulting with end users in the
preparation of existing or new decentralized technical options and costs.




                                               43
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                    44
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

       Project Implementation Plan

       Project Appraisal Document for Cambodia Provincial and Per-urban Water Supply and
        Sanitation Project (PPUWSP) March 31, 2003 (Report No: 25658-KH)

       Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Implementation Status Reports.

       Project Progress Reports.

       Borrower's Evaluation Report dated September 2011


*including electronic files




                                             45
ANNEX 10: PPWSA FINANCIAL PROJECTION

                               2011          2012       2013        2014         2015            2016        2017        2018            2019            2020
PROJECTION PARAMETERS
 Currency:                 Riels
 Prices/Costs:             Current
 Exchange Rate:                    4100
 Cost Escalation Rates:            3.0%        3.0%       3.0%        3.0%         3.0%            3.0%        3.0%        3.0%            3.0%            3.0%
 Cost Escalation Factor            1.03        1.03       1.06        1.09         1.13            1.16        1.19        1.23            1.27            1.30
OPERATING RESULTS
 Operating Revenues           103,466       107,623    133,432    141,167      150,314         159,387     168,040     175,340         182,171         186,924
 Operating Expenses            46,331        50,513     61,118     65,420       70,752          76,976      82,430      88,332          94,357          99,873
 Net Income                    30,235        27,655     29,181     26,567       32,385          26,669      33,384      38,003          41,935          44,547
 Cash from Operations          59,854        61,637     73,500     77,274       85,376          84,536      89,025      91,936          94,171          95,097

 Operating Ratio               40.31%        43.32%     43.82%     44.36%       43.78%          46.23%      46.49%      47.29%          48.23%          49.32%

 Total Assets                 753,750       839,736    981,412   1,060,164    1,136,647       1,067,638   1,068,640   1,074,297       1,083,831       1,095,805
 Working Capital               83,411         7,478      6,998    100,637       15,216          46,422      88,884     128,618         172,325         218,684
 Working Capital (Days              648          53        41         554           77             217         388         524             657             788
OPERATING EFFICIENCY
Service Connections           215,500       227,500    237,500    246,500      254,500         264,500     273,500     281,500         288,500         294,500
Average Tariff (Riels)             1,004       1,009     1,014       1,019        1,024           1,029       1,035       1,040           1,045           1,051
Percent Growth in Conn             5.5%        5.3%       4.2%        3.7%         3.1%            3.8%        3.3%        2.8%            2.4%            2.0%
Water Sold (in 000 of m       103,094       106,700    131,623    138,550      146,779         154,846     162,416     168,599         174,261         177,879
Water Losses                       5.85%      5.70%      5.55%      5.40%        5.25%           5.10%       4.95%       4.80%           4.65%           4.50%
Utilization Capacity (Sh      (10,375)      (18,179)    17,592     10,491        2,038          41,233      33,525      27,300          21,640          18,139

FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE RATIOS
 Acc. Receivable (Days               45          45        45           45          45              45          45          45              45              45
 Current Ratio                     2.01        0.79       0.73        2.24         0.71            1.16        1.65        2.11            2.60            4.25
 Debt/Equity Ratio                 0.22        0.31       0.40        0.32         0.24            0.20        0.15        0.11            0.07            0.05
 Debt Service Coverage             2.38        2.06       2.19        1.89         2.71            1.59        2.08        2.26            2.44            2.60
 Self Financing Ratio               0.33        0.19      0.33        0.50              0.3                    14.9             5.4             5.7             5.9
 Return on Revenues                29.2%      25.7%      21.9%      18.8%        21.5%           16.7%       19.9%       21.7%           23.0%           23.8%
 Return on Assets                  4.8%        3.5%       3.2%        2.9%         3.0%            2.8%        3.6%        4.3%            4.9%            5.4%
 Return on Equity                  5.3%        4.7%       4.5%        3.5%         4.0%            3.2%        3.8%        4.2%            4.4%            4.5%

INVESTMENT PRO                124,127       209,537    156,238    102,601      209,229              -        3,802      19,133          19,707          20,298
 Investment Project           106,775       204,915    154,595     96,535      202,607              -        3,802      11,525          11,870          12,226
 Investment by PPWSA           17,351         4,622      1,642      6,067        6,623              -           -        7,609           7,837           8,072
 Capitalized Interest                -          -          -           -            -               -           -           -               -               -

 FINANCING PLAN               124,127       209,537    156,238    102,601      209,229              -        3,802      19,133          19,707          20,298
Grants (Japan + AFD)                 -          -       27,413     76,875       25,625              -           -           -               -               -
ADB                                  -          -          -           -            -               -           -           -               -               -
JICA                           13,916        46,054     57,567         -            -               -           -           -               -               -

AFD                            12,411        16,958      3,879     76,875       25,625              -           -           -               -               -
Outstanding Loans                    -          -          -           -            -               -           -           -               -               -
PPWSA Contribution             97,800       146,526     67,379     (51,149)    157,979              -        3,802      19,133          19,707          20,298




                                         Growth in Connections for Poor Households (1997?2010) 


                                                                   46
47
         Annex 11: Details of the 11 DBL/OBA Water Supply Facilities

Project Name    Number of    Water source and          Tariff (Riel/m3)              Comments:
and Contract    households   treatment process         Water supply capacity         Record keeping, quality of
type            served                                 (m3/hour)                     maintenance, etc
                                                       Service time (hours/day)

Neak Leoung     3767         3 boreholes               1560:                         No pumping records or WQ
DBL                          Aeration (Fe and Mn                                     records on site.
                             removal), pre             140m3/h                       Operator tests residual Cl.
                             chlorination, pre         16h/d                         and lime using portable kit
                             lime, settlement,         Almost 100% coverage of       every 2/3 days.
                             filtration.               hh in project area.           Average maintenance
                             Pumping to elevated                                     standard.
                             tower.

Kandieng Reay   473          Boreholes                 Originally 1810, now 2100:    No standby chlorinator.
DBL                          Pre chlorination,                                       Average maintenance
                             package Fe/Mn                                           standard.
                             removal, pumping to       2 units with each 10m3/h
                             elevated tank.            units
                                                       8h/d

Kampong Chak    310          Boreholes                 Original tariff was 1850, this No standby chlorinator.
DBL                          Pre chlorination,         was raised to 2100. The        Average maintenance
                             package Fe/Mn             Operator requested to raise    standard.
                             removal, pumping to       tariff to 3000, but MIME
                             elevated tank.            denied it:

                                                       2 units with each 10m3/h
                                                       4h/d

Mesar Chrey     3243         5 boreholes (only 3       2000:                         Average maintenance
and Sopheas                  in use)                                                 standard.
OBA                          Pre chlorination, and     45m3/h
                             lime, aeration,           6h/day
                             settlement, filtration,
                             pumping to elevated
                             tank.

Ph’av           1000         2 boreholes               2010:                         Average maintenance
OBA                          Chlorination only                                       standard.
                             usually, (if pH
                             correction is required
                             occasionally, kit is
                             brought in. No
                             aeration.

Phnom Touch     1500         Chlorination and pH       2000:                         WTW is temporarily
and Phnom                    correction.                                             connected to main electric
Thom                                                   70m3/h                        supply while standby genset
DBL                                                    4h/d                          repaired. Average
                                                                                     maintenance standard.
                                                       48
Thmor Pourk     1300   5 boreholes              Originally 1900, now 2500:     Access road should be
DBL                    (3m3/bh/h)                                              improved. Power from main
                       Pre chlorination,        design capacity is 45m3/h      electric supply (same
                       aeration, settlement,    but resource limits pumping    operator). Water resource
                       filtration, pumping to   to 15m3/h                      study indicated yield at
                       elevated tank.           16 h/d                         45m3/h. 2* dry years may
                                                                               be limiting yield. Average
                                                                               maintenance standard.

Beung Trakoun   400    3 boreholes              Originally 2500, now 3000:     The contractor did not
DBL                    Alum, lime,                                             provide an elevated tank
                       filtration,                                             (budget reason). Pressure is
                       chlorination. No         design capacity is 25m3/h      stabilised using a pressure
                       elevated tower.          but resource limits pumping    vessel during pumping.
                                                to 12m3/h                      Because pumping is not
                                                16 h/d                         continuous, an elevated tank
                                                                               should be provided.
                                                                               Operating procedure needs
                                                                               to be regularised. Average
                                                                               maintenance standard.

Phsar Chub      1300   3 boreholes              Originally 1500, now 2000:     The operator provided from
DBL                    Chlorination, (pH                                       own investment the elevated
                       correction as            design capacity is 34m3/h.     tank and a smaller generator
                       necessary), elevated     Current production is          to reduce operating costs.
                       storage.                 34m3/h                         Average maintenance
                                                6-8h/d                         standard.

Srah Chik       888    4 boreholes              2000:                          No standby chlorinator.
DBL                    Chlorination and                                        Average maintenance
                       package Fe and Mn        25m3/h
                       removal. Pumping to      8h/d in wet season and12h
                       elevated tank.           in dry season.

Paoy Char       1007   4 boreholes              2000. (The operator wanted     No standby chlorinator.
DBL                    Chlorination and         to increase the tariff, but    Average maintenance
                       package Fe and Mn        MIME denied it).               standard.
                       removal. Pumping to
                       elevated tank.           ,
                                                30m3/h
                                                5h/d in wet season and 7h in
                                                dry season.




                                                49
           Annex 12: PPWSA Water Quality: Cambodian National Drinking Water Quality Standard

    No          Parameter          Unit       CNDWQS               Result 2008         Result 2009    Result 2010
    1    Taste                                Acceptable            Acceptable           Acceptable    Acceptable

    2    Odor                                 Acceptable            Acceptable           Acceptable    Acceptable

    3    Color                      TCU            5                   0.91                 1.97          1.25

    4    Turbidity                  NTU            5                   0.44                 0.87          0.69

    5    Residiual Chlorine         mg/l        0.2-0.5                0.93                 0.87          0.83

    6    pH                                     6.5-8.5                7.41                 7.93          7.89

    7    Total Dissolved Solids     mg/l          800                   74                  69            86

    8    Arsenic                    mg/l         0.05                 <0.001              <0.001         0.002

    9    Iron                       mg/l         0.30                  0.01                 0.01          0.01

    10   Manganese                  mg/l         0.10                 0.016                0.018         0.003

    11   Nitrate                    mg/l          50                   0.18                 3.58          6.11

    12   Chloride                   mg/l          250                  14.9                 14.8          23.5

    13   Sulfate                    mg/l          250                 17.25                 17            19.4

    14   Ammonia                    mg/l          1.5                 0.000                 0.02         0.042

    15   Hardness                   mg/l          300                   58                  53            68

    16   Aluminum                   mg/l          0.2                  0.17                0.082         0.038

    17   Barium                     mg/l         0.70                 0.031                0.037         0.032

    18   Cadmium                    mg/l         0.003                <0.001              <0.001         0.0001

    19   Chromium                   mg/l         0.05                 <0.001                0.00          0.01

    20   Cyanide                    mg/l         0.07                 <0.02                 0.00         0.0001

    21   Fluoride                   mg/l          1.5                  0.08                 0.09          0.11

    22   Lead                       mg/l         0.01                 0.0001              <0.0001        0.0001

    23   Mercury                    mg/l         0.001               <0.0001              <0.0001        0.0001

    24   Nickel                     mg/l         0.02                 <0.001              <0.001         0.001

    25   Nitrite                    mg/l           3                  0.007                0.010         0.013

    26   Selenium                   mg/l         0.01                  0.01               <0.001         0.001

    27   Sodium                     mg/l          200                   5.8                 7.9           10.7

    28   Hydrogen sulfide           mg/l         0.05                 0.003                0.002         0.002

    29   Zinc                       mg/l           3                  0.117                 0.02          0.05

    30   Copper                     mg/l           1                  <0.01                 0.01          0.02

    31   E. coli                  CFU/100ml        0                    0                    0             0

    32   Total coliforms          CFU/100ml        0                    0                    0             0
                               Organic suhstituents and pesticides ( Tested every three years )

    33   Polychloriated bipheny     μg/l          0.5                  <0.5                 <0.5          <0.5

    34   Benzene                    μg/l          10                   <0.5                 <0.5          <0.5

    35   Trihalomethanes            μg/l          250                  59.8                 24.7          31

    36   2,4-D                      μg/l          30                   <0.1                 <0.1          <0.1

    37   Aldrin and Dieldrin        μg/l          0.3                 <0.01                <0.01         <0.01

    38   Carbofuran                 μg/l          10                   <0.1                 <0.1          <0.1

    39   Chlordane                  μg/l          0.2                  <0.1                 <0.1          <0.1

    40   DDT                        μg/l          20                   <0.1                 <0.1          <0.1

    41   Dichlorvos                 μg/l           1                   <0.1                 <0.1          <0.1

    42   Dimethoate                 μg/l           6                   <0.1                 <0.1          <0.1

    43   Endosulfan                 μg/l          30                   <0.1                 <0.1          <0.1

    44   Endrin                     μg/l          0.6                  <0.1                 <0.1          <0.1

    45   Glyphosate                 μg/l          10                   <0.1                 <0.1       Not tested

    46   Heptachlor                 μg/l          0.3                 <0.03                <0.03         <0.03

    47   Hexachlorobenzene          μg/l           1                   <0.1                 <0.5       Not tested

    48   Methyl parathion           μg/l          0.3                  <0.1                 <0.1          <0.1

    49   Mevinphos                  μg/l           5                   <05               Not tested    Not tested

    50   Monocrotophos              μg/l           1                   <0.1                 <0.1          <0.1

    51   Paraquat                   μg/l          30                Not tested              <0.1          <0.1

    52   Parathion                  μg/l          10                   <0.1                 <0.1          <0.1

'   53   Permethrin                 μg/l          20                Not tested              <0.1          <0.1




                                                              50
Annex 13: Pictures from the Project




                                      51
52
53
54
55
56
                                        103° E                                             104° E                                     105° E                                         106° E                                          107° E

               0       20         40    60          80 Kilometers
                                                                                                THAILAND                                                                                         L A O P. D . R .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CAMBODIA
               0             20           40             60 Miles          To                                   To
                                                                      Pak Charang                            Khu Khan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PROVINCIAL
                                                                                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                                                     Champasak                                                                                          AND PERI-URBAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                             Kon
                                                                            ODDAR                                                                                                   To

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WATER SUPPLY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                g
                                                         Samraong                                                                                                                 Phiafai
                                                                                                                        Cheom Ksan
                                                                           MEANCHEY                                                                                                               Siem Pang


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AND
                                                                                                                                                               Kompong Sralao




                                                                               ng
                                                                               Sre                                                                                                                          ng
             14° N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            14° N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RATANAKIRI




                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ko
                                                                                                                    PREAH                 VIHEAR
               To
               Buri
                                      BANTEAY
                                                                                                                         Phnum Tbeng                                                                                Sa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      n                       Phum Kompadou
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Play Cu     SANITATION
                                     MEANCHEY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                          Melouprey
                                                                                                                            Meanchey
                                                                                                                                                                          STUNG TRENG                                                  Bun
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Long
                                                                     Kralanh
                                             Sisophon
                                                                                       SIEM REAP                                                                                           Stung Treng                    Srepok           Lomphat
                                                                                          Siem Reap

                                                                                                                                            Rovieng
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PROJECT PROVINCES
                                                        Battambang
                                                                                        Tonle




                                                                                                                                                  Se n
             13° N                     B AT TA M B A N G                                                                                                                                                                                                      13° N        CITIES AND TOWNS




                                                                                                                                                                                       g
                                                                                                                                                                     ng
                                                                                         Sap                                                                                                                                                   Kohnieh




                                                                                                                                                                                  Mekon
                                                                                                                                                                   Poro
                            Pailin           Chas
                                                                                                               KAMPONG                           THOM                                                                                                                      PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MONDOL
                   PA I L I N                                                                                                           Kampong Thom                                                                                                                       NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                                 K R AT I E                                    K I R I Chbar
                                                                                            Pursat                                                                                                                                                                         RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                                                             Kratie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Senmonorom
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MAIN ROADS
                                                                 Peam
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RAILROADS
                                                                                                                           Ton




                                                                                                                             le
                                                                 P U R S AT                                                                            KAMPONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           To              PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                            KAMPONG                                      CHAM                                                                                            Duc Lap
                                                                                                                                  Sap




                                                                                                                                                                    Kampong                                                                                                INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
             12° N                                         Ca                                    Phnum      CHHNANG                                   Mekong        Cham                                                                                      12° N
                                                                rd                                Aoral
                                                                     am                       (1,810 m)                                                                                                                             To
                                                                          om                                                                                                                                                       Ba Ra
                                                                                                                                     PHNOM PENH
                                                                               M
                                               Krong Koh Kong                      t         KAMPONG                                      PHNOM PENH
                                                                                   s.
                                                                                    .




                                                                                               SPEU                                                                                            To
                                                                                                                                                           Prey Veng
                                                          KOH KONG                                   Kampong Speu                       Ta Khmau                            SVAY            Tay Ninh
                G ul f o f                                                                                                           KANDAL PREY                           RIENG                                    V I E T N AM
               Thailand                                                                                                                     VENG
                                                                                                                                             Ba k




                                                                                                                                  Chambak                                                                    To
                                                                                                                                                                                 Svay
                                                                                                                                               ss a




                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ho Chi Minh City
                                                                                                                                                                                 Rieng
                                                                                                                                  Takeo
             11° N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            11° N
                                                                      Chhak
                                                                     Kampong                                                                                                                                                                                                        CAMBODIA
                                                                      Saom                                                 TAKEO
             This map was produced by
             the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                KAMPOT                                                           To
                                                                                                                                                               Cao Lanh
             World Bank. The boundaries,              Sihanoukville
             colors, denominations and                                                       Kampot
             any other information shown
             on this map do not imply, on
                                                            SIHANOUK-
                                                                                                      Kep                              To
             the part of The World Bank                        VILLE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IBRD 39143
                                                                                                                                   Long Xuyen
             Group, any judgment on the
MARCH 2012




             legal status of any territory,                                                                            To
             or any endorsement or                                                                                  Rach Gia
             acceptance of such                                                                       KEP
             boundaries.                  103° E                                           104° E                                     105° E                                         106° E                                          107° E
