Document of
IALE i~~ur'                   The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-2202-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
PHILIPPINE NATIONAL BANK TO BE GUARANTEED BY
THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
FIFTH PRIVATE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION OF THE PHILIPPINES
(PDCP) CREDIT PROJECT
January 17, 1978
This document has a restricted dlsribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not itherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorzation.  I



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1           =      P 7.50
P 1            -      US$0.133
P 1 million    =      US$133,300
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB       - Asian Development Bank
BOI       -  Board of Investment
DBP       -  Development Bank of the Philippines
DFI       -  Development Finance Institute (PDCP)
IGLF      -  Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund
NEDA      -  National Economic Development Authority
PDCP      -  Private Development Corporation of the Philippines
PNB       -  Philippines National Bank
SBP       -  Small Business Program (PDCP)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
FIFTH PDCP CREDIT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               The Philippine National Bank (PNB)
Beneficiary:            The Private Development Corporation of the Philippines
(PDCP)
Guarantor:              The Republic of the Philippines
Amount:                 $30 million equivalent
Terms:                  The proposed loan will bear interest at 7.45% p.a.
Amortization to conform substantially to the aggregate
of the repayment schedules applicable to the specific
investment projects financed out of the proceeds of
the proposed loan.
Relending Terms:        PNB would relend the proceeds of the loan to PDCP at an
interest rate of 7.45% plus a handling fee of 0.75% p.a.
but otherwise on the same terms as those for the Bank
loan. PDCP would onlend to subprojects at an interest
rate of 10.5-12% p.a. (plus a service fee of 2%) for a
maximum term of 15 years, including a maximum grace
period of 5 years.
Project
Description:          The proposed loan will be used by PDCP to make subloans
to finance foreign exchange requirements of projects
mainly in manufacturing.
Estimated
Disbursements:                          ($ million)
Bank FY        79        80         81
Annual                                   8.7       16.9        4.4
Cummulative                              8.7       25.6       30.0
Staff Appraisal
Report:               No. 1784-PH dated December 14, 1977.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF TYE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOikS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE PHILIPPINE NATIONAL BANK
TO BE GUARANTEED BY THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A FIFTH PRIVATE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
OF THE PHILIPPINES (PDCP) CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a propose  i.oa
to the Philippine National Bank with the guarantee of the Republic of 'e
Philippines for the equivalent of $30.0 million. The loan would be at an
interest rate of 7.45% p.a. The proceeds of the loan would be relent to the
Private Development Corporation of the Philippines (PDCP) at an interest rate
of 7.45% plus a handling fee of 0.75%, but otherwise on tne same terms as
those of the Bank loan, for onlending to specific productive enterprises. The
loan would be repaid in accordance with the composite amortization schedules
of PDCP's subloans which will have a maximum repayment period of 15 years,
including a grace period of up to five years. Subborrowers would assume the
foreign exchange risk. Commercial banks are also expected to concurrently
provide $10.0 million for PDCP's operation; the commercial bank loan would
have a term of seven years including two years of grace at an interest rate of
1-3/8% per annum over LIBOR for the first three years and 1-1/2% over LIBOR
for the remaining period.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        An economic mission visited the Philippines in July/August 1977 and
its report, "The Philippines: Country Economic Memorandum" (No. 1765-PH of
October 26, 1977) was distributed to the Executive Directors under Secretary's
Memorandum PHL77-2 on October 27, 1977.  A basic economic report, entitled The
Philippines: Priorities and Prospects for Development, was previously distri-
buted to the Executive Directors on May 18, 1976 (SecM/76/366).
Macroeconomic Performance
3.        During the 1960s, the Philippines' economy grew in real terms at
an annual rate of about 5 1/2%. However, the rate of growth was less than
what might have been achieved if its considerable natural and human resources
had been utilized more effectively. The benefits of growth were also distri-
buted relatively unevenly. The growth of productive employment opportunities
failed to keep pace with the growth of the population and labor foree. Low
levels of taxation resulted in inadequate public expenditure for necessary
infrastructure and social services. Poor export performance combined with a
failure to reduce the import dependence of domestic industry resulted in a
chronic weakness of the balance of payments.
4.        The growth of the Philippine economy accelerated slightly to an
annual rate of 6% during 1970-75. Fluctuations, however, were significant.
In the period 1970-72, when the effects of a balance of payments stabilization
program initiated in 1970 were being felt, the economy grew less rapidly at
5% per year, exports and imports of goods and services were roughly equal,
and the shares of public and private fixed investment in GNP were stable.
/1 This part of the Report is, with the exception of minor changes, tl.- same as
the Report on Smallholder Tree Farming and Forestry Project (Sec MIR77-296),
which was considered by the Executive Directors on December 22, L9iI.



-- 2Z -
Economic performance was exceptional in 1973 when real GNP grew by almost
10% and the current account registered a substantial surplus as sharply
higher prices for traditional export commodities stimulated demand and
agricultural production rebounded strongly from tbe natural disasters of the
previous year.  The export-led income baoc  of 1973 was followed lby an
investment boom. The resulting high investment rate together with favorable
sugar prices temporarily sheltered the economy from the impact of the oil
price increase in late 1973 and the following world recession, and real GNP
growth was sustained at 6% in 1974-75. However, the collapse of sugar prices
in late 1975, following earlier declines in the prices of other major export
commodities, changed the external situation dramatically.  The terms of trade
dropped by 23% in 1975; and the currenit account recorded a deficit equal to
6% of GNP.
5.        In 1976-77, the economy, led by exports and construction, has
continued to grow at 6% per year. Exports (GNFS) increased by 193% in real
terms in 1976 and are estimated to have risen by 11% in 1977. Unfortunately
until 1977 the stimulus of the expansion -n export volume was largely offset
by further deterioration in the terms of trade. Inflation, which reached a
peak of 40% in 1974 as a result of externally generated pressure on domestic
prices, has slowed to an average of about 7% because of the deceLeration in
international inflation and a conservative monetary-fiscal policy.
Investment and Savings
6.        Due largely to the buoyant export performance in 1973 and the
subsequent increase in incomes, investment boomed in 1974-75. Private
investment rose from 14% of GNP in the early 1970s to 20% in 1975. Public
investment was raised from 2% to 4% of GNP with the growth in revenue from
international trade taxes, improvements in tax administration, and improved
project implementation capacity. Subsequently, public investment: has been
raised further to an estimated level of 6 1/2% of GNP in 1977. The private
investment rate, on the other hand, has fallen somewhat to an estimated 18%
of GNP but still is well over the 14% average of the early 1970s. However,
the high incremental capital-output ratio, the relatively modest growth of
manufacturing output and employment, and the structural underutilization of
capacity in some industries suggest that the efficiency of investment needs
to be improved.
7.       Aggregate savings performance has improved during the last decade
and is comparable to that of other countries at a similar stage of economic
development. In 1976-77, gross domestic savings maintained the level of 25%
of GNP achieved in 1975 and financed about 80% of total investment, with the
balance coming from foreign savings. In order to increase the efficiency of
financial markets in intermediating between savers and investors, the Govern-
ment has made significant improvements in financial policy (for details, see
paras. 32 through 35). Organized banking institutions have been strengthened.
Interest rates were restructured in 1976 to encourage a greater flow of
financial savings into time and savings deposits relative to short-term
deposit substitutes, but further reforms are required to increase the avail-



ability of long-term domestic currency resources. Special credit programs
have been adopted to expand lending to the credit short agricultural sector
and rural areas and to serve the needs of medium and small scale industries.
However, a deterioration of loan recovery rates has been experienced by all
government financial institutions and credit programs, creating a difficult
policy dilemma. On the one hand, the programs have become costly means of
achieving their ojectives, and the growth of arrears reduces the overall
efficiency of resource mobilization and allocation. On the other hand, the
programs do redress imbalances in the availability of credit so that arrears
have to be reduced without closing necessary credit channels.
;Goernment Expenditures and Revenues
8.        Public expenditures and revenues have historically claimed a much
smaller share of national resources in the Philippines than in many other
developing countries. In the early 1970s, general government expenditure
averaged only 12% of GNP, public investment was strikingly low at about 2%
of GNP, and tax revenues stood at 11% of GNP. Government expenditures were
dominated by general administration and social services, particularly
education. This situation had resulted from a variety of factors including
difficulties in raising tax revenue and weak implementation capacity in the
public sector. Since the early 1970s, the Government has taken steps to
correct the situation and raise both the overall level of expenditures and
the share going to economic services and public investment. By 1977 govern-
ment expenditures had reached an estimated 18% of GNP and public investment,
which has risen very rapidly in the last two years, equaled about 6-1/2% of GNP.
9.        Recognizing that a large increase in tax revenues would be required
to finance expansion of the public investment program, the Government has
undertaken a comprehensive program of tax reform to raise the needed revenues
equitably and efficiently. In the short term, needed revenues were raised
through revision in indirect taxes. In the long term, structural changes are
to be made to raise the built-in elasticity of the tax system, to reduce distor-
tions in economic incentives and dependence on cyclically volatile taxes on
international trade, and to improve equity by increasing the proportion of
revenues coming from direct taxes. The Government has increased the ratio of
domestic taxes to GNP by an impressive 1.5 percentge points between 1975 and
1977 through new tax measures and vigorous efforts to improve tax payer compli-
ance and collection performance. However, much of the success in mobilizing
revenue from domestic sources had been offset by a sharp decline in the yield
of export taxes and import duties due to cyclical fluctuations. Total tax
revenues, which had been raised from 11% of GNP to 13.6% by 1975, rose to
only an estimated 14.1% in 1977. Greater resource mobilization by government
corporations whose investment programs have grown rapidly is also needed.
Agriculture
10.       Despite fairly good soils and a relatively literate rural population,
agricultural yields in the Philippines are among the lowest in Asia. Possible
reasons for this enigma are the low quantity and quality of irrigation facili-
ties and high vulnerability to weather risks; land tenure patterns; and weak



- 4 -
agricultural credit extension and other supporting services. Agricultural
production has, nevertheless, grown at an average rate of 4.4% per year in
the 1970s. The performance of the sector was strong in 1976 and 1977, as
production increased by 7% and the country was able to provide for rice and
corn consumption solely from domestic production. The Philippines has been
virtually self-sufficient in rice for the past three years. If this trend
continues, prospects for sustained self-sufficiency in this main staple of
the country appear to be good.
11.       The land transfer program, which has been in operation for five
years, proceeded quite rapidly when larger land holdings were concentrated on,
but progress has been slower recently because of the greater difficulties
inherent in dealing with a large number of medium-sized, often middle-class,
landowners. As of June 1977, an estimated 120,000 tenants, or 30% of the
total tenants under the program, had received Certificates of Land Transfer
which established their claim to the land. Despite the difficulties in the
process of implementation, the transfer program remains an important part of
the Government's rural development strategy.
Industry
12.       During the 1960s, Philippine industrialization was promoted by
tariff protection and subsidized finance, and consequently industrial growth
was primarily in the area of import-substitution with a high capital intensity.
Performance was disappointing with respect to employment and exports. In the
early 1970s the Government floated the exchange rate and introduced policy
changes to reduce tariffs and realign industrial incentives. Further efforts
to reduce biases in favor of import substitution and capital intensity are
needed to sustain a higher level of industrial growth, which has averaged
around 8% during the 1970s. Due to the slow growth in national income and
demand because of the decline in the terms of trade in the last two years,
manufacturing output has also grown slowly. On the other hand, industries
producing nontraditional exports have expanded rapidly as their exports
increased almost fivefold in the four-year period 1973-76. The construction
industry has also grown rapidly as the expansion of relatively construction-
intensive public investment and large tourism investment in the Manila area
raised construction expenditure from 6% of GNP in the early 1970s to 12% in
1976.
Employment, Incomes and Population
13.       Employment increased by about 4.6% annually during 1973-76, a
considerable improvement over the historical growth rate of 2.4%, and was
able to keep pace with the rapid growth of the labor force.  Particularly
noteworthy was the growth of employment in manufacturing, which essentially
stagnated during 1970-74, but grew by 8% annually during 1975/76, resulting
in part from the growth of labor-intensive production for export. However,
because manufacturing's share of total employment is small, agriculture and
services continue to function as residual sources of employment and accounted
for most of the growth in total employment.
14.       Preliminary survey data show that the share of income received by
the poorest 40% of families, which remained constant during the 1961-71
period, increased from 12% in 1971 to 15% in 1975. The income share of the



top 20% of families remained about the same as in 1971, while that of middle
income families declined somewhat. Due to the improvement in agriculture's
terms of trade, the growth of agricultural production, the decline in urban
real wages following the devaluation in 1970, and the stagnation of industrial
employment until 1975, the ratio of the average rural income to the average
urban income rose from 48% in 1971 to 57% in 1975. Real per capita consumption
increased by about 2% annually in 1971-75e Hence, after allowance for price
increases, real incomes in rural areas, where most of the poor live, have
probably increased somewhat, while real urban incomes have remained about the
same.
15.       The population is estimated at 43.3 million in 1976 and is currently
growing at 2.7% as compared to a 3.U, growth rate duriT.g the 1960s. The
Philippines has an active family planning program registering approxmately
650,000 new acceptors per year. Although the number of new acceptors has
reached a plateau as the program faces the increasingly difficult problem of
reaching rural areas, the estimated proportion of married women of reproductive
age practicing family planning increased fromt 20% in 1974 to 25% in 1977.
Development Strategy
16.       The Government's objectives and policies for the period 1978-82
have recently been set out in a five-year plan, which calls for an accelerating
economic growth first to 7% and then to 8%. The development strategy focuses
on an expansion of more productive employment opportunities at a rate of
3.6% per annum, reduction of income disparities, greater self-sufficiency in
food and energy, strengthening of the balance of payments and increased
development in rural areas. In addition, the plan includes strategies for
development in each of the country's thirteen regions. In general, the
strategies outlined in the plan represent an elaboration of the policy
directions pursued by the Government in recent years. They are also broadly
consistent with the Bank's basic economic report although investment,
manufacturing output, and exports are projected to grow more rapidly than
visualized two years ago. It should be feasible to accelerate the overall
growth rate to 7% as the terms of trade stabilize, but more rapid expansion
of manufacturing is necessary to do so, and effort needs to focus on improving
the efficiency of investment.
External Sector
17.       Largely as the result of a 23% decline in the terms of trade, the
current account of the Philippine balance of payments recorded a deficit of
$900 million, or 6% of GNP, in 1975. To maintain the momentum of growth and
investment, the Government drew down its international reserves, obtained
loans under various IMF facilities, and expanded its borrowing program to
finance necessary imports. For the longer term, a strategy was adopted of
accelerating export growth both to hold the current account deficit about
constant, while it declined relative to GNP, and to meet the debt service
payments on the higher level of external borrowing.



- 6 -
i8.       Some progress in this direction was made in the last two years.
in 1976, in spite of a further 11% deterioration in the terms of trade, a
substantial increase in export volume and slow growth of import payments
narrowed the trade deficit and partly offset the higher net interest payments.
Although somewhat larger than in 1975, the current account deficit stabilized
at $1.1 billion or 6% of GNP. Net capital inflows were nearly doubled to
$i.1 billion. Most of the inflow was from medium and long-term loans, two
thirds of which wJere oublic loans reflecting in part increased disbursements
from official sources. Estimates for 1977 show a further substantial expan-
sion in export volume which, with little expected change in the terms of
trade, import volume, services or transfers, would reduce the current account
deficit to 4% of GNP. Hence, on the whole, the balance of payments position
has strengthened significantly.
19.       To achieve a 7% growth rate in real GNP, as projected for the
period 1978-82, imports will have to grow faster than they have recently and
a net capital inflow of at least $1 billion per year will be required.
Assuming continued sound debt management and the maintenance of a balanced
maturity structure of foreign borrowings, the overall level of external debt
of the Philippines is expected to remain within reasonable limits. The ratio
of debt service payments to exports and nonfactor services would average about
i9%, of which 7% would be public debt service, during the rest of this decade.
In order to ensure that the long-term capital transfer is commensurate with
Lhe level of development expenditures which will be required during 1978-82
and that debt service obligations remain within reasonable limits, the Govern-
ment sought commitments of official assistance of $750-800 million in 1978 at
the meeting of the Consultative Group for the Philippines held in Tokyo on
December 1 and 2, 1977. This amount is likely to be available. Many of the
planned projects have a low foreign exchange component. In these circumstances
it is necessary to finance some local costs, in appropriate cases, so that the
Philippines external financing requirements could be met.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
M20       By Deremb4r 31, 1977, the Philippines had received 49 Bank loans /1
(of which two :ere on Third Window terms) and three IDA credits for a total of
sfl267.8 million, net of cancellations. About one-third of Bank lending
.rSL65.4 million) has been for infrastructure projects in power, transporta-
,J,oin, and water supply and another third ($428.4 million) has been for
agriculture. Of the remainder, $248.4 million has been for industry and
$125.6 million has been for social sector projects in education, population
and urban development. There has been a marked improvement in the execution
of Bank-financed projects in the last four years compared with experience in
the 1960s, when there were serious problems caused by a shortage of peso
ccurcterpart funds and poor administration. All ongoing projects are now
being implemented reasonably well. Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of November 30, 1977, and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
/1 Including the $8 million for the Smallholder Tree Farming and Forestry
Prcjec-, with was approved on December 22.



- 7 -
21.       The Bank's lending program has been designed to continue to support
the Philippine development effort with its emphasis on agriculture and infra-
structure and its growing attention to the needs of lower income groups. More
than 40% of Bank lending planned for the next few years would be for agricul-
ture and rural development projects and about a quarter would be for needed
basic infrastructure projects, mainly in the fields of transportation and power.
The amount of lending for social sector projects, including education, popula-
tion and urban development, is expected to continue to grow rapidly and account
for more than 15% of future lending. The balance of future lending would be
for industrial development, where growing attention is being given to the needs
of small and medium industries with high employment potential. The rapid
growth in public revenues during the past five years has allowed for a
significant expansion in public investment and both the ambitious Philippine
development program and the Bank's growing lending program have been designed
to meet the country's substantial future needs. In view of the per capita
income of the Philippines, its level of external debt, and the generally good
management of the economy, a limited amount of IDA financing will be proposed
in the Bank Group's overall lending to the Philippines.
22.       This is the second loan to be presented to the Executive Directors
in FY78. Loans for rural infrastructure, irrigation, rural electrification
and two more for industrial finance are expected to be ready for consideration
by the Executive Directors within the next few months.
23.       As of November 30, 1977, IFC had made commitments in the Philippines
totalling $86.3 million for investment in 16 projects in the fields of develop-
ment banking, power, telecommunications, ceramic tiles, petroleum products,
nickel mining and refining, chemicals and synthetic fibres and edible oils.
Of these investments, $35.2 million had been sold, cancelled and repaid, leaving
a net portfolio of $51.1 million, including $5.1 million undisbursed.
24.       At present the share of the Bank Group in the Philippines' total
external debt disbursed and outstanding is about 11% and its share in debt
service is about 5%. These ratios are expected to increase to around 19% and
8% by the end of the present decade.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR AND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE
25.       The industrial sector (defined as manufacturing, mining and construc-
tion) in 1976 accounted for about one third of GDP and 15% of total employment.
Manufacturing is by far the largest component of the industrial sector account-
ing for about one quarter of GDP and about 11% of employment. Food and bever-
ages is the largest manufacturing group followed by chemicals, petrochemicals
and textiles. Manufacturing enterprises are predominantly privately-owned,
and generally concentrated in large scale, vertically integrated capital-
intensive units.
26.       The industrial sector grew at a rate of about 6% per annum between
1955 and 1971. Industrial growth began to accelerate in the early 1970s but
has grown at a rate of only 4.6% in the last three years, as the Philippine



- 8 -
economy was adversely affected by the worldwide economic slowdown and the sharp
deterioration in the Philippines' terms of trade. Capital investments for
plant and equipment increased by only 5% in 1976 and is expected to have
increased at about the same rate in 1977. However, assuming the Philippines'
terms of trade are stabilized in 1978, as expected, both exports and growing
government expenditures should give increased stimulus to the economy and
contribute to an expansion in the rate of industrial growth and investment.
The longer term prospects for industrial growth are favorable because of the
good natural and human resources of the Philippines and its very active
private sector.
27.       There are, however, a number of important issues confronting the
industrial sector. Historically, Philippine industrial production was geared
primarily to the needs of the domestic market and there has been heavy re-
liance on protection policies applied through the tariff system and some
degree of import control. In the late 1960s, the Government became aware
of the problems implicit in this approach and through the Investment Incen-
tives Act of 1967 and the Export Incentives Act of 1970 has sought to expand
the nontraditional industrial base and to expand exports and industrial
employment. However, Philippine industry still remains heavily protected
and differential rates of protection combined with selective export incentives
to various industries are still producing less than optimal industrial and
export growth. To rationalize the industrial sector and to provide the basis
for future growth, it will be necessary for the Government to move further
toward a freer trade regime by gradually removing import restrictions and
reducing tariffs. The Government, with the assistance of a Bank-financed
consultant, is undertaking a major review of industrial protection and is
considering a major tariff reform.
28.       The Government has become increasingly aware of the need to
diversify the Philippines' export structure by encouraging the growth of
nontraditional manufactured exports. In addition to the incentives provided
under the Export Incentives Act, the peso was devalued in 1970, an Export
Processing Zone established and an Export Council created to make recommen-
dations on various aspects of export promotion. Partly in response to some
of these measures, nontraditional manufacturing exports grew at the very
rapid annual rate of 25% during the period 1973-76. To maintain this momen-
tum, further trade liberalization is necessary for the reasons noted in the
preceding paragraph and further stimulus could be provided through continuing
analysis and information programs on foreign market potential, simpler export
procedures, larger credit programs and establishment of trading houses.
29.       Until the mid-seventies, Philippine industry had contributed
relatively little towards alleviating the problems of unemployment and
underemployment.  Between 1960 and 1974, manufacturing employment grew at an
annual rate of about 2.5%. The rate of employment generation has markedly
improved during the last few years as employment in manufacturing grew at an
annual rate of 8% in 1975 and 1976, partly as a result of Government's
programs designed to foster the growth of small and medium industries which



- 9 -
have considerable employment potential. These programs include expanded
credit for small and medium industries through the Development Bank of the
Philippines (DBP), rural banks and the Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund
(IGLF) and technical assistance through Small Business Advisory Centers and
the Medium and Small Scale Industries Coordinated Action Program (MASICAP).
30.       Manufacturing enterprises remain heavily concentrated in the
greater Metropolitan Manila Area as it accounts for about 40% of such enter-
prises and 40% of industrial employment. The problem of the geographic
concentration of industry is receiving increasing Government attention.
Measures already taken in this regard include provision of incentives for
projects located in less developed areas, promotional measures by the Board of
Investments and its practice of negotiating the location of the project before
its approval and a ban on new plant establishment within 50 km of Manila (except
export-oriented projects). Further decentralization of industry would be
encouraged by the Government's rapidly expanding public infrastructure program
(particularly roads and rural electrification), major regional planning and
development efforts, and a planned program of regional industrial estates.
31.       The Government's Five-Year Development Plan (1978-82) projects
that the manufacturing sector will grow at an annual rate of 9% during the
plan period and that manufacturing investment will grow at an annual rate
of 15.5% (from $1.7 billion in 1977 to nearly $3 billion in 1982). The
Government's plan calls for the rapid growth of labor-intensive, small and
medium industries both for domestic and export markets, and the establishment
of some large, resource-based, import-substituting industries in nonferrous
metals, steel, pulp and paper, petrochemicals and shipbuilding. While there
is scope for the development of some of these larger industries, careful
attention will need to be given to ensure that an appropriate balance is
maintained between investment in such projects and in smaller, more labor-
intensive enterprises.
Industrial Finance
32.       The core of the Philippine financial system is a large commercial
banking sector, both local and foreign, that operates under the branch banking
system and is the main source of working capital and trading credit. In
addition to the commercial banks, there are a number of investment houses,
savings and loan associations, rural banks and regional development banks.
The Government Insurance System and the Social Security System are active in
real estate and mortgage financing. Investment houses operate in the active
short-term money market. In late 1976, the Government allowed foreign bank
branches or offices to establish Off-shore Banking Units and expand the
Foreign Currency Deposit Units to undertake foreign currency credit operations.
The Government-owned Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) and the Private
Development Corporation of the Philippines (PDCP) are the only two speicalized
long-term lending institutions.
33.       As indicated in para. 7 above, aggregate savings performance in the
Philippines has improved generally during the last decade and is comparable
to that of other countries at a similar stage of economic development. Since



- 10 -
1975, gross domestic savings have been at a level of 25% of GNP and financed
approximately 80% of total investment. However, in order to reach a gross
investment level of more than 31% of GNP by 1982 and reduce the country's
dependence on foreign savings, the Five Year Development Plan (1978-82) calls
for an increase in gross domestic savings to a level of more than 28% of GNP
at the end of the Plan period. To achieve this objective, the savings of the
household sector, which is expected to contribute approximately 40% of the
total domestic savings requirement, will need to increase by more than 17%
per annum during the next five years.
34.       In addition to raising the level of savings, there is also a need
to increase the maturity of financial assets. While the gross acquisition of
financial assets by the private sector rose from approximately 7% of GDP in
1965 to over 12% in 1974, the relative share of short-term assets increased
from only 17% to more than 40% during the same period. This was mainly due
to statutory limits on deposit rates of credit institutions while no ceilings
existed for money market rates. Given the long-term finance needs of the
investment program, the present preference for financial assets with shorter
maturities represents an important issue for the Government's financial
policy. With a view to lengthening the average maturity of financial instru-
ments and to encouraging the mobilization of savings through banking institu-
tions, ceilings on bank rates on savings and time deposits were raised by
0.5 to 1%/i and ceilings on interest rates for loans with maturities exceeding
two years were raised from 12-14% to 19% in January 1976. In June 1977, a
35% withholding tax on interest paid on short-term financial instruments was
introduced, while a 15% withholding tax on interest paid on savings and
time deposits was set. These measures have resulted in a 36% increase in
real terms in savings and time deposits in 1977. However, a 19% ceiling on
loans and debt instruments with a maturity of over two years still effectively
limits the rate on long-term deposits.
35.       The Philippine financial system has not yet developed an effective
stocks/bonds market mainly because longer term interest rates have been statu-
torily controlled. An additional constraint is the dominance of the term
market by Government financial institutions because of the preferential treat-
ment given to their debt instruments. Only very limited capital expansion
is being financed through the stock exchange partly due to the fact that
private owners are reluctant to share control over their enterprises and
prefer financing through borrowing. Recently, however, a 5% development tax
was introduced on closely held corporations to encourage them to go public.
36.       Financial institutions and credit programs in the Philippines have
experienced deterioration of loan recovery rates during recent years which has
seriously affected their financial performance. This is due in part to the
rapid expansion of credit programs to the productive sectors and to interna-
tional economic conditions which have had an adverse effect on some domestic
enterprises.  The Government is devoting increased attention to the problem
of arrears, so that loan recovery can be expected to improve.
/1 From a range of 6-6.5% to 7-7.5% for savings deposits and from 8-11% to
8.5-12% on time deposits.



- 11 -
The Bank's Role
37.       The Bank has assisted industrial development in the Philippines by
providing financial and technical assistance to financial intermediaries to
help them expand and improve their medium and long term lending programs to
productive enterprises. Total Bank lending for this purpose has amounted to
about $250 million. Increasing attention has been given in recent years to the
needs of small and medium industries as $55 million of the proceeds from Bank
loans is being used for financing such enterprises. During the current fiscal
year, in addition to the proposed loan, we hope to be able to present to the
Executive Directors a third loan to the Development Bank of the Philippines
for large, small and medium industries and a first loan to the Philippines
Investment Systems Organization to enable it to undertake long-term industrial
lending. A second loan to help support the Industrial Guarantee and Loan Funds'
(IGLF)/L program of financing small and medium industries through privately-
owned financial intermediaries is scheduled for presentation in FY79. These
projects have been carefully designed to meet the medium and long-term capital
requirements of industries of all sizes and to strengthen the institutional
capability of public and private lending institutions.
38.       The Bank has so far made four loans totalling $95 million to PDCP.
The evaluation report on the third loan to PDCP (Loan No. 630-PH, July 10,
1969), was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 29, 1977 (SecM77-360).
The report commented favorably on PDCP's performance, but noted that PDCP
could have played a greater developmental role by lending for more new types
of projects, and for new borrowers, particularly small enterprises. The
report also noted that PDCP had played a relatively modest role in mobilizing
both foreign and domestic resources.
39.       PDCP has recognized the desirability of becoming more active in
lending to small and medium industry and has established a special unit
in its head office and four regional branch offices to implement its Small
Business Program (SBP). As a result of these steps and the reactivated IGLF
Program, PDCP's small industry lending increased from 4% of its total lending
in 1975 to 15% in the first half of 1977. The average cost per job under
such projects is estimated at $4,955, which compares with the Bank's standard
for urban poverty projects in the Philippines of about $3,600 at 1976 prices.
40.       With respect to resource mobilization, the decision of the Govern-
ment to raise the lending ceilings on loans over two years combined with
current relatively low international rates of interest have created a climate
in which PDCP should be able to raise substantially more foreign resources
from commercial sources. A beginning has been made in the context of this
proposed loan as PDCP has completed negotiations for a loan of $10 million
from the Bank of Tokyo. On the domestic resource side, while prospects have
somewhat improved, PDCP's capacity to mobilize local resources is still
constrained by factors noted in paras. 33 and 34 above.
/1 IGLF is a long-term compensatory financing and guarantee fund administered
by the Central Bank. It was established in 1952 to encourage private
banking institutions to provide long-term financing to small entrepreneurs.
Its compensatory financing function is discharged through a special time
deposit provided to sponsoring banks. IGLF also provides automatic
guarantee for 60% of the amount loaned.



- 12 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.       The loan would be the fifth to support the PDCP's successful
program of industrial lending. It would be the first loan which would be
associated with PDCP's effort to mobilize foreign exchange from private
commercial sources. It would support PDCP's program of lending for small,
medium and large industries, mainly in manufacturing but also in mining
and transportation. The project was appraised in August 1977 and negotiated
in November 1977.  The Philippine Negotiating team consisted of representa-
tives of the Government, Philippine National Bank (PNB), and PDCP. They
included, among others, Mr. Panfilo Domingo, President of PNB and Messrs.
Roberto Villanueva and Vicente Jayme, Chairman of the Board and President,
respectively, of PDCP.
43.       As with the four previous loans to PDCP, the proposed loan would
be made to PNB, which would relend the proceeds under a subsidiary loan
agreement which would be signed before the effectiveness of the proposed Bank
loan (Section 6.01[a]) of the draft Loan Agreement). This arrangement is
consistent with Philippine law which provides that the government can only
guarantee the obligations of publicly-owned institutions. PNB would charge
PDCP a handling fee of 0.75% p.a. on the outstanding loan amount (to be
provided for in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement).
44.       The Bank loan and the subsidiary loan to PDCP would have amorti-
zation schedules reflecting the aggregate of the repayment schedules for
subloans made by PDCP which will have maximum terms of 15 years including
5 years of grace. The maximum five-year grace period for subloans, although
somewhat longer than normal for a development finance loan, has been provided
for, because concurrent with this loan PDCP is borrowing commercial funds,
which have a relatively short repayment period (7 years), and may need to
blend these two sources in the financing of some individual subprojects.
Most of PDCP's subloans will have maturities of 5-12 years with an appropriate
grace period. PDCP is expected to charge interest at 12.5-14% (including all
service fees) on its subloans. PDCP's current "free limit" is $1.5 million
and this ceiling, above which subloans would require Bank approval, would be
retained under the proposed loan (Section 2.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
45.       PDCP is a well-managed organization with a demonstrated capacity
for effective industrial lending. Its Board of Directors of 11 members,
including three representatives of foreign investors, take a keen interest in
PDCP's affairs. It approves PDCP's annual business plan and receives monthly
reports on actual operations, profitability and financial position with an
analysis of the deviations from approved targets and the budget.  It lays
down policy guidelines and is responsible for investment decisions. PDCP's
present President is highly respected for his professional competence and the
appointment of a new Executive Vice President early next year is expected to
help continue the effective management of PDCP as its operations continue to
grow in size and complexity. PDCP's staff is of a high calibre reflecting
PDCP's capacity to attract qualified people and its effective training
program. However, there has been a high turnover of professional staff during



- 13 -
the last few years, because of the high premium other financial institutions
are willing to pay for PDCP staff and the limited scope for promotion within
PDCP.  This has so far not affected the quality of PDCP's output advers2v1y
because the senior and more experienced staff have remained relatively stablie
and also because PDCP has a well developed training program. Nevertheless,
PDCP's management is fully aware of the consequences of a prolonged high staff
turnover and is attempting to slow it down by introducing a career development
program and a flexible and responsive salary administration.
46.       PDCP's Statement of General Business Policies provides criteria,for
investment decisions, financial prudence limits, portfolio diversification,
dividend policies, etc. PDCP has also recently prepared a Development Strategy
Statement which provides for higher targets for lending to productive Pr,ter-
prises, with emphasis on projects approved by the Board of Investment, smaller
enterprises and balanced geographical distribution, and efforts to diversify
its sources of foreign exchange. The statement also calls for PDCP to play a
larger role in providing technical assistance to Government and other private-
sector agencies.
47.       PDCP's project evaluation is generally thorough, and its appraisal
reports are usually precise, informative and incisive. The development
impact of the projects is considered in some detail and the economic rate
of return is routinely calculated. In the future, PDCP's appraisal reports
will also bring out explicitly the impact of its financing on employment,
and in this context, will consider alternatives with respect to choice of
technology.
48.       Supervision of the projects, both during construction and after
completion, is systematic and thorough. PDCP's procurement procedures help
ensure that the right type of machinery and equipment is purchased at a
reasonable price. Disbursements are made after detailed scrutiny of support-
ing documents.
49.       PDCP lent P 193 million (about $25.8 million) in 1974 but declined
markedly in 1975. However, with the improvement in the investment climate,
loan approvals in 1976 increased significantly and it is estimated that appro-
vals in 1977 reached a record level. PDCP's loan portfolio is well-developed
with primary emphasis on the manufacturing sector. While industries in Ltic
greater Metropolitan Manila Area accounted for 48% of the total number of
loans approved by PDCP to date (30% of total amount), PDCP has been successful
in dispersing its lending activities as only 26% of its loans (14% of the
total amount) in the last 3-1/2 years were for projects in the Metropolitan
Manila Area. PDCP has also been reasonably successful in helping to enlarge
the entrepreneurial base as 62% of its total loan approvals to date have been
for new clients.  PDCP has also made equity investments totalling P 43 million
($5.7 million), has outstanding loan guarantees of P 27 million ($3.6 Tuillioni)
and has undertaken loan syndications which have been successful in raising
$20 million from foreign and P 60 million (about $8 million) from local
resources. PDCP's short-term money market investmer.t portfolio amounted to
P 47 million as of June 30, 1977 (about 5% of total assets).



- 14 -
50.       Over the past three and a half years, the average size of a PDCP loan
was P 2 million (about $261,000). Loan sizes range from a high of $3 million
to a low of less than $10,000 under its Small Business Program (SBP) referred
to in para. 52 below. Apart from PDCP's increased emphasis on small loans through
SBP, there has been no clear trend in the average size of PDCP's non-SBP loans
within the last four years.
51.       As of June 30, 1977, PDCP had provided financial assistance for
577 projects amounting to $248 million. These projects are estimated to
have had a positive net effect on the balance of payments of $348 million
and created 35,000 jobs. An analysis of a sample of projects financed since
1970 indicates an average cost per job of $14,600 and this figure could fall
further with PDCP's increasing emphasis on small industry financing. The
average financial rate of return for a representative sample of about 100 of
these projects was estimated to be 30% and the average economic rate of return
to be 43%.
52.       As a result of a policy decision to give more emphasis to lending
to small businesses, PDCP established the Small Business Program (SBP) in
1972. PDCP has adopted the definition of small business as one with total
assets of less than P 1 million and requiring assistance of not more than
P 500,000. The SBP was slow in getting established and loan approvals were
initially small. By 1975, however, half of PDCP's loans were for small
businesses, though they still accounted for only 4% of the amounts approved.
In September 1976, PDCP was accredited to the Industrial Guarantee and Loan
Fund (IGLF) which partially removed the peso resource constraint. During the
first half of 1977, PDCP approved 47 small business term loans (72% of all
term loans) totaling P 11.4 million (15% of all loans approved). Since the
time it was accredited, PDCP has become the largest user of IGLF funds.
53.       PDCP is engaged in several other developmental activities.  Its
Economic and Corporate Research Unit, in addition to providing advice and
guidance to PDCP's clients, publishes a monthly and a quarterly economic
review which is widely circulated. In addition, it has carried out and
published on a regular basis, studies on such diverse sectors as wood based
industries, commercial deep sea fishing, industrial alcohols and the electric
power industry. The Development Finance Institute (DFI) of PDCP provides
valuable training facilities. The Bank has also used PDCP frequently as
training ground for staff of other Bank assisted DFC's in areas in which PDCP's
know-how is considered particularly strong. At the request of the Government
and jointly with it, PDCP also organizes special conferences and hosts foreign
delegations to the Philippines. PDCP's President is the first elected Chairman
of the Association of Development Finance Institutions in Asia and the Pacific
in recognition of PDCP's active role in the Association's creation.



- 15 -
54.       PDCP's total assets, which stood at P 856.6 million as at June 30,
1977, grew at an average annual rate of 13.8% during the past four and a
half years, although the growth in the most recent 18 months has been consider-
ably slower because of lower volume of business since 1975. The long-term loan
portfolio (net of the current portion) has accounted for about 70% of its
total assets. Long-term borrowings in foreign currency have accounted for
slightly more than 70% of total liabilities. The debt/ equity ratio, which is
limited to a maximum of 8:1 under agreement with the Bank, is now 5:1.
55.       PDCP has remained well within the prescribed limits on its liquidity
position. However, because of increases in PDCP's arrears during the last
few years (see para. 57 below), PDCP has undertaken to maintain a minimum
current liquidity ratio of at least 1.15 and also a minimum debt service and
interest cover of 1.1 times. In calculating these ratios, amounts overdue
and not received in cash for more than 180 days are to be excluded. The
adoption of these guidelines by the PDCP's Board is a condition of effective-
ness of the proposed loan (Section 6.01[c]) of the draft Loan Agreement).
56.       During the last few years PDCP's profitability, as measured by the
return on average equity, has ranged between 17.9% in 1972 and 16.7% in 1976.
Interest income from long-term loans is the principal source of income,
accounting for 91% of the total. Administrative expenses have increased from
1.0% of average total assets in 1972 to 1.6% in 1976, principally because of
the expenses incurred in connection with branch operations and small business
lending. PDCP's current annual dividend rate is 16% on the par value of
shares. All the audit reports have been unqualified.
57.       PDCP's arrears have been relatively high in the last few years due
in large part to international conditions which adversely affected some local
industries. The outstanding principal amount affected by arrears has ranged
between 14% and 22% during the 1972-76 period; portfolio affected by arrears
as of June 30, 1977 was about 19%. Because of intensified efforts to collect,
both the level and age structure of arrears have improved in the last two
years. Furthrmore, PDCP has recently split the Supervision Department into
two parts with one cncentrating exclusively on problem projects. It has also
acquired a management consulting company which is expected to be of help in
solving serious management and organizational problems faced by some clients.
No losses as result of any foreclosures are expected. PDCP's portfolio con-
tinues to be sound reflecting basically PDCP's twin objectives of commercial
profitability and helping worthwhile projects get off the ground.
58.       PDCP expects loan approvals to increase at a rate of about 20% p.a.
during the period 1978-81, which may be somewhat optimistic but would be
achievable, provided the overall rate of investment in the Philippines improves
as expected. Assuming that the forecast volume of operations is achieved, PDCP's
resource requirements for the period 1977-81 would amount to $212 million in
foreign currency and P 388 million in domestic currency. For the two and a
half year period, July 1, 1977 to December 31, 1979, PDCP's resource require-
ments in foreign currency would amount to $97 million. Taking into account
the resources it had on July 1, 1977, it would need during this period of two



- 16 -
and a half years addle onal foreign exchange resources amounting to $66 mil-
llion. The proposed Bank loan of $30 million and the proposed $10 million
loan from commercial sources to be managed by the Bank of Tokyo will meet a
part of these requirements. PDCP expects to meet the balance of requirements
by borrowings from the ADB and commercial banks. For its domestic currency
loans, PDCP would require P 160 million in new resources. It expects to finance
these requirements from retained earnings, net collections and borrowings.
59.       According to PDCP's financial projections, its total assets are
estimated to increase from P 1 billion to P 2.3 billion in 1981, or at
an annual growth rate of 24%. Total long-term debt is projected to increase
from P 605 million in 1.977 to P 1.7 billion in 1981, while shareholders'
equity is projected to increase from P 135 million in 1977 to P 259 million
in 1981. The debt/equity ratio would increase from 5.1 in 1977 to 7.9 in
1981. Assuming no significant increase in overdues, the current ratio and net
liquidity ratio are also projected to remain within the new prescribed limits.
60.       PDCP's net earnings after tax are projected to increase from P 23 mil-
lion in 1977 to P 50 million in 1981 or from 17.9% of equity in 1977 to 21.4%
in 1981 which is reasonable in the Philippine context. The debt service cover
should be adequate; it is estimated to vary between 1.26 and 1.30 during the
period covered by the projections.
Objectives and Justifications
61.       The proposed loan will provide scarce foreign exchange for the
development of the important industrial sector. PDCP, whose performance up to
date has been very satisfactory both from the developmental and institutional
stand points, is an especially suitable vehicle for finnacing such development.
The loan will be used for financing a fairly large number of economically sound
and financially viable small, medium and medium-to-large scale projects, mostly
in manufacturing industry.
62.       A special feature of the proposed loan is to use it as a catalyst for
the mobilization of complementary external medium term funds from private
financial institutions. More specifically, PDCP has made arrangements to
secure a loan of $10 million from private commercial sources simultaneously
and in conjunction with the proposed Bank loan. The terms and condiLions of
the private commercial loan have already been agreed between the lender and
PDCP.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and PNB, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of the Philippines and the Bank, the
draft Project Agreement between the Bank and PDCP, and the Report of the



- 17 -
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank are being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors. A special condition of this loan is referred to in Section III of
Annex III.
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Article-
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
January 17, 1978






ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                             Page 1 of 4 pages
PHILIPPrNES         - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                 -------------------------------------------------
_---------------.                                PHILIPPINES                          REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      300.0                                        MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     109.6                        1960      1970   ESTIMATE           THAILAND        TURKEY         AOCEA SOUTH *M
_ - -- -- -- -- -__- -- -- -- -- -__- -- - -- _ -- -- - -- w-- ---_ - - - _- - - - -----      - _
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     140.0*    230.0*   410.0*/a              210.0       500.0*      280.0*
_ _ _ _ ----_     -_ -_      --  _ _
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)            27.4      36.9       43.3/a              26.3        35.6        32.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       91.0      123.0     144.0/a               71.0       46.0       327.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       328.0      375.0     395.0/a             263.0         65.0     1371.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU. AV)         45.1       44.2       43.8               44.3         40.6        35.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU.AV)          17.9       13.2       10.5                13.7        14.4        11.4
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)        8.         81.0      72A                 80.0       153.0/a
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       49.4       r5.6       5r5                55.5        54.4        65.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.5        3.3        3.3                 3.2         2./ b c    2.6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                 3.0        3.0        2.8                 3.1         2.5         2.3
URBAN                                 4.0        4.0        3.9                 4.9         4-9/d       6.4
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)          25.3       27.6       29.8                15.0        38.7        41.2
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO t4 YEARS                       45.7       45.6       43.2               45.1        41.7        42.1
15 TO 64 YEARS                       51.6       51.6       54.o               51.8        54.0        54.5
65 YEARS AND OVER                     2.7        2.8        2.8                 3.1        4.3          3.4
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     0.9       0.9                             .9         0.9         0.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.3       1.5        13/b                1.1         1.1/e       1.4
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)            .-     320.0   4065.0/a              470.0           ..     4424.7
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..       2.0       25.0/a              10.0         8.2       42.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)        1otoo.0   12400.0  15400.0/a              16700.0    14500.0/f  10200.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)         61.0       55.0       52.67a              79.0       67.-        50.4/a
IINFAPLOYFn (% O' LABOR FORCE)           6.3       7.5        4.C                  ..         4.0/j       4.S
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
_ --- - - - ---_              -- _
% OF PRIVATE INCOME REC D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS            26.8         ..         ..                22.0        32.tLh      17.1
HIGHEST 20% Of HOUSEHOLDS            56.2       54.Q      53.3                 51.1        606 /h    44-5
LOkEiT  20% OF N EHOLDS               4.2       :..                            5.6         2.9 tI      71
LawaST  40% OF NOUSHOLDS             11.5       11.7      14.7                 14.3        *-4 /h     17-7
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS              ..         *-       43.0/c               ..        53.0        28.0
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS            ..        ..         2.0/c               *-         0.9         2.0
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                  ..        ..   1160 0/d              7970.0     2250.o      2110.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON             ..        ..    470 .                6650.0      1770.0 /1  2170. 
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED          1180.0      850.0     880.0                890.0       500.0      1900.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)         83.0       93.0     105.7                103.0       110.0       103.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              44.0       45.0      55.6                 52.0       78.0        65.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         19.0       22.0                           17.0 /a    22.0         19.0
DEATH RATE ((THOU) ASES 1-4              9,0        m'm       7.5                  ''        14.7 /k
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       95.0      113.0    117.0                  81.0       109.0      104.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     26.0       49.0      49.0                 16.0        28.0        41.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             10.0       10.0       10.0                12.0        11.0       12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLrENW
(X OF SECONDARY)                     14.0        6.0        9.0                14.0 /b     14.0       16.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (N)                   ..         ..      87.0                79.0        55.0 /1    87.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                  ..         *.        ..                  ..         1.9         2.7
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (x)                      80.0       76.0         ..                  ..        64.0        80.0/C
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                 17.0       23.0       31.0                  ..       41.0        50.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                      *-       7.0       10.0                            18.0        30.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          22.0      72.0         ..                78.0        89.0       126.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            3.0        8.0       8.0                 5.0         4.0         2.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           100.0     235.0      291.0               124.0       247.o       307.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                1.3        2.0        1.5                1.0         0.7         3.5
SEE NOTES AND DEFINlTIONS ON REVERSE



PAMEX  Iof 4 pages
NOTES
7~nleee otheoviOe noted, It  for 1960 refer to Any! peer between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 entd 1970 and for molt Recent Estimate between
1973 and 1975.
TN~? per capIta dote  r  bood  -n the World Rank ArIa. nethodnlogy  (1974-76 hasie).
0Korea hen  eon  -electod  -  an objective country on the bnell of its elmilar population, location end incOoe level end, like the PhilippiTee, it
to -xpectedi  pto-n c-pidly in the coning yeare.
FliTh I?PIII      19i0      /a  1951-51;       lb  Ratio of population under 15 eAm  65 and over to total labpr force;                 c  A.o percentage of moploymnt;
Id  1960-62;    /a  1962;    /f  Not including vocationail'ebort-term courbee.
19/0    i'  Ae percentage of enployneot;    Lb  Not including private vocatIonal mchocla  or voainleort-ter.                           cuea
MHOST RECENT ESITnATE:~    Ia  1976 ;  'b   Ratio of population under 15 ond 65 And over to total labor force;                      /c  1971;
fdRgltrd   only; believed to be onor-ectinate of naeber Actually practicing.
I  ULNI           1970      'a  1964-66;       lb  Public achools, which include technical education At the poet-aecondary level.
TtURKEY            1970     Ia1967;    /b  Excludee  17 eastern provinceal    .Ls  1965-67;    Id  1965-70;                   'a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65
and oyver to labor force 15 yesar  and over;    if  15 years and over, excludes unemployed;                   al  Regietersd only;
lb  Diaposable income;        i'  Including assiatant nurses and midwives;    /j  1964-66;    lb  1967-68;    /1  Pereonao
cia years and over who tell-the cenaus takers that they can read and write.
KOREA REP. OF   19'O        IA  An percentage of employmant;    lb  Registered, not .1l practicing in the coun.try;                    cWatec piped Ins ide.
Nove N  mbe  17, 1977
DEFINITIONS OP SOCIAL INDICATORS
Land Area (thu im2I                                                                             Population per noreina par.on - Papula-iou divided by macbar of practicing
Tocl-1  Total aurface sceuoonprisinglanOd area  end inland warera.                                vale and f-1al  graduate muc,trained  or "certified", nures  an..d
gAric. -Moot recent eatimate of egricultorel area used t-porerily or parms-                       auxiliary, pereonnel with training  Or eapacience.
nently for crone, patures, market & kictchen gaerdens or to lie fallow.                       Population per hospital bed - Population. divided by ntumber of                bepialhd.
GNP per o.p t.                                                             ,m~~~~~~~~~~~~~avilablo  in public And privste general And epecialisaed hospital And
IS   a   al~(US$) - GNP per capita  ertimatee at onrrnt market pricea,                    rahabilitation centers,; exclude. nureing honee. cod eccablialhenta. for
ca.lculted ny ann convarnion method na world Sank Atlce  (1973-75 baeie) ;                      caolladpeetv    ae
loAf; 1970 nod 1975 data.                                             ~~~~~~~Per c.Pltn aopolyn of calories ft Of rssuiraenetel - Computed from   nergy
?~~P.l ti- And  it~~~~j  t.Li.tic!. ~~~equIv.alet of mat food supplls. snvlsable in country par csplta per day;
.Popultion anid vito  otai tlc'                                                                    available capplie. comprise domoeatic production, imnporta lasa aeperte. nod
PonoacIo  (md-yer nllioT    "  of July fIrst:  if oat aveilabie, ncraga                   obangee in atock; net auppliee coclude  -nimal feed, eaede, quatitlee  need
of two. and-your ecti.atee; li6E, 1970 And 1975 data.                                           in food prcoea.ing and lIe.aa iu dietnibutcin; requiroment  were estimated
P.P.Iti-  ...ity    ar  q.r.    -Mid-..r  -pultion  ar  qar.  ilospterby FAG booe.d on phyeioIglc-l needs for no_el activity end health c-nad-
P1opulatio enory     e   fur  e    Mdya  pplto   per eqare1ki-star                                riog eniromsetal tpafatcure, body taighta, age and Sen diatributtona  of
(100hactacec) ofy tota  aureak.   o   ti.ln      optd.                    .frPoPulation, And all1wing 10% for weete an houaehold level.
Population   1 densit   -ly.c  05clao   ai.ln       optdc   bv   o                             Per capita sanely of protein  (area  per dm1  - Protein content of par capjta
aenleulnucol land only.                                                 mar~~~~~-  suPPly of food per dp; net eupp1y of food is defoasd aa abov; -equio-
vit.1  t.ti.tic.                                                          -n~~~~~~~~~~~~~mte for all countries establiahed by mbSA Ecoonomic Research Senvlcen
Vital airthrciecihcad.Il.,e                                                                        provide for A minia  llwac  of 60 gras of tonal Protein Per, day, Anod
Crue brthrot  pe  thused.  vefge    MnUeAl lIve birth. per thouand of                  20 gra   of animal And Pulae protein, Of which 10 grne nhOuld be animal
mid-year PoPuluIot,; tan-year arirhlatic  a-rnes ending in 1960 end 1970,                        protein; theae etadarde Are linr than thoec of 75 grasa of total protein
and five-year overage ending in 1975 for, eint rece_t eatinate.                                  ad2   rso   nmlpoens   naeaefrtewrd   rpsdb   o
tc,ae dathrol  percboeao. aerace - Annual deatha per thousa nd of mid-year                in the Third World Food Suryey.
POPUlation; re-ya3c.  arithmatic  yavragec ending in 1960 Anod 1970 And fina-                 per Canito protein supply fr-om anmal end pulae - protain aupply of food
IyeAr average endIng in 1975 for most r.eet eatimtae.                                            deivd from  sa. asan.uec  nga   prdy
InanthmortalIty raebirtho..   - An-uo1 desthe of infants under one yeor of age                 Death rate (Ithoul acee 1-4 - Annual destha par tho....od fat Age grnsp 1-4
pifr --thowac lIo birthn                                                                          yeare, to children in thia age group; euggeeted ne An Jndic...or of
Lifeexpctacy  t brth(Tr-) - Aoroge nunber of years of life raesining At                     malnutrition.
birth; usually flva-year overge, ending in 1960, 1970 and 1971 for develop-
ing. coPrdntries -                                                                             Education
Oron  repoducion  ote - oerge number of liva daughters A woma  will bear                 Adlunted enrollment ra.tio  - pfimsc  schol - Eurollant of all AgSI  es per-
in bar norma  re-productive period if eke experiencee precen..t age-opcific                     centage of primry  _cco-g   population; inclodes children aged 6-11 yearn
fertilitzy roet.; ucu_lly Fion-yeuc overagea ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                       hut adjusted far different lengtho of primary education; for coot,ie. aith
for1ti de repih crutri(o.                                                                         cnive-nre   e ducation, enrollment may emenad 1% since os  Mpuple are below
popuatin gowli coe (5 .total - Compound Annual growth rates, of old-year                   or abov  the official echool age.
Population for 1950-hE, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                                  Adbuated enreliment ratio -  ecoundary 8chooI - Computed aa shove; secondary
population groth rate (%) - urban - Computed like growth r.at  of total                            aducation requires at beat four yeora of epprovad primary, ins tructriot;
populacion; dIfferent definition   of urban .rae nay affect otoparability of                     provide. g8nars1, vocationa  or        . barce  train,ing  instructions for pupilo
datap.l.i among fo totaiee.                                                                        f 12 to 17 yearn of age; correepondents enur.ee  are generally excluded.
Urba  poulaion  % o  toal)- Sorio of urban to total Populationo; different              Years of echooli:a provded (first end second levels) - Total yAcre of
definitione of orbO on  rea-  may affect comparability Of data among countri.e.                  schooling; At             Jayar lee, -ecetlossa  instructIon may he partially  or
gee otructce (percent) - Children (0-14 yearc), onklng-ege (15-.64 years),                      fonsPltioma  ennlac   lo  ccaayd-Vctimliatctsa  nld
so-dpretired  (65o yer  aR.tri      . .necg.o    idya   epsain                                    taehoicel, industrial or Other progrin which operate independently or a
Afge  . deedec tratio -4 bi     f Population ooder 15 and 65 And over to those                    depertaenta of secndary institutione..
Eof-i ages15dthougy 4                                                                           Adult literacy rate (%5 - Lit.rear  adule (able to road And -it.) as .e.-
icoomi  deendocyratio  -Iatio  of PoPulation undee 15 and A5 snd over to                     ..entage of total Adult Population Aged 13 neure end over.
rho labor force in age group of 15-64 yeses.
rally plonic-A        epoe   cmlative, thou) - Cumlative number of acceptors                     Hoon iou
of birth-co-t-oI dcl- ce  cder ...epiceo of na tional fatly  Planning program                 Persona per room  (urban) - Average nuaber of peran_  per  cso  it occupIed
s-incpeincepion,                                                                                  convef Ar.  --- Pr-tga-  11.   unno  -ntional dweili.ng  in urban areae; d_elliOge seclude  o-e.c
ahilydplannig -S  (15c 44 (%     . of  arrod women) -  ecnae   fmridwmnotructurea and unoccupied part..
ch id-baring 9 ager(15-. yar)at   s   it-control devic.. to all married                       OccuPied dwllimna withont Piped eater ft  - Occupied covninldwellings
eumec in ane age group.                                                 ~~~~~~~~~in urban end rural ereaa without inside or outside piped water facilitien
E.pl.y-.t                                                                               -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~anprcneg    f all occupied dveliinge.
T.t.1opeb,r focAccese  Eooic1y   ty  p__                                                                 to  laletricity f7t of al  delin.  - Conventionsl decellinge with
Total laoe ocn      tosadd          cnmcll   ciepros  imolodlng armed                             electricity in living quartrer  aa percent of total dwellings In orh_ Ind
focnan   cMployad but excluding hooasvivea, etideota, eC..; definitiono                   rural er-A.
in various coutrioc Are norcoparable.                                                         Rurel de11in,a conncted to electricity Ct)-Coptdeabvtorul
Labor f.or  in agriculture   )- AgricuItura1 labor lforce (in farming, foreetry.                  dwellings only.                                    -Me   .   o.f,-
hunting And fiohing) sa percentage of totei labor iorce.
U.omployed (% of 1abor force) - U)-lnpiyed Are uanslly definad se persons who                    Consoteption
Are Able and willing to take A Job, out of a job or A given day, restned out                  Radio receIve,rs (pet thou pop) - ill tyPes of rciesfon radio broadcaece
of A Job, sod seeking work for A apecified minimum period not excee.ding one                     to general public per thon.aed of population; ee.1udee unlicenedreoea
mek; may not be comparable between counries due tc different: definitton                         in cOuntrisa and in year  when -egisrstion  of radio ecte was in effect;
Of uneployed And arce of dsta, e.g., Aeiploytaet offina statiatie, .-pie                         data for recen  years may not be  omparable ainn  moat o0untriee ebolished
ocvy,compulaory unaemployment insuranc,                                                     Icnsng
Pnaaenae:r.cr  (per thou eop) - Poseengan car. cmpri.e entor core oacing
IncasdIstrIbution - Percentage of private inocaso (bath in caeh end kind)                          leeta   ight Pernom; cecladea enbulace, hearses end military
received by richest 5%, richest 20%, poureet 20%, and Poaree  40% of honee-                      vehicle..
hold..                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Electricity (kwh/yr par cap) - Anua-I consoaPtion of induacria1, coaaerolal,
public and private electricity in kilowatt hours par capita, generolly
Diatribotion ef land  -"nrbip - Percen.tage, of lend ownd by wealthiet 10%                        bpaee.d on Prndetlon data, withob.      llmee  for losse  in grids but allo-
and pooreer 101 of land osners.                                         ~~~~~ing f or imprta and eAporte of electrIcity.
H-1th and Ntriti-                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~Nemprlnt (ba/yTr per  ap). - Per capita annual CtonPwtion in kilogrne,
Population per Physician - Population divided by osSer of pranticingt"s    -                                              t   rdcinp"  a   e,t.o   a~rtt
PhYeicians qualified fro A medicaI achami At univecity leveal.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976                            ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ million      %          1966-71            1971-76             1976
GNP at Market Prices            17,631      100.0           5.1               6.6                 6.4
Gross Domestic Investment       5,519        31.3           5.9              12.5                6.3
Gross National Saving           4,413        25.0           2.4              10.8                6.6
Current Account Balance        -1,106        -6.3
Exports of Goods, NFS           3,115        17.7          -0.5               5.6               18.0
Imports of Goods, NFS           4,270        24.2           4.1               6.5                1.5
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added                 Labor Force                  V. A. per worker
US$ million           X       Million         %              US$            Z__
Agriculture          5,156             29.0         8.1        50.0              637           58.0
Industry             6,029             33.9        2.3         14.2            2,621          238.7
Services             6,607             37.1        5.0         30.9            1,321          120.3
Unemployed             .                .          0.8          4.9              .            _
Total/Average    17,792             100.0       16.2        100.0            1,098          100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                      Central Government
(P billion)         % of GDP             (P billion)           % of GDP
1976         1976          1971          1976          1976         1971
Current Receipts         20.9          15.8          11.3         18.3          13.8           9.2
Current Expenditure      18.2          13.7          10.1         16.1          12.2           7.6
Current Surplus           2.7           2.0           1.2          2.2           1.7           1.6
Capital Expenditures      4.9           3.8           1.6          4.5           3.4           1.3
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1972      1973       1974      1975       1976     August 1977
(P million outstanding end period)
Money Supply                        6,500     7,300      9,000    10,300    12,100        12,80l
Bank Credit to Public Sector        3,900     2,400      2,000     5,800      8,900        9,201)
Bank Credit to Private Sector    12,600    16,200    24,200    28,500    23,600           34,900
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
Money as % of GDP                    11.5      10.1        9.0       8.9        9.2
General Price Index (1972 = 100)  100.0       117.6      154.4     166.8      180.1
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                   8.2      12.2       39.8       7.4        5.5
Bank Credit to Public Sector        -2.1      -38.5      -16.7     190.0       53.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector       21.7       28.6       49.4      17.8       17.9
/a All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
not applicable



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
TRADE PAYL4ENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYIENTS                                                MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGL 19)4-76)
1974    1975    1976                                     US   million    X
(US$ million)
Coconut Products                     539       z1.4
Exports of Goods, NFS          3,431   3,076   3,330   Sugar Products                          613       24.5
Imports of Goods, NFS          3,784   4,116   4,383   Forest Products                         298       11.8
Resource Gap (deficit = -)    -353  -1,040  -1,053   Mineral Products                          437       17.3
Fruits & Other Agric. Products    178           7.1
Interest Payments (net)           26      -53    -185   Other 14anufactures                   456       18.1
Other Factor Payments (net)   -154    -149    -138          Total                            2,521      100.0
Net Transfers                    276      318      269
Balance on Current Account    -205    -924  -1,107   EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31,  1976 /c
US million
Direct Foreign Investment          28     125      144
Net MLT Borrowing                                        Public Debt, including Guaranteed          2,216
Disbursements                  456      677   1,407   Nonguaranteed Private Debt                  1,812
Amortization                   312      318      368   Total Outstanding and Disbursed            4,028
Subtotal                     144      359   1,039
Other Capital (net) /a            143     -80    -236   DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1976 /d
,0 __
Increase in Reserves (+)         110    -521    -160
Public Debt, including Guaranteed            7.2
Gross Reserves                                           Nonguaranteed Private Debt                   10.5
(end year) /b                1,978   2,079   2,205   Total Outstanding and Disbursed               17.7
Petroleum Imports                573      710      801
IBRD/iDA LENDING, November 30, 1977 (US~ million)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                  IBRI)    IDA
Annual Averages         End Period  Outstanding and Disbursed              400.0   28.7
1975   1976  Jan-Aug 1977   Aug 1977   Undisbursed                              725.0    3.5
Outstanding, incl. Undisbursed   1,125.0   32.2
US$1.00 =  P   7.275  7.447        7.418         7.403
P 1.00  =  US$ 0.138  0.134       0.135          0.135
/a  Includes SDRs, short-term private loans, Central Bank liabilities, use of IMF credit, and errors
and omissions.
/b  Gross reserves of the Central Bank.
/c  Excludes short-term debt and IMF standby credit and is on a disbursement basis.
/d  Ratio of Debt-Service to Exports of Goods and Nonfactor Services.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of November 30, 1977
Loan or
Credit                                                          Amounts ($ million)
Number     Year       Borrower          Purpose            Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Fifteen loans and two credits fully disbursed             218.5    19.5
637-PH    1969    Republic of the
Philippines      Irrigation          34.0               0.3
720-PH    1971                        Rice Processing
11             and Storage      14.3                5.0
809-PH    1972    National Power
Corporation      Power               22.0               4.4
349-PH    1973    Republic of the
Philippines      Education II                12.7       3.5
891-PH    1973            "            Fisheries          11.6                1.6
939-PH    1973                         Ports               6.1                3.6
950-PH    1973            "            Second Highways   68.0                14.8
984-PH    1974                        Aurora-Penaranda
Irrigation        9.5                6.3
998-PH    1974            "            DFC-DBP I          50.0                7.9
1034-PH    1974    National Power
Corporation      Power               61.0              29.0
1035-PH    1974    Republic of the
Philippines      Population          25.0              20.4
1048-PH    1974            "            Shipping           20.0               15.6
1052-PH    1974    Philippine
National Bank   DFC                  30.0              19.9
1080-PH    1975    Republic of the   Tarlac
Philippines        Irrigation        17.0              12.3
1102-PH    1975                         Rural
Development      25.0               23.0
1120-PH    1975                         Small and Medium
Industries       30.0                9.3
1154-PH    1976                        Magat
Irrigation       42.0              35.1
1190-PH    1976            "           DFC-DBP II          75.0               63.3
1224-T-PH  1976                         Education III      25.0               20.5
1225-PH    1976            "            Livestock II       20.5               13.5
1227-PH    1976                         Chico Irrigation  50.0                48.6
1272-T-PH  1976                         Manila Urban       10.0                9.7
1282-PH    1976            "            Manila Urban       22.0               21.3
1269-PH    1976                         Second Grain
Processing       11.5               11.5
1270-PH    1976                         Second Fisheries  12.0                10.9
1353-PH    1977                         Third Highways    95.0                94.9
1367-PH    1977            "            Jalaur Irrigation 15.0                15.0
1374-PH    1977                         Fourth Education  25.0                24.8
1399-PH    1977    Central Bank of   Fourth Rural
the Philippines   Credit             36.5              36.5
1414-PH    1977    Republic of the   National Irriga-
Philippines        tion Systems
Improvement      50.0              50.0
1415-PH    1977            "            Provincial Cities
Water Supply    23.0                23.0
1421-PH    1977                         Second Rural
Development-
Land Settlement 15.0                15.0
1460-PH    1977    National Power
Corporation      Seventh Power       58.0              58.0
Total Ja                                       1,227.5    32.2    728.5
of which has been repaid
(Bank and third parties)                       102.5        -
Total now outstanding                          1,125.0    32.2
Amount sold                       22.0
of which has been repaid
(third parties)                 12.6             9.4        -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange rate
adjustments)                                1,115.6    32.2
Total undisbursed                                 725.0      3.5    728.5
/a  A loan of 58 million was approved by the Executive Directors on December 22,
1977 and it is expected to be signed towards the end of January.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of November 30, 1977
Fiscal                                                       Amounts ($ million)
Year                      Company                           Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973  Private Development Corporation of the
Philippines                                 15.0     4.4      19.4
1967          Manila Electric Company                        8.0        -       8.0
1967          Meralco Securities Corporation                   -      4.0       4.0
1970          Philippine Long Distance
Telephone Company                            4.5        -      4.5
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Manufacturing, Inc.                    0.8      0.4       1.2
1970          Paper Industries Corporation of the
Philippines                                    -     2.2       2.2
1971 & 1977  Philippine Petroleum Corporation                6.2      2.1       8.3
1972          Marinduque Mining and Industrial
Corporation                                 15.0       -      15.0
1973          Victorias Chemical Corporation                 1.9      0.3       2.2
1974          Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation          1.5        -       1.5
1974          Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.  1.5          0.5      2.0
1974          Republic Flour Mills Corporation               1.2        -      1.2
1975          Philippine Polyamide Industrial
Corporation                                 7.0        -       7.0
1976          Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                     2.6     0.2       2.8
1977          Acoje Mining Company, Inc.                     2.3     1.2       3.5
1977          Sarmiento Industries, Inc.                     3.5      -        3.5
Total gross commitments                      71.0    15.3       86.3
Less sold, acquired by others,
repaid or canceled                         23.2    12.0       35.2
Total commitments now held by IFC            47.8      3.3      51.1
Undisbursed                                   5.0      0.1       5.1



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Loan No. 637    Upper Pampanga River Irrigation; $34.0 Million Loan of
August 18, 1960; Date of Effectiveness: October 15, 1969;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
This is the first major irrigation project in the Philippines and
will supply water year-round to nearly all its 84,000 ha command area.
Some delays were caused by the 1972 floods, but construction has progressed
satisfactorily since then. All works have been substantially completed. The
Closing Date has been extended to December 31, 1977, to allow for disbursements
of about $300,000 for a communications system. Project costs have increased
72% over appraisal estimates, largely as a result of rapid inflation, the
effects of successive devaluations of the peso, and design changes in the dam
(which accounted for about one quarter of the increase in costs). However,
the project has reached full development sooner than was anticipated at the
time of appraisal. Also, there are added benefits from early closure of the
dam resulting in water storage and releases sooner than planned, and nearly
7,000 ha have been added to the project. Finally, there has been a considerable
increase in the projected world market price of rice. As a result the estimated
rate of return is about the same as at appraisal.
Loan No. 720    Rice Processing and Storage; $14.3 Million Loan of
February 4, 1971; Date of Effectiveness: May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This project provides long-term credit through the Development
Bank of the Philippines to finance a program for the development and modern-
ization of the rice Lad corn processing industry. Originally the project
was restricted to rice and to the private sector, and the emphasis was on
the construction of new integrated large capacity rice mills. Due in part
to poor harvests and in part to large cost increases for rice mills, the
demand for subloans for new integrated rice mills turned out to be small
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12 pages
and, as explained in the President's Memorandum, dated June 8, 1972 (R72-40),
the Loan Agreement was amended to shift the project emphasis to rehabilita-
tion of existing rice milling facilities. The Loan Agreement was further
amended in April 1974 to: (a) expand the scope of the project to include corn
in addition to rice, (b) enable local governments and the National Grains
Authority to borrow funds under the project, and (c) streamline procurement
procedures (President's Memorandum SecM74-244 of April 15, 1974). As a
result of these amendments, the project is now generally progressing satis-
factorily, although mounting arrears are a source of concern and DBP is now
stepping up its supervision and collection efforts to deal with this. Bank
loans for subloans have been fully committed; however, because of the long
construction period of the large subprojects, full disbursement will be
delayed until mid-1978 and the Closing Date has been postponed to
June 30, 1979.
Loan No. 809    Fifth Power; $22.0 Million Loan and $10.0 Million Credit
Credit No. 296 of April 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness: July 1, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The project is helping the National Power Corporation (NPC) to
finance the construction of a second thermal unit of 150 M4W at Bataan and
transmission facilities in Luzon. Although there has been some minor delay
due to the late delivery of transformers, the project is proceeding satis-
factorily. The erection of transmission lines has also been completed.
The loan is expected to be fully disbursed before the Closing Date, which has
been postponed from June 30, 1976 to June 30, 1978. A tariff increase was
approved in October 1976, but this was insufficient to enable NPC to achieve
the expected rate of return of 8% on its net fixed assets in operation.
Further tariff increases are currently under consideration.
Credit No. 472 Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation; $9.5 Million Credit and
Loan No. 984    $9.5 Million Loan of May 14, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project diverts water from the Aurora basin into the Pantabangan
reservoir to provide year-round irrigation for 30,000 ha of rice land in
Central Luzon. Although the need for foundation and abutment area grouting on
the two diversion dams was more extensive than originally expected, progress
on the transbasin diversion was excellent.  Diversion of 75% of Aurora water,
on closure of the first dam in July 1975, was an early benefit for the Central
Luzon rice growing area. The second dam was closed on April 1, 1976, about one
year ahead of schedule. In the service area, lack of competition and high bids
delayed awarding of contracts, but five small local construction firms are now
at work. Urgent work is being done by government forces. Project costs have
increased about 54% over appraisal estimates, largely as a result of rapid
inflation. Although there are added benefits from early diversion resulting in
additional water for irrigation sooner than planned, and nearly 5,000 ha have
been added to the project, the rate of return is expected to fall from 17% at
appraisal to around 14%. The Credit has been fully disbursed and disbursement
on the Loan has begun.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12 pages
Loan No. 891    Fisheries; $11.6 Million Loan of May 21, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
This project is designed to provide long-term credit to the private
sector through the Development Bank of the Philippines for marine and inland
fisheries development. The demand for subloans has been adequate, and the
organization to implement them has been properly established. The project is
progressing satisfactorily, and all funds were fully committed by July 1976
and are likely to be disbursed by the Closing Date. A moderate arrears
problem has developed, which DBP is tackling by increasing its supervision
and collection efforts.
Loan No. 939    Second Ports; $6.1 Million Loan of October 24, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: December 19, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977
Progress on civil works construction for both General Santos
and Cagayan de Oro has been slow, due mainly to frequent breakdowns of the
contractor's dredger in General Santos, and the slow mobilization of con-
tractor's plant in Cagayan de Oro. These problems have been resolved and
progress on civil works construction at both plants is improving. By June
1977, work was 36% completed in General Santos, and 6% in Cagayan de Oro.
The present estimated total project cost is 75% higher than the appraisal
estimate due to worldwide price increases. However, foreign exchange costs
are lower than appraisal estimates as the contractors are locally based.
Total traffic at the project ports is in line with appraisal forecasts and a
reasonable financial rate of return is being earned. By June 1977 the
Philippine Port Authority had taken over 7 of the 18 national ports.
Loan No. 950    Second Highway; $68.0 Million Loan of December 12,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: December 27, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Overall progress on construction has been generally satisfactory,
with about 90% of the project works completed. However, progress on one of
the national roads is not satisfactory and this is expected to delay project
completion by about 12 months compared to the appraisal estimate. UNDP-
financed road feasibility studies were completed in June 1975, and detailed
engineering for the Third Highway Project (Loan 1353-PH) was completed in
August 1976. Detailed engineering for the proposed Fourth Highway Project was
substantially completed in October 1977. The total cost of the project has
risen substantially (about 40% above appraisal estimate) because of inflation
following the oil price increase in late 1973. About $12 million still remains
undisbursed and hence the Closing Date has been extended to December 31, 1978.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12 pages
Loan No. 998    Industrial Investment and Smallholder Tree-Farming;
$50.0 Million Loan of June 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: September 9, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The proceeds of the Loan were relent to the Development Bank of
the Philippines (DBP). The industrial portion of the Loan ($48 million)
has been used by DBP to finance direct imports for medium and relatively
large industrial projects. DBP is using the balance ($2 million) to finance
about 1,300 smallholders in a pilot tree-farming project in Mindanao. Subloans
are expected to be fully committed by mid-1978.
Loan No. 1034    Sixth Power;  $61.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974:
Date of Effectiveness: November 15, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
The project is helping the National Power Corporation (NPC) to
finance a 100 MW hydro plant at Pantabangan and transmission lines for the
further expansion of the Luzon grid and feasibility studies by consultants
for a future power project. The generating plant has been commissioned.
However, the transmission component of the project is behind schedule because
necessary design work has been delayed due to NPC's heavy construction
program. For this reason the Closing Date may have to be extended. Costs
have increased by 21%, largely due to inflation.
Credit No. 349 Second Education; $12.7 Million Credit of January 5,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: April 11, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
The Credit provides $12.7 million to finance improvements to
existing middle and higher level agricultural education institutions, curric-
ulum development, and new technical and vocational institutions in rural
areas. Physical progress is now good under the project and disbursements have
reached 75% of planned levels. All but 6 of the 32 project institutions
have been completed; the remainder will be completed by the end of 1977.
Three fourths of the technical assistance program has been completed. Cost
overruns of 13% are expected in dollar terms because of inflation and earlier
lack of cost control over civil works; the amount of equipment purchased has
been reduced to compensate for cost overruns.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1035   Population; $25.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: November 13, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project is assisting the Government in expanding rural health
infrastructure, and in providing staff training facilities and technical
assistance for the development of a management information system and for
training. Under the direction of the Project Management Staff in the DeparL-
ment of Health, overall project implementation is progressing well. Training
activities are ahead of schedule in all 12 regions. The civil works component
is behind schedule but is expected to be completed ahead of the appraisal
report timetable due to simplification of construction design. Progress under
the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1048   Inter-island Shipping; $20 Million Loan of October 29,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: January 15, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
The Government is relending the proceeds of the Loan to the
Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) for onlending to beneficiaries
for the acquisition of new and used ships and for IIiijor repairs and con-
versions. Commitments were initially slow because of lack of demand from the
private sector due to the lengthy period required for the processing of
loans, restrictive collateral requirements by DBP, and unfavorable lending
terms offered by DBP in comparison with those extended by other lending
institutions in the Philippines. However, these problems are now being
resolved and subloan commitments have begun to move again.
Loan No. 1052   Private Development Corporation of the Philippines;
$30 Million Loan of November 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: February 7, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
The project assists in the financing of economically desirab!  -J
financially viable industrial subprojects. As of November 2, 1977, commicnment: b
for subloans totaling $19.1 million had been made. While subloan commitments
have been somewhat slower than originally expected due to the generally slow
pace of business activity, the implementation of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1080   Tarlac Irrigation; $17.0 Million Loan of January 27,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 27, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
The project is assisting the Government to improve 21,000 ha of
land under three existing national irrigation systems and expand irrigation
on 13,000 ha of additional land in Central Luzon. Progress on the groundwater,



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12 pages
water management training and NISIS components of the project has been good.
All major civil works contracts are now awarded and remaining work is all
under way. Also, most equipment contracts are awarded. Progress under the
project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1102   Rural Development; $25.0 Mi7lion Loan of April 16,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project is assisting the Government to carry out a rural devel-
opment project on the island of Mindoro. This includes constructing and
improving 150 km of national highways and 280 km of provincial roads, rehabil-
itating and upgrading Calapan Port, improving and extending two national
irrigation systems to serve 12,000 ha of rice land, and 3,000 ha under
communal irrigation systems, providing an agricultural program involving seed
testing laboratories and rat control, providing protection programs in four
watersheds, schistosomiasis control, and assistance to Mangyan tribes. Pro-
gress is satisfactory on irrigation and after substantial initial delays, is
improving steadily for the road component. These two components are being
implemented by agencies having experience with Bank-funded projects, and
construction has begun on Calapan Port. With the exception of the Mangyan
Assistance Program, however, there was little early progress under the other
programs because of inadequate budgeting by the various agencies for the new
programs. More adequate budgets have now been approved and all work is
expected to proceed rapidly.
Loan No. 1120   Small and Medium Industries Development; $30.0 Million
Loan of June 5, 1975; Date of Effectiveness:  August 20,
1975; Closing Date: August 31, 1979
The DBP portion of the funds has been fully disbursed. After a
slow start, commitment and disbursement of funds under the Industrial Guarantee
Loan Fund are now proceeding well. However, the Rural Industrial Cooperative
Program ($2.3 million) which is being implemented by the National Electrifica-
tion Administration is, because of its experimental nature, facing management
and staffing problems. Disbursements on this component have therefore been
slow. Overall progress of the project is, however, satisfactory.
Loan No. 1154   Magat Multirurpose Project; $42.0 Million Loan of
August 7, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is assisting the Government to improve and expand
irrigation on 35,000 ha of land in the Cagayan Valley of Northern Luzon.
Consultant's work on the engineering and economic evaluation studies is
almost completed. The water management training is under way and satis-
factory progress is being made on civil works.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1190   Industrial Investment; $75.0 Million Loan of
January 28, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 6, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The proceeds of the Loan are relent by the Development Bank of the
Philippines for subloans to finance direct imports for medium and relatively
large industrial projects. Commitments of funds, which were initially much
slower than expected due to a slowdown of investment in the industrial sector
as a whole have recently improved. The Executive Directors approved a
proposal to reallocate $25 million of the funds for small and medium industries
on February 25, 1977, and an amendment to the Loan Agreement to this effect
was signed on March 16, 1977. As of November 2, 1977, commitments for subloans
amounting to $17.5 million had been made. In addition, $5.4 million had been
disbursed against the allocation for small and medium-scale industries.
Loan No. 1224   Third Education Project; $25 Million Loan of April 8,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 29, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project covers the first phase (1976-80) of the Government's
eight-year textbook program and provides for the development, production
and distribution of 27 million textbooks. It also provides for curriculum
development, teacher training and technical assistance. Progress under
the project is satisfactory. Disbursements are more than twice the planned
level.
Loan No. 1225   Second Livestock; $20.5 Million Loan of April 8, 1976; Date
of Effectiveness: September 13, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project is designed to increase domestic production of livestock
products. As of June 30, 1977, disbursements were $5.0 million, which is
about 70% above appraisal estimates. However, arrears under the First
Livestock Project are quite high and DBP is now taking steps to improve
subloan appraisal and supervision as well as project monitoring.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1227   Chico River Irrigation Project; $50.0 Million Loan
of April 8, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project will assist the Government to improve and expand
irrigation on 19,700 ha in the Cagayan Valley. Consultants for the Erosion
Control Study and for input-output monitoring have been engaged. A start
has been made on civil works for rehabilitation of the Chico West and Tuga-
Gobgob areas.  Bids have been received for the three road links included in
the project and contracts have been awarded for two of them. Government
evaluation of the third is still under way. After substantial initial delay,
the road component of the project is now progressing more satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1269   Second Grain Processing Project; $11.5 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project provides long-term credit through the Development Bank
of the Philippines to assist in modernizing and expanding the Philippine
grain processing industry. Initial progress under the project is satisfactory.
Subloan commitments are expected to begin shortly, now that Loan No. 720 is
fully committed.
Loan No. 1270   Second Fisheries Project; $12.0 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project provides long-term credit through the Development Bank
of the Philippines to assist in increasing fish production for domestic con-
sumption. Initial progress under the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1272T Manila Urban Development Project; $10.0 Million and
Loan No. 1282   $22.0 Million Loans of June 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
December 9, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
The loan will finance: (a) improvements in basic sanitary services for
families living in the Tondo Foreshore and Dagat Dagatan areas, and (b) improve-
ments in transportation and traffic in the Greater Manila Area. Construction
on 1,500 of 2,000 serviced lots at Dagat Dagatan is nearing completion. The
high school and health clinic in Tondo have been constructed and the subdivision
of lots in the Tondo priority area is also nearing completion. A paper on the
status of this project will be submitted to the Executive Directors in December.



ANNEX 11
Page 11 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1353   Third Highway Project; $95.0 Million Loan of
January 12, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project will assist the Government in improving the national and
rural road systems and their maintenance. Most construction contracts have
been awarded. The major problem is delayed implementation of the road restor-
ation/maintenance component of the project. However, priority attcLition has
been given to this problem and, as a result, these components are expected to
accelerate during the coming year.
Loan No. 1367   Jalaur Irrigation Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
February 14, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 12, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This Loan will assist the Government in rehabilitating about
22,000 ha of existing irrigation schemes and constructing new irrigation and
drainage facilities for about 2,900 ha of rice land on the island of Panay.
Construction work on the existing main and secondary canals improvement has
now begun.
Loan No. 1374   Fourth Education Project; $25.0 Million Loan of
March 25, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project is to assist the Government in developing agricultural
education and training. It includes assistance for: specialized facilities
for forestry, animal science, and veterinary medicine; a regional agricultural
college in the Visayas; and training for extension workers and farmer leaders.
Implementation of all aspects of the project is on schedule.
Loan No. 1399   Fourth Rural Credit Project; $36.5 Million Loan of
April 11, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 2, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project provides medium and long-term credit through partici-
pating banks to finance farmers and local entrepreneurs for farm mechanization,
livestock, fisheries, and cottage and agro-industries. The project became
effective on June 2, 1977. Initial implementation was delayed because of the
time required for preparation, but commitments are expected to increase in
the coming months. The major problem is to minimize disqualification from
participation due to high arrearages and to encourage eligible rural banks to
participate.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1414   National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project; $50 Million
Loan of May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project consists of rehabilitation of irrigation facilities
serving 28,000 ha and extension of irrigation facilities to 22,000 ha
of farmland in Northern Luzon and Leyte, and a schistosomiasis control
program in Leyte. The Loan became effective on August 9, 1977.
Loan No. 1415   Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $23 Million Loan of
May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 9, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
This loan will finance: (a) water supply improvement and expansion
in six provincial cities; (b) feasibility studies for water supply improve-
ment in ten additional cities; and (c) feasibility studies for Manila sewerage.
The Loan was made effective on September 9, 1977. Progress is generally
satisfactory according to the review of the preliminary engineering studies
and detailed design of the water supply construction. The water supply
feasibility studies for ten cities and the Manila sewerage design study are
expected to begin in January 1978.
Loan No. 1421   Second Rural Development (Land Settlement) Proiect;
$15.0 Million Loan of June 10, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
October 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project will assist the Government to strengthen its planning
and implementation capability for its land settlement program and will also
upgrade three existing land settlement areas. The Loan became effective
on October 27, 1977.
Loan No. 1460   Seventh Power Project; $58.0 Million Loan of August 9, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: Not Yet Effective;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project will assist the Government in expanding the transmission
system in Luzon, establishing the first stage of a communications system and
control center, and training NPC staff. The terminal date of effectiveness has
been postponed to January 6, 1978 to allow additional time for NPC to appoint
management consultants; the consultants' contract is expected to be signed in
the next several weeks.
Loan No.        Smallholder Tree Farming and Forestry Project; $8.0 Million Loan
of                    ; Date of Effectiveness:  Not Yet Effective;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This Loan was approved by the Executive Directors on December 22, 1977
but has not yet been signed.



ANNEX III
PHILIPPINES
FIFTH PDCP CREDIT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
a.  Time taken to prepare project:  January 1977 - August 1977
b. The agency that prepared the
project                      : PDCP
c. Date of the first presenta-
tion to the Bank and date
of the first Bank mission
to consider the project    : February 1977
d. Date of departure of
appraisal mission            : August 1977
e. Date of completion of nego-
tiations                     : December 28,1977
f.  Planned date of effectiveness:  On or before April 28, 1978.
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III - Special Conditions
Adoption of liquidity guidelines by PDCP's Board is an additional
condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (para. 55).



