                                                                               73842 v1

                          CROATIA
  DEVELOPMENT OF EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES AND INVESTMENT
                      PLANNING PROJECT
                           P086669
                        LOAN 7598-HR

                                  Restructuring Paper


1.     This closing date for Croatia, Development of Emergency Medical Services and
Investment Planning Project, Loan 7598-HR, P086669, will be extended from June 30,
2013 until December 31, 2013.

2.      Despite initial delays to develop the new legal framework related to the new
framework for the Emergency Service, the project has continued a steady progress
toward achieving the Project Development Objectives (PDO), which is rated as
Satisfactory. The PDO is to (1) improve the efficiency and outcomes of the Emergency
Medical Services system; and (2) strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of Health and
Social Welfare to develop and implement strategic projects. With respect to the first PDO
(to improve the efficiency and outcome of the emergency medical services system), a
legal framework has been implemented by the Government. The number of County
Institute of Emergency Medical Services (CIEMS) fully operational and reporting data
has reached 18 CIEMS, the remaining 3 are expected to be functional by December 2012.
The project supported: (a) the development of an algorithm (protocol) to standardize the
dispatcher activities currently adopted countrywide; (b) a significant amount of training
for dispatchers, pre-hospital teams, and staff of the emergency reception areas; and (c)
ambulances and medical equipment for the pre-hospital teams, and medical equipment
for the emergency reception areas in seven hospitals have been supplied. Regarding the
second PDO, the Project re-launched a set of activities to further strengthen the capacity
of the MoH to develop and implement strategic projects, including technical assistance
for the development of the Hospital Masterplan (rationalization), an outsourcing plan for
hospital services, the development of the pipeline of projects for EU funding, and the
development of an telemedicine plan including the technical specifications for the
equipment to be financed by the Project

3.      The proposed six-month extension is necessary to implement the Geographic
Information System (GIS) for the Public Health Institute for which a contract was
recently signed. The procurement process for the development of the Geographical
Information System for the National Public Health Institute took longer than expected (11
months). Two main factors contributed to this: (a) due to the nature of the products, the
bidders requested seven rounds of clarifications; and (b) the bid evaluation report
required several clarifications from our technical team. Finally, now that the contract is
signed, implementation is in progress with an expected completion date of November
2013. This extension was requested by the Government through letters to the Bank dated
October 15, 2012 (from the Ministry of Finance).

4.    This will be the first extension of the project. The requirements of OP/BP 13.30
have been met: (i) the project objectives are achievable; (ii) the performance of the
Borrower and other project implementing agencies is satisfactory; and (iii) the Borrower
has developed an action plan to complete the project. There are no outstanding audits for
this Project.




                                           2
