CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 242 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Power Transmission Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 3, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 242 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Power Transmission Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 3, 1971


﻿AGREEMENT, dated May 3, 1971, between INDIA, act-
ing by its President (hereinafter cal'ed the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL   DEVELOPMENT    A SOOCIATION  (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Associa-
tion to assist in the financing of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending the Credit as
hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS (B) The Association has agreed, on the basis
inter alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Bor-
rower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the Association, dated
January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the follow-
ing modifications thereof (said General Conditions Appli-
cable to Development Credit Agreements of the Associa-
tion, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions) :
(a) Section 5.01 is deleted;
(b) Section 6.02 (h) is deleted and Section 6.02 (i) be-
comes 6.02 (h);
(c) paragraph 5 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as
follows:


﻿4
"5. The term 'Borrower' means India, acting by its
President."
SEOTIoN 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a) The term "State" shall mean any one of the follow-
ing nine States of India: Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Gujarat,
Haryana, Maharashtra, Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh,
West Bengal; and the term "States" shall mean (except
where otherwise indicated) all of such nine States.
(b) The term "Board" shall mean any one of the State
Electricity Boards established pursuant to the Electricity
(Supply) Act, 1948, of India, in one of the States, and the
term "Boards" shall mean (except where otherwise indi-
cated) all of such nine Boards.
(c) The term "Agency" shall mean the Bhakra Manage-
ment Board.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTIO,T 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development
Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to seventy-five million dollars
($75,000,000). Whenever this Development Credit Agree-
ment comes into force and effect in respect of a part of the
Credit in accordance with Sections 8.02 and 8.03 of this
Agreement, the Association shall credit to the Credit Ac-
count such part of the Credit.
SECTION 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be with-
drawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the pro-
visions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule


﻿5
shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made
(or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in re-
spect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed under the Development
Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, (a) no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of
any country which is not a member of the Bank (other
than Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services
supplied from, such territories, and (b) no withdrawal
shall be made with respect to contracts for the purchase
of goods and services which are awarded more than eight-
een months after the signing of this Agreement.
SECTION 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30,
1975 or such other date as shall be agreed between the
Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal
nount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable
on each February 15 and August 15 commencing August
15, 1981 and ending February 15, 2021, each installment to
and including the installment payable on February 15, 1991,
to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-
half per cent (11/%) of such principal amount.
SECTIoN 2.07. The currency of the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿6
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
SECTION 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall at all times make
available, or cause to be made available, to the Boards and
the Agency, promptly as needed, all sums, including the
proceeds of the Credit, which shall be required for the
carrying out of the Project, all such sums to be made avail-
able on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower
and the Association.
(b) The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all
action which shall be necessary on its part to enable the
Boards and the Agency to carry out the Project and shall
not take, or permit any agency of the Borrower to take,
any action that would prevent or interfere with the prompt
carrying out of the Project by the Boards and the Agency.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to
each Board and the Agency in such manner as to protect
the interests of the Borrower and the Association and in
particular to cause each Board and the Agency to carry
out its respective obligations under the undertakings re-
ferred to in Sections 8.01 and 8.02 of this Agreement.
(d) The amount of foreign exchange to be made avail-
able out of the proceeds of the Credit to each one of the
Boards and Agency shall be as stated in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement, subject to modification by further agreement
between the Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the goods and services required for the Project shall
be procured on the basis of international competition under
procedures consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits published by
the Bank in August 1969, and in accordance with, and sub-
ject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment. When, with respect to any contract, the lowest evalu-
ated bid is a Foreign Bid (as defined in paragraph 3(a) of


﻿7
Schedule 3 to this Agreement), the Borrower shall imme-
diately grant permission to import the goods covered by
the contract, and no reviews of such permission to import
shall be made by the Borrower or by any of its agencies,
including the Directorate General of Technical Develop-
ment. When, with respect to any contract, the lowest evalu-
ated bid is a Local Bid (as defined in paragraph 3(a) of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement), the Borrower shall (i)
promptly upon receipt of the appropriate applications,
issue, or cause to be issued, such import licenses as shall
be required to carry out the Project; (ii) make available,
or cause to be made available, promptly as needed, all for-
eign e:,rchange which shall be required to carry out the
Project; and (iii) with respect to locally produced mate-
rials which are subject to allocation, make, or cause to be
made, allocations of such materials promptly and in such
quantities as shall be required to carry out the Project.
SECTIoN 3.03. The Borrower shall cause each one of the
Boards and the Agency:
(i) to carry out its part of the Project under the gen-
eral supervision of the Borrower with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound engi-
neering, financial and public utility practices;
(ii) to obtain the goods to be acquired out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit free and clear of all encum-
brances, and to use such goods exclusively in the
carrying out of the Project;
(iii) to furnish to the Association through the Borrower
promptly upon their approval by the Borrower the
plans, specifications, economic justification and con-
struction schedule for its part of the Project
and any material modifications subsequently made
therein, in such detail as the Association shall from
time to time request;
(iv) in such cases as the Association, in consultation
with the Borrower, may deem necessary, to employ


﻿0
suitably qualified and competent consultants to
assist such Board or Agency in carrying out its
undertakings with respect to (a) the construction
of the Project and (b) financial and accounting
practices;
(v) to maintain records adequate to identify the goods
and services acquired out of the proceeds of the
Credit, to disclose the use thereof in the Project, to
record the progress of its part of the Project (in-
cluding the cost thereof) and to reflect in accord-
ance with consistently maintained sound public util-
ity accounting practices the operations and financial
condition of such Board or Agency;
(vi) to allow the Association's representatives to inspect
the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the sites, works and construction
included in the Project, the operation thereof and
any relevant records and documents;
(vii) to insure with responsible insurers, or make ade-
quate provision for the insurance of, all imported
goods acquired out of the proceeds of the Credit;
such insurance shall cover such marine, transit and
other risks incident to the acquisition, transporta-
tion and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation; shall be for such amounts as shall be
consistent with sound business practices; and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in
a currency freely usable by the insured party to
replace or repair such goods;
(viii) in addition, to insure against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with sound business
and public utility practices or to make other ade-
quate arrangements to cover promptly any damage
or losses resulting from such risks;
(ix) to inform the Borrower and the Association
promptly of any condition which interferes with,


﻿9
or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit or the carrying out
of the Project, or which shall increase or threaten
to increase materially the estimated cost of the
Project;
(x) to give all such information as the Borrower and
the Association shall reasonably request relating
to the foregoing and to the financial condition, the
operation and administration of such Board or
Agency;
(xi) to furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concern-
ing the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Credit and the goods and services financed out
of such proceeds;
(xii) to (a) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) audited, as required by the
provisions of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948,
of India; (b) furnish to the Association as soon as
available, but, in any case not later than six months
after the end of each such year, (i) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (ii) the report of such audit; and (c)
furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the foregoing accounts and financial
statements as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request; and
(xiii) to perform its obligations in accordance with the
undertakings provided under Section 7.03 of Loan
Agreement No. 416 IN, dated June 11, 1965.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
SECTION 4.01. The Borrower agrees that, for the fiscal
year ending March 31, 1970 and for each fiscal year there-


﻿10
after, it shall produce financial data in respect of each
Board, separating the information relating to rural elec-
trification from information relating to that Board's other
supply functions. Pro forma income statements, statements
of sources and application of funds, rate bases, and details
of indebtedness, would be prepared both for rural electri-
fication and for the Board excluding that aspect. Such
financial data for the fiscal year ending March 31, 1970
shall be submitted by November 30, 1971, and for each
fiscal year thereafter by November 30 following the end
of the fiscal year or other mutually agreed dates.
SECTION 4.02. The Borrower agrees to consult with the
State Governments and the Boards with respect to the dis-
position of (a) unpaid interest on loans from State Gov-
ernments to certain Boards and (b) those portions of such
loans which were raised by other Boards to meet the unpaid
interest on previous loans from State Governments. The
Borrower shall keep the Association informed as to the
results of such consultations and shall, in any event, submit
a progress report not later than December 31, 1971 and
thereafter at six month intervals.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
SECTION 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall
cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit
will be accomplished. To that end, the Borrower and the
Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a) exchange views through their representatives with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit
and the maintenance of the service thereof.
(b) furnish to the other all such information as it shall
reasonably request with regard to matters relating to the
purposes of, and the general status of, the Credit. On the
part of the Borrower, such information shall include infor-


﻿0
11
mation with respect to financial and economic conditions in
the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of
payments, and the external debt of the Borrower, of any
of its political subdivisions and of any agency of the Bor-
rower or of any such political subdivision.
SECTION 5.02. The Borrower and the Association shall
promptly inform each other of any condition which inter-
feres with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the
service thereof, the performance by either of them of its
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement or
the performance by the Boards and the Agency of its obli-
gations under the undertakings referred to in Sections
8.02 and 8.03 of this Agreement.
SECTION 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable
opportunity for accredited representatives of the Associa-
tion to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower for
purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
SECTION 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or
laws in effect in its territories.
SECTION 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall
be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execu-
tion, delivery or registration thereof, imposed under the
laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
SECTION 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and
service charges on, the Credit shall be free from all restric-
tions, regulations, controls and moratoria of any nature
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.


﻿12
ARTIOLE VII
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of
the General Conditions or in Section 7.03 of this Agree-
ment shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any,
therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the
continuance thereof, the Association, at its -option, may by
notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit
then outstanding to be due and payable immediately to-
gether with the service charges thereon and upon any such
declaration such principal and service charges shall become
due and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in
the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
SECTION 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is
specified:
(a) a default shall have occurred, on the part of any
one or more of the Boards or the Agency, in the
performance of any undertaking referred to in Sec-
tion 8.02 or 8.03 of this Agreement.
(b) a default shall have occurred in the performance of
any obligation of the Borrower relating to any of
the Boards (as defined in Section 1.02(b) of this
Agreement) under Loan Agreement No. 416 IN,
dated June 11, 1965, or in the performance by any
one or more of these Boards of any undertaking re-
ferred to in Section 7.03 of Loan Agreement
No. 416 IN.
SECTIoN 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is spec-
ified: any event specified in Section 7.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower.


﻿13
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 8.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of this Agreement
within the meaning of Section 10.01(b) of the General Con-
ditions, namely, that one of the undertakings referred to in
Section 8.02 of this Agreement shall have been received
and accepted by the Association.
SECTION 8.02. Except as the Borrower and the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, this Development Credit Agree-
ment shall come into force and effect in respect of the part
of the Credit to be made available to any one of the
Boards, as specified in Schedule 4 hereof, when:
(a) the condition specified in Section 10.03 of the General
Conditions shall have occurred;
(b) the Borrower shall have obtained from such Board
and submitted to the Association an undertaking, in
a form to be agreed upon between the Borrower and
the Association and endorsed by the State in which
such Board is established, to perform all acts re-
ferred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement; and
(c) the Association dispatches to the Borrower notice
of its acceptance of such undertaking.
SECTION 8.03. Except as the Borrower and the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, this Development Credit Agree-
ment shall come into force and effect in respect of the part
of the Credit to be made available to the Agency, as speci-
fied in Schedule 4 hereof, when:
(a) the condition specified in Section 10.03 of the General
Conditions shall have occurred;
(b) the Borrower shall have obtained from the Agency
and submitted to the Association an undertaking, in
a form to be agreed upon between the Borrower and


﻿14
the Association, to perform all acts referred to in
Section 3.03 of this Agreement; and
(c) the Association dispatches to the Borrower notice of
its acceptance of such undertaking.
SECTION 8.04. (a) The date August 2, 1971, is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General
Conditions.
(b) If this Development Credit Agreement shall have
come into force and effect in accordance with Section 10.03
of the General Conditions, but if by the date specified in
Section 8.04(a) of this Agreement, there shall be a portion
of the Credit in respect of which this Development Credit
Agreement shall not have come into force and effect, then
all obligations of the parties hereunder with respect to such
portion of the Credit shall terminate and such portion of
the Credit shall be deemed to be cancelled pursuant to
Article VI of the General Conditions, unless the Associa-
tion, after consideration of the reasons for the delay, es-
tablishes a later date for purposes of this paragraph. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such
later date.
SECTION 8.05. The obligations of the Borrower under
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall cease and determine
on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date 25 years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
SECTION 9.01. Any Secretary, Special Secretary or Joint
Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of
Finance or a Director of the Department of Economic
Affairs in the Ministry of Finance is designated as repre-
sentative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03
of the General Conditions.
SECTION 9.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿15
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
Ecofairs
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INDIA
By /s/ L. K. JHA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIATION
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


﻿16
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. The table below sets forth the categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
amounts of the Credit to each category and the percentage
of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated  % of
(Expressed in  Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
I. Conductors & Groundwire   20,000,000      100o of total expenditures
II. Towers                    10,000,000     100o "    "
III. Transmission Line
Insulators                  2,500,000     1000 "
IV. Substation Equipment,
including Transformers,
Switchgear, Capacitors,
Control and Relay Panels,
Control and Power Cables   22,500,000     100% "   "
V. Communication and Load
Dispatch Equipment         15,000,000     100c
VI. Miscellaneous Equipment     1,000,000     100o "   "
VII. Unallocated                 4,000,000
TOTAL      75,000,000
2. For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expendi-
tures for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the
territories, and in the currency, of any country other than
the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower;
and
(c) the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate
of foreign and local expenditures.


﻿17
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of :
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b) payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the
Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement
or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount repre-
sented by the percentage set forth in the third column of
the table in paragraph 1 above in respect of any Category
would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no pro-
ceeds of the Credit will be withdrawn on account of pay-
ments for such taxes;
(c) payment for the local erection of the goods referred
to in paragraph 1 above except insofar as foreign currency
expenditures are incurred; and
(d) expenditures for freight and insurance within the
territories of the Borrower.
4. Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the
Credit set forth in the second column of the table in
paragraph 1 above:
(a) if the estimate of the expenditures under any Cate-
gory shall decrease, the amount of the Credit then allo-
cated to such Category and no longer required therefor
will be reallocated by the Association by increasing cor-
respondingly the unallocated amount of the Credit; and
(b) if the estimate of the expenditures under any Cate-
gory shall increase, the percentage set forth in the third
column of the table in paragraph 1 above in respect of such
expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such in-
crease, and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the
Association, at the request of the Borrower, to such Cate-
gory from the unallocated amount of the Credit, subject,
however, to the requirements for contingencies, as deter-
mined by the Association, in respect of any other expendi-
tures.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the supply and construction of
about 4500 circuit km -of transmission lines operating at
voltages between 66 kV and 220 kV and about 110 sub-
stations with an aggregate capacity of about 3500 MVA
to be constructed by the Boards, and by the Agency on
behalf of the Boards of Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31,
1975.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1. With respect to any contract for machinery, equipment
or materials (hereinafter referred to as goods) estimated
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) If bidders are required to prequalify, the Borrower
shall, before qualification is invited, inform the Associa-
tion in detail of the basis for qualification and of the pro-
cedure to be followed and shall introduce such modifica-
tions as the Association shall reasonably request. The list
of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any
applicant for prequalification, shall be furnished by the
Borrower to the Association for its comments before the
applicants are notified and the Borrower shall make such
additions or deletions from the said list as the Associa-
tion shall reasonably request.
(b) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invita-
tions to bid and the specifications and other bidding docu-
ments, together with a description of the advertising pro-
cedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make
such modifications in the said documents or procedure as
the Association shall reasonably request. Any further modi-
fication to the bidding documents shall require the Associa-
tion's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(c) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before any notification of an award is
made, inform the Association of the name of the bidder to
whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish
to the Association, in sufficient time for its review, a de-
tailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, together with the reasons for the intended award.
The Association shall promptly inform the Borrower


﻿20
whether it has any objection to the intended award on the
ground that it would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement or
with the Development Credit Agreement, and shall state
the reasons for any objections it may have.
(d) If the contract shall be awarded over the Associa-
tion's reasonable objection, or if its terms and conditions
shall, without the Association's concurrence, materially
differ from those on which bids were asked, no expendi-
ture thereunder shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit.
(e) Two certified copies of the contract shall be fur-
nished to the Association promptly after it execution and
prior to the submission to the Association of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Ae-
count in respect to any such contract.
2. With respect to any other contract for goods, the Bor-
rower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Association of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Credit Account in respect of any such contract, two certified
copies of such contract, a summary of bids or quotations
received, the analysis thereof and the recommendations
thereon, and any other related material which the Asso-
ciation shall request. The Association shall promptly in-
form the Borrower if it finds that the award of the contract
is not consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits referred to in
Section 3.02 of this Agreement or with the Development
Credit Agreement and, in such event, no expenditure under
such contract shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
10


﻿21
3. For the purpose of evaluating bids for goods and asso-
ciated services included in the Categories of the table set
out in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, bid
prices shall be determined and compared in accordance with
the following rules:
(a) The term "Local Bid" means a bid submitted by a
manufacturer established in the territories of the Borrower
for goods manufactured or processed to a substantial extent
(as reasonably determined by the Association) in such ter-
ritories; any other bid shall be deemed to be a "Foreign
Bid ".
(b) The bid price under a Local Bid shall be the sum of
the following amounts:
(i) the ex-factory price of such goods, and
(ii) inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery
of such goods to the place of their use or installa-
*                         tion.
(c) For the purpose of comparing any Foreign Bid with
any Local Bid, the bid price under a Foreign Bid shall be
the sum of the following amounts:
(i) the c.i.f. landed price of such goods;
(ii) the amount of any taxes on the importation of such
goods into the territories of the Borrower which
generally apply to non-exempt importers, or 157
of the amount specified in (i) above, whichever
shall be the lower; and
(iii) inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery
of such goods to the place of their use or installa-
tion.


﻿22
SCHEDULE 4
Allocation of the Proceeds of the Credit
to the Boards and Agency
Boards                                   Millions of US $
Andhra Pradesh                               9.85
Bihar                                        7.40
Gujarat                                      0.40
Haryana                                      3.55
Maharashtra                                   6.70
Punjab                                       7.20
Rajasthan                                     3.60
Uttar Pradesh                                16.40
West Bengal                                   9.00
64.10
Bhakra Management Board                     10.90
TOTAL      75.00


