IocurrX    I'(  (l,(1lq(,.
FOR OFFICIAI
Report No. 9715
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1143/LOAN 1995-KE)
JUNE 28, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
|their official duties. Its contents may no! otherw:ise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EXCHANGE RATES
Currency Unit    -   Kenya Shilling (KSh) and Kenya Pound (KL)
KSh 20              KL 1.0
US $ 1.00   -   KSh   7.6          vend 1980)
US S 1.00  -   KSh  10.3           (end 1981)
US $ 1.00  -   KSh  12.7           (end 1982)
US $ 1.00  -   KSh  13.8           (end 1983)
US $ 1.00  -   KSh  15.8           (end 1984)
US $ 1.00   -   KSh  16.3          (end 1985)
US $ 1.00  -   KSh  16.0           (end 1986)
US $ 1.00  -   RSh  16.5           (end 1987)
US $ 1.00   -   KSh  18.6          (end 1988)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFC         Agricultural Finance Corporation
ASAL        Arid and Semi-arid Lands programme
ASAO        Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation
CB          Cooperative Bank
CBS         Central Bureau of Statistics
GMR         Guaranteed Minimum Return
GOK         Government of Kenya
HBS         Household Budget Survey (1981/82)
IDA         International Development Association
IRS         Integrated Rural Survey (1974-1979)
KCB         Kenya Commercial Bank
LAS         Loan Accounting System
KGGCU       Kenya Grain Growers Cooperative Union
MIS               Management Information System
MOA         Ministry of Agriculture
MOCD        Ministry of Cooperative Development
MOF         Ministry of Finance
MOLD        Ministry of Livestock Development
MPND        Ministry of Planning and National Development
NBFI        Non-Bank Financial Institutiot.
NCPB        National Cereals and Produce Board
NGO         Non-Governmental Organisation
NSCS        New Seasonal Credit Scheme
OP          Office of the President
PS          Permanent Secretary
USAID       United States Agency for International Development



THE WORLD BANK                FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Of.ice dl Oifftc " eCel
Opsatuin, Cv&k twm
June 28, 1991
HEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Kenya
Fourth Agricultural Credit Prolect (Credit 1143/Loan 1995-RE)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Kenya - Fourth Agricultural Credit Project
(Credit 1143/Loan 1995-KE)" prepared by the Africa Region.  No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official I 'ues. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(CR. 1143-KE/LN. 1995-KE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE .         . .  .  .  . . . . .        . . . .* .     .*    . .
BASIC DATA SHEET  . . . ..  . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . 
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .    ..............   .  v
BACKGROUND  . .           . . .. .. . . . . . .  .   . .                   I 1
PROJECT FORMULATION ..** .                  * * .  .   * * . . .           6
Issues  *. ........ . .   .  . .                                    8
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  . . .        . ...........                         9
Chronology   . . . . ... . . . .  . . .                             9
Implementation Record . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              10
Actual Project Costs  . . . . . . . . ..  o...   . . . .           14
PROJECT OUTCOMES  .4.9.9.9... 4.9.4.9.4. .      .  .  .    .   *. . .  ..  15
AFC's Financial Position, Portfolio and Role  . . . . . . .               18
Bank Performance  .9.9..  .      .  .  .  .  .    . .........  .         21
LESSONS LEARNED . . . . . . . .  . .  .                  .  . . .        22
Project specific  . . . ....................... ..... ........ . .  22
Kenya specific    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              22
Credit sector specific  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              24
ANNEXES
I.    Project Costs and Financing . . . . . . . . . .              27
II.   Loan/Credit Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . .              29
III.  Related Bank Loans and IDA Credits  . . . . . .              31
IV.   Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . .              33
V.    Status of Covenants . . . . . . . . .   . . . .              35
VI.   Trends in AFC Portfolio Composition . . . . . .              41
VII.  Trends in AFC Loan Recovery/Arrearage Rates . .              43
VIII. AFC Operating Costs . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              45
IX.   Comments by AFC on the draft PCR  . . . . . . .              47
MAP: IBRD 1511IR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(CR. 1143/LN. 1995-KRE)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Fourth
Agricultural Credit Project in Konya, for which Cr. 1143 and Ln. 1995-KE
in the amounts of US$10 million aid US$25 million respectively were
approved on May 19, 1981. The project was closed on January 5, 1989,
three years behind schedule. The loan and credit were fully disbursed.
The last disbursement was on January 5, 1989.
The PCR was prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division
of Country Department II, Africa Region. Preparation of this PCR is
based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, Credit and Loan
Agreements, supervision reports, the Agricultural Finance Corporation's
PCR dated 1988, correspondence between the Bank and Borrower and
internal Bank memoranda.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department
(OED). The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower for comments and they are
attached to the Report. (Annex It).



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION RZPORT
KENYA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(CR. 1143/LN. l995-KE)
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA (US$ million)
Actual or   Actual as 2 of
Appraisal     Cnrrent      Appraisal
Item                              Exi,ectation   Estimate    Estimate
Total Project Cost                     50.0               42.9        85.8
Loan Amount                            25.0               25.0       100.0
Credit Amount                          10.0               10.0       100.0
GOK                                    15.0                7.9        52.7
Date Physical Components Completed    10/84               8/87
Proportion Completed by that Date (X)                                 80
Economic Rate of Return                NA                 NA          NA
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS (US$ million)
FY82 PY83 FY84 FY85 FY86 FY87 FY88 FY89
Appraisal Estimate                  1.2  8.0   20.0  33.0  35.0    -    -       -
Actual                              0    0.5    2.3  22.0  29.5  30.2  33.3  35.0
Actual as 2 of Appraisal (2)        0    6.25  11.5  67.0  84.3
Date of Final Disbursement:  Jan. 5, 1989
PROJECT DATES
Original
Plan                Actual
First Mention in Files                  -                1977
Identification                          -                2/1978
Preparation                             -                1977/78
Appraisal                             3/1979             3/1980
Negotiations                                               -4/1981
Board Approval                        1/1980             5/1981
Signing (Credit Agreement Date)       3/1981             12/1981
Effectiveness                         8/1981             8/1982
Completion                            3/1985             6/1988
Closing Date                          12/1985            1/1989



- iv -
STAFt INPUT
(staff Ui ks3
USQ f1 =  U  LYS S lo   fe31 ML
IdeIntificatfon/       11
Preperatfan
Appraisal                    19    6
Negotiatios                        5
Supervision                               14    14    18      16    16     10    119
TOTAL                11    19    11    14    14    18      16    16      10    119
HISSION UAT
DOte      No. of   Specialfation       PerforrmncO              Types of
(M.*/yr.)   P2rions    9Rorn ented of    Rstfna    "   Tend_t  ProbleZ
Identification/Preparation         6/78; 1/80       3        AC, FA               N.A.          -
Appraisal                           3/80; 9/80      6        AC,fA,A,E,IS,LO      N.A.
Supervision I                         2/83          2        fA                   3             2        FPN
Supervision    11                     7/83          2        FA                   3             2
Supervision   III                    10/83          1        FA                   3              1       FPN
Supervision    IV                    10/84          5        FA,E,AC,ES           3              1       FPN
Supervision     V                     3/85          4        FA,E.AC,             3             1       N
Supervision    VI                     6/85          1        CSS                  N.A.
Supervision   VIl                     10/85         2        FPAAC                3              -      N
Supervision  Vill                      6/86         3        FA,AC.NS             3
Supervision    IX                    11/86          3        FA,AC,MS             2
Supervision     X                     6/87          2        FA,NS                2
Supervision    Xi                    10/87          2        MS,CSS               N.A.                   TN
Supervision   XII                    11/87          2        FA,NS                2                      TN
Supervision  XIII                     5/88          4        FA,NS,CSS            2
g/ E=Economist; ESa Extension Specialist; FA=Financial Anaylst; ISulnstItutional Specialist; AC Agricultural Credit
Specialist; CSSuComputer System Specialist; SlManagement Specialist.
1: Problemrfree or minor problems
2: Moderate problems
3: Major Problems.
o   1: Improving
2: Stationary
3: Deteriorating
o/  F: Financial                                    T: Technical         O:other
N: Managerial                                  P: Political
NA: Information not available.  In 1985, the IDA Supervision report susmary format chanved
so that no comparative evaluation of performance rating and types of problem Is available.
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrower:                         Republic of Kenya (GOK)
Executing Agencies:               Agricultural Finance Corporation
Fiscal Year                           July 1 - June 30
Name of Currency:                     Kenya Shilling (KSh)
Exchange Rate at Appraisal:           USSi * KSh 10.3
at Completion:          USSi a KSh 18.6
Fo1lot -On Proiects
Name                               Rural Services Design
Credit Number                      1974-KE
Amount (USS million)               20.8
Approval Date                      12/22/88



- v -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
_CR. 1143/LN. 1995-KE)
EVALUATION SUMKARY
1.          Proiect ObJectives.  The Project was appraised within the
context of the Fourth Five-Year Development Plan, 1979-83, which had as
a central focus the intensification of agricultural production. The
agricultural strategy involved, inter alia, the expansion of credit to
larger numbers of smallholders, a category of farmers felt to remain
grossly underserved. One vehicle for credit expansion was the
Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC). An expanded loan portfolio would
be targeted to farmers who had land title deeds, and who could apply
improved technology, but who had no access to other forms of
institutional credit.
2.          The Project9 following on previous credit projects in Kenya
involving the AFC, put primary emphasis on institution-building to
redress AFC's many well-recognized weaknesses. Subsidiary emphasis was
put on credit expansion to reach this target group.   Specifically, the
Project had three main components: (i) strengthening AFC's corporate
strategic planning capability (US $ 2.5 million); (ii) improving AFC's
staff training and development, both in field-level credit management
and headquarters staff management and evaluation (US $ 2.1 million); and
(iii) providing a credit line for AFC on-lending, both to motivate the
institutional reforms and to reach the target group identified above (US
$ 45.4 million).
3.          Implemertation Experience.  Effectiveness was delayed until
mid-August, 1982. (.auses included difficulties in the legal
interpretation of how to affect the linkage between the institution
building output (the Annual Plan) and disbursement of the credit line.
A combination of weak top management, an inadequate position with
respect to baseline data, and a less than fully effective technical
assistance component in the area of strategic corporate strategy
formulation characterized the Project until well after the initial
closing date.
4.          Mid-course Corrections.  Improved political commitment,
partly as a result of crisis in the agricultural sector (drought, 1984,
with near-total crop failure in the coffee and commercial cereal-growing
areas) produced tardy but useful movement. Management improvements in
AFC and an increase in GOK openness to a larger policy dialogue on crop
credit management assisted implementation of the key Project components
from mid-1985. In addition, a pilot effort in late 1984 produced field-
level credit management improvements, utilizing an approach similar to
that of the T & V-style, Bank-supported National Extension Project (CR
1287-KE) which was achieving promising results. The Bank's strategy



- vi -
thereafter was to continue to support institutional strengthening and to
limit credit disbursement to the pilot area.
5.          In 1986 the Bank imposed additional, more stringent
conditions on future AFC lending under the credit line. These involved
substantive efforts at rationalization of the AFC portfolio as well as
the organization's financial structure and functioning. Two of the most
important were the need to move toward increases in the interest rate of
AFC loans toward the commercial market rate, and a decision on the
treatment of "bad debts" in the portfolio. Gradually these have been
addressed (including a major write-off of bad debt in 1989) under more
competent management enjoying political support.
6.          Prolect Results.  The Project achX.eved some of its
objectives, particularly in the areas of strengthening field-level
credit management and evantually in initiating a major portfolio review
and a corporate planning function. In addition, a policy dialogue with
the G0K was initiated and reforms instituted on the administration of
seasonal crop credit and fertilizer importation. The number of direct
beneficiaries of the credit component of the Project has been estimated
at 25,800 by the Government of Kerya, as against an initial 22,000 at
appraisal.     However, there is no evidence (due to lack of data and of
any in-built evaluation criteria) that the Project resulted in increases
in crop and livestock production or in smallholder incomes, the ultimate
objectives for supplying credit.
7.          AFC'b overall financial viability in fact deteriorated over
the life of the Project, as evidenced by increasing arrears percentages
and the increasing ratio of administrative costs to loan portfolio. Thus
the management improvements achieved did not in the short run have the
intended impact on AFC's financial position, even though isolated
branch-sp cific collection rate improvements were noted in the pilot
area. Ir zed, even in the pilot area, where improvements were beginning
to emerge, costs also increased substantially. This was due principally
to the increased staffing deemed necessary and agreed at Project
appraisal. Such costs may be insupportable without major revision of
AFC's role and financial restructuring.
8.          Sustainability.  Sustainability of the Project's
accomplishments will depend on the outcome of the restructuring, and
especially on cost control and increased loan recovery rates. While the
evidence on actual trends is equivocal, there are signs of movement in
the right direction both from the point of view of analysis being done
internally on these issues and in terms of the trends in specific
branches. The problem of recovery of seasonal crop credit is perhaps
the most important relating to credit sector issues per se.   The
corporate planning function, however, appears now to be solidly
grounded, albeit several years later than the projections at appraisal.
This indicates that the gestation period for institution-building
projects, and especially for the emergence of positive ultimate
financial indicators, is much lengthier than the 18 months of this
Project's design. Further support to AFC is being provided by the Rural
Services Design Project. The Project comprises several components in the
agriculture sector and three follow-on credit components involving AFC.



- vii -
9.          Lessons Learned.  Several lassons can be drawn from the
implementation record of this Project. The most important of these are:
a)    Greater attention needed to be paid to establislument of
baseline data and assessment of its adequacy for the
Project's Initial agenda.
b)     Procedures for monitoring the quality of the technical
assistance and for dealing with unsatisfactory consultant
performance needed to be clearer.
c)    The use of a field-based pilot method of improving credit
managemet.t proved invaluable. Institution-building
involving field staff should not rely solely on development
of training modules in central agency training departments,
but ought to make use of field testing and pilot efforts to
ensure the viability of the improvements.
d)    Institution-building projects in Kenya take lengthy periods
of time. Realistic targets for immediate, medium-term and
longer-term achievements need to be set.
e)    In an adverse environment in terms of credit discipline
marginal improvements in institutional management are
unlikqly to produce significant positive effects on overall
institutional financial performance. Political interference
in loan allocation or in the ability to enforce sanctions
against defaulters has been a major problem for AFC.
f)    AFC serves only a very small percentage of eligible small
producers, and probably cannot expand its coverage greatly
in the near or medium term. Other institutional mechanisms
for providing credit to the large majority of all producers
in Kenya need to be explored.
10. The debate on the future of AFC is still ongoing. The Bank's
sector report, Rural Finance Review (Report No. 8138-KE, March 1990)
recommended that the rehabilitated AFC should be sold to the private
sector because of fundamental problems associated with its current
ownership. Privatization of ABC would be in line with the IDA-financed
Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr.2049-KE) which supports
Liberalization of interest rates and financial operations on commercial
principles.  Rural finance, however, may have its specific requirerents
and need to be looked into separately. Government does not accept
privatization of AFC, which it considers a "strategic'- parastatal. The
Bank is reviewing its policy on agricultural credit, on which future
assistance would be based.



- 1 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(CR. 1143/LN. 1995-KE)
BACKGROUND
1.       Sector Development Strategy.  The project was appraised within
the concext of the Fourth Five-Year Development Plan, 1979-83 which
recognized the strong link between agricultural growth and poverty
alleviation, and aimed at intensifying production and productivity. To
achieve this the plan proposed: legalizing sub-divieion of those high
potential large farms where settlers had already sub-divided de facto
and were farming as smallholders; establishment of a National Commission
on Lands, to produce a land-use strategy; improvements in marketing and
pricing policies; closer links between research/extension activities and
the needs of small farmers; and increasing investment in the semi-arid
areas. Many of these proposals involved the provision of credit to
farmers.
2.       Macro-aolicy Context.   The emphasis of the Fourth P'an was on
restoring growth to the levels that prevailed before 1974 while
alleviating poverty through the creation of income-earning opportunities
in the rural areas, and on the provision of social services to meet the
basic needs of the population. Evidence of high and increasing rural-
urban migration rates resulted in an especially strong emphasis on rural
investmenta which would stabilize the rural population on the land and
at the same time permit increasing productivity and incomes. Drought
and mismanagement of the food supply and marketing situation in mid-1980
led to a major concern with food security, resulting in the National
Food Policy statement (Sessional Paper No. 4 of 1981). The paper
stressed the need to increase input use and the central importance of
the timely availability of fertilizer, setting targets for major
increases in input usage. It also identified credit to smallholders as a
critical shortcoming in the rural financial sector, constraining the
effectiveness of the research and extansion efforts then in place.
3.       In addition to the agricultura sector objecives outlined
above, the Plan included proposals for a major shift in industrial
policy, from import substitution toward an emphasis on increased
industrial efficiency and export expansion and diversification.
Finally, the warning bells began to be sounded in earnest at this time
about the runaway population growth rate; family planning approaches and
targets were incorporated into planning documents.
4.       Bank SuRPortive Credit Activities.  The Bank has supported
three projects in Kenya with credit as the central focus, and five
additional projects in the agriculture sector for which credit disbursed



- 2 -
through AFC has been an important component. Lessons learned in the
three previous credit projects in a cumulative fashion were applied in
the design of this project.
5.       Credit Sector Proiects.  The three credit projects all involved
AFC and were meant to increase its coverage and effectiveness. Credit I
(Cr 105-KE; 1967-1971) was targeted to expand smallholdet acce_s to
credit in the immediate post-independence period of rapid agricultural
investment and production increases.   The project had only a marginal
impact on smal;older production or investment; APC organizational
problems, laci of amallholder security in all but the Central Province
coffee districts, and an inability to effectively reach this target
group resulted. Credit II (Cr 344-KE; 1972-1976) therefore was designed
to provide technical assistance to AFC as part of an effort to reach
these groups. The agricultural sector objective was to supply
development-oriented (i.e. medium-term) loans for productivity-enhancing
investment. The project also supplied assistance to AFC for its own
organizational improvement. A lack of clarity over the compatibility of
the AFC's institutional objectives with the develonment objectives of
hitherto inaccessible producers was noted.
6.       Credit TII (Cr 693-KE/Ln 1390-KE; 1977-81) consequently was
designed as a time-slice Droject to support AFC's lending to multiple
target groups which wer(    then incorporated in previous Bank and other
donor credit lines, inclL..ing suppliers of agricultural inputs. During
the implementation of this project field level credit management was
perceived as a particularly critical constraint on AFC's operation. The
pernicious effects of externbl funding (either budgetary or donor-
supplied) were perceived as having overwhelmed A"C's ability to manage
and plan its portfolio and its own development agenda. Credit IV thus
incorporated as cent.ral components the institution-building areas of
strategic planning, portfolio rationalization and credit management
training for both central and field staffs.
7.       Agriculture Sector Projects.  The Bank financed five
agriculture sector projects which included credit components channeled
through AFC. Despite its recognized shortcomings, A7C has had a
critical role to play in the Bank's evolving agriculture sector
strategy. The Second Livestock Development Project (Cr 477-KE) aimed to
integrate range livestock production into the commercial network, and
thus improve offtake rates, incomes, incentives to upgrade both beef anu
dairy cattle, and herd management practices. Little of the integrated
livestock system expected was ultimately accomplished but the character
of A"C's portfolio was significantly affected. A large portion of loans
during the 1970's were granted for livestock acquisition; both Livestock
II and other directed credit projects (para. 13) were responsible for a
good portion of this.
8.       The Group Farms Rehabilitation Project (Cr 537-KE/Ln 1093-KE;
1975-1981) and the Narok Mixed Farming Project (Cr 858-E; 1978-83)
provided credit within MOA-managed projects aimed at rehabilitative and
developmental efforts, respectively, in high potential areas. These
projects faced problems of a legal/tenurial sort, including provision of



- 3 -
effective collateral, and involved levele of risk not clearly consonant
with AFC's own internal need to develop clear or conservative lending
criteria.
9.       The Integrated Agricultural Development Projects (IADP I and
II; Cr. 650-KE/Ln 1303-RE, and Cr. 959-KE) followed on the Fourth Plan's
identificatioa of the need to wage a major campaign to increase
smallholder production and productivity. IADP-I attempted to reach
subsistence-oriented producers in high potential areas where high value
cash crop packages already existed and could be readily transferred, and
where input and output marketing requirements were in place. IADP-II
extended this approach to smallholder areas of the Rift Valley where
potential was high but infrastructure more of a constraint. Gains were
made in smallholder incorporation through these projects, but at a
generally higher cost than projected. Deficiencies in input and output
market functioning were identified dur_ag implementation, and the need
to provide credit more widely to the marketing channels on both ends,
and not just to producers, was recognized.
10.      However, in each of these projects involving a credit
component, the sector objectives guided project design.  Loan repayment
rates and the maintenance, enforcement or improvement of credit
discipline were not project objectives, and were in fact assumed.
Shortfalls in project achievements, for whatever reason, contributed to
high levels of loan default and mounting arrears.  While the direct
credit projects were designed with an increasingly sharp focus on AEC
institutional requirements and support, the agricultural sector strategy
required the use of AFC as a credit channel (other channels to
subsistence -mallholders being thought non-existent or non-viable) in
efforts which contributed to the creation of a serious state of credit
indiscipline and deteriorating financial performance at the time of
appraisal of Cre&it IV.
11.      Agricultural Situation at A2praisal (1980181). At the time of
appraisal Kenyan agriculture was in a mini-crisis with respect to
perception of the likelihood of maintenance of food self-sufficiency. A
partial drought and inadequacies in the management of the cereals
reserve resulted in substantial grain imports. There were widespread
fears in the donor community that this crisis marked the end of food
self-sufficiency and that efforts to rehabilitate the agriculture sector
were of major importance. In addition to the grain crisis, the short-
term erosion in the producer price of coffee (20Z over the 1979-81
period) coupled with the 1979 oil price adjustment precipitated a major
shortfall in revenue to the Exchequer. This resulted inter alia in a
33% decline in new agricultural credit issued in 1981/82 as compared
with 1980/81.
12.      Agricultural credit in Renya at the time of appraisal was
provided through four mair -.annels. Commercial banks made loans to
producers with land titles and viable investment plans; these were
medium to large farms, ranging from 50 ha., with mixed crop/dairy
production profiles, to large ranching and plantation crop operations.
The APC provided credit for varying terms and purposes to a mix of large



- 4 -
and small farmers. A relatively small number of borrowers were reached
by AFC. At appraisal the percentage of small producers reached was
estimated at about 32.
13.      Larger numbers of smallholders were reached through the
cooperative societies, whose credit is generally tied to specific crop
inputs. The coops generally service industrial/cash crop producers, and
maintain their financial viability through their ability to recover
loans through their monopoly marketing function. While these reach a
far larger number of small-scale producers than does AFC, they do not
reach the bulk of the subsistence-oriented producers, who are not
members of cooperatives. Further, they are most successful where they
are single-purpose entities. Coops generally do not have experience in
extending credit for the typical cross-section of investment needs
represented in most rural areas, although some in areas with high value
eash crops have developed general-purpose lending facilities and could
be an alternative channel for credit on a much larger scale.
14.      A fourth channel for agricultural credit has been the
parastatal marketing agencies themselves (e.g. Kenya Seed Company, Kenya
Breweries) and the nucleus sugar estates. These provide services and
inputs on a contractual basis to both large and small producers, but
again only for a single investment purpose. Contract farming, like the
commercial channels for rural finance, has favored large farmers.
15.      AFC: Background and Institutional Weaknesses.  At appraisal,
AFC was seen as the only viable institutional vehicle for providing
generalized agricultural credit. Other institutional mechanisms either
involved relatively short term credit for inputs, recouped through
monopoly marketing of the output, and thus were not ideal for
development finance or involved land titles as security (the commercial
network). At appraisal, only 6.4Z of the land available for
smallholder registration had actually been registered, albeit with
glaring regional differences:
Region                         Registered Land as X of
Available
Western                                         88.4
Nyanza                                          51.0
Rift Valle                                       4.2
Central                                        100.0
Eastern                                          2.2
Coast                                            3.3
Northeastern                                     0.0
16.      Land registration was thus complete in the central, high
potenti:. areas, nearing completion in the dense western areas of high
(but underdeveloped) potential, and around 502 in the dense area
adjacent to Lake Victoria. Elsewhere it was negligible and/or just
underway, with the exception of Kericho and Nandi Districts in the Rift
Valley (for which about two-thirds of the registration had been



- 5 -
completed) and Kisii, in Nyanza, where 952 of the registration was
complete. Commercial credit was thus unlikely to be within the reach of
smallholders outside Central Province; only in Western Province was
collateral widely available (and in Kisii, Kericho, and Nandi). In
actual practice the commercial network had no experience in lending to
the smallholder sector and thus no procedures or staff with the
requisite experience. Further, a significant proportion of smallholders
with land titles, even those of coamercial orientation, remain
relatively risk averse and prefer to "underproduce" rather than to take
loans and risk losing their land.
17.      Despite its faults, AFC did have an institutionalized branch
network, a staff, a diversified portfolio, and experience with making
loans to producers with different land holding sizes and production
profiles. The previous utilization of the AEC to finance a wide range of
agriculture sector initiatives had contributed both to this
infrastructural development and to the weaknesses of the organization.
Among the latter the most egregious were felt to be:
-   lack of a corporate development strategy, manifesting
itself in (but not limited to) a complete lack of coherence
in its loan portfolio with respect to target groups,
purpose, and follow-up;
-   lack of loan management skills on the part of field staff,
despite previous USAID-funded assistance in credit
management training and the development of a Credit
Management Review function;
-   political interference in the loan approval and recovery
processes;
-   major problems with loan accounting procedures and a wholly
inadequate data baseline on the loan portfolio, then in
process of being addressed by a computerization effort
which had been left uncompleted and in an uncertain state
with respect to error.
It was recognized at appraisal that a great deal of work needed to be
done to rehabilitate the organization. The time horizon suggested for
the institution-building component of the Project was overlv-optimistic,
but this was in part due to the confusion over the state of AFC's
accounts and the likelihood of the then on-going computerization being
able to provide data critical to the effort. Strong political
commitment to the strengthening of AFC appeared to exist and the
competence of the management, which had been in place through the
learning stages of Credit III, indicated that the Project had good
prospects for success.



- 6 -
PROJECT FORMULATION
18.      Obiectives.  Project objectives were to strengthen APC's
management and operations, and thereby presumably its financial
viability, while inducing the agency to shift its portfolio in the
direction of small farmers and expanding the numbers served. Lesson$
learned from previous experiences were taken into account in the design,
which had less focus on specific agricultural production targets and
concentrated on credit mechanisms per se. The Project thus had
institution-building as its primary objective. It envisioned a real
restructuring of the AFC, including financial portfolio, institutional
financial structure, internal organization, loan procedures and credit
management, personnel and staff development policies, and data capture,
processing and use.
19.      It also aimed to increase lending to the smallholder sector
significantly. The commercial system was felt to be capable of handling
credit to credit-worthy large producers, most or all of whom have title
deeds. AFC's worst problems with repayment were thought to be from
politically-influential large farmers. The shift in portfolio would
result in an increase in repayment rates, and the expansion to this
wider clientele would serve to "break ground" into which the commercial
system would move as experience was gained and risks made clearer.
20.      Around the time the original closing date was extended,
additional and revised objectives were incorporated. These included
further Bank input on restructuring efforts underway in ABC, and pursuit
of policy changes in the administration of seasonal crop credit. The
aim was to bring the latter under AFC's control and to attempt to
enforce the type of credit discipline involved in development loans.
Further dialogue with the GOK on the need to bring AFC's lending rates
up to par with commercial short-term credit rates was pursued. Policy
formulation with respect to fertilizer import and distribution was also
pursued.
21.      Proiect Components.  Thece consisted of:
A.   Strengthening AFC's organization and planning capability
(US$ 2.5 mil) through:
-   establishing a Corporate Planning Department (US$ 0.8 mil)
- reorganizing the Finance Division (US$ 0.3 mil)
- increasing number of loan officers ( US$ 0.2 mil)
- deploying an accounts officer to each branch (US$ 0.2 mil)
- improving branch services and facilities (US$ 1.0 mil)
B. Improving AFC's staff training and development (US$ 2.0
mil) by introducing programs for:
- credit training (US$ 0.7 mil)
- staff performance evaluaticn/improvement (US$ 0.2 mil)
- career development (US$ O.i mil)
-  continuing training (US$ ,.0 mil)



- 7 -
C. Providing credit (US$44.0 mil) to assist In financing AFC's
on-going lending program, with the exception of one or two
specialized lines of directed credit provided from other
sources.
22.      Seguencina.  The Project design involved substantial completion
of some of the institution-building components prior to initiation of
the disbursement of the credit line. The major indicator for assessing
the progress on institutional improvements was to be the Annual Plan, a
new activity to be undertaken by the Project-initiated Corporate
Planning Department and formulated in conjunction with a five year
corporate strategy for development. Technical assistance to the AFC
General Manager in the form of an internationally-recruited Head of
Corporate Planning was the key item in support of this activity. It was
to be backed up by additional assistance in financial management and
accountancy. The reforms were thus to be generated internally, while
overall quality control would be ensured by Bank supervision, approval,
and suggested revisions of the corporate planning documents produced.
23.      ExRected Outputs.  Major advances in the ability of the
institution to plan a coherent lending program were intended. The
expected outputs included: a viable five-year corporate plan; reasonable
annual plans presenting both the constitution of the loan portfolio and
the implications for budgetary requirements; and up-to-date financial
analysis of the existing loan portfolio. In addition, the completion of
the computerized loan accounting system (then being referred to as the
management information system) was expected to be an early output,
having been left incomplete and under-documented by a previous effort. A
continuation and expansion of the training programme for loan officers
was a major intended output. This was considered essential to the
improvement in quality of the loan portfolio. Finally, a retionalized
personnel structure and job performance evaluation system were expected
outputs.
24.      Design Inputs.  To accomplish the above, technical assistance
financed under the Project was to include:
Staff Months
Corporate Planning Head              36
Planning Analyst                     36
Branch Location Study Consultant      6
Job Analysis Specialist              12
Performance Review Specialist        12
Staff Development Specialist          3
Credit Training Specialists          36
Systems Analyst/Programmer           12
25.      As the number of technical assistance personnel in the project
as designed was large, and on the proposal of the then General Manager
of the AFC, it was decided to recruit these as a team. Both individuals
and consulting firms were contacted as to interest; ultimately a



consulting firm was chosen to supply the technical assistance personnel
en bloc, although not all of the personnel or,ginally proposed were
recruited. Other inputs included local support staff, and plant and
equipment supplied to upgrade AFC facilities both in headquarters and in
the field.
Issues
26.      Issues remaining inadequately addressed at the time of project
appraisal and agreement contributed in some degree to the areas in which
objectives were not achieved. The most important of these were the
following.
27.      Incomplete assessment of adeguacy of baseline data.  The state
of completion of the MIS Was not clearly understood at appraisal, or
indeed until well after effectiveness. While AFC's data had never been
satisfactory, the incomplete effort to computerize the loan accounts
system had been pursued without maintenance of the old system as a
backup. This produced an extremely chaotic situation at effectiveness
with respect to the data that were meant to support the initial Annual
Planning exercise. Data were lost in the conversion, staff were
inadequately trained as to how to operate the new system, and the
baseline data for initiating the corporate planning function were thus
not available. The length of time and amount of resources needed to
build a viable management information system was seriously
underestimated, resulting in serious delay in the central institution-
building activities.
28.      Narrow aRProach to institutional efficacy.  AEC's weaknesses as
outlined above had been recognized for a long period and in realistic
detail. It was known that numerous projects in the agriculture sector
that used AFC as a conduit for funds had serious problems of design, or
unrealistic assumptions about profitability, producer capacity or
willingness to assume risk, or about the strength of the agricultural
services supporting the initiatives. Further, the degree to which
producers had come to accept credit as a grant rather than a repayable
loan was at least suspected. The political interference experienced by
AFC periodically, in terms of the allocation of subsidized credit to
powerful individuals, was understood, although the degree to which this
was to affect the Project could not be predicted. Difficulties of GOK
in meeting its own financial obligations in support of donor-funded
activities were also increasingly apparent.
29.      In light of all these constraints, it seems that greater
attention needed to be paid to whether the Project's objectives could
really be served by the methods of the design (i.e., institution-
building through improvements internal to AFC). Would better management
by itself improve repayment rates? Or reach a different target group?
Whether institution-building could induce the concomitant policy changes
advocated by the Bank (movement to market rates for credit; alterations
in the portfolio of loans to reach smaller farmers; institution of
serious sanctions for non-repayment of loanss etc.) was not clearly
assessed.



30.      Insufficient concern with credit discipline. The project design
assumed that greatly improved collection rates for AFC loans would
follow on improvements in training of loans officers, and from the
firmer decision by a re-invigorated management staff to apply sanctions
where necessary. It is somewhat questionable whether sanctions,
amounting almost wholly to foreclosure, could be attempted against large
numbers of producers; and if this was a viable sanction (as AFC staff
did and do insist that it is), why it had not been ap.plied, and
succeeded, up to that point. Clearer field assessment of the credit
discipline environment might have resulted in a different set of
emphases within the Project, dealing with loan collections and the
creation of the machinery of sanction before launching on the complex
issue of corporate strategic planning capabilityl/.
31.      Imprecision or disagreement on target group specification.
Some confusion is apparent over the target group for the credit line.
The Bank consistently argued for alteration of AEC's lending profile to
reach smaller producers, but at the same time its concern with AFC's
viability as a financial institution suggested the need to maintain and
improve cost efficiency. Reaching large numbers of small producers was
likely to be quite costly, especially if the improvements in loan
approval procedure envisioned were followed. These included more staff
time in the field, both for appraisal and supervision, and quite
possibly considerable staff increases. Further, to establish a better
environment of credit discipline, it was decided that collateral was
essential, and that this meant a land title had to be produced. While
in the already-favored areas of the country this might be possible for
small producers (those with less than 8 ha. of land), it was likely to
discriminate in favor of larger farmers.
32.      The AFC, on the other hand, felt that it already served small
producers in sizable numbers, albeit large producers borrowed a
disproportionately large portion of the funds made available. For the
AFC, and the GOK generally, the target was not a specific producer group
by size of holding, but rather the producer group most central to the
maintenance and improvement of the food security situation (see para.
15, above).
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Chronoloav.
33.      A brief chronology of the Project is given, followed by a
detailed discussion of the critical implementation steps and issues.
13 Aug. 1982: Project effective. One year delay from
projection, due to difficulties in legal
interpretation of the scope for tying credit
I/AFC disagrees vith the idea that the corporate strategy planning capability should have
been deferred. See Annex IX.



- 10 -
disbursement to institutional performance, and
to delayed recruitment of consultants.
Dec. 1984: One year prior to the initial closing date.
Project not expected to be completed due to
unrealistic assessment of severity of
institutional weakness, and unclear GOK
commitment to major alteration in AFC envisioned
in Bank's strategy. Little farmer credit
disbursed and some discussion of canceling the
loan. Ultimately, project extended to Dec. 31,
1986.
Feb. 1985: Reorientation and rescheduling, based on
conjunction of encouraging field-generated
management improvements in a pilot effort in the
North Rift, and crisis deriving from drought
recovery requirements. Decision to disburse
credit for drought rehabilitation in the pilot
area to test viability of apparent improvements.
July 1986: Further conditions attached to credit
disbursement, relating to GOK/AFC addressing of
larger issues involving AFC's role and rural
credit policy more generally (interest rates,
terms for lending for seasonal credit, rural
finance development needs).
Jan. 1987: Second extension of closing, to 31 Dec. 1987 to
permit continued drawdown of loan in the context
of testing new field procedures.
30 June 1988: Project closed.
34.      Two points should be noted about the chronology of this
project: (i) it was significantly delayed, both in its initial stages,
procedurally and substantively, and in its closing; and (ii) that it
therefore involved a significant degree of re-programming by Bank staff
to mount corrective actions and to pursue target-of-opportunity benefits
originally not intended in the design.
Implementation Record
35.      The Project was delayed by a year in starting.  Causes included
difficulties in the lagal interpretation of how to effect the linkage
between the institution-building output (the Annual Plan) and the
substantial credit disbursements scheduled to begin approximately 18
months after effectiveness. This linkage and the consequent sequencing
of activities, and the rationale for these, were never very clear to the
AFC or other relevant senior Kenyan officials. Further, there were
delays in the recruitment of the technical assistance personnel. It was
important that these be of high calibre and acceptable to the AFC
management, in order for the institution-building component to surmount
the difficulties which had plagued Credit III (lack of effective



- 11 -
integration of the technical assistance into AFC's operations). Given
this delay, the accomplishment of the institutional strengthening
components within the original time frame was in serious jeopardy.
36.      Manatement Information System.  Major difficulties were
encountered in producing a functioning loan accounting and data
retrieval system. It was clear before the Project became effective that
the system was incomplete and not satisfactorily understood by AFC
staff. It was not clear how serious the problems were, how difficult it
would be for a new contractor to attempt to salvage the system, nor how
seriously the lack of progress on this issue constrained any progress on
the central objective, the building of a corporate strategic planning
capability. Because of the uncertainties, the nature and scope of the
activity, and the resources needed to address it, were fairly open-ended
in the consultant's terms of reference. The consultant firm decided to
deal with this situation by putting a maximum amount of time and
resources into re-conceptualization and re-programming the computerized
system, eventually acquiring additional equipment. This decision
resulted in further delay in some of the institution-building
components, and serious cost over-runs.
37.      A Users' Committee was formed to attempt to integrate the
computerization into the actual needs perceived by AFC management. This
functioned in a desultory fashion, but did not deal with the broader
issues of corporate planning envisioned in the design -- i.e.,the
production of outputs that could guide portfolio evaluation, cost
control, regional loan recovery rates, or the like. Rather, it dealt
with improvements in the standard reports produced previously through
the manual systems, intended to provide adequate financial reporting for
accounting purposes but not for planning. The latter was, of course, a
new and unknown activity to the "users", who could not realistically
have been expected to provide the types of demands on the management
information system that the corporate planning function in the Project
design envisioned.
38.      A great deal of time was lost through the complete revision of
the computerized system, and through the reliance on the Users'
Committee for determination of the reports it should produce. The
consulting team felt this strategy was their best method for integration
into the organization. It was a costly strategy. The additional staff
time and equipment devoted to the information systems activity amounted
to almost seven times that projected at appraisal. It eventually
produced a satisfactory loan accounting system (LAS) which presently
generates data of the sort originally envisioned as necessary for
corporate planning; this only began to appear in 1987, more than four
years after originally expected. Nonetheless, it has been useful in
assisting AFC to assess its portfolio analytically for the first time;
but the latter has resulted in part from the continued Bank supervision
inputs which have directed AFC's management toward the analytical use of
the system.



- 12 -
39.      Corporate Strategic Planning2/.  The delay in production of
baseline data engendered by the management information systems activity
seriously hindered the pursuit of the corporate planning activity. In
addition, the technical assistance provided for this activity was judged
by supervision missions to be weak. Unsuccessful attempts to have the
individual involved removed or replaced were undertaken but eventually
abandoned. From about mid-1985 Bank supervisory mission personnel,
including consultants with financial and information systems
specialties, attempted with some success to bridge this gap.
40.      In fairness, it must be noted that the senior management of AFC
in the initial three years was unversed in financial planning and
management, and not having been associated with the AFC during the
period of Credit III and the lessons it provided. Conversely, after the
1984 drought and 1985 recovery campaign, with its crisis atmosphere,
both GOK commitment and AFC management with more appropriate skills
facilitated the input of Bank strategic planning recommendations.
Headway in this activity was therefore most evident in the post-1985
period and in the Agriculture Sector Adjustment Operations of succeeding
years, which promoted further reforms in AFC.
41.      Credit Management Training.  Previous experience by other
donors in this area provided a foundation to build on. USAID had
supported credit management training as well as the development of a
Credit Management Review division. However, USAID felt at the point of
initiation of this Project that there was insufficient commitment on the
part of GOK/AFC to warrant continued support. At the outset, a few
training courses were organized and implemented. The main initial
problem, one underscoring the institution's central weakness, was the
lack of continuity or focus to these efforts.
42.      In mid-1984, however, a pilot project in the North Rift area of
APC's operations, involving several branches under a receptive area
manager, was launched to test some innovative methods (para. 45). This
incorporated some of the elements of a "T & V"-style operation.   It
addressed credit management weaknesses through much greater
specificatiouL of loan officer tasks, schedules, routinized meetings,
etc. The iterative field testing of these methods for improving loan
officer performance was then transferred to the credit management
training activity. Additional innovations were identified for field
testing in the last two years of the Project.
43.      North Rift pilot proiect.  The pilot project occurred at the
point of the drought recovery effort, combining a field-oriented method
for developing better loans procedures with the substantial amounts of
resources available from the loan (nearly untouched to that point) and
agreed by the Bank to be directed toward drought rehabilitation efforts
(loans for inputs for the 1985 food crop). This was limited to the five
branches under this regional office, two of which (Eldoret and Kitale)
are the centers for the major commercial grain production in Kenya. It
2/In Annex IX, AFC discusses the planning experience, its Importance to AFC, and the lack
of appreciation in the PCR for the operational constraints on the unit and the
consultants involved.



- 13 -
are the centers for the major commercial Brain production in Kenya. It
was hoped that the felicitous combination of improved loans procedures
and a clear and significant demand for credit on the part of
cormercially-oriented producers would allow AFC to test the gains made
and begin to turn around its deteriorating financial performance.
44.      Unfortunately, delays in agreement between the Bank and APC
over the issue of loan approval criteria for this seasonal crop credit
(e.g., whether land titles and proof of payment of outstanding arrears
would be required), and in formulation by the GOK of a satisfactory plan
for fertilizer importation, resulted in delay in the credit
disbursement. Fertilizer imports only began in April, 1985. This was
well after the point at which imported fertilizer could be distributed
for the long-rains cereals crops. Since fertilizer was the main
intended input the credit was expected to finance, (and since the North
Rift area is at a latitude that has only one crop a year rather than the
two food crops of the more southern, smallholder areas) it was not clear
that the provision of this finance could facilitate the test and
reinforce the lessons that were intended.  The date at which the credit
was disbursed did allow fertilizer imported with Bank funds to be made
available to rehabilitate the coffee crop in the Mt. Kenya area (as top
dressing), which had suffered severely and was equally critical to the
national economy.   However, in this region none  of the improvements
tested in the pilot area had been introduced to loan officers, so it is
not clear that this portion of the credit disbursed would be tied to the
expected improvements in quality of loans approved.
45.      Indeed, the atmosphere in the relevant branch offices of the
North Rift AFC area is described in supervision mission reports as
evincing "near siege conditions", under pressure of the applicants for
seasonal credit, with the result that loan approvals in this area were
also unlikely to have improved in quality. The loan officers did not
have the time to follow the recommended new procedures (i.e., farm
profiles, loan arrearage records, frequent follow-up visits, etc.) nor
the backbone to fend off political pressure in a situation of mounting
fear over the state of food security. Subsequently, activity in the
pilot area on further testing of innovative field methods came to a
standstill. However, "rehabilitation" of the pilot and its extension to
other areas occurred during the extensions of the Project, and the
method itself was found highly productive by AFC's management. The use
of "pilots" has influenced project formulation in subsequent Bank
efforts to assist AFC (The Rural Services Design Project; see para. 74
below).
46.      Staff performance evaluation/iob analysis.  This activity was
under-taken only superficially. The technical assistance positions for
these purposes were felt by AFC to be redundant. Eventually one
individual was recruited to deal with both functions. A pro forma for
annual performance evaluation was produced. Several suggestions for
restructuring the AFC in terms of the organization of jobs, and the
implicit career paths as well as the explicit task linkages, were made.
Those produced by the technical assistance or Bank personnel tended to
be ignored; a major reorganization took place in late 1984, but did not
have the intended effects. Indeed, the planning function was further



- 14 -
subordinated to the perception by AFC management of the need to have a
central focus on short-term financial control.
47.      Financial rationalization.  Among the tasks involved in the
Project formulation was the need to come to grips with AFC's internal
financial organization and unfavorable cost performance. The even.tual
design of the computerized information system has permitted the agency
to look at its expenditures on the basis of a "coat center" approach.
Income and expenditures are accessible on a branch, area, regional, and
headquarters office basis, which should assist in the development of
corporate planning ability.
48.      Credit Disbursement.  The IDA credit was meant to finance all
of the institution-building components and the initial tranche of on-
lending by AFC for eligible sub-loans. Credit disbursement was to be
linked to production of an acceptable Annual Plan. The first annual plan
was delayed nine months in its gestation (due in large part to the
unavailability of much of the data needed to address the issues in the
guidelines for an acceptable product) and a further six months in
approval, after serious revisions. This meant the effectiveness of
credit disbursement only occurred nearly two and a half-years after the
project agreement was signed and the loan became effective. Consistent
refusal by the Treasury to provide AFC's requested levels of budget to
carry out on-lending activities meant the drawdown of this credit moved
at a glacial pace. Demonstration that the sub-loans made actually were
eligible (a problem of major proportions at the close of Credit III) was
equally problematic, as field procedures for documenting the criteria on
which loans had been approved were inadequate. These were the
improvements that were underway in the field branches of the North Rift
in late 1984, but they were by no means institutionalized even in those
branches at that point.
49.      The 1984 drought supervened and the availability of the loan,
while serving to motivate AFC, also provided the leverage sought by the
Bank to enter more centrally into the policy dialogue in Kenya over a
number of credit-related issues. Most important of these included the
terms and structure of seasonal crop credit generally (placing AFC in
the central role, requiring security, and moving interest rates in the
direction of market determination), the role of AFC in the larger rural
financial market (recommending it move its portfolio to smaller
producers of commercial orientation); and the liberalization of
fertilizer marketing. There is no doubt that the credit disbursed
assisted greatly in the drought recovery efforts. Ultimately, the
Project was extended for successive periods of one year, until a final
closing date of June 30, 1988, in order to maintain the leverage on AFC
for management reforms underway. A great deal of the credit was thus on-
lent as seasonal crop credit rather than for the development purposes
originally envisioned.
Actual Proiect Costs
50.      Actual project costs as against appraised costs are given in
Annex I. Total project cost amounted to US$32.5 million, 652 of
appraisal estimate. However, the loan and credit were fully disbursed



- 15 -
because about US$10.4 million was reallocated to the Drought
Rehabilitation in 1985 for fertilizer.
PROJECT OUTCOMES
51.      Moving from the most narrow and specific of the Project's
outcomes to the broader ores with most relevance to future credit sector
initiatives, the following can be noted.
52.      Beneficiaries of AFC.  Credit for farm development and seasonal
crop inputs was on-lent by AFC to 25,800 borrowers, as opposed to the
22,000 beneficiaries of st:ictly developmental credit projected at
appraisal. The loans did play a part in the drought rehabilitation
effort. Furthier, the loans do appear to have reached small producers in
about equal percentages as larger producers. However, virtually no
change between 1982 and 1986 in the proportions of borrowers with small
landholdings and with large holdings are apparent in the data produced
hy AFC since 1982, so the credit line cannot be said to have produced
mny noticeable shift in the composition of AFC's borrowers. Annex VI
gives data on borrowers by holVing size over the period of the Project.
More recent data (1987/88) on the profile of new borrowero indicetes
that in many areas up to 702 of loans are now reaching producers with 8
ha. or less, which would indicate that tbe shift to smaller borrowers is
occurring.
53.      Both the Bank and the GOK hoped the Project would pave the way
to a major expansion of credit to smallholders of commercial
orientation. The 25,800 reached are only a small fraction of Kenya's
nearly 2 million small farmers, at least one quarter of whom are
presently producing for the market and not primarily for subsistence.
It is clear that the infrastructure AFC now possesses, both physical and
human, albeit quite valuable, is not capable of reaching a significant
portion of the smallholder population. Other vehicles for credit need
to be considered, including the cooperative movement, and most
particularly the savings and credit ("sacco") societies which have
sprouted in all sections of the country since about 1980. Many of these
are urban, but there are rural ones in areas with cash crops. They have
deposit-taking experience and e-e true financial intermediaries, in line
with the Bank's recent policy guidelines on more successful financial
sector operations. Some producer cooperatives also provide banking
functions, although threse are faw and primarily attached to highly
successful coffee coopevatives/unions.
54.      Loan Accounting/Data Processing.  The loan accounting system
(LAS), referred to at appraisal as MIS, was finally operating
satisfactorily at completion, albeit at great cost and with indications
that further modifications would probably be necessary in both hardware
and software. Bank data processing specialists involved in Project
supervision missions have suggested further upgrading, both in terms of
size of storage/processing capa..;ity and to convert from "batch"
processing to "on-line" operation. The latter will be especially
critical if the branches are incorporated through micro-computer
terminals.   The cost of the achievements and suggestions for continued
expenditure are somewhat troublesome, especially in the case of a



- 16 -
Project such as this in which improving cost control in the beneficiary
organization is a main objective. The negative demonstration effect and
the potential lack of sustainability cannot be ignored.
55.      In this regard, it is unclear that the data capture and loan
accounting system produced bore much relationship to the original
conceptualization of what was needed in order to facilitate the
corporate planning function. The specialist involved in this design
component at appraisal emphasized that what was needed was not a
sop;listicatad set of reporting formats and outputs but an intermediate
product that would serve to inform analytic activity. Thus,
"mechanically produced figures, such as those generated by the computer,
tend to 'ie less valuable than those which have bsen prepared or reviewed
by an experienced analyst. The act of transferring data from mechanized
reports to manually prepared documents involves the examination and
consideration of each figure and usually results in a docum^nt which is
more readily assimilated.   The human analytical input is Particularly
lmportant with respect to credit, because decisions deRend on
Qualitative ludment and exRerience. For example, arrears reporting to
management should be accompanied by a short and simple written analysis
of significant trends, possible reasons and recommendations for
improvement." (SAR; Report No. 3362-RE).
56.      Instead, the technical assistance team concentrated on systems
design and programming, albeit with attention paid to the output of the
[Isers' Committee on the reporting formats and improvements required; the
missing ingredient seems to have been the production of these more
intermediate, analysis-oriented rather than accounting-oriented outputs.
The consultants' terms of reference needed perhaps to be much clearer in
this area.
57.      Career development/iob structure/performance evaluation.
Outcomes here are equivocal. There is a greater feeling on the part of
ABC staff in the headquarters that they know their jobs, and the same
can be said of the field staff in the pilot areas. Whether it is true
throughout AFC is not kno- . Whether this will improve retention rates
remains to be seen.
58.      Credit management training.  Useful improvements were made in
both loan appraisal techniques and field staff management, and training
methods introduced to institutionalize these (para. 42). It is not
clear how far these spread through the institution. AFC states that
they have been adopted throughout the agency where warranted, while
supervision missions indicate varying experience depending on the
branches visited in the field. The present ABC General Manager is
highly supportive of these improvements, but their degree of
institutionalization has not been documented. Some of these have been
codified in procedures manuals and orientation material; they are more
likely to be a permanent residue. However, inconsistent GOK signals
over the criteria for loan allocation, especially with respect to the
treatment of loan recovery, may induce a level of cynicism in the field
staff which negates the skills gained.



- 17 -
59.      Planning capabilitv3/.  Planning capability improved over the
life of the Project. Each successive annual plan was better focussed
than its predecessor on the issues of importance to the financial
performance of the agency, i.e., the need to improve loan quality and
recovery rates. However, some of the larger issues remained unaddressed
in annual plans until very recently, and some do not seem to be amenable
to this mechanism.
60.      It appears to have been overly-optimistic to conceive of the
corporate planning function as a viable mechanism to force management to
confront the need to increase interest rates to market level in order to
become self-sustaining; to initiate aggressive foreclosure campaigns (or
the threats thereof); to get control over administrative costs; and to
orient the portfolio in the direction of smaller producers.   At
completion, AFC management was addressing many of these issues, but
generally in the context of higher-level dialogue in the GOK, with the
Bank and other donors, rather than as an output of the Annual or Five-
year planning function. The improvements in planning capacity are
nonetheless important and have laid the groundwork for on-going Bank-
supported efforts. AFC has produced data documenting the nature of its
portfolio, the strunture of its costs, both by function and by "cost
center', and an ambitious plan to become a deposit-taking institution.
61.      However, careful review of its Annual Plan for 1988/89 (which
is labelled a Corporate Budget, rather a narrower view of the strategic
planning function than originally envisirned4/) indicates that the
data generated is not really used to guide strategy formulation. (Or to
the extent t:-.at it is, it is not yet havicg the expected impact with
respect to realistic targets.) The targets set for loan collections for
1988189 by branch, for example, bear little relationship to actual
collections in 1987/88, and seeminily %.one at all to the degree to which
the actual 1987/88 collection met (or overshot or undershot) its target.
Targets still are overly optimistic and *erefore unlikely to be taken
seriously by the field staff once the lik-ly shortfalls begin to emerge.
It is not clear that the prioritization of activities, either agency-
wide or at branch level, draws from this qu ntitative analysis.
62.      Further analytic assistance in the aantext of the Rural
Services Design Project (para. 74) might be critical to ensure the
development of the type of strategic planning originally envisioned --
and still essential to AFC's long-run viability as a self-sustaining
credit institution -- now that many of the building blocks have been put
in place. This would both justify the significnt expenditure on the
data processing activities and make it possible for AFC to serve as a
conduit for further development-ortented lending.
2/See the footnote to para 39 and Annex IX.
4/AFC in Annex TX says that the PCR is confused on this pointt that the Annual Plan is
distinct from the Corporate Budget.



- 18 -
AFC's Financial Position, Portfolio and Role.
63.      Quantitative indexes of the achievements of the Project related
to AFC's financial position, the compo&.tion of its portfolio and the
trends in loan recoveries must be addressed. The material discussei
here is summarized in Annexes VI, VII, and VIII.
64.      Portfolio.  One of the Bank's original objectives was to induce
AFC to re-orient its portfolio toward smaller producers. The
difficulties in baseline data described above (paras. 17 and 27) meant
that documentation of the portfolio at appraisal and even at
effectiveness was not convincing. AFC has argued fairly consistently
that it does service small-scale producers. It claims that lending to
small producers has increased and to large farmers decreased slightly.
The statistics on the portfolio by size of holding in terms of the
numbers served indicate that half the loans went to smallholders (0-8
ha.) both in 1982 and 1986, and thus that there was no change. (There
was a movement with respect to the smallest category of holdings, those
under 2 ha., here labelled "mini" and representing the maioritv of
Kenyan holdings, from 112 of the overall portfolio in 1982 to 17.62 in
1986.)
65.      However, as Annex VI indicates, while the portfolio is
comprised of about 502 small borrowers by number throughout the period,
the value of the loans to this sector are around 252. The value of loans
to the smallest of borrowers, those with under 2 ha., comprised only 102
of the portfolio in 1986. Borrowers with holdings over 20 hectares,
while comprising around one quarter of the rumber, accounted for about
602 of the value of the total lendings. AFC does reach small borrowers,
perhaps to a greater degree than the Bank thought at appraisal.
However, the larger proportion of its funds still went to large
borrowers in 1986, and the degree to which the composition of the
portfolio has chanted as a result of the Project has not been
demonstrated. The last supervision missions refer to field visits that
suggest smaller farmers are increasingly a target. A sample survey of
10 branches indicates that for 1987/88 about 702 of the loans being made
for Credit IV eligible programs are to small producers. An AFC internal
evaluation and strategy paper indicates that this is to be the
increasing target group in future.
66.      Loan Recovery Rates.  Improved loan recovery rates were a major
objective of the Project. Only as AFC redresses its arrearages problem
can it move in the direction of becoming self-sustaining, which in
itself would promote more cost-effective behavior. The evidence on
overall recovery rates has been more than disappointing. APC had
relatively low loan recovery rates in the late 1970s, during the initial
discussions for the Project (partly a result of the use of this vehicle
to try innovative agricultural approaches such as IADP, it must be
admitted, and thus not necessarily wholly to be laid at the feet of
ABC's management). During the course of the Project they deteriorated
steadily. For the most recent two years for which the data are complete
the loan recovery rates by size-type of loan are as follows, according
to a Bank consultant's recent memorandum:



19 -
Year               Large-Scale        Small-scale      Seasonal crop credit
1986/87              352                 302                  42X
1987/88              37X                 322                  352
Small scale loans are those under KSh. 50,000; large scale, those over.
67.      A major problem in assessing AFC's collection performance is
the lack of historical data, as noted in the SAR. Loan recovery rates
at appraisal could not be established, and arrearages -- both overall
and by type of loan -- are also problematic because of the large numbers
of bad debts and the fact that AFC continues to accrue interest and even
penalty interest on these on its books. Given this limitation, it was
noted in successive supervision missions that arrearages steadily
increased throughout the period of the Project.
68.      A somewhat different picture of the trends and their regional
implications is gained from an analysis which was done in the context of
the studies requested by the Bank during the extensions of the Project.
Recovery rates were examined by individual branch for the period 1985-
1987 and a three year average of collections to collectibles for that
period only was calculated.  The results are summarized in Annex VII,
which shows that collection rates for this period as a whole were rood
(852 or better) for 8 branches, 6 in the eastern region and 2 in the
western region; Rlausible (652 - 842) in 5 more branches, 4 in the
eastern region and 1 in the western region; and mediocre (402-642) or
worse (less than 402) in 29 branches, 10 of them in the eastern region
and 19 of them in the west. 352 of the portfolio by value and 342 of
the borrowers were in the average to good category. Since this is a
three year average it does not address the aggregate trend, although it
does paint essentially the same pessimistic overall picture of
performance. However, it also highlights a regional dimension which may
not have been apparent in previous summary statistics.
69.      A third assessment of loan recoveries comes from another of the
Bank-led studies of the last two years of the Project. A ten year
cumulation of the size and percentage of arrearages according to several
relevant categorizations was done.  It is notable that larxe-farm
borrowers (i.e, with holding sizes above 400 hectares) are responsible
for the largest part of the arrears, both of seasonal crop credit and of
more development-oriented AFC scheme loans. Further, they have borrowed
about three times as much of this as seasonal crop credit than as
development loans. However, the data must be interpreted with caution
as there are some discrepancies in the figures).
70.      These data point the way to some policy decisions, particularly
with respect to the need to limit the proportion of loans disbursed to
large farmers, a position the Bank has been supporting frov. the outset,
and which AFC management has now avowed. The data also suggest the need
for a serious study of credit discipline in Kenya, with respect to both
AFC's current portfolio and the experience of other agencies channeling
credit to the agricultural sector. The use of sanctions, both negative



- 20 -
and positive, and their importance for differing clienteles needs to be
clearer before further major institutional design assistance is offered,
and especially before further credit efforts are undertaken. Such
studies should include attitude surveys toward rural credit, repayment
obligations, popular justifications for non-repayment, etc., and could
be done under the on-going assistance to AFC in the Rural Services
Design Project, similar to the studies done under Credit IV as
management tools. The most important aspect of the datk now being
generated may be the fact that it is clearly being used by AFC to try to
set new loan targets and policies, and that they are in consonance with
the Project's original objectives.
71.      Costs.  A final quantitative index of performance of the AFC
concerns costs. Costs are now being calculated on a "cost center"
basis, ie., by originating point/office. A breakdown of costs on this
basis for 1988/89 is given in Annex 8. In addition, an analysis of
costs by branch done within the corporation is summarized there, by
regional distribution. Costs are high and increasing. Personnel
increased by 1132 over the 1982-88 period, of whom head office staff
were 39X in 1982 and 292 in 1988. Some of these increases are directly
due to the North Rift pilot project, and to the assumptions built into
the Project itself that an increase in branch staffing (e.g., to deploy
qualified accountants to all branches) was essential. Some of it is due
to the opening of several branches of questionable viability, whose
individual costs cannot be supported by the present or likely near-term
loan portfolio. However, it is difficult to see the need for 47
messengers in the head office, or lu drivers (this exceeds the numbers
employed by many Ministries' headquarters offices), or 14 receptionists,
or 8 watchmen. Costs are a very important issue for AFC to address in a
way that it has not done so far; the Project's impact may have been
positive in terms of analytic assistance with this, and negative from
the point of view of the increase in staff costs5/.
72.      Major recommendations about the needed cost control measures
and broader financial restructuring of AFC have been made by the Bank in
the latter stages of the Project's extension and in the recent financial
sector report (Rural Finance Review, Report No. 8138-KE; March, 1990).
Some financial restructuring is underway, with decisions finally
implemented on the consolidation and writing off of bad debt and changes
in the capital structure of the Corporation. The sector report contains
a proposal to restructure the AFC with a view to its eventual
privatization.
73.      Sustainability.  Sustainability of the Project's
accomplishments will depend on the ous.come of the restructuring, and
especially on cost control and increased loan recovery rates. While the
evidence on actual trends is equivocal, there are signs of movement in
the right direction both from the point of view of analysis being done
internally on these issues and in terms of the trends in specific
branches. The problem of recovery of seasonal crop credit is perhaps
S/AFC in Annex IX states that in the last three years measures have been taken to control
costs. A decision has been taken to cut at least 6 of the 49 existing branches, and
reduce the status of another 12.



- 21 -
the most important relating to credit sector issues per se. Here, it
seems that the 1985 decision to bring seasonal credit into the AFC
portfolio was possibly premature, tending to prolong the problems with
establishment of improved loan recovery rates that were being addressed
by the credit training/ management components. The corporate planning
function, however, which was initially a source of despair in Bank
supervision reports, appears now to be solidly grounded, albeit several
years later than the projections at appraisal. This indicates that the
gestation period for institution-building projects, and especially for
the emergence of positive ultimate financial indicators, is much
lengthier than the 18 months of this Project's design.
74.      Further support to AFC is being provided by the Rural Services
Design Project. The Project comprises several components in the
agriculture sector and three follow-on credit components involving AFC.
The credit components include one which is based on the model of the
North Rift pilot and involves continuing efforts at credit management
improvements in nine branches of AFC, including the establishment of
more effective linkages with the extension services to enhance the
probability of success of the agricultural activity undertaken with the
loans (and thus repayment rates); the introduction of group lending
procedures, which are indicated in recent Bank experience with
agricultural credit to be far more successful than those credit projects
which have involved only individuals and physical collateral; and
continued assistance on loan analysis and data processing capabilities.
Another subcomponent provides assistance to test AFC's capacity to
introduce deposit-taking activities.
Bank Performance
75.      Project preparation had been slow and produced a weak basis for
appraisal. The appraisal team was well balanced in terms of skills,
although overly optimistic about the rate of Project implementation. A
central constraint on estimation of realistic time requirements was the
weak financial data base in AFC with which the appraisal team was
confronted. In the circumstances, and drawing on the previous
experiences of credit support to or through AFC, the weaknesses were
correctly identified. The main focus of the Project, the several inter-
related institution-building components, was appropriate. Following a
very slow and unproductive start to the Project, the Bank's strength was
the commitment to follow through on implementation by heavy supervision
inputs, in many cases providing substantive policy and procedural
direction not forthcoming from the technical assistance team
recruited6/.
76.      Extensive supervision inputs produced those results that were
finally achieved. Supervision inputs included the provision of staff
members full time for critical periods during implementation, as in the
several months of the North Rift pilot effort. Local Bank staff also
/AFC in Annex IX points to weaknesses in Bank supervision, and suggests that the
PCR's praise of Bank supervisors and critique of the technical assistance team are
unbalanced.



- 22 -
assisted greatly in the policy dialogues established with the GOK, in
the context of the 1984/85 drought recovery effort, concerning policy
issues critical to the improved performance of AFC but not within the
purview of AFC management and therefore not within the Project design.
77.      Insufficient attention to the substantive decisions made by the
technical assistance personnel about the development of the management
information system was one area in which Bank performance could be
faulted. This had coatly repercussions and will continue to involve
potentially significant expenditure as the errors of the system design
are gradually worked through. An Electronic Data Processing systems
specialist from the Bank first became involved in Project supervision
only in mid-1985, when AFC was already committed to this costly exercise
and the shortcomings of the approach were becoming clear.
LESSONS LEARNED
78.      Lessons learned can be categorized as project-specific, Kenys-
specific, and credit sector-specific.
Proiect specific
1.    Clear understanding of the baseline data situation is
essential in formulating an institution-building
component which is heavily reliant on the data in order
to progress. Given the ubiquitousness of "management
information systems" in developing country institution
building projects currently, this may be an especially
important point to note in project appraisal and
preparation, in order to permit better estimations of
time, of the specific technical assistance needs, and
thus of cost.
2. Sub-performing consultant services is an issue which
needs to be addressed in the project preparation process.
General standards of outputs expected need to be
established, and/or a review process built in, which can
assist in the identification of problems in this area
early in the Project.
3.    Where project sub-components are deliberately sequenced
for institution-building purposes -- as in the attempt to
tie credit disbursement to improved performance on loan
collections -- the stipulation needs to be clearly
spelled out in the legal document.
Kenya specific
4.    Political commitment is a key element in successful
implementation of projects in Kenya. Political
commitment to this project faltered for a number of
reasons obviously beyond the control of the appraisal and
project preparation teams. Greater attention needs to be



- 23 -
given in an institution-building project such as this to
the construction of a "minimum winning political
coalition" that can shepherd the project through
difficult periods, including generating the initial
momentum for critical policy and resource allocation
decisions. Such a coalition would differ from project to
project and would consist of an informal set of actors,
always including the relevant Budget Supply Officer in
the Treasury (and likely the Director of the Budget); the
Financial Secretary; the Head of the Civil Service, if
felt necessary; the technical directors of relevant
agencies, such as the Director of Agriculture, the
Director of Livestock Development. Concentration on a
few key individuals such as these could generate the
necessary political support and commitment before the
advent of a crisis, and is a well-established and
effective mechanism for operating in the Kenyan system.
5.    Perceptions by consultants and the RMEA managers for this
effort that the major initial problems were a result of a
weak general manager, as well as weaknesses in other
staff positions, were of course partly correct. However,
the attempt to point to specific personnel as responsible
for failures, and to engineer personnel changes, is
generally perceived in Kenya as illegitimate and results
in a counterproductive digging in of the heels. Much
time was lost over this sort of activity. Insterad, a
judicious combination of top-level political dialogue (as
suggested in point 5) and internal suggestions for step-
by-step "improvement" might have served better. The
North Rift Pilot is an example of the latter.
6.    Credit discipline in Kenya is at a fairly low level,
especially with respect to large-scale farmers and to
seasonal crop credit. Sanctions, including foreclosure,
appear not to be enforceable, partly because of the
larger numbers of producers involved and the high levels
of default. The issue of sanctions in any future credit
efforts in Kenya need serious consideration and agreement
at the point of project negotiation. Studies of credit
discipline in other institutions involved in rural
finance in Kenya (CB, commercial banks) are needed to
determine how much of this is a particular problem for
AFC because of its clientele, and how other agencies fare
in instilling credit discipline. This could be done
under the continuing support to AFC provided in the Rural
Services Design Project, similarly to the studies that
were requested as conditions for credit disbursement for
the last tranches of Credit IV.
7.    Institution-building projects in Kenya take a long time.
The initial project discussions indicated this would be
basically an institution-building project, without a
substantial credit line. That would have been a more



- 24 -
realistic design in terms of time. Only the intervention
of an unforeseen crisis (drought recovery requirements)
permitted the credit line to be disbursed. The provision
of some credit is probably necessary to motivate the
managers of credit institutions to make the desired
changes, but the amounts should be consonant with the
objectives and time needed for serious improvements in
management at all levels.
Credit sector specific
8.    Credit management training, while essential to improving
the quality of the loans made by an institution like AEC,
is not sufficient. In an adverse credit discipline
environment, financial performance may bear little
relationship to the quality of the field loan
disbursement officers. Credit discipline, sanctions for
non-repayment, staff retention, and corporate strategic
planning are all in some senses "prior' to credit
management training in the sequence of issues that need
to be addressed.
9.    Rural finance cannot be rationalized independently of
movement toward agricultural market liberalization. Loan
repayment rates in a monopoly output marketing situation
do not depend only on credit discipline, but frequently
on the ability of the monopoly marketing agent to coerce
repayment. Movement toward market liberalization may
reveal or exacerbate credit indiscipline; the two sectors
need to be considered together.
10.   Financial performance of an agency operated as a
Government-owned parastatal and onlending funds coming
either from domestic budgetary support or external donor
schemes is not likely to be improved by even major
assistance to management. Political decisions about the
rate of onlending of funds, the target groups to be
served, and even individual borrowers' lack of sanction
for non-repayment of loans are probable. Since the
agency does not have to sustain itself, the incentive to
develop a strong corporate strategic planning ability --
this Project's ultimate original objective -- is
fundamentally compromisedZ/.
11.   APC can only reach a small proportion of eligible
borrowers, even with greatly improved management of its
loan appraisal, follow-up and recovery systems. Reaching
the potentially eligible borrowers -- as many as 10 to 20
times AFC's current portfolio -- requires consideration
of other vehicles, preferably already existing financial
2/To a degree in Annex IX, and more so in informal discussion, AFC claims that the PCR
exaggerates the degree of political interference in present decisions.



- 25 -
intermediary institutions such as the rural savings and
credit cooperative societies and the producers'
cooperatives in cash cropping areas, which already
operate banking halls and generate substantial amounts of
credit in some areas, in a true financial intermediary
mode.
79.      The debate on the future of AFC is still ongoing.  The Rural
Finance Review recommended that the rehabilitated AEC should be sold to
the private sector because of fundamental problems associated with its
current ownership structure. Being a Government agency, it does not
need to follow strict profitability criteria, nor can it withstand
political influences that affect its profitability. The report argued
that the AEC had undermined commercial competitors because it could lend
at below-market rates and for terms beyond those offered by commercial
competitors. Privatization of AFC would be in line with the IDA-
financed Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr.2049-KE) which supports
liberalization of interest rates and financial operations on commercial
principles. Rural finance, however, may have its specific requirements
and needs to be looked into separately. Government does not accept
privatization of AEC, which it considers a "strategic" parastatal. The
Bank is reviewing its policy on agricultural credit, on which future
assistance in this area would be based.



I    Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs (Current US$ Million)
Appraisal Estimate ----                      ------------   AckuaLf/-----------
Item                 Local         Foreign           Total         Local          Foreign            To'al
Organizat.0on                   CostB      Exchange Costs       COatS         Costs        Exchanqe Costs        Costs
1. Corporate Planning             0.31            0.52           0.93           0.20             -5               0.20
2. Finance Division               0.10            0.15           0.25           0.74             -5/              0.74
3. Loan Officers                  0.23            -              0.23           0.51             -                0.51
4. Accounting Officers            0.17            -              0.17           0.31             -                0.31
5. Branch Pacililies              1.03            -              1.03           1.02             -                1.02
6. CDP (EquipmentIlY               N/A             N/A            N/A           0.12            0.17              0.29
7. HQ Facilities-/                 N/A             N/A             WA/A         0.15             -                0.15
8. Consultancy Services'            -                -              -            -              3.29               3.29
1.84           0.67            2.51           3.05            3.46              6.51
Training
1. Credit Training                0.24            0.52           0.76           0.16            -                 0.16
2. S'aff Performance
Improvement                   0.13            0.08           0.21           0.30            0.13              0.43
3. Career Development             0.04            0.03           0.07           0.01            -                 0.01
4. Continuing Training            0.62            0.41           1.03           0.04            -                 0.04
1.03            1.04           2.07          0.51            0.13               0.64
Credit Progtam                   18.17           27.25          45.42          25.33        _   -                25.33
OtheriY                           N/A             N/A            N/A            0.01            0.01               0.02
TOTAL                            21.04           28.96          50.00          28.90            3.60              32.50 6/
1/ Not included as part of original project
2/ Not split by component
3/  Includes audits and project related advertising
4/ Figures provided in Kenya Shillings - coverted to US
at average rate.  Rate used is FSha. 16.042 * US  I the rate
prevailing in 1985
5/  Consultancy services shown separately - see note 2/
6E Excludes USS 10.43 million reallocated to Drought RehabilitatLon
Program in 1985 for fertilizer (US$10.10 million) and other costs
(US$0.23 million).
ji!



B.   ProJect Pinancing (use million)
1.   1000/IDA
Ln 1995-E(/Cr 1134-KE
Actual Over qUnder)
--- Appraisal Estimate --      --------- Actua  ----------       --- Pent v Appraal--
Categorv                                    Loan    Credik      Total      Loan      Credit 1!  Tokal       toan     Credit    Total
1. Civil Works                              1.00       -         1.00        -        0M50       0.50     (1.00)      0.50     (0.50)
2. Office Equipment, Vehicles,
Furniture and Training Ma'erials         0.84     0.16        1.00       0.45      1.28       1.73     10.39)      1.12      0.73
3. Incremental Staff Salaries and
Related Operating Expenses               2.74     0.26        3.00      0.21       1.05       1.26     i2.53)      0.79     (1.74)
4. ^onsulkants Services                     0.65     0.35        1.00       1.77      1.94       3.71      1.12       1.59      2.71
5. APC Eligible Sub-Loans under Part
Ctl of Project                          19.77      -         19.77       3.06      4.01       7.07    (16.71)     4.01    (12.703
6. AFC Seasonal Loans under Part
CtIl) of Project                          -         -          -        6.39        -         6.39      6.39       -        6.39
7. Fertilizer                                -         -          -        10.10       -        10.10     10.10        -       10.10
8. APC Special Account - subsequently
amended to Include APC Smallholder
Sub-Loans under Part CMi) of the
Project                                   -        -           -        3.02       1.22      4.24       3.02       1.22      4.24                         co
9. Unallocated                               -        9.23 1'   9.23         -         -          -         -        (9.233    t9.23)
25.00    10.00       35.00     25.00      10.00     35.00 /i    -          -         -
2.   Government of Keenya
Project Expenditures                                            12.00
3     7.93
Duties and Taxes                                                 3.00
15.00                            7.93
TOTAL                                     50.00                            42.93
' ..~~... ..... .....
1/  Credit converted tromr SDRs to US$ at same rate as at appralsal (U4 1.2195 - 8DR 1)
2/ To be reallocated to Categories 1 to S based on Annual Plans
3/ Includes USS10.43 million reallocated to Drought Rehabilitation Program in 1983
for fertilizer (US$10.10 million) and other costs (US$0.33 million)
0



-29 -                                        ANNEX II
11. Loan/Credit Disbureeentel
IDA/ANK Fiscal Year                 Cumulatve Disbursement
and ouarter                          at ouarter end
------------- Us8 Thousand -----------
Appraisal                    Revired                    Actual
(3/1983)    (9/1983)     (9/1994)
1981-82
septeber 30, 1981                150
December 31, 1981                300
March 31, 1982                   800
June 30, 1982                  1,200
1982-83
September 30, 1982             2,000                                                   354
December 31, 1982              4,000                                                   442
March 31, 1983                 6,000           450                                     449
June 30, 1983                  8,000         1,550                                     523
1983-84
September 30, 1983            10,000         5,000                                   1,203
December 31, 1983             13,000         8,250        1,500                      1,461
March 31, 1984                16,000        11,500        2,000                      1,877 /
June 30, 1984                 20,000        15,000        3,000                      2,293 /
1984-85
September 30, 1984            23,000        18,000        4,500                      2,710
December 31, 1984             27,000        21,000        6,000         6,200        4,689 1/
March 31, 1985                30,000        24,000        7,500         9,700       17,689 2/
June 30, 1985                 33,000        27,000        9,000       11,200        21,951
1985-86
September 30, 1985            34,000        30,000       10o,500       12,000       25,000 1/
December 31, 1985             35,000        33,000       12,000        13,500       28,343
March 31, 1986                              35,000       13,500        15,000       28,700
June 30, 1986                                            14,500        17,000       29,500
1986-87
September 30, 1986                                       15,000       18,500        30,057
December 31, 1986                                        not           20,000       30,200
March 31, 1987                                           indicated    not           30,200
June 30, 1987                                            for           indicated    30,200
balance      for
of Loan/     balance
Credit       of Loan/
Credit
1987-88
September 30, 1987                                                                  30,500
December 31, 1987                                                                   30,700
march 31, 1988                                                                      31,500
June 30, 1988                                                                       33,300
1988-89
September 30, 1988                                                                  34,670
December 31, 1988                                                                   35,000
1/  Imputed - not Known
2/ Effect of Amendment for fertilizer imports under Drought Rehabilitation Program
and seasonal Crop Credit for APC's own account.



III. Related Bank Loans and IDA Credits
Tear of
loan/Credit Title                                                           Approval       Status             Co_ enta
1.      Pirto  Smallbolder               To asiSt smallbolders establish or            1967        Closed              The Project had only a Darginal economic
Agricultural Credit Project    improve crop and livestock                                                     impact at the farm level.  Organizational
(Cr  05-KE)                     enterprises                                                                  problems in AnC
2.      Second Smaliboldeg Credit        The financing of agricultural loans           1972        Closed - 1976       AFC performance improved under this project.
Project ICr 344-K8)              over a 3 year period for the produc-                                         However a lack of integration of AFC0s
tion of foodorops, oilseeds and                                              Institutional objectives with objectives more
industtial crops, fruit, dairy and                                           related to onfars development, food production
poultry development, and purehase of                                         and Income distribution
farm _mcbinery and equipment.
Technical services fot APC also
provided
3.      Third agricultural Credit        To finance a 3 year time slice of            1977         Closed-1981         Small scale farmers received the bulk
Project ICr 693-rV/              AFC s lending program for small-                                             of funds, but two other intended bene-
Ln 1390-RE)                      bolders, medium scale commercial                                             ficiaries (medium sized farmers and
farns and retail agricultural Input                                          Input suppllers) were not reached.
suppliers.  Technical services for                                           AKC's institutional capabilittes did
AIC also provided                                                            not improve, nor was AFC able to
implement highly specialized credit
schemes with rigorously defined target
groups
4.      Other Completed Projects
where LPC is or has been                                                                                                                                             w
Vehicle for Onlending of
Bank Group Funds
i)      Second Livestock Development                                                  1974         Closed-1982         Implementation hampered by a number of
Project (Cr 477-K8)                                                                                           policy and institutional issues
(it)    Group Farms Rehabilitation                                                    1975         Closed-1981         Project faced major problems - legal, social,
Project (Cr 537-K3/                                                                                           political and financial
Ln 1093-3e)
llii)   Integrated Agricultural                                                       1976         Closed-1981        Reorientation of the Project towards assisting
Development Project I                                                                                         large numbers of subsistence farmers rather
(Cr 650-KB/Ln 1303-KE)                                                                                        than progressive smallbolder farmers led to a
number of difficulties, Including low rates
of credit repayment and loanee participation
(iv)    farok Mixed Parming Project                                                   1978         Closed-1983        Slow implementation due to difficulties in
iCr 68s-KB)                                                                                                   developing effective credit programs adapted
to the special circumstances of the
traditional farmers in the District
Iv)     Integrated Agricultural                                                       1979         Closed-1986         Same problems as IADP I (see (Iii) above)
Development Ptoject II                                                                                        with high drop out rates of project recruited   
(Cr 959-KB)                                                                                                   farmers and low credit repayment rates
O 



5.    Agricultural Sector Adjuatment   to support the first two years of              1986        Closed 1988          Main conditions were met   Project
Operation (Cr 1717-is)             laplementation of Government's                                                suffered from an excessive number
agricultural sector adjustment                                               of conditions and wavering
program, and to provide additional                                           &,wernment coauJtment to certain
foreign exchange for inputs and                                              detail, but overall. it was
counterpart funds for public                                                 useful for promoting policy and
Investments.  Conditionality                                                 lnqtitutional lmprovements in
included measures to improve                                                 agriculture and contributed -to
performance of the AFC.                                                      agricultural growtb during 1986-
6.    Rural Services Design Project   .i  broaden and test further the                1988         oagoing            Effective 8|89.  The aevings component
(Cr. 1974-KE)                     implenentation of smaliholder lending                                        has not yet been implemented.
and Improvement in credit management
capacity in 7 APC branches. To
introduce significant improvements
in the management, technical and
superviaion approach followed by APC
in lending for ranch development.  To
test AFC s capacity to introduce
deposit taking activities designed to
foster rural savings, and strengthen
APC a future financial base and
viability.
I'dt
oo 
0D 



IV. ProAect Implementation
tndicators                                   Aspralaal 6atimate                      Actual
(a) StrenmtIenins AMC
i1)    Staff Corporate Planning         I Department Read - T/A 3 Years         Completed
Department                       I Planning Analyst - T/A 3 Tesgt       Rectuited locally Instead
2 Financial Aaalyata                   Recrulted.  I additional hited
I Credit Narketing Analyst         3
1 Agticultural Sconomist                1 hired
3 Statistical Assistants               Hired
4 Clerical Staff                       Nlred
(1i)   staff Financial Services         1 Chief Financial Analyst               Recruited
Department which was split
into:
4a) Cash Nanagement Section    1 Financial Analyst                      Recruited
Ib Budgeting Section             I Financial Analyst                    Recruited
liii)  Staff Accounts Department        2 Accountants                          Rectuited
(iv)   Staff Date Processing            I Srstems Analyst/Programmer-T/A       Recruited
Department                        I Year
Iv)    Staff Branches                   50 Additional Loan Officers            Recruited 1982 - 1984
40 Additional Accounts Officers        Recruited 1982 - 1983
representing net increase of 30
(vi)   Additional Branches              6 Additional Branch Offices            Completed plus further 5
(vii)  Preparations of Annual Plans   5 Annual Plans                           Started 1982/83. continued to present (6 total)
(viii) Preparation of S-Year            5 Moving 5-Year Pcojections            Started 1982/83. continued to present (6 total)
Projections
lb) Training and Staff DeveloDment
it)    Staff Training Department        I Department head                      Recruiked
I Training Advisor                     Compl.ted
12 years under USAID)
1 Loan AppraisaS  Instructor           Completed
(2 years under USAID)
Credit Training Consultant -           Completed (2 years)
T/A 3 years
Mi)   Implement Credit Training         Not specified                          Carried out
Program
(11i)  Staff Personnet Division         1 Job Analysis and Evaluation          Modified I T/A
Specialist                            only (3 years)
I Staff Pctrormance Review and
Appraisal Specialist-T/A
2 Years
H
04



(iv)   lsplement staff Performance      Not specified                         Carrtied out
Itprovoent. ptogram
Iv)   Staff Creger Development          I Human Resources                     Combined with 1t/A
Program                           Development Specialist-T/A           In 4i1:) above
3 months
(VI)   Implement Continuing Training   Trainitng In-House each year           8xeeeded
Ptogra-                           B0 starf
Training Elsewhere in Kenya          Exceeded
each year - 25 staff
Overseas Training each year -         Very few sent - mainly EDP staff sent
20 staff                            to Phillipines
Ic) Credit for APC'e Lending Program
(1i    Ho. of Beneficiaries             22,000                                Over 25,800
(ii)   Average Size of Loan             ESh 15,000                            RSh 13,800
(MiI)  Annual Growth of Portfolio       13% in Current Prices                 12t
liv)   Average Life of APC's Loan        7 years                              7 years for Development Loans
Portfolio
(v)    Interest Rate                    12% p.a. Adjusted in Line             Rates continued virtually unchanged.  Present
with Overall Interest Rates           rates are 12% - Development Loansa 13t -
Working Capital Loans; 14% - SCC                                          w
(vi)   Interest Rate Spread             St                                    4t under Project
(vill  Administrative Costs             Increase at the Rate of Local
tnflation
(vitt) write Offs                       10t of its 1980 Portfolio by 1986   Write offs small.  Will be done as part of
financial reorganization
(xi)   Accrued Interest                 No Accrued Interes' on 5% of Its    Accrued Interest has been on all accounts
loan Por'tfolin.
I..



- 35 -                             ANNEX V
Page 1 of 5
V     Atatus of Covenants
Section   Loan/Develooment Credit Agreements               Compllance
2.02 (a) The Project shall be carried out on the
basis of AFC's Annual Plans to be prepared
and approved as hereinafter provided in
respect of the fiscal year April 1, 1981,
to March 31, 1982, and of each subsequent        AFC has submitted
fiscal year until the completion of the          Annual Plans for
Project.                                         all fiscal years.
In the early years.
plans were submitted
2.02 (b)  Each such Annual Plan shall contain the          late and were not
information set forth in Part A of Scheduie    fully satisfactory in
2 hereto, shall be accompanied by the            content or analysis.
supporting information set forth in Part B       Some improvement in
thereof and shall satisfy the criteria and       content demonstrated
conditions set forth in Part C thereof.          in later Annual Plans.
However questionable
2.02 (c)  Each proposed Annual Plan for each fiscal        how useful this was for
year, after fiscal year 1981/82, shall be        AFC management particu-
furnished to the Bank, not later than            larly when the latter
December 31 in each year, for its review         was weak (till 1986),
and comment, and such revisions thereto          and when the Plans were
shall be made as may be appropriate having       seen not as management
due regard to such comment.                      tools but as means to
obtain World Bank
money.
2.02 (d)  Upon the revision, if any, of the proposed        Complied with.
Annual Plan as aforesaid, and not later
than February 28 in each year, AFC shall
furnish the final text thereof to the Bank
for its approval.
2.03      In order to assist AFC in carrying out         Consulting firm
Parts A and B of the Project, AFC shall        contracted to provide
employ the consultants listed in Part B of   technical assistance;
Schedule 1 to this Agreement whose qualifi-  several modifications
cations, experience and terms and condi-       agreed causing substan-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory    tial time and cost
to the Bank.                                   overruns.
2.04 (b)  Civil works contract required for Part A       Project financing was
of the Project shall be procured under         restricted to minor
procedures satisfactory to the Bank,           renovations.
following the recommendations of the
consultants upon completion of the study
by AFC, referred to in Section 3.0?. of
this Agreement (Branch location study).



AInEX V
- 36 -                            Page 2 of 5
Section    Loan/Develonment Credit Aareemgen            Comolia
3.01 (b)  The Borrower shall make the proceeds of       The Subsidiary
the Loan (Credit) available to AFC under      Financing Agreements
a subsidiary financing agreement to be        were submitted to the
entered into between the Borrower and AFC    Bank on August 13,
under terms and conditions which shall        1982; terms and condi-
have been approved by the Bank (Associa-      tiona are satisfactory
tion) including, except as thu Bank           to the Bank/Association.
(Association) may otherwise agree, the
terms and conditions set out in Schedule
3 to this Agreement.
3.02 (a)  AFC shall establish and thereafter maintain  The Corporate Planning
a Corporate Planning Department, with         Department was created
responsibilities end powers satisfactory      in 1982, but did not
to the Bank, to develop APC's long range      function effectively at
objectives, policies and programs and be      that time for lack of
staffed with a Department Head, one           management direction and
planning analyst, two financial analysts,    support and weakness of
one marketing analyst, one agricultural       key technical assistant.
economist, three statistical assistants and  Corporate Planning in
the necessary support staff, and to be        September 1984 merged
provided with facilities and resources        with Fiscal Planning and
adequate to perform its functions.  The       function redefined.
Bank shall approve the terms of reference    Head thereafter local.
and requisite qualifications of the seven    Although functions
local professionals and be consulted on the  subsequently less
appointments of the two financial analysts.  important nevertheless
it fulfils a uaeful
function.
3.02 (b)  Not later than October 31, 1981, AFC shall   Continual reorganization
reorganize the units under its Financial      and staff changes in the
Services Department into a Cash Management   Finance Department were
Section responsible for cash management       not conducive to streng-
matters and a Budgeting Section responsible  thening this Department.
for budgetary control and thereafter main-   In later stages with suit-
tain such sections in existence until at      ably qualified appointees
least the completion of the Project.          Department became more
AFC shall, in addition, employ a Chief        effective.
Financial Analyst and be consulted on his
appointment.
3.02 (c)  In order to appraise, supervise and follow-  Completed; continued
up the proposed increase In ita volume of    training required, and was
loans, AFC shall recruit about fifty addi-   given particularly in
tional loan officers with the number to be   later stages of project.
recruited in each fiscal year to be speci-
fied in the Annual Plans.
3.02 (d)  In order to improve the administration of    Completed; continued
its branch offices, AFC shall employ an       training required, and was
accounts officer at each AFC branch and       given particularly in
shall, if necessary, employ additional        later stages of project.
personnel for this purpose.



ANNEX V
37                                   Page 3 of 5
gSejt    Loan/DevelomegMt Credit Aareemen               CeMDltsc
3.03      AFC shall improve Its branch facilities       Branch location study
according to detailed Investment prngrama    seriously delayed.  Bank
based on a branch location study to be        position was that AFC
completed not later than December 31, 1981.  should review banking
The investment programs, which shall be       costs and strategy prior
acceptable to the Bank, will provide, inter  to expansion of branch
allA, for the establishment of about six    network.  35 vehicles were
branch offices and the provilsion of about    purchased with Bank agree-
20 vehicles for the branch offices.           ment, and new branch
offices beyond the six
were established.
3.04      In order to carry out Part B of the           AFC prepared annual
Project, AFC shall develop and implement      training programs from
a credit training program and a staff         the start of the Project.
performance improvement program acceptable   Later Programs were well
to the Bank and shall hire an adequate        thought out and suitable
number of qualified training specialists      for the needs of the
to enable such program to be implemented.   organization. In par-
ticular through the
"credit pilot" effort
credit training needs
were more systematically
Identified and appropriate
training reinforcement
given.
3.05 (a)  AFC shall charge recipients of all agri-      Current rate structure:
cultural loans Interest at the rate of at    land purchase and develop-
least twelve percent (12%) per annum, or    ment loans - 12X, seasonal
as otherwise agreed between the Bank and      crop and working capital
AFC                                           loans - 13X   Little
change since the start
of the proJect.
3.05 (b)  AFC shall periodically review its on-         AFC interest rates are
lending rates to ensure an adequate spread   currently below pre-
while maintaining consistency with the out-  vailing commercial bank
come of the quarterly review of overall       rates.
interest rates by the Borrower. AFC shall
Include its proposals to the Borrower for
for the adjustment of its on-lening rates
in the Annual Plan furnished to the Bank.
3.06      AFC shall not make any changes in its         Complied with.
Statement of Policy which materially
affect the objectives, operations, or
financial condition of AFC, without the
prior approval of the Bank.



ANNEX V
-38-                                 Page 4 of 5
Secti     Loan/Deyelo2ment Credit Aoreements             Cmplince
3.07      AFC shall not undertake any new long term    Complied with.
borrowings without prior consultation with
the Bank.
4.01 (a)  AFC shall maintain records adequate to         Records of project
reflect in accordance with consistently        expenditures are being
maintained appropriate accounting practices  properly maintained.
its operations and financial condition,
including, without limitation to the fore-
going, separate records reflecting all ex-
penditures described in Categories (3) and
(5) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to the Loan Agreement on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Loan
Account on the basis of certificates of
expenditure.
4.01 (b)  AFC shall retain, until one year after the   Records of project
Closing Date, all records (orders,             expenditures are being
invoices, bills, receipts and other docu-    properly maintained.
ments) evidencing the expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested
from the Loan Account on the basis of
certificates of expenditure and shall
enable the Bank's accredited representa-
tives to examine such records.
4.02      AFC shall: (i) have its accounts and finan-  All years to June 30,
cial statements (balance sheets, statements  1988 received.  Some
of income and expenses and related state-    delayed, some on time.
ments) for each fiscal year audited, in        Considerable delays at
accordance with appropriate auditing           beginning of project.
principles consistently applied, by inde-
pendent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as avail-
able, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited, and
(B) the report of such audit by said audi-
tors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning the accounts and
financial statements of AFC and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request. The report of
such auditors shall contain a separate



ANNEX V
_39 -                             Page 5 of 5
Section   Loan/DeveloDment Credit Agreements             Compliance
opinion by said auditors in respect of the
expenditures and records referred to in
Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement as to
whether the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn
from the Loan Account on the basis of
certificates of expenditure have been
used for the purpose for which they were
provided.
6.01 (a)  The Department Head of the Corporate            Technical Assistance
Planning Department, referred to in Section   appointed as Head of
3.02 (a) of the Bank Project Agreement,         Corporate Planning -
shall have been appointed.                      July 1, 1982.
6.01 (b)  The timetable for the employment of credit    Complied with -
training specialists by AFC and the imple-    August 13, 1982.
mentation of the credit training program
shall have been furnished to the Bank for
its review and comment.
6.01 (c)  The execution and delivery of the First         Complied with -
Subsidiary Financing Agreement on behalf        August 13, 1982.
of the Borrower and AFC, respectively,
has been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary corporate and governmental
action.
6.02      Submission of Government Legal Opinions.        Complied with -
August 13, 1982.



- 41 -
Annex VI
Page 1 of 2
Trends in AFC Portfolio Composition
(Combined Development and Seasonal Crop Loans)
1980     1981      1982      1983     1984      1985     1986
Total  :      10,149    21,505   11,809   13,086   12,037   18,340   21,861
Of which percentage
in farm size category:
Small           32.4     45.7      50.9      56.9     50.8      52.9     50.1
(O - 8 Ha)
('Mini")    ( 7.7)   (7.2)    (10.9)   (21.9)   (12.7)   (14.4)   (17.6)
(0 - 2 Ha)
Gap             41.2     33.5      29.9      23.8     28.2      25.9     20.8
(S8 - 20 Ha)
Medium          22.8      18.0     16.9      16.5      18.1     17.9     22.1
(20 - 400 Ha)
Large            3.5      2.7       2.3       2.8      2.9       3.4      7.0
(Over 400 Ha)
(Med+Large) (26.3)   (20.7)   (19.2)   (19.3)   (21.0)   (21.3)   (29.1)
Total
Amount:      14,023    21,133   13,58I9  18,340   20,041   39,171   35,983
(Kenya L'OOO)
Of which percentage
farm size category:
Small           14.3     20.3      22.1      29.7     20.2      19.1     25.5
("Mini")     (3.7)    (4.3)    (6.3)   (13.2)    (6.1)    (6.7)   (10.6)
Gap             17.3     20.2      16.5      14.6     15.9      14.3     13.4
Medium          41.4     40.6      34.3      31.7     41.0      32.9     37.7
Large           27.0      18.9     27.0      24.0     22.9      33.7     23.3
(Med+Large)  68.4      L9.       61.3     55.7      63.9     666       61.0
Estimated coimnercial bank credit
to private agriculture sector:
(Kenya L mLl)           110.6    112.9    138.5    136.5    148.4    147.1



- 42 -
Annex VI
Page 2 of 2
AFC as % Commercial:    19.1       12.0     13.2      14.7     26.4      24.5
Notes:   Estimated commercial bank credit to the private agriculture
sector does not represent all agricultural credit; rather
it is given instead of the latter as a relevant index of
amounts loaned to producers for production and development
purposes. It thus excludes credit to the cooperative and
marketing institutions to purchase crops, as well as public
sector credit to producers (e.g., AFC's budgetargy
support).
Source: "Evolution of AFC's Portfolio in Relation to Objectives",
AFC internal document produced mid-1987.



,1 ,                                     -43 -
Annex MVS
A: AFC Loan Recovery Rate TrendsL
the Reaional Distribution of Loan Recoyery Rateo
Percent of    Percent of   Percent of  Percent of
Portfolio     Borrowers    Category    Category
Loan Recovery                                          in Eastern  in Western
Rate Cateaorv                                         Region       Recion
85% or above                  29.0%         22.3%        75%          25%
65% to 84%                     6.3%         11.8%        80%          20%
40% to 64%                    37.7%         40.3%        33%          67%
lese than 40%                21.9%          21.3%        36%          64%
insuf. data                    5.0%          4.3%        40%          60%
Source: Attachment 1, p. 44, "Rural Services Design Project;
Deposit-taking Depth Study of Nakuru", AFC, April, 1988.
B: AFC Loans Portfolio mid-1987
Loan TyRe                 Loans                      Arrears         t of Cat,
Amount           %     Amount          I          in arrears
(ksh. '000)             (ksh. '000)
Land purchase/  1,662,105        50.4     420,564       31.1           25.3
development
Seasonal crop   1,635,503        49.6     931,976       68.9           57.0
Total:        3,297,608      100.0   1,352,540       100.0           41.0
Note: Arrears reported have had ksh. 588.3 million deducted as not "real"
arrears, because comprised of penalty interest on actual arrears.  Figures
in Table C, below, in parentheses give the distribution with this penalty
interest included.
C: AFC Arrears Trends (%)
Development          Seasonal             Total
mid-1987                  25.3               57.0               41.0
(31.1)            (87.0)             (59.0)
mid-1988                  32.5               76.0               43.0
end-1988                  36.2               78.0               47.0



- 45 -
Annex VIII
AFC ODeratinu Costs: Distribution of
Operatins Expenses by Oriain
(1988189)
Origin                          Staff       Admin.       Total        Percent
(Ksh. millions)
Head Office                     43.7            22.6        66.3           43.3
Regional Offices (2)             4.8             1.5         6.3            4.1
Area Offices (7)                 3.8             1.7          5.5           3.6
Branches (47)                   56.7            18.2        74.9           49.0
Source: 'Agricultural Finance Corporation", report
prepared by consultant
J. Intrator, 1989.
Distribution of Branches by Cost
Cost Category                   Number of branches      Percentage of
(Cost as 2 Portfolio)                                   total number of
borrowers
3.5 - 4.6                       12                         25.5
4.7 - 5.6                        9                         19.1
5.7 - 6.6                        4                          8.6
6.7 - 8.6                       11                         23.4
8.7 -10.6                        6                         12.8
10.7 -14.6                        4                          8.5
14.7 -16.0                        1                          2.1
Total:               47                        100.0
Source:   'Agricultural Finance Corporation: Costs of Lending Analysis
1986187 Financial Year", AFC, Nov. 1987.



- 47 -                         Aflh  Ix
AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPOIRA1iN
iaminumm.37,4 
iearn   tO w_
01F.    AN//22.1                                                   9.21
The Chief Agriculture, Infrastructure
and Human Resource Divi4ion,
operations Evaluation Department,
The World Bank,
1S1B S. Street. N.E.,
Washington D.C. 20433,
0. S. A.
Priucipal Evaluation Officer
Sir,
13: SMA  PRO33CT  MMKPL!OU 1       Z
Cr. 1143MM 1199-13
in response to your letter of April 12, 1991, S am
pleased to forward my co_ewts on the draft of the
PCR (See attachment).
As a general coment, I wish that the draft of the
PCR should have not concentrated on amplifying only
the weaknesses of the project but should have also
prominently recognised what Management has achieved
in the functional areas of stren hg APC, providing
training and iMproving staff skills and lending prograMS
specially the improvements in crt   g         t techniques.
I do accept that there were delays in the implmetation
of some co     nts of the projec but they wr caused by
problem  outside tho control of the Coporation ad some
were due to eco_mic factors and weathr conditions.



ANNEX IX
Page 2 of 8
- 48 -
I wish to take this opportunity to express Management's
appreciation f or the assistance extended to the Corporation
by the World Bank/IDA.  It is hoped that we will. have
another chance to interact in other projects in the future.
Respectfully Yours,
G. K. TOROITICH
MEnAGING AIReCYO
Encl: As stated.



- 49-                            ANNEX IX
Page 3 of 8
ATTACHMENT
COPM NTS ON THE PCR ON FOURTH ARICIJLTURAL CREDIT PROJiECT
(CP 1143/IN 19'?5   KEL9ATE l vAPRIL .1995
ENEtRAL
I.   It is not our intention to produce  another  big  report  An
terms of comments both Posative and negative on the prepared PLR.
The achievements and falures during the project implementation
period were well documented in the Project Completion Report
prepared  by this Corporation.  We tried to be as objective as is
humanly possible in accessinq the implementation and impact of
the project.
O.ir  comments andi reaction on the Bank's version ot the PCR
will be I imited to areas that we feel do not  portray  the  right
picttira  or  take  dccunt  of  the  constraints  faced  by  the
Corporation.  This does not mean that we have not taken  note  of
the  many  good points stated in the PCR of which we do not touch
in oUtr Loments.
_..  Development especially in the Agricultural sector i5 a  very
challenging thinq. We hope, the bank has noted this from its vast
eg4periences   over   many  years  and  from  many  countries  and
insttitttions.   Any meaningful evaluation or  assessment  of  the
impact of any project muist take account of the environmnt and
constraints under which the project is tiplemented. It is our
feelinq that this was not fully taken into account in the Bank's
version of the POR.
4.   The marriage between the Bank and AFC hias been in  existence
ov,er many years having started in 1967 to-date. Over the  years,
we, as an institution, have greatly benefited from the Bank
through provision of funds for projects, technical assistance and
the interactions through the  supervision  missions.  We,  as  an
institution agid .as citizens at this country are thankful.
5.   "We have been partners in the development of Credit IV during its
Identification, Planning, Appraisal and Implementation stages, hence, we should
be sharing any successes and failures. It was noted that in the PCR failures
were solely attributed to us as an institution".
6.  Credit IV had a great impact on the institutional development
for  the  Corporation.  Sm.  of  the  areas  have  been  in  the
Development of Corporate Planning Department;  preparation of  of
Cor porate   Annual   Plan   and  Budget,   Seasonal  Crop  Credit
Administration,   training  of  staff  in  financial  and  credit
management; %mall-holder focus and many others.



ANNEX IX
Page 4 of 8
- 50 -
7.  We riote the EBank s interest and partnership Ln development of
thez cr itical sector ot this country (Agricultural Sector) has
wanted in recent years. Does this mean that the Bank is no longer
interested in the agricultural sector or is it only our country
and institution?
S.    The  Bank  has  been  like  a catalyst in our institutional
development. We lhope our relationsn with the Bank will continue to
rorw From strength to  .trenqth.
Spec~ tic  (n t S:
S.; : t f ic ,Contg^
1.   Page  iv  i tem  -'-"A  combirnation  of  weak  indigenous  top
management"  is  a very general statement not suipported by facts.
To say the least, it is impolite.*
2. Page vi item 0Q-an privatization of AFC:
At no time has the idea of privatization of the Corporation  been
discussed  by Kenya Government nor the Corporation.  Where is the
idea coming firem?   Is the Bank selling the idea to us and  Kenya
Government? A comlprehensive analysis at the Corporation's role in
the past and in future,  success and failures,  and how that role
can be best played in ftuture need to  be  done  before  making  A
blank.et reccmmendation like privatization.
Our  view  and Kenya Government's view is that AFC is a Strategic
Organisation who'se rolp cannot ftully be played by private sector.
3.  Page 5 item 17 - "        with a.Board  that  engaged  in  line
function" At no time, has the Board for AFC been involved in line
function. *
4. Page 1 para.30-Whereas we aqe-ee that credit discipline should
have been emphasised as a major corporate activity, management
does not fully subscribe  to  the  idea  that  launching  an  the
co.plex  issue of torporate strategic planning was wrngly timed.
Detailed comments on issues pertaining to corporate planning  are
discussed separately in this paper.
There is no doubt that the establishmnt of Corporate Planning
Department  was  and  still  is  an  important   organ   of   the
Corporation. There was no way that the establishment of the
department wwoitd solve all the AFC's problems. We have no doubts
in our minds, that the establishment of the dwpartment was one of
the qgr-patfst tanetfits from  Credit IV.
5.    Page  15  pera  61  - The Corporation each year prepares an
annual plarn and corporate Budget. rhese two manageqmnt tools are
used in guiding and tdirecting the operations of  the  Corporation
each  year.    Each  branch  prepares  its  unit  plan and budget
following management guidelines.   ThL targets in the annual plan
thprefore r-flert what the units have programcmed.  Given the high
* The PCR text has been modified to meet these objections. Thus the comments
may refer to words or passages which have been altered.



ANNEX IX
Page 5 of 8
- 51 -
arrears  and  management's  emphasiLs  uin  this  area,  it becomes
necessary to plan a higher collection rate to stimulate cur urge
field  officer s  to  improve  collections inspite ot constr aints.
Thus, the lack of relationship of past performance and the
programied targets on collwctions;, The author confused the Annual
Plan and the Corporate Budget.
6.    Page  16  para.  46 "small scale loans are those under Ksh.
5o,ooo,   large   scale,   those   over   Ksh.   100,000"   AFC's
Classificdtion is small scale loans are those  Ksh.  ,K,0O01  and
below: large scale, those over Ksh. 50,0OI/-..*
7.   Page 17 Para. 71.   rhe Corporation has undertaken  various
means  to :ontrol costs in the last three years.   These measures
have inclaided introductionr of austerity measures, freezing on
recruitment,   etc.    The  Corporation  is  in  the  process  of
restrtcturing its branch network, whereby,  the  number  of  full
pledge  branches  will  be :3i,  three sub-branches and nine field
stations. Thw non-viable branches will be merged or closed.   The
optimal   resource   requirements   to   run  thie  field  network
effiriently  and  profitably  has  been  assessed  and  will  be
implemented in 1991/92 F,Y.
S.  Page 21 item 10 - "Political decisions about the rate of on-
lending  ot  funds,  t.he  target  groups  to  be  served".    The
Corporation   each   year  through  the  annual  plan  mechanism
determines the target grotip to be reached.   Of course in setting
tAp  the  plan  preparation  guidelines,  we  have to take note of
government pol icies .*
CorpQr a .p _Pl~jnn lng
Since the inception of  Credit  IV  Project,  annual  Plans  were
prepared to gtuide management on the operating strategy, financial
objectives, priority of institutional enhancement and targets of
lending activities. For the detailed contents of each annual plan
it  was   basically   based   on   the   document  "AFt   Annual
Plans"(Schedule 1) as enclosure to the Wor-ld Bank Staff Appraisal
Report.
The first annual plan, covering 9-month period from July 1982 to
March 31, 1983S, was rushed by management to catch up with the
meeting  of  the  Board and in ccmpliance with them requirement of
the Bank to have the Project effective. The two locally-hired
staff  started  the preparation of the first annual plan in March
19f82  and  completed  in  Jurse  of  the  same  year.   When   the
internationally   recruited   Head   of  the  Corporate  Planning
Department arrived in Kenya in July 1982 the Annu.al Plan was
already  prepared  ready for presentation to the Board.  The only
role of the Head of Corporate Planning was to prepare for the
Board an EXxecutive Summary of the proposed Annual Plan.



ANNEX IX
- 52 -                          Page 6 of 8
There were short-comings in the Lnitial preparation of annual
plans up to 1985S/986 because of lisitations in base litne data,
managemwnt information system and other financial accounting
data. In addition, there was no realistic annual budget to reckon
with.
The short-comings weres-
- Lack af baseline data and erroneous accounts which caused the
inability of the external auditors to finalise the AFC final
accoents for three financial years.
-  Manageqwnt main concern was to finalise final accounts for
three finarczal years, hence, planning activities were not
given priority and importance by the then top management.
-  The necessary back-up an finanrcial inf3roation for planning
was not available. The Accounts Division was only concent-
rating an reconciling loans..' accounts and was fully
occupied in answering qteries from loaneest and tte then
Fiscal Planning Division was not fully operational. Not until
-in 1986 when the Arcounts lDivision was rconstituted as
Financial Accounting Division and the fldnagement Accounting
Division wcs establishhed that analysis of AFC's income and
expenditure performance on cost centres basis -- Branch,
Are   Regional and Head Off ice - have started.
-  The exercise on modifying the management information system
has caused the delayed production of the much needed data to
make Corporate Planning Department more effective.
The above short-comings have to a great extent paralysed the
Corporate Planning office to quantitatively establish targets in
collections,  improved  arrears  positions  realistic  ageing  of
arrears, segration of performing and non-performing accounts,
branch balance sheets, targeting credit control priorities,
establishinq   financial   perfor-mace   indicators,   munitoring
compliance of standing orders. formulating short and long-term
strategies   toward   strengthening   institutional   capability,
formulation of credit and financial policies and  procedures  and
others.
Tscr.hic_atssi st&nce.2
With due respect to the opinion of the Supervision "issions
during the early stage of the Project about the Corporate
Planning Department Staff, and more so on the capability of the
Technica I Assistance  in  the   area   of   Corporate   strategy
formulation,  Management considered the Corporate Planning Group,
including the Departmental Heads as highly qualified,  competent
and   having   well  rounded  experience  in  Planning  corporate
strategies.   Instead  of  financial  theories,   the   Technical



- 53 -                         ANNEX IX
Page 7 of .8
Asilstant  approached  the  issues  with practical and applicable
stratepgies  to  improv.e  and  plan   corporate   reforms   taking
cogniianre of t.he prevailing corporate environent, persn;alities
andJ c.nstraints.
Management   feels   confident  that  the  technical  assistant's
approach in strategic planning was comprehensive and  has  worked
with management with extensive diplomacy to implement programmes
that achieve stratfagic targets aLrosS all functions, and through
all levels of the organisation. He has provided guidance to
management witt the capability t-n enhance the  xmplementation  of
progr ame.e  i mprnveFmemnts.
Working under a more favoukrable management, starting in 1.986, and
the dvailability of more developed and accurate management
information sy'stem  the Technical Assistant has beeni instrumental
in various striuctural reforms in AFC.
Wh6n the North Rift Spetial Project was at its low level in 1985,
Manageownt t:ransferred in t9f3  the  co-ordinative  work  tof  the
special  projttcts to the Tehnwiical Assistaitt in ca-operatian with
the Assistart (3eneral Manager for Western Region.  [t was at this
stage thiat the North Rift project became a success from which the
ser i#As of worlcshops on improved credit management was "born". The
TechnickAl Assistant was also responsible in finalising the credit
polic:y and procedures manual, the accounting manual, internal
organisation restructuring, etc.
<u2r v_s 'nn 1M1i s ctnn.
Management feels that members o-f any Missiois sh3uld have  actual
experiences in managing and admin stering a Corporation like AFC,
and   not   just  an  auditor  or  financial  analyst  with  desk
experiences which unfortunately composed the earlier  supervision
mission during the first three or four years of the projeet.
Manageent  strongly  believed  that  the  writer  of the PM  has
pro%orjidly personaliseed the i%sses pertaining to  the  evaluation
of  the  Corporate  Plannisng  Department due to misunderstandings
between Management and the Supervision Mission members as a
r-su1lt  of  how  the  Mission  members imposed Upon to Management
certain issues.
The Mission whto monitored the first three years  of  the  project
was conisidered as undiplomatic in dealing with management on some
issues.  As  a  matter  of  fact  the  Mission  was considered by
Man-agement as i..nproductive for the three years as  compared  with
thp mission mcembers following them.



- 54 -
With  all  the  problefas  betore  and  at  the e?arly stage of the
project on AF-C baseline data,  acre so in financial  information,
it iS unfair to blame alone the Corporate PJanning Departaent for
its inability t-4 produce strategic annual plan for Ccwrporate use.
In  fact  the World l3ank assessment brouqght out the fact that the
extreme chaotic situiation on the baseline data at the? early stage
of t:he project could make the Plannirng Department inefeffctive. Tt
is equiti IIy unfair to blame the whale management for any delays iLn
the ist-t.uLion-buildanq activities. The Bank is equally at fault
for hdvinq miscalculated the magnituide ot the problems and having
undetr-e-timsated  theo seriousness  of  the  existing   management
information system a1t the stage of prujrjct apprai!al.
-------         (1    -   .-..



S U D A N                             )/
_AKE
StPfA N/If
A                                                          N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AK
7 TURKANA
UGANDA   T                                                                                                                    ( S  E A   T E R N
rt <ul                                    \-                                      sx'N oJeMosab.                         I
ft K
UiGANDaA .                                                     lg-ot9x                                                               \
Af El GONd   -.Ol
WESTERN ,Kijr
~~ ~~4 ~  Tu,b
t4&~'N                                  K ) \d'                                          -
t.:ltV LT *N   ./q                                 >                        XC   O  A  eG
bo,.et~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N ~   onDW4b
Eldi~tl                                  }_N                                                    SY>>,>
Kwnoum  PRE PROJECT BTANCH SITES                                                                                                                          D. n In DblO BonD 01 05
Kiombu * PRE-PROJECT BRANCHES WITH CONSTRUCTION, RECONSTRUCTION, PROJECT FUJNDS   j                                                                        ' nt nOt OnoJa0 Foonobo Co.oow
JLundJt NEW BRANCH SITES                                             _O 0v 5v on o                                                                          . ot
K'IsInO NEW BRANCH SITE WITH CONSTRUCTION, PROJECT FUNDS                                                                                                noAruo 0010_ 0000
Meru* DEPOSIT WING CONSTRUCTED NAKURU-, DEPOSET WINGS. NO PROJECT               ~                  ,KIR|F
-NORTH RIFT AREA PILOT PROJECT)                 CONSTRUCTION                                                                                555CHADr         -
0   CITIES ANO TOWNS                                                          ,                                                                      SUJDAN / Xwts
yer~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1  PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                                                           V S2N- s'\   ETIIOPSA,V
m* By       NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                     " ^rS50AEs s
PRIMARY ROADS                                                                                                                              I\  1   boo  (Wtt.ENTA 
SECONDARY ROADS                                                                        "NKwl {<              UiSuSdo                      I'  ^*,,; ' "             rJ
I I---4- RAILROADS                                             MILES         80                    .                                             S rzAaos  '0070/05         tr
RIVE RS riF,                                       p ,                                                                                         - _ N  ,Tr 
c             ---_REGION SOUNDAPIES                               0      40 ARE          120    '60                                                                     ,
wi        -'-t ~~~NTERNATIONAL SOUNDARIES                                 KIIO/T EDS                        Taescu                       0-               4           ,               X
38                                                    To Don on SoloOnschoko



