Document of
The World Bank                       FI   CQPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3362-KE
KENYA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
April 28, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



KENYA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Units            -          Kenya Shillings (K Sh)
or              US$1.00                   -          K Sh 7.5 1/
K Sh 1.00                 -          US$0.133
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                                            British Equivalents
1 meter (m)                           -           3.28 feet
1 hectare (ha)                        -           2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)       2              -           0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km )              -           0.39 square mile (sq. mi)
1 kilogram (kg)                       -           2.2 pounds (lb)
1 liter (1)                           -           0.26 US gallon (gal)
-          0.22 British gallon (imp. gal)
1 metric ton (m ton)                  -           2,205 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS
ADC       -      Agricultural Development Corporation
AFC       -      Agricultural Finance Corporation
CBK       -      Co-operative Bank of Kenya Ltd.
CSFC      -      Cereals and Sugar Finance Corporation
DAO       -      District Agricultural Officer
FAO       -      Food and Agriculture Organization
GMR       -      Guaranteed Minimum Return Scheme
IADP      -      Integrated Agricultural Development Program
JG        -      Job Group
KFA       -      Kenya Farmers Association
KFW       -      Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
MIS       -      Management Information System
MLD       -      Ministry of Livestock Development
MOA       -      Ministry of Agriculture
MOCD      -      Ministry of Co-operative Development
PDA       -      Provincial Director of Agriculture
RELS      -      Revised and Extended Loan System
USAID     -      United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
Government                -      July 1 to June 30
AFC                       -      April 1 to March 31
1/   Since October 1975'the Kenya Shilling has been pegged to the SDR at a
rate of SDR 1 = K Sh 9.66; the rate vis-a-vis the US dollar has fluctuated
since that time, and US$1.0 = K Sh 7.5, the average rate prevailing at the
time of appraisal, has been used in evaluating this Project.



KENYA                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND .........1..               . . ...... ...             I
A. The Project..                                                 1
B. The Agricultural Sector .                  .                  1
C. The Financial Sector .                   .                    4
D. Interest Rates ..                                             7
II. AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION .10
A. Objectives and Roles .10
B.  Management and Organization .11
C. Staffing and Training.                                       13
D.   Accounting and Management Reporting Systems                15
E.   Operating Policies and Procedures .17
F.  Economic Role and Performance .24
III. THE PROJECT .........................................           29
A. General Description.                                         29
B. Project Costs   ..30
C. Financing   .                      .30
D. Detailed Features   .                  .31
E. Procurement   ..39
F. Disbursements   ..40
G.   Accounts, Audit, and Reports          .      .41
IV. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION .41
A.   Background ...............        .      .      .          41
B.   Livestock and Cropping Patterns    .         .42
C. Technical Coefficients   .                .44
D.   Agricultural Production         ..............            45
E.   Markets and Prices          ................              46
V. PROSPECTS AND JUSTIFICATION .47
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .50
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Kenya in March-April 1980, composed of Messrs. S. Capoluongo, A. Rioust
de Largentaye (Bank), W.H. Edwards, T.G. Roulette, and Mrs. R. Kruthoffer
(consultants). Mr. T. Tsui joined the mission part-time. A follow-up mission
composed of Ms. S. Badgley and Mr. S. Capoluongo visited Kenya in September-
October 1980.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Supporting Schedule, Annexes, Tables, Charts and Maps
Schedule I - AFC Annual Plans
Annex 1. AFC Policy Statement
Annex 2. List of Materials and Working Papers available in Project File
Annex 3. AFC Loan Processing Cycle
Annex 4. Draft Terms of Reference for AFC Technical Assistance
Tables
1A. Summary of AFC Loan Portfolio (1977-1980)
lB. AFC 1980 Loan Portfolio Statistics
2.   Proposed Incremental Staffing for Project Activities -
AFC Regular Staff
3.   Proposed Staffing - AFC Technical Assistance
4.   Project Costs Summary
5.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
6.   Government Cash Flow
7.   AFC - Actual and Projected Balance Sheets
8.   AFC - Actual and Projected Income Statements
9.   AFC - Schedule of Selected Financial Indicators
Chart
1.   AFC - Organizational Plan
2.   Project Timetable for Start-up Activities
Maps
Map 1      Kenya - Ecological Zones
Map 2      AFC - Branch Network,



KENYA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. The Project
1.01      The proposed Fourth Agricultural Credit Project would be a continua-
tion of three previous agricultural credit projects. These three projects
were financed by the Bank Group in 1967 (Cr. 105-KE), in 1972 (Cr. 344-KE),
and in 1977 (Ln. 1390T/Cr. 692-KE), through the Agricultural Finance Corpora-
tion (AFC). AFC, in addition, is the onlending vehicle for a number of Bank
Group financed projects, including: Second Livestock Development (Cr. 477-KE),
Group Farm Rehabilitation (Ln. 1093/Cr. 537-KE), and Narok Agricultural Devel-
opment (Cr. 858-KE). The first two agricultural credit projects in Kenya
helped finance AFC's lending program to small-scale farmers. Funds from the
Third Agricultural Credit Project are also financing medium-size commercial
farmers. The main objective of the Fourth Agricultural Credit Project is to
strengthen AFC, to improve its performance and enable it to expand its lending
to farmers. The Development Planning Division of the Ministry of Agriculture,
together with the Regional Mission of the World Bank in Eastern Africa (RMEA),
prepared the Project, working closely with AFC. During appraisal, it was
judged necessary to place particular emphasis on AFC's management, organiza-
tion, and on improving its performance. To this end, an institution-building
program component was added to the Project proposal; it would include the
establishment of a Corporate Planning Department in AFC, a Credit Training
Program, and a program for rationalizing the size and location of existing
and planned field offices and facilities. At appraisal it was also decided
to exclude three components of the Project which were not directly linked to
strengthening AFC. The excluded components were the expansion of the Ministry
of Agriculture extension service, the provision of funds for credit to farm
input suppliers, and the establishment of a Government farming enterprise to
produce grade heifers. Other projects under preparation or implementation
are expected to satisfy the needs for these activities.
B. The Agricultural Sector
1.02      Kenya, with a total land area of 569,250 km , is a country of great
topographical, climatic and soil contrasts. The altitude varies from sea
level to over 5,000 m and climatic conditions range from very dry in marginal
areas of the north to high rainfall in the forests of the southwest. The
soils of Kenya's Central Plateau area are among the most fertile in Africa,
while those of the semi-desert, which cover half the country, have little
agricultural potential. Map 1 shows Kenya's six ecological zones classified
according to their potential. Kenya's population is estimated at 15.3 million



2 -
(mid-1980) and is growing at an estimated rate of 3.9% per year, one of the
highest rates in recorded history; about 90% of the population is rural and
depends on agriculture for a livelihood. There are wide variations in popu-
lation density, corresponding to traditional settlement patterns and to the
potentyal of the land. Population densities range from over 200 inhabitants
per km in Nyanza and Western Provinces, which have good agricultural poten-
tial, to under five in the dry and semi-desert North Eastern Province (Map 1).
In 1963, Kenva had about two acres of high potential land per person; in the
year 2000 there will be only half an acre of high potential land per person.
Kenya's 1979 GDP in current market prices was estimated at about K Sh 48.3
billion (US$6.4 billion), or K Sh 2,850 (US$380) per capita.
1i03      Kenya's agricultural sector is characterized by a wide variety
in systems of production which reflects the differences between ecological
zones and patterns of land tenure and population distribution. A broad
distinction can be drawn between the large-scale farming sector, including
Government farms, and the smallholder sector which employs the great majority
of the rural population. The Government defines farms of 20 ha and below as
small. There are about 1.7 million smallholdings in Kenya of an average size
of slightly over 2 ha, covering about 3.5 million ha; most smallholdings are
farmed by their owners. About 20% of the smallholders are involved in commer-
cial farming activities, another 20% are in a transitional stage between
subsistence and commercial production, and the remaining 60% are subsistence
farmers.  Maize is the staple crop, but smallholders also produce beans,
coffee, sugar, tea, pyrethrum, cotton, oilseeds, meat, milk, potatoes and
fruit. Before Independence in 1963, most large farms were owned by expatriates.
About 2.7 million ha are farmed in holdings of 20 ha or more. About 1,200 of
these farms are holdings in excess of 400 ha each; just over 2,000 are less
than 400 ha. Virtually all production on the large farms is oriented toward
commercial markets and involves a wide range of crops and livestock products.
Wheat, maize, tea, coffee, and sisal are the dominant crops on large farms.
1.04      It is estimated that, at Independence, less than 600,000 ha of land
had been registered (i.e. the owners had received a title deed). In the mid-
1960s, registration proceeded rather slowly, but towards the end of the 1960's,
it accelerated and has been proceeding in recent years at the rate of about
500,000 ha per annum. As a result, a land market has been established through-
out most of Kenya, and individual titles provide security for financing on-farm
development and the purchase of stock. By December 1979, a total of 5.7 mil-
lion ha had been registered. Despite this progress, however, there are still
many problems associated with the land adjudication and registration process,
and the lack of land titles in many areas constitutes a major bottleneck to
the extension of credit programs.
1.05      During the period 1972-78, agricultural production grew at an
average annual rate cf 2.6% in real terms, lower than the average annual
growth rate of 4.2% in the period 1964-73, and well below the 3.9% population
growth rate. Agricultural output also grew more slowly than the economy (5%)
and the industrial sector (8%) during 1972-78. As a result of this, the share
of agriculture in total GDP declined from about 35% in 1972 to 30% in 1978.
Poor weather conditions and high prices of inputs after the 1973 oil price
increases were the main reasons for the slow growth during 1974-76. This
trend was reversed in 1977 when good weather and the boom in world coffee



- 3 -
prices boosted agricultural growth to over 9% p.a. However, in 1978 agri-
cultural growth was again low (under 2%), and in 1979, agricultural pro-
duction actually declined owing largely to poor weather.   Agricultural
exports, always the largest sector contributor to total exports, were K Sh
5,300 million (US$706 million) or 60% of total exports of K Sh 8,830 million
(US$1,177 million) in 1978. Coffee is Kenya's main export crop, but other
principal earners of foreign exchange include tea, sisal, pyrethrum, dairy
products, meat, animal hides and skins, medium staple cotton, wool, nuts,
animal feeds, and in some years, maize. In recent years Kenya has imported
significant quantities of agricultural products, mainly wheat and edible oils,
while it was nearly self-sufficient in maize. In 1980, substantially lower
production resulted in unusually high imports of maize.
1.06      With little high potential land remaining uncultivated, the growing
population is increasing pressure on lower potential areas and forests, making
resource conservation a critical issue. The Government has recently instituted
communal and individual water and soil conservation measures, such as refores-
tation, long-term development planning for marginal areas, and specific schemes
for further intensifying development of high potential land, especially in
small farm areas. In the 1960's and 1970's, agricultural output grew mainly
because extensive areas of high potential land were being converted from
grazing to arable use. As population pressure on land continues to increase,
agricultural growth in the 1980's and 1990's will increasingly depend on
intensified production. To this end, the Government will seek to increase
productivity by promoting improved technology and farm management. To
intensify production, farmers will require substantial additional financing
as well as improved extension services, access to inputs and efficient mar-
keting. The planned expansion of agricultural credit under this Project is
expected to provide some of the needed financial resources.
1.07      Bank Group agricultural projects in Kenya have, over the past twenty
years, supported a broad range of objectives identified in the Government's
development strategy and sought to stimulate the productive potential of
both the subsistence and commercial farming sectors. A total of twenty-two
agricultural loans and credits has been extended, of which eight are fully
disbursed and fourteen are under implementation, ongoing loans and credits
total about US$350.0 million, and total project costs were estimated at about
US$740.0 million at appraisal. A breakdown of lending shows that about 35%
of the total loan and credit value was directed to the smallholder sector
and another 8% supported the development of livestock activities in the
pastoralist areas. The export crop sector received about 30% of total
agricultural lending, medium and large-scale farmers about 8%, and the
forestry sector about 6%; lending for an irrigation and settlement project
and a fisheries project was about 11% and 2% respectively. Project perfor-
mance has been mixed, with some notable successes and some equally problematic
operations; however, certain common institutional, financial, and policy
problems have emerged in almost all agricultural projects financed by the Bank
Group. For instance, the institutional capacity of executing agencies
is a commonly cited problem, with staff numbers and training falling short
of program needs; the lack of inter-ministerial coordination has also con-
strained project performance in many cases. At the policy level, the con-
tinued delay in articulating a national land use policy has seriously impeded



- 4 -
the achievement of project objectives in the smallholder, livestock, fores-
try, and large-farm sectors. The lack of a comprehensive and long-range
pricing policy has dampened the supply of a number of food and cash crops and
undermined the financial viability of marketing operations undertaken by
parastatal boards. Lastly, the general financial difficulties which the
Government has been experiencing during the past few years have affected
project operations across the board and, in some cases, have seriously retarded
project start-up. The Government is aware of these problems, and is taking
steps to improve the management of agricultural projects, including efforts at
training and institutional reform, and evaluation of the development impact
of operations. Additional emphasis, however, is required to resolve these
sectoral problems in a satisfactory manner, and the Bank is pursuing needed
policy reforms and action programs in the context of dicussions on structural
adjustment, sector and project work.
C. The Financial Sector
Environment
1.08      The major developments in the past two years in the financial
sector include a decline in external reserves, a slight increase in overall
credit growth in real terms, and a shift from private to Government bank
borrowing. The latter was due to a tightening in commercial bank liquidity
positions, restrictive credit guidelines imposed on commercial banks by the
Central Bank, and the availability of attractive investment opportunities in
Treasury Bills which diverted resources from the private sector. A slowdown
in economic activity coincided with reduced bank lending to enterprises facing
financial difficulties. Credit to the Government priority sectors of agricul-
ture and manufacturing, however, rose substantially during 1978-79. High
liquidity in the banking system in 1977 and 1978 resulted from the boom in
coffee prices. However, with the fall in coffee prices after 1978, increases
in fuel costs, and a rising demand for imported raw materials and industrial
components, this liquidity dried up rapidly.
1.09      In response to the deterioration of Kenya-s balance of payments and
the increase in domestic prices in the past two years, the Central Bank raised
interest rates for advances and discounts, required commercial banks to main-
tain a cash ratio of at least 3%, and limited the growth of banks lending
to the private sector to a target annual rate of 18%. In addition, the
Government has imposed restrictions on the repatriation of dividends and on
borrowings by foreign companies from local banks.
Agricultural Credit
1.10      Agricultural credit in Kenya is available from a number of insti-
tutions in the formal credit market and from individuals operating in an
informal manner.   As of June 1980, total institutional credit for agricul-
tural purposes was about K Sh 128.8 million (US$17.2 million), or approximately
40% of total credit allocation to the private sector. Little is known about
the informal market, but significant amounts of money seem to change hands,



- 5 -
especially within the extended family system. Many family members earn a
living in urban areas and remit regular sums to help maintain their rural
holdings. The main formal sources of agricultural credit are (i) the market-
ing boards; (ii) input suppliers; (iii) commercial banks; and (iv) agricul-
tural credit institutions.
1.11      Marketing Boards.  Smallholders growing tea, pyrethrum, coffee,
and cotton may obtain seasonal or medium-term credit from the respective
monopoly marketing organizations. Cash crop loans constitute most of these
funds. Farmers growing only subsistence crops have little access to this
type of credit. Semi-commercial farmers can obtain medium-term advances for
the establishment of additional acreage, and short-term advances for the
purchase of fertilizers from the marketing boards.
1.12      Input Suppliers.  The Kenya Farmers Association (KFA) provides
credit for purchases of agricultural inputs to members in good standing.
Generally, such credits must be settled within 30 days of purchase, but this
term can be extended to 90 days for the most creditworthy members. Credit
balances earn interest at 4% per annum, and overdue items incur a 10% per
annum penalty charge. The KFA works closely with AFC in its credit and
marketing activities. The Settlement Fund and Kenya Breweries Ltd. also
provide suppliers credit to qualified applicants.
The Institutional Structure
1.13      By regional standards, Kenya has a well developed banking system and
financial sector consisting of the Central Bank, 16 commercial banks, five
development banks, 15 non-bank financial institutions, several other financial
intermediaries and a securities exchange. The Kenya Government owns 100% of
the largest commercial bank, three of the development banks, and the spe-
cialized institutions lending to agriculture, tourism, and housing. In addi-
tion, it owns shares in several commercial banks and two development banks.
1.14      The Central Bank is primarily concerned with monetary and credit
policy. It supervises operations of commercial banks, accepts deposits
from banks and Government, and provides inter-bank clearing facilties. The
Central Bank influences the operations of the financial institutions through
issuance of directives on such matters as sectors to be given priority in
lending, interest rates, liquidity and reserve requirements, and lending to
foreign companies. While the Central Bank is recognized as the supreme
monetary authority, it regulates the financial sector primarily through
moral suasion rather than by legal enforcement.
1.15      The Commercial Banks.  There are 16 commercial banks currently
operating in Kenya. The three largest, Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB), Barclay's
Bank, and Standard Bank Ltd., dominate the banking system and account for
approximately 90% of total deposits and commercial banking credits and operate
virtually all bank branches outside Nairobi and Mombasa. Combined, they
have over 250 bank branches, sub-branches and agencies in the country, and
several mobile bank units which visit a number of smaller towns and villages
at regular intervals. The Government-owned KCB, the largest bank in Kenya,



- 6 -
has developed significant deposit and lending business in the rural areas
and presently obtains 30% of its deposits from 23 rural branches and mobile
units. Barclay's and Standard Bank lend primarily to old and established
companies, largely subsidiaries of foreign companies. While commercial banks
occasionally make medium and long-term loans as well as equity investments
through their subsidiaries, they are primarily engaged in short-term financing
to the manufacturing, agriculture, and commerce sectors. The bulk of their
lending to agriculture is to large-scale farmers, farming companies, and
agro-industries. However, they also handle an estimated 10,000 to 12,000
loans to medium and small-scale farmers. Farmers generally borrow under
short-term lines of credit for specific crops. It is Government policy to
promote small farm loans, but the relatively high cost of administering small
loans and the lack of dependable farm management are constraints to increasing
lending to small farmers by the commercial banks. The Central Bank requires
commercial banks to set aside at least 17% of their net deposits for lending
to agriculture. At June 30, 1979, commercial bank lending to agriculture was
about 15% of total net deposits.
1.16      The Development Banks.  Four of the five development banks, the
Industrial Development Bank (IDB), the Development Finance Company of Kenya
(DFCK), the Kenya Industrial Estates (KIE), and the East African Development
Bank (EADB), confine their operations to the industrial sector. The Industrial
and Commercial Development Corporation (ICDC) covers both the industrial and
commercial sectors. The EADB was seriously affected by the break-up of the
East African Community, and its future role is being reconsidered. IDB is
the largest single source of development financing in Kenya.
1.17      The Non-Bank Financial Institutions.  Although their deposit
resources are smaller, Kenya's fifteen non-bank financial institutions have
been growing faster than commercial banks, mostly because they pay higher
interest rates on savings than the commercial banks. They finance home
mortgages, sales of consumer goods, and trade receivables. Non-bank financial
institutions cannot accept checking accounts, but they compete effectively
with commercial banks in mobilizing private savings and in supplying credit
to enterprises and private households.
Agricultural Credit Institutions
1.18      The Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC) and the Cooperative Bank
of Kenya Ltd. (CBK) are the principal agricultural lending institutions in
Kenya. They are the onlending vehicles for a number of Bank Group financed
projects. Project funds are channelled through AFC under the following
projects: Second Livestock (Cr. 477-KE), Group Farm Rehabilitation (Ln.
1093/Cr 537-KE), Agricultural Credit III (Ln. 1390-KE/ Cr. 692-KE), Narok
Agricultural Development (Cr. 858-KE) and the First and Second Integrated
Agricultural Development Projects (Ln 1303-KE/Cr. 650-KE and Cr. 959-KE) (see
also para. 2.53). CBK onlends Bank Group funds under: the Smallholder Coffee
Improvement Project (Cr. 914-KE), the First and Second Integrated Agricultural
Development Projects, and the Fisheries Project (Cr. 1051-KE). AFC would be
the beneficiary of the proposed loan and credit and is described in Chapter
II.



1.19      The Cooperative Bank of Kenya Ltd. (CBK).  CBK was established to
mobilize the financial resources of cooperatives. It was registered as a Co-
operative Society in 1965 and as a commercial bank in 1968. About 1,000 cooper-
ative unions and societies, representing about 80% of those registered unions
and societies, are members and shareholders of CBK. Only members may keep an
account at CBK. Under Bank-sponsored projects, CBK finances loans from cooper-
ative unions and societies to smallholders. Performance of some of these
programs has been poor in the past due to weak and inefficient cooperative
management. The Government is now taking measures to strengthen cooperatives.
Other Financial Institutions
1.20      There are also several public sector financial intermediaries such
as the National Social Security, the Kenya Post Office Savings Bank, and sev-
eral insurance companies. The National Housing Corporation and the Housing
Finance Company of Kenya grant construction mortgages, and the Kenya Tourism
Development Corporation provides financial and technical services for tourism
development projects.
The Stock Exchange
1.21      The Nairobi Stock Exchange has five members and 58 registered com-
panies, of which, the securities of about half are traded regularly. Most
issues are common shares, but several preference and debenture issues are also
traded. The index of share prices on the stock market (January 1974 = 100)
rose rapidly from 227 in June 1977 to a peak of 440 by September 1978 due to
the coffee boom, but levelled off at about 350 in 1980. Although active and
well developed, the Stock Exchange is still small and is not considered a
significant source of capital for agriculture.
D. Interest Rates
1.22      The tightening of liquidity and the rise of domestic prices have put
upward pressure on interest rates which had been virtually unchanged for some
time. As part of the 1980-81 Budget, the Government announced increases in
the interest rates charged by various financial institutions effective July 1,
1980. The following table shows the principal prevailing interest rates:



Principal Interest Rates, 1977-1980 (% p.a.)
December 31              July 1
1977       1978       1979         1980
Central Bank of Kenya
Discount Rate for Treasury Bills           1.52       6.80       4.60         5.74
Advances against Treasury Bills            6.50       7.50       7.50         8.00
Bills and Notes under Crop
Finance Scheme:
-  Discounts                            6.00        7.00       7.00         8.00
-  Advances                             6.00        6.00       6.00         7.00
Other Bills and Notes:
-  Discounts                               6.50       7.50       7.50         8.50
-  Advances                                6.50       7.50       7.50         8.50
Kenya Commercial Banks
Time Deposits:
-  Minimum 30 days (7 days notice)    5.125         5.125      5.125        5.125
-  12 months (K Sh 100,000-250,000)   5.875         5.875      5.875        5.875
Savings Deposits                        5.00        5.00       5.00         6.00
Loans and Advances (Maximum) a/        10.00       10.00      10.00        11.00
Other Financial Institutions
Kenya Post Office Savings Bank
Deposits                              5.00        5.00       5.00         6.00
Agricultural Finance Corporation:
-  Seasonal Loans                   9.00-11.00  9.00-11.00  9.00-11.00  9.00-11.00
-  Term Loans                       7.5-9.00    9.00-10.00  9.00-10.00  9.00-10.00
Hire-Purchase Companies and
Industrial Development Bank:
-  Foreign Exchange Loans b/           11.0        11.0       12.5         12.5
-  Local Currency Loans                12.0        12.0       13.0         13.0
Merchant Banks:
-  Deposits (time)                  5.00- 8.00   5.00- 8.00  5.00- 8.00  6.00-8.00
-  Loans                           10.00-12.00  10.00-12.00 10.00-12.00 10.00-14.00
Building Societies:
-  Deposits                         6.00- 8.00   6.00- 8.50  6.00- 8.50  6.00-8.50
-  Loans                            8.00-12.00   8.00-12.00  8.00-12.00  8.00-14.00
Cooperative Societies:
-  Deposits                         6.00- 8.50   6.00- 8.50  6.00- 8.50  6.00-8.50
-  Loans                            8.00-12.00   8.00-12.00  8.00-12.00  8.00-12.00
Inflation
(Average annual change in consumer
price index)                          13.0          12.5         10.8         12.0
a/   Loans and Advances for less than 3 years.
b/   In 1979, the commitment fee was increased from 1% to 1-1/4%.



- 9 -
1.23      In May 1979, the Government conducted a review of the current
level and structure of interest rates, in particular those related to
lending in the agricultural sector. Following this review and the recom-
mendations that resulted, the Government interest rate policy was outlined in
Sessional Paper No. 4 of 1980 on Economic Prospects and Policies. The Paper
was approved by Cabinet in April and by Parliament in May. This document
states that "an excessively low and inflexible interest rate structure" has
resulted in a disequilibrium in the financial system and stresses the impor-
tance of an upward adjustment in the level and structure of interest rates to
stimulate savings and induce a more rational allocation of resources in the
economy. Regarding agriculture, while the Sessional Paper did not specify the
degree of upward adjustment, it established the principle of comparability of
interest rates between sectors as an underlying condition for increasing
credit to agricultural activities. The Paper also indicated that other
measures would be taken to strengthen existing procedures for channelling
credit to target groups within the sector.
1.24      The resulting policy measures introduced with the 1980-81 Budget
included: (i) an increase in the minimum interest rates payable by commercial
banks on savings deposits from 5% to 6%, and an increase in the maximum
commercial bank lending rate from 10% to 11%; (ii) a limitation of the maximum
lending rates for non-bank financial institutions to 14%; (iii) a reduction
of the maximum interest rate chargeable by money-lenders to 24%; and (iv) the
establishment of a joint quarterly review of interest rates by the Central
Bank and Treasury.
1.25      More specifically regarding agriculture, the actions announced
in the 1980-81 Budget Message were: (i) commercial banks are required to
direct credits to the agricultural sector amounting to at least 17% of their
deposit liabilities; this quota must be fulfilled by no later than June 30,
1981; (ii) non-bank financial intermediaries are required to direct credits
to the agricultural sector equal to at least 10% of their deposit liabilities
within the same time frame; and (iii) the Central Bank is to give favorable
treatment to banking system agricultural loan portfolios in order to assure
adequate liquidity and profitability.
1.26      It is also Government policy to maintain healthy competition
between the commercial banks and non-bank financial intermediaries in their
agricultural lending activities, and also between private financial institu-
tions and parastatal agricultural credit institutions. In this latter connec-
tion, it is intended that institutions channelling Government funds, whether
derived from budgetary or foreign assistance sources, will be allowed approxi-
mately the same spread between the cost of their funds and their on-lending
rates as exists between the deposit and lending rates of the commerical
banks.
1.27      The interest rate dialogue between the Government and the Bank
Group in the context of the Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr. 999-KE) has
centered around two issues; the level of interest rates, which was consideredi
too low, and more fundamentally, the lack of a rationale for the Government-s
interest rate policy. Progress in both areas was a condition for the release
of the second tranche of the Structural Adjustment Credit. The release was
approved by the Bank in September 1980.



- 10 -
1.28      Regarding agricultural interest rates, and AFC in particular,
the broad guiding principles have now been established, and they are satis-
factory. The detailed implementation of Government's interest rate policy as
it affects AFC's rates to farmers has been the subject of extensive discus-
sions between Government and the Bank Group. Recent policy developments,
were discussed at negotiations. The Government informed the Bank Group that
procedures for monthly reviews of overall interest rate structure and levels
between the Central Bank and Treasury had been established. Assurances were
obtained that AFC would charge at least 12% p.a. on medium-term loans to
farmers and that the adequacy of AFC's rates and their consistency with
overall Government interest rate policy would be reviewed on an annual basis
in the context of the Annual Plan (para. 3.08-3.09).
II. THE AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION
A. Objectives and Role
2.01      The Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC) was established in 1963.
It took over the duties of the two Boards of Agriculture which served the
"scheduled" (i.e. expatriate settled) and "non-scheduled" areas, and worked in
close cooperation with the Land and Agricultural Bank established in 1931. In
1969, under the Agricultural Finance Corporation Act, AFC was reconstituted
with wider powers and assumed the responsibilities of the Land and Agricultural
Bank. The functions of the present Corporation are, as stated in the Act, "to
assist in the development of agriculture and agricultural industries by making
loans to farmers, cooperative societies, incorporated group representatives,
private companies, public bodies, local authorities and other persons engaging
in agriculture or agricultural industries". As the primary agricultural
credit institution in Kenya, AFC provides long, medium, and short-term credit
to both small and large-scale farmers. Long-term loans are primarily for land
acquisition, medium-term loans for on-farm development, and short-term loans
for seasonal crop inputs.  It is Government policy, as stated in Kenya's
current 1979-83 Development Plan, that "the AFC will become increasingly
involved in small farm credit."
2.02      AFC is a statutory body owned by the Kenya Government.  According
to the AFC Act, the Board of Directors is AFC's supreme policy-making body.
There must be at least four directors and no more than eight, and these are
appointed by the Minister of Agriculture (MOA). The Act specifies the two
Permanent Secretaries of the Ministries of Agriculture and of Finance and
Treasury as permanent Board members. The Permanent Secretary of the recently
created Ministry of Livestock Development also holds a seat on the Board. The
Act also states that two more Board members must be appointed by reason of
their knowledge of banking and finance. The Board, historically, has exercised
little initiative with respect to setting corporate objectives or developing



- 21 -
overall policy, and has been more actively involved in day-to-day operations
such as the loan-making process. All loans above K Sh 100,000 for example,
are considered by the Board. This practice was criticized by the Presidential
Commission for Review of Statutory Boards (also known as the Ndegwa Committee)
which recommended in May 1979 that the Boards of all parastatal organizations
remove themselves from involvement in line operations and focus more on pro-
viding leadership in policy matters.
2.03      There are currently eight directors on the AFC Board.  For many years,
the Chairman of the Board has been the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of
Finance, but in July 1980, the President appointed a Chairman from outside the
Civil Service. This is a positive development since the former Chairman was
not able to devote sufficient time to AFC business.
2.04      The provisions of the AFC Act structure the Board in such a manner
that it serves as an auxiliary of the Ministry of Agriculture. Recognizing
the need to seek a balance between agricultural priorities and credit prin-
ciples, the AFC Act specifies that at least two directors must be appointed by
virtue of their expertise in financial or banking matters. However, the
strong influence and leadership of MOA has often resulted in MOA priorities
predominating over considerations more strictly related to AFC's longer-
term financial objectives as a credit institution.
B. Management and Organization
2.05      The General Manager is the Chief Executive of the Corporation.  He
is appointed by the Board with the consent of the Ministers for Agriculture
and Finance, attends all Board meetings and participates in discussions, but
cannot vote. The Ndegwa Committee recommended that the Chief Executives
of all parastatals become deliberative and voting Board members with the
title of "Managing Director", but this recommendation has not yet been
implemented. AFC-s present General Manager was appointed in June 1973,
after having served as Deputy General Manager for eight years. The position
of Deputy General Manager remained vacant for several years and was then
abolished. This decision was contrary to the advice of external financ-
ing agencies, including the Bank Group, which recommended that a Deputy
General Manager be appointed to manage AFC day-to-day operations so that the
General Manager could better concentrate on implementation of policy. While
there has been no move to reestablish this position, recent actions, including
the appointment of an AFC Board Chairman from outside the Civil Service and
the decision to establish a Corporate Planning Department and to build up the
Finance Department will greatly facilitate the job of the General Manager and
provide a more systematic framework for decision-making. These measures
represent a strong step toward improving AFC management capacity at the higher
levels and are satisfactory.
2.06      There are three major divisions at AFC, each headed by Assistant
General Managers: (a) the Technical Services Division, (b) the Finance
Division and (c) the Administrative Services Division (for Organizational
Plan see Chart 1). The Technical Services Division is responsible for



- 12 -
all loan operations and is currently staffed with 20 professionals and 13
clerical personnel. The Division Head administers and coordinates all credit
activities. The Division provides technical support to Area and Branch
Managers. Its four departments are: (a) The Credit Appraisal Department,
comprising a Farms Loan Section and a Ranch Loans Section; (b) The Farm
Management Department, whose objective is to provide farm management service
to borrowers such as group farms (c) The Credit Review Department which
advises on loan quality and the effectiveness of loan policies and procedures;
and (d) The Credit Control Department which follows up on delinquent loans
and advises Branches on collection strategies.
2.07      The Finance Division is responsible for corporate finance, account-
ing, and data processing. The division is currently composed of 21 profes-
sionals and 59 clerical personnel. Its three departments are: (a) The
Finance Department (to be renamed, the Financial Services Department) which
handles funding, budgeting, and costing and whose main function is corporate
funds management; (b) The Accounts Department which maintains the loan accounts
of the Corporation using an IBM System 3 computer; and (c) The Electronic Data
Processing Department which handles all computer processing requirements
including the use of the computer to keep accounts and information pertaining
to farm cash-flows for the Loan Committee and branches.
2.08      The Administrative Services Division assists the General Manager
in the overall administration of the Corporation. It is currently composed
of 10 professionals and 25 clerical personnel. In addition, the five Area
Managers report administratively, but not on technical credit matters, to the
Division Head. The division's four departments are: (a) The Legal Department;
(b) The Personnel Department; (c) The Business Services Department, responsible
for all corporate procurement and the management and maintenance of corporate
properties; and (d) The Training Department, established in late 1979, which
is responsible for coordinating the internal and overseas training programs
of AFC; it is presently staffed with one professional, but technical support
for expansion is being provided by USAID (para 3.22).
2.09      Two departments report directly to the General Manager.  The
Internal Audit Department, composed of six professionals and two clerical
staff, is responsible for corporate auditing. The Corporate Development
and Research Department, composed of four professional and five clerical
staff, is responsible for the standardization of AFC operations, systems,
development and execution of studies for management, such as the appraisal,
monitoring and evaluation of lending schemes. It also prepares new projects,
maintains a data bank and library, produces manuals and bulletins, and is
in charge of AFC's publications. Under the Project, this latter department
would be absorbed by the new Corporate Planning Department (para. 3.07).
2.10      The heart of AFC operations is its network of 34 branch offices
grouped into five geographical and administrative areas (Map 2). The number
of branches in each area ranges from five to eight. Total staffing of the
branch and area offices is 271, or approximately three-fifths of AFC staff.
The five Area Managers report on administrative matters to the General Manager
through the Head of the Administrative Services Division. Similarly, branch
managers report to their Area Managers on administrative matters, but deal



- 13 -
directly with the appropriate credit and finance departments and divisions on
specific technical matters. They are responsible for appraising, disbursing,
supervising and collecting loans under the supervision of their respective
Area Managers.
2.11      AFC branch offices, whose loan portfolios vary widely in size and
type, have several problem areas in common. Branch staff generally have
little understanding of the near or long-term objectives of their specific
branch. Consequently, efforts often appear directionless or in reaction to
perceived policy of the Head Office. Branch Managers have often shown
reluctance to accept the responsibilities delegated to them, particularly
regarding collection and foreclosure problems. Branch managers have tended
to see their roles as that of loan officers with additional administrative
duties rather than that of office managers'. The skill level of professional
field staff is also very uneven. However, in general, field staff appear to
be aware of their limitations, particularly in the area of credit, and seem
eager to receive appropriate training.
2.12      Since AFC must have personal contact with prospective and existing
clients, travel time is a major constraint in the effectiveness of branch
operations. Estimates of the amount of time loan officers spend traveling
on AFC business range from 40% to 60% of their weekly time. This large amount
of unproductive time, added to the rising cost of fuel, is a tremendous burden
on AFC's operating costs. The Administrative Services Division is concerned
with this and is trying to promote more effective use of time through more
careful planning of loan officers routes. A more fundamental problem concerns
AFC's marketing approach and the suitability of AFC branch location. In order
to address these problems, a credit marketing specialist will be recruited for
the Corporate Planning Department and short-term consultants would be hired to
study credit demand and optimum branch and mini-branch locations (para 3.18).
C. Staffing and Training
2.13      AFC currently employs about 470 people; approximately three-fifths
are in the field and the rest at headquarters. One-third of the staff are
professionals, managerial and technical; two-thirds are clerks, drivers,
and messengers. About 30% of the professional staff have been with AFC for
more than ten years; 30%, between five and ten; and 40%, five years or less.
A low proportion of the professional staff have extensive work experience
outside AFC, and most of those who do have outside experience are from the
Ministry of Agriculture.
2.14      Virtually all loan officers, branch managers, and area managers
have an educational background in agriculture. Finance Division staff gener-
ally have formal training and experience in accounting. Few AFC staff have
any formal training or experience in banking and finance. This deficiency
reflects the circumstances and the environment prevailing at the time of AFC's
establishment and during its early years of operation. It reflects AFC-s
close association with the Ministry of Agriculture, and the often over-
simplified view among policy-makers throughout much of the 1960's and 70's



- 14 -
about the role of credit as an agricultural input. The experience of the past
several years indicates that efforts to orient farmers' investments through
credit incentives alone can often be frustrated. From early development as an
appendix of the agricultural extension service, AFC has evolved into one of
Kenya's major credit institutions. It now needs to convert a work force
consisting mainly of agricultural staff into a more financially and credit-
oriented staff.
2.15      AFC works within the general framework of the "Job Group System"
of structuring and classifying jobs used by the Kenyan Civil Service. Under
this system jobs are classified and paid according to 15 lettered Job Groups
(JG) ranging from "A", the lowest, to "P", the highest. The professional
level begins generally at the "G" level, although employees who lack the
minimum educational requirements for professional positions may be initially
classified in lower grades and then advance as they acquire experience on
the job. Clerical staff may advance to JGs above the G level upon achieving
specified proficiency and experience. Certain deviations from conventional
job evaluation and wage administration practices are apparent from an inspec-
tion of the JG classification of present incumbents. Several staff at Head-
quarters are of equal or higher level than their superiors; some secretaries,
for instance, have a JG rank above that of the senior professional they work
for.
2.16      Salary structure, and its effect on the retention of AFC personnel,
has been a problem inhibiting staff effectiveness over the past several years.
Salary scales of governmental and parastatal organizations have fallen in-
creasingly behind those of the private sector. However, this imbalance has
had an uneven effect on the ability of AFC to attract and retain personnel.
Because AFC staff have a strong agricultural orientation, their skills are not
in high demand in the private sector. Competition for such skills comes
mainly from the public sector, particularly the Ministries of Agriculture and
Livestock Development, but within the public sector, AFC has a relatively
attractive compensation package. Appraisal review of the Terms of Service for
AFC staff suggests that benefits and allowances for staff within Job Groups A
through F actually account for as much as 50% of the base salary, up to 75%
for G through L levels and up to 100% for the M through P levels. A potential
problem still exists, however, in those areas involving accounting, financial,
and data processing skills. These skills are in short supply nationally, and
the private sector enjoys a substantial wage advantage over the public sector.
Recently Civil Service wages have been increased about 15%, and AFC has
submitted a proposal for increases in the AFC salary levels by about 50%.
However, even substantial salary increases will not completely alleviate AFC's
staffing problems in certain critical skill areas, and other solutions need to
be developed to compensate employees, including employee training and develop-
ment programs combined with a system of promotion incentives linked to per-
formance evaluation.
2.17      At present, AFC does not have a system of performance standards
against which the actual performance of individuals and groups can be evaluated
and training needs appropriately identified. Job descriptions are technically
poor, consisting of a collection of functional responsibility statements and
some educational or loosely described experience qualifications. Similarly,
the performance review system is poor, touching on only generalities about



- 15 -
job performance and offering no provision for feedback of the evaluation to
the employee.
2.18      Training.  The recently established Training Department (para 2.08)
proposed an ambitious in-house/in-country training program for 1980, with
18 training sessions scheduled, covering an estimated 100 to 150 AFC employees.
Of these sessions, eight are to be in-house and 12 in conjunction with other
training institutes, including the Kenya Institute of Administration and the
Kenya Institute of Management. AFC has also started an inventory of the train-
ing history of all AFC staff to identify more precisely AFC training needs.
2.19      AFC also has a limited overseas training program.  Since 1976, AFC
has sent about 30 of its staff overseas for training, mainly to the U.S.
Sixteen more employees were scheduled for such training in 1980, with three
seeking degrees in Agricultural Economics. While these training programs may
be generally useful to the participating individuals, the programs have not
been sufficiently geared to specific institutional objectives. AFC is now
attempting to link both formal and informal training efforts to more system-
atically identified needs in specific operational functions.
2.20      AFC is an organization in transition.  Since Independence in 1963,
its staff has increased five-fold to nearly 500. At the same time, Govern-
ment's direct involvement in agriculture through a host of development projects,
general crop support schemes and extension services programs has stimulated
credit demands and also complicated AFC's job of implementing Government
policies within the financial and operating constraints of a credit institu-
tion. The present level of AFC's operations has clearly strained institutional
resources to their limit. AFC's operating policies need to be more clearly
defined, management needs greater depth and direction, and line staff need
strengthening in credit and financial skills.
D. Accounting and Management Information System
Accounting System
2.21      On April 1, 1980, AFC introduced a new computerized accounting
system developed with bilateral assistance from the Federal Republic of
Germany. Improperly named Management Information System (MIS), the new system
is, in fact, a sophisticated automated information system. As of January
1981, the system was working fairly smoothly although a number of problems
remain to be worked out and the programming of special reporting functions
needs further work. Staff also need further training to supply required
information in the correct format, and likewise, management has to become
familiar with the tool in order to extract and use the information efficiently
and strategically. Under the Project, the staffing of the Accounts Department
and the Electronic Data Processing Department will be strengthened to complete
the necessary design and programming work required (paras. 3.11-3.12).
2.22      The long and expensive conversion from AFCGs prior automated account-
ing system to its new "MIS" was justified by a number of inadequacies in the
old system. It was also necessary to support AFC-s efforts to decentralize



- 16 -
operations to the branches. The previous Revised and Extended Loans System
(RELS), introduced in February 1974, also with bilateral technical assistance,
was based on individual loan schemes rather than the individual agricultural
borrower, reflecting, in part, donors insistence on separate accounting for
particular projects. Updates were processed on a schematic basis, and each of
the 17 loan schemes administered by AFC was associated with a specific bank
account and bank statement. Reconciliation was a long and often futile
process. Receipts were sent to Head Office from the branches by borrower
name, which often led to misposting, and all disbursements were made from
Head Office.  All these factors contributed to serious delays of at least two
to three months in information output and branches had no overall view of
their collections and arrears situation. The new system will permit much
more flexibility than RELS did. Information concerning each loan will be
gathered on an appropriate input form and then maintained in a data bank
within the computer. Primary organization of records will be made on a
borrower basis, rather than as previously, on a scheme basis. Under the new
system, it will be possible, for example, to ascertain the total indebtedness
of any particular borrower and to examine the extent of repayments in arrears.
Management Reporting System
2.23      The new accounting system, and in particular the General Ledger
Reporting sub-system, designed to produce about 100 different reports based on
current and historical information on all accounts, has the potential to
become an important management tool, since reports can be designed on request
by management. The design of management reports will be the joint task of the
Corporate Planning Department and the Finance Division. Some of the potential
uses of the system are described below.
2.24      Arrears Reporting.  Regular and accurate information concerning
arrears of loan repayments is vital to efficient management. The old account-
ing system, RELS, produced monthly computerized reports showing the arrears
position of each scheme, analyzed by branch and providing a total for the
scheme. This form of report was of limited use to AFC management and was
probably more useful to external funding agencies interested in the financing
of individual projects. In many instances, schemes have been designed to
coincide exactly with externally-financed projects, and in these cases, the
external funding agencies can obtain arrears information concerning their
projects by examining the relevant reports. However, from an internal manage-
ment point of view, it is more useful to structure the management reports in
such a way that the overall position of each branch is shown separately.
2.25      AFC's principal activity is making loans to farmers, and therefore
its management's main concern should be the systems and principles to be
adopted in order to ensure loan recovery. In order to control recoveries
effectively, management must have access to relevant, accurate, and timely
information on loans. The most fundamental information required includes
details of all loans in arrears, how far they have fallen into arrears,
and the relative proportion of loans in arrears to total outstanding loans.
Until April 1980, AFC did not have information on the age of its receivables
from: (i) small-scale loans which were in arrears 12 months and over; (ii)
all large-scale loans; and (iii) all crop loans. The MIS has the capacity to
produce regular reports on the ageing of arrears in summary format, and the
appropriate programs to retrieve this information are under preparation.



- 17 -
2.26      Budgetary Control.  The new MIS can also expedite the budgeting
process. The 1980/81 budget exercise was the first to involve Area and
Branch management. Previous budgets had been made on a corporate-wide basis,
while the current budget has been split into Cost and Income Centers. The
Income Centers include all field branches and two departments in Head Office,
the Accounting Department, and the Business Services Department. The General
Manager's Office, other Head Office divisions and departments, and Area
Offices are Cost Centers. Unallocated costs such as depreciation, interest
on loans and capital expenditures are included in a "Corporate Overheads"
Cost Center. In preparing the 1980/81 Budget Paper for AFC Board presenta-
tion, emphasis was placed on the involvement of Branch and Area personnel
in the budgeting exercise as well as on future efforts to relate actual
to budgeted performance. An automated budget system would facilitate such
performance appraisal, and allocate income and costs to the relevant centers.
2.27      Cash Management.  Although a monthly funds flow statement is pre-
pared on an historical basis, there are no projected statements of cash-flow
for future periods. This has been a serious drawback to AFC's operations over
the past few years. Loan approvals have been made on the basis of general
policy directives combined with historical, and often outdated, information.
As a result of this practice, branch lending was often slowed down and some-
times halted. AFC surplus cash rarely falls below K Sh 30 million, but
occasionally loan approvals are curtailed because of apparent cash short-
ages. Better information on projected loan repayments would allow AFC to
estimate its short-term cash flow and to plan disbursements and lending more
effectively.
2.28      Credit Reports.  Much of the information required to complete the
above reports would automatically be available from the computer statements.
However, mechanically produced figures, such as those generated by the com-
puter, tend to be less valuable than those which have been prepared or
reviewed by an experienced analyst. The act of transferring data from
mechanized reports to manually prepared documents involves the examination
and consideration of each figure and usually results in a document which
is more readily assimilated. The human analytical input is particularly
important with regard to credit, because decisions depend on qualitative
judgment and experience. For example, arrears reporting to management
should be accompanied by a short and simple written analysis of significant
trends, possible reasons, and recommendations for improvement.
E. Operating Policies and Procedures
Credit Policies
2.29      According to the 1969 Act (para 2.01), AFC's mandate is to make
loans to farmers to enable them to engage more effectively in agriculture.
The specific lending terms and conditions as to interest, repayment, security
and other lending policies to carry out this objective are to be determined by
the Board. The Act also provides that the Board may delegate its powers to
the General Manager. In practice, the Board has exercised little leadership
and independent judgment in setting corporate operating policies. It would



- 18 -
appear that existing policies have been defined largely during negotiations
between the Government and external donors who have financed a large share of
AFC's operations. In preparing and implementing credit projects to be
channelled through AFC, the Government and the donors have tended to focus
more on project-specific objectives than on overall institutional policies.
With a strong institution-building emphasis, the proposed Project will assist
AFC management to move away from this schematic and disjointed approach to
planning and portfolio management. An AFC Statement of Policy, recently
prepared in conjunction with the Ministries of Agriculture, discussed during
negotiations and approved by the AFC Board, defines AFC's general objectives
and the policies and strategies by which it will attempt to achieve these
objectives (para 3.08 and Annex 1).
2.30      AFC operates "large" and "small" scale lending programs.  This
distinction, however, refers to the size of the loans rather than to the
size of the farms or the income levels of the borrowers. Therefore, while
"large" scale loans are virtually all granted to medium and large-scale
farmers, "small" scale loans are not necessarily made to smallholders alone.
All loans under K Sh 20,000 are considered small-scale; over K Sh 20,000,
large. AFC has no explicit policy objectives regarding the relative volume of
small versus large-scale loans. Historically the ratio of large-scale to
small-scale loan volume has been 3:1.
2.31      A number of factors serve to determine the loan amount.  One of
these is the technical specifications relating to the purpose of the loan.
The extension staff of the Ministry of Agriculture often plays an important
role in determining the loan amount requested, because they are active in
identifying potential borrowers and assisting them to prepare loan applica-
tions, particularly for investment activities which the Ministry is promoting.
Other factors influencing the loan amount are conditions and restrictions
agreed upon with the donor agencies financing the scheme under which a par-
ticular loan is made (paras 2.42-2.43). Although AFC requires a farm-budget
for all of its loans, and loan officers attempt to determine each loan amount
on the basis of the technical and financial features of the individual invest-
ments being considered, in practice, the most important factor in determining
loan size has been the appraised value of the security pledged as collateral,
in most cases, land.
2.32      While this practice of using the collateral criterion to determine
loan size may be financially prudent, it results in a situation where intended
farmer investments are often inadequately financed. The failure to mobilize
required funds can affect the profitability of the investment, and in turn,
the ability of the farmer to repay the loan. In the past, neither AEC nor the
Ministry extension services have had adequate resources to monitor actual use
of loan proceeds against the original farm plan. Lack of supervision and
follow-up, coupled with the problem of insufficient financing, has increased
the risk of bad debts and use of loan proceeds for other than agreed purposes.
No comprehensive survey has been completed, but some evidence suggests that
over one-half of AFC small scale loans are diverted to non-agricultural
purposes. The strengthening of both AFC field staff capability and timely
information systems should assist AFC in monitoring loan use more carefully in
the future.



- 19 -
2.33      AFC makes short, medium and long-term loans.  Short-term loans have
final maturities of up to two years and finance mainly seasonal crop produc-
tion, poultry stock and feed, pig feed, and steer fattening. Medium-term
loans are repayable in two to 10 years and finance primarily farm development,
including dairy and beef livestock development and perennial crops. Long-term
loans normally mature in 10 to 20 years, but may be extended up to 30 years;
they generally finance land purchases. At appraisal, the interest rate
charged on seasonal crop loans was 11% p.a., land purchase loans, mainly
long-term, carried a rate of 9% p.a., and all other loans a rate of 10% p.a.
As of March 1981, AFC interest rates on medium- and long-term loans had been
increased to 12% p.a.
2.34      As loan security, AFC usually requires the title deed to a farmer's
land; exceptions are ranch loans where chattel mortgages are sometimes accepted
and machinery loans where the machinery is pledged as security. In the
smallholder credit projects financed from AFC's own resources, unsecured loans
are made in some exceptional cases to known, reliable farmers with an under-
taking that the farmer will surrender the title to AFC once it is issued. In
general, AFC requires that the value of the pledged security exceed the size
of the loan by 50%; however, a loan application with good repayment prospects
may be approved if the value of the land pledged is at least equal to the
amount of the loan.
2.35      Annex 3 outlines the AFC loan processing cycle from identification
to repayment, or, in case of default, to sale of collateral. Branch managers
may approve loans up to K Sh 10,000; the General Manager, up to K Sh 100,000;
and the Board, above K Sh 100,000. In addition, the General Manager has
authority to approve all farm machinery loans. The General Manager has some-
times approved -overdrafts' in excess of K Sh 100,000. These are advances on
loans pending formal presentation to the Board.
2.36      Coordination of AFC's field operations with the agricultural exten-
sion service is encouraged by two means. First, the field extension officer
draws up the farm plan and farm budget of the applicant. Second, the District
Agricultural Officer (DAO) chairs the district Loan Advisory Committee which
assists AFC Branch staff in screening applicants. However, the involvement
of the extension staff in the identification of potential borrowers varies
greatly from one area to the next depending on the particular skills of the
extension officer and the number of farmers within the officer's area of
responsibility. Improved coordination of extension services and AFC branch
operations would be fostered under the Project by upgrading AFC branch staff
and by reinforcing the concept of the branch as a "profit center."
2.37      Interest and principal amortization on AFC loans are generally due
in annual payments. Tractor loans are repayable semi-annually, after each
plowing season. The first installment on loans for dairy cows is due after
15 months; seasonal crop loans, six months, and most other loans, 12 months.
Because of the long period that elapses before the first installment is paid,
AFC has inadequate early warning of possible defaulters. Except for crop
loans, which should be repayable in full immediately after harvest, loan
repayments should be more frequent than as at present. In this way the
Branch Manager could be warned of certain farmers likely to default, allowing
prompt action to remedy the problem.



- 20 -
2.38      Responsibility for collecting from borrowers rests initially with
Branch Managers. In cases where Branch Managers are unsuccessful, they may
request that the Credit Control Department at the head office assume responsi-
bility for recovering the debt; alternatively, responsibility for recovery
can be placed in the hands of the Legal Department. The Legal Department
may either take action through a court of law or inform the borrower directly
that the farm can be sold to recover both the loan and the cost of selling the
farm. In the latter case, the borrower has the opportunity to repay part or
all of the loan in order to avoid the sale of his farm. The system is clearly
designed to provide farmers with every possible opportunity to pay back at
least part of the amount outstanding. However, the procedure still has the
weakness that it permits a delinquent farmer to repay a small portion of the
amount outstanding and thereby defer immediate repayment of the rest by means
of a technicality. Moreover, it encourages the practice of debt rescheduling,
with an ensuing distortion of collection rates, and an adverse effect on port-
folio liquidity. AFC management is taking measures to analyse these problems
and to revise and strengthen credit policies and loan collection procedures.
Technical assistance provided under the Project and through USAID's Agricul-
tural Sector Services Support Loan will further reinforce AFC-s efforts to
redefine and improve its lending strategy and procedures.
2.39      AFC's foreclosure procedures need to be more clearly defined.  AFC
management maintains that a foreclosure threat or an auction notice is usually
enough to ensure loan recovery. In 1979, 652 farms were advertised for sale,
36 were sold by public auction, and 69 were bought by AFC because there were
no bidders at the auction. While details of the remaining 547 cases were not
available from AFC's Legal Department during appraisal, management reported
that the owners paid for the farms. In several communities, particularly in
parts of western Kenya, there is strong social pressure to boycott public land
auctions. The members of those communities hold the traditional belief that
only certain families and ethnic groups have a right to own land in certain
locations and any outsider who "buys in" is considered an intruder.
Accounting Policies
2.40      A number of problems have been identified related to AFC's account-
ing policies. AFC-s balance sheet for the fiscal year ending March 31, 1979,
showed K Sh 900,000 as having been spent on the acquisition of 11 farms.
However, AFC auditors were given a list from the Legal Department indicating
that there were about 90 farms which the Corporation had acquired by the year
end. The balances relating to the extra farms were included in the ordinary
loan account balances. Farm properties in possession were valued at the total
of principal and interest due at the date of foreclosure, less subsequent
recoveries. In respect of the acquired properties, no provision for a loss of
value on these assets was made, as AFC management believes that the security
would realize more than the outstanding loan balances. In order to exercise
control over all acquired properties and also to have ready information at all
times, the auditors recommended that the Legal Department maintain a memorandum
register in which all acquired farms are entered with details such as date
acquired, reference number, description of properties acquired, amount due at
the time of acquisition, location of the property, and date of sale. It was
also recommended that this register should be reconciled regularly with the
list in the computer printouts on acquired properties and that each such



- 21 -
acquired property be examined with regard to the marketability of the property.
As a result of these recommendations, AFC has revised its accounting procedures
for farm properties in possession; however, it is still reviewing the need to
provide for potential losses in value of these properties.
2.41      AFC management believes that the current provisions for bad debts
are adequate, especially since virtually all loans are secured by land.
Management's position on this matter is consistent with their reluctance to
write off loans which could reasonably be considered uncollectable. When
loans are written off, the implicit criteria appear to be lack of collateral,
death of the borrower, and the small loan amount. These problems are presently
being addressed by AFC management as a result of recent auditors' reports and
recommendations. Furthermore, the refinement and increased use of the new
accounts system and management information reports will serve to clarify where
revision of AFC accounting policies is necessary. During negotiations, these
critical accounting policies were reviewed. AFC indicated that they plan
to conduct a review of the adequacy of its bad debt provisions and formulate a
write-off policy based on an analysis of arrears. Assessment of progress in
these areas would be an important element in the review and approval of the
AFC Annual Plans (para. 3.08).
Lending Programs
2.42      AFC's lending operations have been financed by bilateral and multi-
lateral sources as well as by the Treasury and AFC's own funds. Reflecting
the fact that financing sources have been linked to specific lending programs,
AFC has, in effect, been administering a variety of specialized loan schemes
each with different terms, conditions, and reporting requirements. This
schematic approach has burdened AFC administratively and contributed to its
difficulties in establishing general policies and appraising total financing
needs. However, with the development of increased planning capacity under the
proposed Project, AFC will establish overall policy objectives, formulate a
long-term strategy for major lending activities and seek to secure financing
on a global rather than schematic basis. At present, AFCs "large-scale"
(para 2.30) lending programs include the following (see also Table 1):
(a) Land Purchase and Development Loans. AFC extends credit
for purchase of large-scale farms and for development and
working capital on such farms. This program is supported
by AFC's own resources, supplemented by funds provided
under the British Land Transfer Program (BLTP). The BLTP
is designed to assist Kenyans with the acquisition of large,
mixed farms owned by British citizens on a "willing seller -
willing buyer" basis; in general, this scheme is short of
funds because the demand for land purchase loans far exceeds
available funds. Total volume of lending for land purchases
has declined significantly in recent years.
(b) The Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau (KfW) of the Federal
Republic of Germany provides funds for "the rationalization
of African-owned farms in Trans Nzoia". This involves
injecting capital into those farms newly purchased by
African owners for whom shortage of capital is a constraint
to good performance. Typically, finance is provided for:



- 22 -
cash crop production, land clearing to develop pasture,
purchase of agricultural equipment and machines, pasture
fencing, fodder establishment, watering facilities, soil
conservation, and pig-raising. The loan also provides
funds for the establishment of Government-owned animal
breeding farms through the Agricultural Development
Corporation (ADC).
(c)  The Group Farms Rehabilitation Project - (Cr. 537-KE):  This
Project began in 1975, and is partly financed by IBRD/IDA.
It aims at assisting coffee estates and mixed farms under
group ownership which are run-down and require a
package of management and technical assistance together
with long-term and seasonal credit. The project has encoun-
tered serious difficulties related both to uncertainty about
the Government-s policy towards sub-division of large farms
(including Group-owned farms) and financial difficulties
facing many of the farms.
(d)  Ranch Loans have been extended under livestock development
projects financed partially by the Bank Group (para 1.17).
Volume of ranch loans has been lower than anticipated and the
project faces serious difficulties.
2.43      AFC's "small-scale" (para 2.30) lending programs include (see also
Table 1):
(a)  IDA Smallholder Credits:  The first line of credit from IDA
(105-KE) approved in 1967 was intended to assist smallholders
establish or improve crop and livestock enterprises. About
10,000 farmers borrowed K Sh 34 million for grade cattle and
related items, and for crop establishment and tractor purchases.
A second credit project (344-KE), approved in 1972, included:
the financing of agricultural loans over a three-year period
for the production of foodcrops, oilseeds and industrial crops,
fruit, dairy and poultry development, and purchase of farm
machinery and equipment. This credit also provided technical
services, vehicles and office equipment for AFC and the Ministry
of Agriculture. By December 31, 1976, some 13,290 farmers had
borrowed K Sh 82.0 million, mostly for livestock development.
A further K Sh 12.1 million has been spent on machinery, trac-
tors and related equipment.
(b)  The Third Agricultural Credit Project (CR 692-KE/Ln 1390-KE),
approved in 1977, finances a three-year year time slice of
AFC's general lending program for commercial farmers, small
and large-scale. The small-scale lending program is a continua-
tion of the two previous smallholder credit projects; the
large-scale lending program financed mainly land development
(see also para 2.57).
(c) KfW Smallholder Credit. This line of credit is similar to the
IDA credits, but is limited to the Kisii and Kericho districts.



- 23 -
The main objective is to assist farmers to commercialize their
agricultural activities through participation in dairy cattle
farming and diversification of crop enterprises. Some 3,700
farmers have borrowed about K Sh 14.3 million. The program
has been assisted by a team of German extension officers.
(d) AFC Smallholder Credit. This program is financed out of
AFC's own resources, and operates in areas where land
adjudication has not yet been completed.
2.44      AFC lending for seasonal crop inputs has been carried out primarily
under two schemes: the Smallholder Production, Services and Credit Project
(SPSCP), and the Guaranteed Minimum Return (GMR) scheme.
(a) The Smallholder Production, Services and Credit Project
(SPSCP). Funded under the 1975 USAID sector loan, this
scheme was designed to make seasonal credit available to
both large and small-scale farmers. AFC was one of the
recipients of this credit, together wth CBK and KFA. The
AFC portion of the loan was K Sh 18 million for large-
scale farms and K Sh 10 million for small-scale farms.
Mainly clients with title deeds already pledged to AFC
are eligible for financing under this scheme.
(b) Until 1979, the Guaranteed Minimum Return (GMR) scheme
provided crop insurance and seasonal credit up to a maximum
of K Sh 1,250 per ha to growers of maize or wheat with a
minimum of 15 acres under either crop. It was originally
introduced in 1942 as a war-time measure to encourage large-
scale cereal production, and until 1966, it applied only to
holdings of over 50 acres. With the lowering of the minimum
holding size eligible for participation, thousands of small
farmers were brought into the scheme. Under GMR, the Govern-
ment, through AFC, approved planting of a certain acreage
which entitled the farmer to compensation in the case of
crop failure. The security provided by GMR created the
basis for seasonal crop production credit in the form
of advances on GMR. GMR was funded by the Government through the
Cereals and Sugar Finance Corporation and by the sale of AFC
promissory notes guaranteed by Cereals and Sugar. AFC acted as an
agent of the Government for the disbursement and collection
of GMR. A number of problems affecting the financial viabil-
ity of the scheme finally resulted in the GMR being suspended
in 1979. Some of these problems included the inability of
AFC to supervise the growing number of participants, which
led to participants cheating on the amount of acreage regis-
tered; a decline of cultivation practices resulting from
attempts of farmers to finance crop cultivation entirely
on the basis of GMR advances, the inadequacy of the single
official produce marketing channel to absorb crop surpluses
efficiently, and the difficulty of loan recovery through AFC
and the official marketing channels. By the end of 1978, the
GMR scheme had substantial arrears, K Sh 192,356,000, involving



- 24 -
37,451 borrowers. New seasonal crop loans were introduced by
the Government in 1980 to replace GMR. The Cereals and Sugar
Finance Corporation provided K Sh 100 million for AFC's 1980
seasonal lending; however, funds were released late in the
season, and it is too early to judge the impact of this program.
2.45      Stockist Loans.  In some areas, particularly in Western Kenya,
potential borrowers cannot get farm inputs because suppliers will not deliver
goods against an invoice or because they do not have the required inputs.
AFC management believes that this problem can be solved by selecting suitable
suppliers in need of assistance, and providing them with credit. However,
it remains to be demonstrated that demand for this type of credit exists.
Moreover, the AFC Act appears to limit AFC lending to farmers only. Under the
Third Agricultural Credit Project (para 2.57), K Sh 14.3 million was available
to finance inventories of farm input suppliers; however, none of these funds
went to stockists, due to continued restrictions in the AFC Act. The level of
demand for stockist credit and changes in the Act to accommodate this demand
will be addressed more systematically in the context of AFC's Annual Plan
preparation.
F. Economic Role and Performance
Operations
2.46      Profitability.  AFC's net loan portfolio grew from K Sh 301 million
at the end of fiscal 1975 to K Sh 678 million at the end of fiscal 1980 (Table
7). This represents an average annual growth rate of 18% which resulted from
new loan disbursements of approximately K Sh 727 million and portfolio liquida-
tions of approximately K Sh 370 million over the five-year period. This growth
of operations has had a gradually increasing beneficial effect on AFC-s pro-
fitability.  After experiencing a net loss of K Sh 3.4 million in fiscal 1975,
AFC reported net income increases for five consecutive years from a modest
level of K Sh 0.3 million in 1976 to K Sh 14.0 million in 1980 (Table 8).  The
gradual increase of net return on total assets to 2.5% over the same period
reflects a gradual improvement in profitability (Table 9).  Two factors
explain this trend: administrative expenses have grown at a lower rate than
the loan portfolio and AFC's net interest margin increased from about 4% in
fiscal 1976 to about 6% in fiscal 1980 (Table 9).
2.47      Collections.  The ultimate performance test of a financial institu-
tion must be conducted on the basis of cash transactions. A conclusive cash-
flow analysis, however, has not been possible for two reasons: AFC lacks
detailed historical collection data on its portfolio; and furthermore, AFC
accrues interest on virtually all loans without regard to quality. AFC's
new accounting system (para. 2.21) is expected to fill the information gap
beginning April 1st, 1980, while discussions are underway between AFC's
management and auditors to revise this as well as other accounting policies
(para. 3.35). There is some evidence that actual interest collections in the
past five years have averaged about 80% of interest accrued. This would imply
that AFC almost broke even on a cash basis, excluding loan disbursements and
repayments. This would be a minimum acceptable standard, but there is also
some evidence to suggest a negative trend in interest collection rates, down



- 25 -
from over 90% in 1975 to 70% in 1979. The need for improvement in AFC's loan
collection was discussed during negotiations, and AFC indicated that they are
taking a number of measures to improve collections, including timely introduc-
tion of the Credit Training Program and recruitment of additional loan and
accounts officers. It was agreed that annual targets and an outline of
procedures for improvement of collections would be among the criteria for
Government and Bank Group approval of AFC's Annual Plans.
Financial Condition
2.48      Liquidity.  On installments of the relative amounts involved, the
collection rate of principal instalments due and payable is even more important
than the collection rate of interest receivable. The necessary information for
this analysis is also unavailable for all accounts of loans granted prior to
April 1, 1980. Moreover, AFC's practice of rescheduling original contractual
maturities diminishes the validity of the incomplete data available on collec-
tion experience. As mentioned, weaknesses are being corrected, but the new
system and policies cannot be introduced retroactively, and therefore the
benefits to AFC management in terms of improved information and control will
be gradual as they will only apply to future transactions.
2.49      It is estimated that AFC collected approximately K Sh 336 million on
its outstanding loan portfolio in the five years ended March 31, 1979. Annual
collections more than doubled from about K Sh 41 million in fiscal 1975 to
about K Sh 93 million in fiscal 1979. The liquidation ratio which expresses
total repayments as a percentage of the loan portfolio averaged about 15%
during the five-year period. This relatively low liquidation ratio probably
reflects somewhat low collection rates, but the precise level cannot be
determined. It also reflects the fact that a substantial and growing portion
of AFC's portfolio is long-term loans.
2.50      Financial Resources.  AFC-s annual loan disbursements increased
about 75% from K Sh 101 million in fiscal 1975 to K Sh 175 million in fiscal
1979. Total loan disbursements in the five years ended March 31, 1979, were
about K Sh 727 million. About one half of these funds, or K Sh 314 million,
were raised from the Treasury, either directly or through the Cereals and
Sugar Finance Corporation. The remaining half, or K Sh 313 million, came
from portfolio amortization. The Government funds AFC through redeemable and
irredeemable loans, and through interest free grants. The Treasury is AFC's
only external source of funds. To fuel AFC-s growth, Treasury's disbursements
to AFC have exceeded interest and amortization payments from AFC every year
since it was first organized in 1963. AFC's capitalization is adequate to
support its existing portfolio, but substantial additional funds will be
required for continued substained growth. Table 9 shows actual changes in
financial leverage from 1975 to 1980.
Economic Impact of AFC's Operations
2.51      The economic impact of AFC's credit activities at the national level
is difficult to measure given the poor quality of data and the difficulty in
monitoring and evaluation of individual loans. Even at the farm enterprise
level, the lack of information about economic behavior of small and large
farms, coupled with the fungibility of credit, makes it virtually impossible



- 26 -
to quantify the benefits of increased farmer access to credit through AFC.
Despite the fact that AFC assists in developing farm models for its clients,
it has not had the manpower or the systems capacity to inspect farmer invest-
ments and measure productive output and other benefits. The paucity of basic
data for evaluating the impact of project activities was underscored by the
Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) and the Project Impact Evaluation
Report (PIER) of the First Smallholder Agricultural Credit Project (para
2.55). To the extent that AFC loan performance can be improved by supervision
and follow-up, this responsibility should be jointly shared by AFC and the
Ministry of Agriculture. Responsibility for monitoring and evaluation of
economic impact will be better defined and coordinated through the annual
planning and review process to be established under the proposed Project
(paras. 3.08-3.09).
2.52      For lack of a comprehensive record of AFC's lending operations by
type of loan and farmer financed, the following breakdown of AFC's disburse-
ments to date under the Third Agricultural Credit Project (para. 2.57) pro-
vides a profile of the activities financed and an indication of the potential
impact of AFC's general lending program on the sectors where most of the
credit activities have been concentrated. Livestock and related loans account
for about K Sh 76 million or about 79% of the total disbursed during 1977-1979.
This includes 29% for grade cows, 10% for water development, 11% for fencing,
7.5% for pig development, and 6% for dairy equipment. With an average loan per
grade cow of K Sh 1,500, the disbursements in this category are estimated to
have financed 18,300 cows, or about 6,100 annually. This amount represents
9.5% of the estimated annual increase in herd size during this period. Crop
related loans over the same period account for about K Sh 19 million, or 20%
of total disbursements: 10% for sugarcane, 3% for pyrethrum, 2% for potatoes,
and about 1% for each of maize, tea, and coffee. The total area financed under
various types of crop loans was approximately 4,360 ha or 1,450 ha per year.
This annual coverage represents about 0.05% of the total cropped area under
small farms in 1978.
Performance under Previous Loans
2.53      AFC is the primary agricultural credit institution in Kenya.  The
Bank Group has been involved with the institution since a 1960 economic report
on Kenya endorsed the establishment of an agricultural credit agency. By the
mid-1970-s, the Bank Group had become the primary source of new funds for AFC
lending. AFC is currently serving as the vehicle for Government onlending of
Bank Group funds, a total of $70.75 million, for six ongoing projects (funds
provided for onlending to farmers in parentheses):
Cr. 959-KE, 1979 - Integrated Agricultural Development
Project II ($0.5 million)
Cr. 858-KE, 1978 - Narok Mixed Farming Project ($7.3 million)
Cr. 692-KE/Ln. 1390-KE, 1977 - Third Agricultural Credit
Project ($23.5 million)
Cr. 650-KE/Ln. 1303-KE, 1976 - Integrated Agricultural
Development Project 1 ($2.75 million)
Cr. 537-KE/LN. 1093-KE, 1975 - Group Farms Rehabilitation
Project ($18.7 million)
Cr. 477-KE, 1974 - Second Livestock Development Project ($18 million)



- 27 -
AFC performance under these projects has been mixed, reflecting a combination
of institutional constraints and other environmental, legal and often socio-
logical factors beyond AFC's direct control. The last decade has seen a five-
fold increase in AFC-s lending operations and a correspondingly rapid evolution
of its role in the agricultural sector. This expansion, accompanied by a
growing government emphasis on smallholders, has tended to proceed faster than
AFC's capacity to cope effectively. The most important institutional con-
straints include: limited manpower resources, particularly in financial
skills, lack of adequate branch facilities to service a dispersed clientele,
and restrictions in the AFC Act. The proposed Project has a strong institu-
tional building component which was designed to correct these problems.
2.54      AFC's shortcomings must also be seen in the broader context of
policy constraints and the slow and difficult process of sociological change
and institutional adaptability. The development of a viable agricultural
credit institution depends on the coordination of a number of factors, most
importantly, the support of an effective agricultural extension service and
the education of traditional farmers in the efficient use of credit, the
progress of land adjudication (farmers require land title deeds to borrow
from AFC), the timely provision of agricultural inputs, and the establishment
of progressive pricing policies and effective marketing channels. Although
marked progress has been made in all of these areas, the implementation of
Bank-Group projects still faces substantial obstacles. The Group Farms
Rehabilitation Project, which aimed to provide improved farm management for
group-owned coffee and mixed farms, has largely failed (farm participation
has only been 24% of the appraisal estimate) due to the lack of owners-
commitment to collective farming. The interest of the participating farmers
is primarily in using project management to help repay outstanding AFC loans,
after which the large farms can be legally subdivided. Seasonal and medium-
term credit commitments under the Narok Agricultural Development Project
have been delayed as a result of difficulties in developing effective credit
programs adapted to the special circumstances of the Masai farmers of the
district. The impact of the Second Integrated Agricultural Development
Project (IADP II) will depend largely on institutional strengthening of the
Ministry of Cooperative Development and the successful overhauling of the
financial management of participating cooperatives unions and societies. In
sum, the performance of AFC with regard to the Bank Group funded projects
depends not only on building up the institutional and managerial capacity of
AFC, but also on the resolution of certain policy issues and the gradual
elimination of other constraints mentioned.
2.55      The Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) of the First Smallholder
Agricultural Credit Project (Cr. 105-KE), which was issued in August 1975, and
the Project Impact Evaluation Report (PIER) for the same project (May 1980)
elaborate on a number of the general problems mentioned above, and conclude
that the project had only a marginal economic impact at the farm level and
possibly even a slightly negative financial impact on AFC. On the organiza-
tional side, the reports cited staffing problems, divergence in the project
lending emphasis (from financing crop loans to dairy cow loans), and the low
level of subborrower supervision by AFC and the agricultural extension services
among the reasons for poor project performance. On the technical side, the
compounded effect of more credit funds going for purchase of grade cattle,
the lack of adequate staffing of livestock extension services, and an



- 28 -
unusually high rate of animal mortality led to substantially lower returns
to sub-borrowers in addition to loan collection problems and losses for AFC.
The PIER for this project questioned the economic impact of project invest-
ments in grade cattle, since the popularity of this activity in the project
area would probably have occurred without the project. The report concluded,
however, that a proper evaluation of the incremental productivity of dairy
investments and the impact of the substitution effect was not possible due to
the lack of data (para 4.04).
2.56      The IDA Credit for US$6.0 million for the Second Smallholder Credit
Project (Credit 344-KE) was fully disbursed in June 1976, and a PPAR was
circulated to the Executive Directors in July 1979 (Sec M79-506). The report
concluded that AFC performance improved under the second project. Financial
management was improved and loan administration was simplified. Loans were
extended to more farmers than anticipated at appraisal; total loans under the
project were 13,552 and loan volume K Sh 94.8 million. The composition of loan
approvals by loan type was much closer to appraisal projections than under the
first project. The PPAR concluded that an important issue arising from the
review of the project was the lack of integration of AFC's institutional
objectives with objectives more specifically related to on-farm development,
food production and income distribution. Specifically, it considered the
problems of monitoring of investments, management information systems and
institution-building, and the financial impact of the project on AFC. The
PPAR concluded that the objectives relating to institutional development and
the financial condition of the credit institution merited a more concerted
and systematic approach in lending to AFC.
2.57      The Third Agricultural Credit Project (Cr. 693-KE/Ln. 1390-KE) for
US$25 million was approved in 1977 to finance a three-year time slice of
AFC's lending program for smallholders, medium-scale commercial farms and
retail agricultural input suppliers. Project implementation has encountered
moderate problems related to cutbacks in budgetary allocations from Treasury,
delays in implementing an improved accounting system for AFC, and the con-
tinued need to upgrade the credit skills of AFC loan officers. The closing
date of the project has been extended to December 31, 1981, to accommodate the
reallocation of unused credit funds for stockists and medium-scale farmers to
the smallholder loan category, where AFC commitments far exceeded original
allocations. The balance of funds for AFC onlending, about US$3.2 million as
of February 1981, should be drawn down by June 1981, and fully disbursed by
about September 1981, taking into consideration normal delays for Government
processing of reimbursement requests. A balance of about US$364,000 provided
for salaries, vehicles and equipment for AFC, will be used to finance start-up
costs of hiring technical assistance for the proposed Project.
2.58      The proposed Project has been explicitly designed to address concerns
about the impact of previous lending operations on AFC and continued institu-
tional weaknesses of AFC. The Project specifically focuses on efforts to
support the development of AFC as a viable financial institution for agricul-
tural development by upgrading credit and accounting skills of branch officers,
establishing an overall corporate planning capacity and strengthening informa-
tion collection and analyses and financial control.



- 29 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01      The main purpose of the Project is to strengthen AFC, improve its
performance, and enable it to serve more effectively the growing credit needs
of Kenya's farmers. AFC target clients would be commercial farmers who can
demonstrate their ability to increase the productivity of their farm and to
meet the related financial obligations, including farmers who have not yet had
access to other sources of institutional credit. The Project would consist of
technical services to improve and expand AFC's operating capacity and a line
of credit to assist in financing AFC's lending program. Specifically the
Project's components would be:
(a) Strengthening AFC's general management and administrative
capabilities by:
(i)  establishing a Corporate Planning Department;
(ii)  reorganizing the Finance Division;
(iii) increasing the number of loan officers;
(iv)  appointing an accounts officer in each
branch; and
(v)  rationalizing the location, number, and size
of AFC's branch facilities.
(b) Improving AFC training and staff development by introducing
programs for:
(i) credit training;
(ii) staff performance improvement;
(iii) career development; and
(iv) continuing training;
(c) Providing credit for AFC's lending program.
Two priorities rank highest among the proposed Project activities: (i) the
establishment of a Corporate Planning Department (para 3.07), because the
planning process must exist before expenditures for the lending program can
be approved and (ii) the design of the Credit Training Program, because the
quality of loans is expected to improve along with the credit skills of
loan officers.



- 30 -
B. Project Costs
3.02      Total Project costs are estimated at about K Sh 375 million (about
US$50 million). Of this, about K Sh 225 million (US$30.0 million), or 60%,
represents foreign exchange costs. Details of Project costs are presented in
Table 4, and are summarized below:
--- K Sh Million ----  --- US$ Million -----   % of
Project Component             Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Total
(a) Organization                 7      11       18     1.0      1.5     2.5        5
(b) Training                     8       7       15     1.0      1.0     2.0        4
(c) Credit Line               132      198      330    17.6    26.4    44.0        91
Total Base Cost                147     216      363    19.6    28.9    48.5       100
Physical Contingencies           1       2        3     0.2      0.2      0.4
Price Contingencies              4       5        9     0.5      0.7      1.2
Total Contingencies              5       7       12     0.7      0.9      1.6
Total Project Cost             152     223      375    20.3    29.8    50.0 1/
3.03      Project costs, with the exception of credit funds, were estimated at
prices expected to prevail in March 1981. A physical contingency of 10% was
applied to all Project costs except credit to reflect a measure of uncertainty
about the quantities required. Project costs related to credit were calcu-
lated on the basis of financial projections in current terms (Tables 7-8), and
therefore include the estimated impact of price increases over the Project
period. Price contingencies for foreign exchange costs were applied at 9%
for 1981, 8.5% for 1982, and 7.5% p.a. for 1983-85. Price contingencies for
local costs were applied at the rate of 10% p.a. for 1981-82 and at 8% p.a.
for 1983-85 (Table 4). These rates reflect current estimates of price
increases in Kenya and worldwide. Taxes and duties on Project goods and
services are estimated at K Sh 22 million (US$3 million). This represents
import taxes and duties on goods and services not eligible for exemption from
customs, plus taxes and duties on fuel and other operating costs.
C. Financing
3.04      The financing of Project costs would be shared as follows:
K Sh    US$      %
-million--
Government of Kenya                                  89       12    26
IBRD                                                189       25    53
IDA                                                  75       10    21
Net Project Cost (excluding taxes and duties)    353          47   100
Taxes and Duties                                     22        3
Total Project Cost                                  375       50
1/   Total figures rounded.



- 31 -
3.05      The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 8.2 million (US$10 million equivalent)
and Bank Loan of US$25 million to the Government of Kenya would finance 74% of
the net Project cost, including 100% of foreign exchange costs (US$30.0
million), and 25% of local costs (US$5.0 million out of total local costs of
US$20.0 million). Project costs were calculated on the basis of net financial
expenditures (Tables 7 and 8).
3.06      The proceeds under the proposed Credit and Loan used for institution-
building components (parts a and b, para 3.01) would be provided in the form
of a grant from the Treasury to AFC. The balance of Project expenditures
would be financed by the Treasury under a line of credit to be maintained by
Treasury for AFC. It is estimated that AFC would draw down a total of K Sh
330 million (US$44 million) during the Project period; however, the annual
amount of the commitment would be determined by the AFC Board of Directors in
consultation with the Treasury. This amount would be reflected in the AFC
Annual Plan (paras 3.08-09), which would be approved by the Bank Group. Each
fiscal year, AFC would draw down funds under the line of credit up to the
amount of the commitment agreed in the Annual Plan for that year. AFC would
pay Treasury 7% p.a. on Project funds drawn down for onlending to farmers in
AFC fiscal years 1982 and 1983 and 8% on funds drawn down thereafter. AFC
would charge farmers at least 12% on medium- and long-term loans. Each year,
the onlending rates to farmers and AFC-s required spread will be reviewed by
AFC, Government and the Bank Group in the context of the Annual Plan proposals.
Upon expiration of the draw down period on March 31, 1985, all outstanding
advances would be converted into a term loan with a final maturity of sixteen
years, including a grace period of three years. The interest rate on the term
loan would be 8% p.a. The Bank Loan and IDA Credit would finance virtually
the entire grant of US$6 million from the Treasury to AFC, and approximately
70% of the line of credit, or US$29 million. The terms of the Bank Loan of
US$25 million would be twenty years including five years of grace at an
interest rate of 9.6% p.a. Government ratification of the Subsidiary Financing
Agreements between Government and AFC reflecting the above terms would be a
condition of Credit and Loan effectiveness.
D. Detailed Features
(a)       Strengthening AFC
3.07      (i)  Corporate Planning Department.  This Department would be estab-
lished under the Project to formulate AFC's overall long-range objectives,
policies, and programs. It would be staffed with a Department Head, one
planning analyst, two financial analysts, one credit marketing analyst, one
agricultural economist, three statistical assistants, and four clerical staff.
The Department Head and the planning analyst would be recruited internationally
to complement the skills and experience of the Kenyan staff. The terms of
reference and qualifications of all professional staff of this Department were
discussed at negotiations (Annex 4), and assurances were obtained that these



- 32 -
would be approved by the Bank Group, and that the Bank Group would be con-
sulted on appointments of the two locally recruited financial analysts and
would approve the appointments of the Department Head and planning analyst.
The appointment of the Head of Corporate Planning is a condition of Loan and
Credit effectiveness. The Department Head would report to the General Manager
of AFC and the Department would provide technical assistance on policy matters.
The Department would have overall responsibility for designing and coordinat-
ing the annual planning process and for conducting systematic performance
reviews on a regular basis. In carrying out these functions, the Department
Head would work closely with the General Manager and the division heads in
developing an Annual Plan and five-year projections and in all aspects of the
plan and operations performance reviews. In addition, the new Department
would absorb the functions and staff of the existing Corporate Development and
Research Department.
3.08      The Department would have specific responsibility for developing
AFC s strategic and financial objectives as a framework for preparation of the
Annual Plan and five-year projections. The Annual Plan would have particular
importance since it would serve as the principle vehicle for an ongoing review
of AFC lending activities and institutional development. AFC's financing
needs and projected growth would be determined as part of the Annual Plan
review. The Annual Plan would contain AFC's detailed budget for the following
fiscal year, including programs for lending, capital expenditures, recruiting,
training, and funding. It would reflect the operating requirements of AFC
based on the inputs of both branch and headquarters management. Five-year
projections for AFC would be revised annually and presented along with the
Annual Plan to the Board of Directors for approval. The Annual Plan would
specifically reflect the objectives of the institution as set out in the AFC
Statement of Policy (para 2.29 and Annex 1). A draft Statement was discussed
at negotiations and has recently been approved by AFC-s Board. Assurances
were obtained that significant changes in the Statement of Policy would not be
made without prior consultation with and approval by the Bank Group.
3.09      The Annual Plan document would include, in addition to a detailed
budget for AFC, a discussion of the assumptions and strategies built into the
annual operating, investment and lending programs and five-year projections,
including the financial justification of typical loan activities to be
financed, and reports on performance in key areas such as loan collections
and write-offs, foreclosures, administrative costs, staffing and performance
evaluation, overall progress of training programs, and construction of
physical facilities. After the Annual Plan and five-year projections have
been approved by AFC's Board, they would be submitted to the Bank Group for
review and approval. In assessing the Plan, which would include a proposed
allocation of Bank Group funds for onlending, consideration would be given to
the previous year's performance and progress on management development pro-
grams, in an effort to ascertain that the proposed budget, particularly with
regard to lending volume, is reasonable. The content of the Annual Plan,
supporting documentation to be presented, criteria for review, and timing of
preparation, review and approval of the Plans, and coordination with the
Government budgeting process have been agreed with the Bank Group (Schedule
1). Bank Group approval of each Annual Plan would be a condition of disburse-
ment for eligible expenditures.



- 33 -
3.10      The planning process would require inputs from AFC managers at all
levels. In order to ensure effective participation in the process, the new
Corporate Planning Department would issue a planning instruction explaining
its objectives and outlining the kind of information which branch offices
will need to provide as inputs to the five-year projections and Annual Plan.
These instructions would also set out a process for reviewing the performance
of income and cost centers (para 2.26), as well as serve as a guide for develop-
ing plans for Systems and Human Resources as part of the Annual Plan. Once
the objectives have been determined and the strategy and process for the first
Annual Plan proposed, the Corporate Planning Department would have the follow-
ing responsibilities: (i) establish a timetable for implementation; (ii)
review all divisional strategies, action plans and budgets prior to revie% 1y
General Manager; (iii) review these plans with the General Manager; (iv)
analyze the Budget prepared by the Finance Department (to be renamed the
Financial Services Department) for consistency with AFC's financial objectivei.
and coordinate required changes; (v) coordinate the Annual Plan presenf-tlr-
to the Board; (vi) conduct quarterly reviews with the General Manager OIl  tlh~:
Budget-and Action Plans; (vii) conduct monthly meetings with Division and
Department heads on major divisional projects; (viii) follow up with Div1sien
Heads on progress of major objectives; and (ix) forecast expected finrnc-n-u
results for the current calendar year against the Plan in order to develop
contingency plans where necessary. Investments under this component would
include principally technical assistance support and incremental operating
costs for the new Department.
3.11      (ii)  Finance Division.  The existing Finance Department (para 2.O0),
within the Finance Division, is responsible for funding and budgeting, two key
areas which require reorganization and strengthening. In order for AFC to
make better use of its funds, it needs to prepare short- and medium-term cash
flow projections and monitor more closely the flow of funds at branch level.
With the introduction of MIS (para 2.21), improved financial control of the
branches and Head Office will be possible by setting up a budgetary control
system (para 2.26). To carry out these two tasks, the renamed Financial
Services Department would be split into two sections: a Cash Management
Section responsible for cash management, and a Budgeting Section respon7-b_J
for the new budgetary control system. Under the Project, a Chief Financial
Analyst would be recruited locally to head the Department and two financial
analysts would be recruited locally for the Budgeting Section. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that the terms of reference and qualifications
of the Chief Financial Analyst would be submitted to the Bank Group for review
and approval, and the Bank Group would be consulted on future appointments to
the position. An internationally recruited fiscal planning specialist pro-
vided by USAID would serve as the advisor to the head of the Financial Services
Department.
3.12      The revised accounting system and the new management reporting
system are expected to streamline and improve financial control of AFC. Under
the Project, two accountants will be added to the Accounts Department to deal
specifically with the preparation of management reports. The Project will
also include financing for one year of additional technical assistance for the
Data Processing Department to complete the adaptation of the new computer
system to AFC's reporting requirements. This additional staff should enable
the Financial Controller to manage the new accounting and information systems
more effectively.



- 34 -
3.13      (iii)   Loan Officers.  In order to appraise, supervise, and monitor
the projected increase in loan volume, AFC would recruit about 50 additional
loan officers during the Project period. This addition would represent an
average annual increase of just under 10% for the Project period. The number
of loan officers to be recruited each year would be specified in the Annual
Plan (para 3.08), and would take into account turnover rates, projected number
and size of loans, and the capacity of the Credit Training Program (para
3.19). The appointment of newly-recruited loan officers would be confirmed
after they have successfully completed the Credit Training Program.
3.14      (iv)   Accounts Officers.  About 40 new accounts officer positions
would be created under the project, one for each AFC branch. These 40 posi-
tions, however, are equivalent to a net increment of only 30 positions, since
about 10 accountants will no longer be needed at headquarters after the
introduction of MIS and therefore would be reassigned to the branch level.
Under the direct supervision of the Branch Manager, the accounts officer would
be responsible for general branch administration including disbursements,
routine collections, branch reporting, budgeting and operations analysis, but
excluding credit appraisal and follow-up, which are the responsibility of the
loan officers. Accounts officers would coordinate their work with branch loan
officers and manage branch clerical and supporting staff. The main skills
required of accounts officers would include: knowledge of AFC policy and
administrative procedures for loan disbursement and collection; ability to
design and prepare basic statistical and analytical reports on all aspects of
branch operations; and familiarity with basic principles of office administra-
tion. Their performance would be assessed according to the following main
indicators: (a) proper and prompt disbursement of branch loans; (b) prompt
initiation of steps to ensure loan repayments and collections; and (c) quality,
quantity, and promptness of branch reports. Acceptable standards would be
determined by establishing performance norms for each branch.
3.15      Most accounts officers would initially be recruited from three
groups: junior loan officers, junior accountants, and senior clerical
officers. Candidates from the loan officer and accounts officer groups with
less than three years related work experience would be considered for direct
appointment to this position if they have a bachelor's degree in Commerce, Eco-
nomics, Management or Public Administration. Loan officers with a bachelor-s
degree in agriculture or range management would be considered for this position
only if they have served for two or more years with AFC in a related function.
Candidates from the loan officer, accounts officer, and clerical officer
groups who lack formal educational qualifications would be considered for
appointment by promotion, provided that they have at least five years of
experience in accounting or office management, including at least three years
of above average performance with AFC. Each accounts officer would be re-
quired to complete the training program satisfactorily before being confirmed
in the new position.
3.16      (v)   Branch Facilities.   In order to support the projected
expansion of lending operations and line staff, AFC needs to expand its
branch facilities and field support services.   Before appraisal, AFC was



- 35 -
planning to open six additional branch offices in districts which have good
agricultural potential and which are currently served by branches located
as far away as 200 km. Map 2 shows the location of existing and proposed
branches. In addition, AFC has been considering the use of mobile branch
units and experimenting with mini-branches to serve distant farm areas, where
the potential clientele does not warrant the establishment of permanent
facilities.
3.17      Estimates of loan officer travel time range from 40% to 60% of total
time available (para 2.12). This relatively high proportion of unproductive
time has important marketing and financial implications, because it limits the
number of clients each loan officer can serve and results in high operating
costs per loan. Productive time and unit operating costs are directly linked
to the location of a branch officer vis-a-vis the system of clients.
3.18      AFC's new Corporate Planning Department would include in the five-
year projections (para 3.08) provisions for branch investments and divestitures,
reflecting agreed policy objectives. However, the technical criteria for
opening new offices, and closing, relocating, or expanding existing ones,
would first be developed with the assistance of consultants employed under the
Project. The terms of reference for this branch location study would include
an analysis of current travel patterns and time utilizatiorn of loan officers,
a marketing survey of credit demand in areas for potential AFC expansion, and
a cost analysis of alternative means of servicing these areas. At negotia-
tions, assurances were obtained that the Bank Group would approve the terms of
reference, requisite qualifications, proposed contracts, and the appointments
of the consultants. Disbursement for specific investments would be approved
by the Bank Group under AFC Annual Plans (para. 3.08), taking into account the
recommendations of the branch location study. Project investment cost esti-
mates include provision for construction of new branch offices and other
facilities and procurement of equipment (sub-branches, mobile units, etc.).
(b)       Training and Staff Development
3.19      (i)   Credit Training Program.  The Credit Training Program
financed under the Project would be designed to provide the maximum scope for
credit analysis and problem-solving by the participants using case studies
from actual projects financed by AFC. Field visits by the participants to
borrowers would be made with the objective of collecting the basic information
needed for proper evaluation. Similarly, participants would make independent
supervision visits to AFC clients to report on implementation progress, prob-
lems and possible solutions. This program would give participants a better
understanding of AFC as a credit institution, clients credit needs, procedures
to be followed in making and collecting loans, the rights and obligations of
lenders and borrowers, and other points of general branch operations.
3.20      Courses would initially be six weeks long, but would be gradually
expanded to three months once the training of existing staff is completed.
Over a period of about two years, most of the line staff would participate in
the program. Priority participants would include all loan officers and branch
and area managers, but participation of other qualified staff would be
encouraged depending on space availability and the individual's development
potential.



- 36 -
3.21      Each course would consist of three parts:  the first two parts
would deal with financial and operational matters and would be attended
by accounting officers as well as loan officers; the third part would deal
with credit analysis and evaluation, and only loan officers would be required
to attend. Performance of each participant in the Credit Training Program
would be evaluated as an indicator of career development potential. It is
vital for the success of this program that AFC integrate the training program
as an ongoing operation. Over time, Area and Branch Managers and senior loan
officers would take part in developing course materials, as well as in actual
training.
3.22      The Credit Training Program would be carried out by the recently
established Training Department in the Administrative Services Division.
The Training Department, currently staffed with only one person, will be
expanded to include a Department Head, a Training Advisor, a Loan Appraisal
Instructor and clerical support staff. The Training Advisor and Loan Appraisal
Instructor have been provided for two years each under USAID's Agricultural
Sector Services Support Loan, and short-term consultants would be hired under
the Project to assist in developing the curriculum and teaching materials
for the credit course. The scope and staffing plan for the Credit Training
Program were discussed at negotiations, and it was agreed that a detailed
outline and staffing proposal for the training program would be prepared with
the assistance of the USAID financed personnel, who are expected to take up
their positions at AFC in April 1981. Terms of reference, qualifications,
proposed contracts and appointments of credit training specialists would be
approved by the Bank Group. Terms of reference for credit training specialists
would include preparation of curricula, teaching and evaluation of course
effectiveness and follow-up requirements. At negotiations, assurances were
obtained that AFC would submit, for Bank Group review and comment, a timetable
for the employment by AFC of credit training specialists and an implementation
schedule for the Credit Training Program as a condition of Loan and Credit
effectiveness.
3.23      (ii)   Staff Performance Improvement Program.  At present, AFC staff
performance review is not conducted systematically. Staff are seldom given
clear directives or feedback on their work (para. 2.17). In order to deal
effectively with the identified weaknesses, a performance improvement program
would be developed and implemented. It would consist of two phases: Job
Analysis and Evaluation, and Staff Performance Review and Appraisal. The Job
Analysis and Evaluation phase would establish standards of performance for AFC
staff and determine training needs on a systematic and continuing basis. The
program would include the preparation of a personnel policy statement, train-
ing for supervisors, and the development of performance appraisal forms and
procedures. A Job Analysis and Evaluation specialist would be recruited on a
short-term basis to develop this program and the Administrative Services
Division would be responsibile for its implementation. The Corporate Planning
Department would monitor the program. A timetable for implementation of these
programs was discussed during negotiations, and progress under the program
would be specifically reviewed as part of the AFC Annual Plan review (para
3.08).



- 37 -
3.24      The Staff Performance Review and Appraisal would be the second
phase of the Performance Improvement Program. A Performance Review and
Appraisal System would be developed to ensure a periodic review of the quality
and quantity of each employee's work by his supervisor, and to provide a
record of each employee's progress which will serve as a basis for recom-
mendations on salary increases, promotions, disciplinary actions, career
development and replacement planning. A specialist would be employed as a
consultant to advise management on appropriate policies, set up the review
system, and train supervisory and subordinate staff of the Personnel Department
who will be responsible for implementing the review. Later, once the program
is in place, the consultant would conduct a follow-up study to evaluate its
impact and to identify areas for further refinement.
3.25      (iii)   Career Development Program.  This program would aim to
establish an orderly system of succession planning for key positions in AFC.
It would ensure that all such positions are periodically reviewed to determine
that they are adequately staffed, and that potential replacements are either
fully developed or being developed. Specific plans would be formulated, steps
identified, and actions implemented to develop and prepare employees for
key management positions. As a result of this program, AFC would be better
able to determine areas of management weakness and take appropriate measures
to strengthen these, through either specific training efforts or external
recruitment.
3.26      A Human Resources Development specialist would be recruited on a
short-term basis to assist AFC senior management in identifying key managerial,
supervisory and professional positions within the organization. The specialist
would identify the critical skills, knowledge, and performance of each key
position, using available job analysis data (para 3.23), supplemented by
interviews as appropriate. The consultant would then design AFC's replacement
planning and career development system, including the preparation of the
policies, procedures and required forms. In addition, the consultant would
design and conduct a series of workshops to coach senior and middle managers
in the use of the career development planning system. Finally, the consultant
would assist the Training Department in preparing a series of specialized
courses addressing staff development needs.
3.27      (iv)   Continuing Training Program.  Following on the recommenda-
tions of the Career Development and Performance Improvement Programs, the main
objectives of a Continuing Training Program would be: (a) to ensure that
all AFC staff receive some form of training, re-training, or refresher train-
ing at least once every four years; (b) to establish a corporate value
system that considers staff training and development a regular role of man-
agement and supervision; (c) to develop from the data generated by the Per-
formance Improvement Program an ongoing system for reviewing and identify-
ing the training needs of all AFC staff; and (d) to develop a set of in-house,
national, and overseas training programs to meet the training and development
needs of AFC staff.
3.28      The Training Department would carry out this program and be ade-
quately staffed with additional technical assistance from USAID (para 3.22).
It is estimated that during the Project period, about 125 staff would be



- 38 -
trained each year. Of these, about 80 would be trained in-house, about 25 in
other institutions in Kenya, and about 20 overseas. Domestic courses would
last about three weeks; overseas, four months. Training activities under this
Project would be coordinated with related activities under other ongoing
Government programs supported by bilateral donors (e.g., overseas scholarships
offered by the US Government). Investments under the Project are intended to
supplement ongoing programs and have been estimated to cover, inter alia,
teaching materials and equipment, tuition fees, transportation and subsistence
costs. Annual disbursements for this component would be proposed by AFC and
agreed upon by the Bank Group as part of the AFC Annual Plan.
(c)       Credit for AFC's Lending Program
3.29      Funds would be provided under the Project to assist in financing
AFC's overall lending program during the Project period. This would include
loans to large, medium and small-scale farmers under existing facilities (e.g.
development loans, mechanization loans, ranch loans, etc.), as well as new
types of loans, but excluding seasonal crop loans financed directly by the
Government and administered by AFC. This approach represents a departure from
past Bank Group and other donor agency practice in Kenya of tying credit funds
to particular development schemes or categories of borrowers (paras 2.42-2.43
and 2.55-57). Under these previous projects, the specific types of loans to
be financed and the terms and conditions applicable to each were specified in
project legal agreements. The rationale for the approach adopted under the
proposed Project is to assist AFC management in unifying its lending program
under the framework of an overall corporate strategy. The structure of the
annual lending program by types of loans and borrowers would be determined
through a systematic planning and review process involving AFC management at
all levels, in cooperation with the Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock
Development, and consistent with AFC's Policy Statement (para 3.08). AFC
would charge interest rates on medium- and long-term loans of at least 12%
p.a. Interest rates would be reviewed periodically in accordance with Govern-
ment policy guidelines and adjusted in accordance with the structure of
overall interest rates (para 1.28). Decisions regarding AFC-s lending strategy
would be reflected in the Annual Plan and five-year projections. Annual Plans
would include information on any changes in procedures for appraising and
reviewing loans and for ensuring the financial viability of proposed types of
loans and the economic viability of AFC's overall lending program (Schedule 1).
3.30      The approximate amount of credit funds that AFC's operational and
lending programs will require over the Project period has been estimated by
projecting AFC financial statements, as shown in Tables 7 and 8.  Specific
allocations required to support the lending program would be proposed and
agreed upon as part of each Annual Plan review, and funds would be provided
under a line of credit with Treasury (para 3.06).  Annual disbursements,
determined on the basis of AFC Annual Plans, would be subject to Bank Group
approval (paras. 3.09 and 3.33). The proposed line of credit would finance
approximately 22,000 loans with an average size of 15,000 over the Project



- 39 -
period. As indicated in the financial projections (para 5.05), it is esti-
mated that funds for onlending under the line of credit would be drawndown
beginning in AFC fiscal year 1982/83 (Project Year 2), at which time it is
considered that AFC will have completed its first Annual Plan exercise. If a
satisfactory Annual Plan is submitted and approved earlier than expected, some
credit funds could be drawndown during AFC FY1981/82. The proposed line of
credit would allow AFC's total portfolio (Table 7) to grow at an annual rate
of about 13% in current terms, beginning in AFC fiscal year 1982/83. While
this rate appears modest in comparison with the historical average of about
18% p.a. from 1975 to 1980, the projected expansion under the Project is
considered conservative and reasonable, viewed in the context of a number of
factors. First, the current AFC loan portfolio is inflated with a number of
irrecoverable loans and interest which continues to accrue on dubious loans.
The value of the current portfolio also includes loans currently financed
under special project arrangements, for which future credit demand is uncertain
(including the Bank Group financed Group Farms and Livestock Projects, paras.
2.42-2.43). Second, rapid growth of the portfolio in recent years has clearly
strained AFC's operational effectiveness in areas such as loan appraisal, loan
supervision and collection, accounting and internal control systems. Third,
the uneven quality of loan data available and the lack of a systematic cash
flow analysis made more detailed projections of loan disbursements and reflows
impossible, and clarification is essential before AFC undertakes new loan
expansion. Fourth, the more efficient turnover of AFC's existing portfolio
through loan collection improvement could provide scope for additional loan
volume. Fifth, AFC needs to undertake a more systematic review of demand for
credit, by loan type and branch, which would follow from the planning process,
credit training and branch strengthening programs under the Project. The esti-
mated level of portfolio growth under the Project, while indicative, is con-
sistent with the appraisal's judgment of the rate at which AFC can strengthen
its branch services and overall institutional capacity to handle a modest ex-
pansion of credit business more efficiently and effectively than in the past.
In this connection, assurances were obtained at negotiations that all new
long-term borrowings by AFC would be approved by the Bank Group. The ongoing
review of AFC-s accounting policies, the introduction of the MIS, and the
Annual Plan preparation and review process are expected to clarify a number of
uncertainties about the current portfolio and to enable AFC and the Bank Group
to better assess the growth potential of AFC's lending programs.
E. Procurement
3.31      Goods and services to be procured by AFC and sub-borrowers under the
Project would not be likely to attract international bidding competition,
because of their nature and the low value of individual orders. Consultants
and technical assistance personnel would be contracted in accordance with Bank
Group guidelines. Technical assistance personnel to be employed are listed in
Table 3. Assurances were obtained that the terms of reference and requisite
qualifications and contractual arrangements would be submitted to the Bank
Group for approval, and the Bank Group would approve appointments to all
positions. Average cost per staff month would be between US$6,000 and US$9,000,



- 40 -
including all costs (Table 3). Orders for office equipment, vehicles, furni-
ture, and training materials would be bulked to the extent possible and
procured following AFC procurement procedures, which are satisfactory to the
Bank Group. Civil works contracts for branch buildings would be procured in a
manner to be decided, in consultation with the Bank Group, after the branch
location study is completed (para 3.18). Purchases for agricultural develop-
ments by sub-borrowers under AFC's lending program would be through normal
commercial channels; given the diverse representation of commercial interests
and competition among suppliers, this procedure is satisfactory.
F. Disbursements
3.32      With the exception of funds required for start-up costs estimated
to be incurred prior to the approval of the first Annual Plan, about US$745
thousand, Project funds would be retained in an "uncommitted" Loan and Credit
account and allocated to appropriate disbursement categories following Bank
Group approval of each Annual Plan. An indicative allocation of funds is
provided in the following schedule:
-----US$ Million----
(a) 100% of expenditures for technical
assistance                                               1.0
(b) 90% of civil works (AFC branch
office construction)                                    1.0
(c) 100% of foreign or 80% of local expendi-
tures for office equipment, vehicles,
furniture and training materials                        1.0
(d) 100% of local expenditures for incremental
staff salaries and related operating expendi-           3.0
tures of AFC under the Project, as defined
under AFC Annual Plans (para 3.08)
(e) up to 70% of expenditures for subloans,
eligibility to be defined under AFC Annual Plans    29.0
Total                                                  35.0
3.33      Disbursement against (a), (b) and (c) would be fully documented.
Disbursements against (d) and (e) would be made against statements of expendi-
ture certified by the General Manager of AFC and retained by AFC for inspec-
tion by Bank Group supervision missions. During negotiations, satisfactory
procedures for auditing these statements of expenditure were agreed.



- 41 -
G. Accounts, Audit and Reports
3.34      AFC's audited financial statements for fiscal years up to March 31,
1980, have been submitted to the Bank. In fiscal 1979, AFC changed auditors
from Coopers & Lybrand to Githongo & Company. Both firms are acceptable to
the Bank Group. The 1979 audit was qualified mainly because AFC income
included an amount of K Sh 6.8 million of commission receivable for operating
the Guaranteed Minimum Return Scheme on behalf of the Kenya Government. The
commission reflects the unaudited accounts of GMR advances. Similarly, in the
1980 accounts, the auditors noted an AFC commission receivable of K Sh 8.3
million for AFC operation of the Government's Seasonal Credit Scheme.
3.35      As part of the 1979 audit, the auditors reviewed and assessed
AFC's internal control systems and made recommendations for their improvement
which were discussed and agreed with management. In September 1979, Price
Waterhouse & Co. reviewed AFC's existing and planned accounting systems
and developed a financial reporting system appropriate for AFC management's
use and for standardized reporting requirements in connection with Bank
funded projects. The new MIS accounting system is expected to facilitate the
recommended improvements in the internal control systems and the proposed
financial reporting system. The integration of the new MIS accounting system
is almost complete, giving AFC management the capacity to analyze the Corpora-
tion's financial position on any given day. Management is in the process of
deciding which additional reports should be programmed for regular retrieval
of financial information. AFC has largely accepted the suggestions of the
Price Waterhouse Study on management information reporting, and under the
Project, AFC's planning, programming and monitoring capacity will be strength-
ened through the development and use of the information generated through the
new accounting and reporting system. Early in Project start-up, the Bank
Group will assist AFC to standardize reporting requirements and formats under
all Bank Group financed projects implemented by AFC.
3.36      At negotiations, assurances were obtained that AFC accounts would
continue to be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank Group
and that the accounts and the auditors' report would be submitted to the Bank
Group within six months of the end of AFC's fiscal year. Assurances were also
obtained that the auditors' report would include the 'Long Form Audit' and
agreed schedules of information. AFC would prepare and submit to the Bank
Group a Project Completion Report.
IV. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
A. Background
4.01      The 1979-1983 Development Plan states that Government activities
in the agricultural sector will increasingly aim at intensifying production.
Expenditures for livestock development will focus on increasing grass and
fodder crop production in the medium and high potential areas. Investments
for crop development and farm management services will be directed towards
land use intensification. Growth in output and income projected in the
Development Plan are based mainly on increases in yields and livestock numbers.



- 42 -
Crop land is expected to increase by only about 6% during the Plan period,
mainly at the expense of grassland, but the expansion of intensive farm
systems at the expense of extensive ones is projected.
4.02      To achieve the targeted production increases, the Government is
implementing a wide range of development programs in agriculture, many of
which include the provision of credit to farmers. These programs fall into
two broad categories. Some aim to promote increased production of individual
cash crops such as tea and sugar cane. Others, such as IADP (paras 1.07,
2.53), aim to alleviate poverty of smallholders who are not yet full parti-
cipants in the cash economy. Although AFC is one of the agencies implementing
IADP, its role has been limited since it finances only about 5% of participat-
ing farmers. The main reason for this is that the semi-subsistence farmers
IADP is attempting to reach are relatively poor credit risks; they generally
lack a registered title to their land, and their farms are located in remote
areas, usually far from an AFC branch. While it is the Government s long-term
objective to alleviate these constraints, its mediumrterm strategy is for AFC
to concentrate its lending on commercial farmers who have title deeds to the
land they farm and who have access to improved technology and the ability to
apply it. However, within this category of commercial farmers, AFC seeks to
assist those who do not have access to other forms of institutional credit.
Economic and social considerations will guide the AFC Board in allocating
different amounts of lending by type and size of farms, geographic area, and
productive activities to be financed according to Annual Plans and five-year
projections (para 3.08). The following paragraphs contain an outline of
the likely demand for investment credit of AFC-s potential clients. Several
livestock crop budgets have been prepared to show various possible farm
investment patterns and the technical coefficients associated with them.
It should be understood, however, that during Project implementation, indi-
vidual loan applications would be processed according to established credit
criteria, provided that they are consistent with the AFC lending program as
approved in the Annual Plan, and technically feasible in the opinion of the
AFC loan officer who may consult with the extension officer.
B. Livestock and Cropping Patterns
4.03      Submission of a detailed farm plan showing the development activities
to be financed is a prerequisite of each AFC loan. The farm plan must demon-
strate that the borrower would benefit financially from the loan after full
repayment. Planned livestock and crop activities must also include Government
required soil and water conservation measures.
Livestock
4.04      Kenya's ecological zones II and III (para. 1.02 and Map 1) are
ideally suited for dairy production. Milk is produced mainly in smallholder
areas and is a major source of animal protein in the diet of the rural popula-
tion. In order to increase milk yields, local Zebu cows must be replaced with
high yielding breeds. The investment required for the purchase of a grade
cow is substantial, and very few smallholders can afford it without credit
assistance. This partly explains the high demand for dairy loans under the
Third Agricultural Credit Project (para 2.52). Associated investments include
water, pasture and fodder crop development, chaffcutters, fencing and building



- 43 -
materials. It has been noted that the PIER of the First Smallholder Agri-
cultural Credit Project (Cr. 105-KE) concluded that the impact of dairy loans
on overall productivity was probably marginal (para 2.55). Although this
conclusion was qualified by the fact of poor data, it is suggested that much
of the investment facilitated by project credit would have occurred anyway;
thus, the major production impact would have had to result from changes in
husbandry practices and management of grade cattle transferred from the large
farm subsector to the small farm subsector. However, given the growing demand
for dairy products and the rising price of grade cattle and the continued
improvement of dairy extension and other farm services throughout the 1970s,
it is likely that the provision of additional credit facilities for dairy
investments will have a larger impact on production today than it did in the
early 1960s. At that time, small farmer dairy investments were still rela-
tively few and credit demand did not spur a marked increase in national herd
size and when the adoption of improved husbandry practices was still low.
The provision of credit under the proposed Project is expected to enable
small farmers who would not otherwise have adequate financial resources to
purchase a grade cow and to encourage farmers to make the necessary farm
improvements to increase dairy productivity.
4.05      A sufficient supply of water is necessary to achieve high milk
yields. In ecological zones II and III (Map 1), a minimum of 100 liters of
water per cow per day is required for body maintenance, a daily milk yield of
about 15 liters and for washing udders and utensils. WIater is in short supply
on many farms, and rain water is still not effectively conserved. Investments
in guttering and galvanized water tanks would enable farmers to collect rain
water. In addition, by installing guttering, farmers would prevent soil
erosion now caused by rainwater pouring off their roofs. More intensive use
of the land can also be achieved by developing forage crops for zero grazing.
Napier grass (Pennisetum purpureum) and Bana (a Sorghum cross) have done well
in Kenya and can yield up to 8,500 kg of digestible nutrients per ha per
year. These grasses can also be planted along terraces or bunds to prevent
soil erosion. Surplus grasses can also be used for mulching coffee and other
crops. Fibrous materials such as sugar cane leaves, maize stover, and banana
stems can be processed by cattle more efficiently if chopped before feeding.
Small, cheap, hand operated chaffcutters are just being introduced in Kenya
and have been popular for some time in countries such as India and Pakistan
where zero grazing is common.
4.06      Opportunities for intensive poultry and pig keeping are relatively
limited because these enterprises are financially risky and require sophis-
ticated management. However, the number of farmers financially and technically
capable of undertaking such operations is gradually increasing, and it is
likely that AFC loans to finance such operations will also increase. Shortage
of water is a major cause of death of layers and broilers, and AFC is likely
to receive loan applications for water development investments from farmers
already engaging in poultry activities.
Crops
4.07      Although most of the high and medium potential land in Kenya has
been developed, there is still much scope for improving the productivity of
existing cash crops, such as coffee and tea, and commercial foodcrops and for
developing new crops. Yield increases can be achieved by better pruning,



- 44 -
application of fertilizer, mulching, and, as in the case of coffee, more selec-
tive picking in order to improve the grade. Pyrethrum and potatoes are being
promoted by the extension service in the high altitude areas.
4.08      The area planted under maize is not expected to increase signifi-
cantly, but there is still room to improve yields by adopting better cultural
practices and by applying fertilizer. The extension staff are encouraging
farmers to interplant maize with beans and other pulses in order to increase
land productivity. Some of the beans and other pulses could be used to
supplement livestock feed as a substitute for expensive concentrates. Every
year, post-harvest losses account for a significant portion of the total crop
(estimates range from 15 to 30% of total crop production). Existing commer-
cial drying and storage facilities (mainly National Cereals and Produce Board
stores) cannot accommodate more than about one quarter of the total maize crop
in a bumper year. The remaining portion, most of which is normally retained
on the farm for domestic consumption, is stored under inadequate conditions,
accounting for a large percentage of post-harvest losses. As a result of
increasing Government efforts to prevent food losses, inexpensive, vermin-
proof on-farm storage facilities are being developed and promoted by the
agricultural extension services. The investments required for these activi-
ties would consist of relatively low cost farm inputs and farmers may be able
to purchase them out of their pockets. AFC, however, would encourage techni-
cally and financially strong farmers to borrow for such farm improvements in
order to increase their liquidity in anticipation of future harvest and sale.
4.09      The yield of horticultural crops can be improved substantially
through irrigation. Demand for irrigation equipment is high, but diesel-
fuelled pumps are expensive to operate and maintain. Scarcity of adequate
service facilities, limited availability of spare parts, and pilferage may
reduce their utilization. Financing for this equipment should be limited
to experienced and sophisticated farmers who have access to proper service
facilities.  Several models of sun, wind, and gravity-powered pumps are
being introduced locally. AFC would promote financing of some of these pumps
on a trial basis provided that the models are technically proven and that
the borrowers are willing and able to bear the financial risk.
4.10      In the intensely cultivated areas, shortage of agricultural machinery
often constrains timely land preparation for seasonal crops. Timely land
preparation and planting is an important factor of high productivity, and
contractual plowing is a growing business. The current utilization rate
is about 150 ha per tractor per year. Tractors are also used to transport
produce and farm inputs and during the off-season, they are often employed
to clear land.  Demand for tractors is high in many areas, providing AFC with
opportunities for lending to farmer-contractors for the purchase of tractors
and to farmers to finance land preparation expenditures.
C. Technical Coefficients
4.11      The following table shows the estimated productivity increases
associated with the carrying out of possible investments described in the
preceding section:



- 45 -
Without Investment    With Investment          %
-    -- Yield Assumptions ------           Increase
Livestock
Milk (Kg per cow per year)         600              2,000-2,500          275
Beef calves 1/                   60-80                120-160            100
Heifer calves 1/                 50-70                100-140            100
Pork 2/                           12-14                18-22              54
Eggs 3/                        100-120                180-200             73
Crops                                    (Kg per ha)
Coffee                            600                    1,000            67
Tea                             1,500                    1,800            20
Pyrethrum                          250                     600           140
Potatoes                       10,000                   15,000            50
Maize                           1,800                    2,400            33
Pulses                            400                      700            75
1/   Liveweight (kg)
2/   Piglets per sow per year
3/   Eggs per hen per year
These estimates provide an indication of the productivity increases which
could be achieved by progressive farmers with present know-how if they had the
necessary financing. The main objective of this Project is to increase these
farmers access to credit for these purposes. Strengthening agricultural
extension services, introducing new technology, and improving the application
of existing know-how are correspondingly important development objectives.
Several Government programs currently underway, many of them with Bank Group
support, are focusing on these areas. The AFC planning process, to be
strengthened under this Project, will assist Government in coordinating its
efforts directed towards agricultural production and credit.
D. Production
4.12      The proposed Project is expected to have a substantial favorable
impact on agricultural production. This statement rests on the critical
assumption that the investment opportunities outlined in the preceding sections
far exceed the financial resources necessary to exploit those opportunities.
Because AFC-s lending program will be defined during Project implementation,
incremental production targets cannot be precisely determined now. These
targets would be a function of the specific sub-projects financed, which in
turn would be determined through the AFC planning process, taking into account
Government objectives and market forces, including farmers preferences.
4.13      The following table shows a range of total production increases
which could result from investments financed by AFC under this Project.



- 46 -
Incremental Production  Current National   Increase Percentage
with Project          Production      of National Production
-------tons/year----------------  ---------%
High        Low                              High       Low
Milk              25,000      15,000         1,286,000          1.9         1.2
Beef               1,250         750           137,000          0.9         0.6
Pork               1,000         500             3,400         29.4        14.7
Eggs               1,000         400            23,000          4.4         1.7
Coffee             7,000       5,000            95,000          7.4         5.3
Tea                1,000         500            87,000          1.2         0.6
Pyrethrum          8,000       5,000            14,000         57.1        35.7
Potatoes          50,000      30,000           444,000         11.3         6.8
Maize             12,000       8,000         2,160,000          0.6         0.4
Pulses             1,500       1,000           322,000          0.5         0.3
These estimates are consistent with the technical coefficients presented in
the preceeding section of this Chapter, and AFC financial projections shown
in Tables 7-9. In addition, the estimates reflect livestock and cropping
patterns observed by the mission in farm areas currently served by AFC,
estimates of types of credit demand, and they assume about 22,000 loans to
farmers averaging K Sh 15,000 each.
E. Markets and Prices
Livestock Products
4.14      Incremental meat and milk production would be sold primarily on
the local market, as is a large proportion of present production.  Farmgate
prices for both meat and milk on local markets are higher than those offered
by Kenya Cooperative Creameries (KCC) and by the Kenya Meat Commission (KMC),
whose producer prices are regulated by the Government. The farmgate price for
milk sold on the local market is often as high as K Sh 2.40/kg, whereas the
farmgate price for milk delivered to KCC is only K Sh 1.85/kg, recently
increased in October 1980 from K Sh 1.16/kg. Private butchers pay up to
K Sh 6 per kg liveweight of high quality beef, whereas KMC only offers K Sh 5.
The current shortage of meat and milk (KCC is estimating a shortfall in milk
requirements of about 145 million liters for 1980/81), is expected to continue
in the medium-term future, forcing local prices upward and inducing gradual,
but substantial official price increases over the next five-year period. How-
ever, including greater supplies of these products will not only depend on
increasing producer price incentives. Grade dairy heifers are in short
supply, and more emphasis needs to be placed on upgrading traditional zebu
stock through intensified artificial inscmination. In addition, marketing
channels for products need to be expanded, and the marketing communication
between would-be suppliers of heifers from ranging areas and would-be buyers
from dairy areas needs to be improved.



- 47 -
Crops
4.15      Maize, wheat, beans and oil seed crops would be marketed either
on the local market or through the National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB).
The NCPB exercises an official monopoly over the purchase and sale of grains
and oil seed crops not traded on local markets in the producer area. Through
the control of interdistrict crop movements and the regulation of producer and
retail prices, the NCPB attempts to guarantee minimum producer prices while
protecting retail clients and ensuring adequate national distribution of
staple fooderops. The official producer prices for maize, the most important
foodcrop, is K Sh 90 per 90 kilo bag (as of July 1980); however, recent
shortages both in Kenya and neighboring countries have driven local market
prices upwards to as much as double in maize deficit areas.
4.16      As recognized by Government in the current Development Plan and in
a Food Policy Paper under preparation, producer incentives have not always
been adequate and will require attention in order to alleviate current short-
ages and avoid a future food crisis. Elements of the larger problem which
need to be addressed include: establishing producer prices which properly
reflect the cost of farmer inputs as well as import parity price levels,
developing extension capacity to promote increased land productivity, and
ensuring an efficient marketing system, which may mean increased utilization
of private sector channels as a complement to official price supports, storage
and marketing services. These issues are currently under review between the
Government and the Bank in the context of the overall agricultural sector
dialogue and discussions of structural adjustment lending.
V. PROSPECTS AND JUSTIFICATION
Background
5.01      As AFC is a primary source of medium and long-term credit for
commercial farmers, it is charged with a major role in the development of
rural communities. So far AFC has been acting as a conduit for external aid
aimed at specific agricultural development activities. In preparing and
implementing projects with AFC, the Government and the donors have tended to
focus more on production than on institutional matters. Moreover, major
decisions affecting AFC's operations have been made largely outside this
institution, as AFC has functioned largely as an institutional extension of
the Ministry of Agriculture. Recognizing that past projects have contributed
little to AFC-s future viability, the Government considers the proposed
Project as an opportunity to expand and increase the impact of agricultural
lending by investing substantial resources in institution building.
Economic Analysis
5.02      This Project does not lend itself to a precise calculation of an
overall economic rate of return, in part because it will be implemented
according to flexible Annual Plans and five-year projections, the contents of
which will be determined on an annual basis (para 3.08). Each Annual Plan,
however, will contain an analysis of the estimated economic benefits and costs
of AFC's overall lending program (Schedule 1).



- 48 -
5.03      If AFC's lending program were to finance the investments outlined in
Chapter IV, the principal economic benefit of this Project would be the
incremental livestock and crop production estimated in paragraph 4.13. The
economic value of annual incremental production would range from K Sh 150
million (US$20 million) to K Sh 80 million (US$11 million). Correspondingly,
the overall economic rate of return resulting from farmers  investments
financed under this Project would range from 30% to 17%, with a mid-point
estimate of 24%. Cost and benefit calculations are based on prices expected
to prevail in March 1981, and are presented for purposes of illustration
only.
Financial Projections
5.04      AFC's financial statements were projected for five years, FY1981-1985,
(Tables 7 and 8) based on the following major assumptions:
(a) AFC's total loan portfolio would grow at 13% per year in current
prices in Project years two, three, and four, but would remain
constant in Project year one, AEC FY1981/82;
(b) The average life of AFC's loan portfolio would be about seven
years;
(c) An interest rate on all new loans of 12% p.a. and a spread of
5% between cost of borrowed funds and loans;
(d) Administrative costs, including incremental operating costs,
would increase at the estimated rate of local inflation;
(e) AFC would write-off 10% of its 1980 portfolio over the next
five years; and
(f) AFC would not accrue interest on 5% of its loan portfolio.
5.05      Using these assumptions as a basis for financial projections, it is
estimated that AFC's net loan portfolio would grow 44% to K Sh 978 million
(US$130 million) from 1980 to 1985, an average annual growth rate of about 9%
p.a. It is assumed that there would be no growth in AFC's portfolio in
Project year one, AFC FY1981/82, and that new volume during that year would be
financed primarily by reflows from the outstanding portfolio. During Project
years two through four (AFC FY 1983, 1984, 1985), the portfolio would grow at
13% p.a. This rate is lower than the historical growth rate of 18% p.a.
(para. 2.46) but it is consistent with estimated availability of human and
physical resources during the Project period. The number, experience, and
skills of operational staff are the principal constraints to more rapid
expansion of AFC's lending volume (paras 3.13-15), and the estimated rate of
growth and resulting external financing requirements are considered reasonable
and consistent with the program of institution building proposed under the
Project (para 3.30).
5.06      The proposed Government financing of AFC, a combination of grant
and loan (para. 3.06), would preserve AFC's current capitalization which
appears adequate. AFC's debt to equity ratio would change only slightly



- 49 -
during the -roject period. AFC-s net interest margin (para. 2.46) would also
change slightly during the Project period, because the increasing yield on
loans would be accompanied by an increasing cost of funds reflecting recent
changes in Government interest rate policies (paras. 1.23-1.28). Details of
selected financial indicators are provided in Table 9.
Risk
5.07      The principal Project risk would be a deterioration of the portfolio
resulting from a failure of AFC to improve loan collections. The principal
portion of outstanding loans in arrears is largely protected by the value of
the collateral, and it is recommended that AFC continue to require that loans
be secured by land. Table 8 shows that portfolio growth and net margin
improvements would enable AFC to report net income of K Sh 30 million (US$4.0
million) if it accrued interest on 95% of its portfolio, equal to K Sh 107
million (US$14.3 million), in fiscal 1985. Therefore, if AFC collected
interest on at least 70% of its portfolio, it would be able to break even.
Project investments in staff development and training, improved loan appraisal
and monitoring, corporate planning and review processes are aimed at improving
AFC's collection rate and overall financial performance. It was agreed during
negotiations that AFC would propose annual collection targets under the Annual
Plan, and that progress in this area would be among the criteria for the Bank
Group review and approval of AFC's lending program.
5.08      Another risk of the Project is that productivity increases might not
be attained. Achieving targeted output depends on a number of factors, includ-
ing timeliness of land preparation, availability of required inputs, progress
in land adjudication (for new AFC clients), and good rainfall. Due to the
current food shortages in Kenya, and the upward trend in prices of agricultural
products, it is unlikely that market prices for incremental production will
adversely affect value of the output. Furthermore, food shortages have
prompted increasing Government efforts to alleviate marketing, legal and
administrative constraints, and to improve other farmer services. The pro-
posed Project would contribute to an improvement of farmer credit services by
providing expanded credit facilities and strengthening AFC's credit appraisal
and management procedures.
Government Budget
5.09      The Government would contribute about K Sh 89 million (US$12 million)
to Project expenditures. At full development in Project year four, 1985,
average annual incremental Project expenditures would be about K Sh 50 million
or about US$6.7 million (Table 8).  AFC would incur those expenditures and
finance them out of its own revenues.  During the four-year Project period,
the Treasury's outflows would exceed inflows, but thereafter, the net cash
flow to the Treasury would be positive (Table 6).  It is estimated that the
Government would recover all Project costs in 20 years.  The principal source
of cost recovery would be the amortization of the term loan from the Treasury
to AFC   (para 3.06).  It should be noted, however, that continuing financial
support from Government will be needed to sustain additional growth of AFC.



- 50 -
VI. AGL.EEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, draft Subsidiary Financing Agreements between
the Government and AFC were discussed and agreed with the Bank Group. AFC's
Statement of Policy was also reviewed and agreed during negotiations and
subsequently approved by AFC's Board of Directors on April 15, 1981.
6.02      Assurances were obtained at negotiations:
(a) on AFC interest rate levels and mechanisms for periodic review;
AFC would periodically review its onlending rates to ensure an
adequate spread while maintaining consistency with Government
policies and the results of Government's quarterly review of
overall interest rates (para 1.28);
(b) that the Bank Group would approve terms of reference and
requisite qualifications for all professional staff of the
Corporate Planning Department, be consulted on the appoint-
ments of the two locally-recruited financial analysts, and
approve the appointments of the Department Head and the
Planning Analyst (para 3.07).
(c) that the Bank Group would approve terms of reference and requisite
qualifications, proposed contracts for and the appointment of
technical assistance personnel listed in Table 3 (para 3.31 and
Annex 4);
(d) that significant changes in AFC's Statement of Policy would not be
made without prior consultation with and approval by the Bank
Group (para. 3.08);
(e) that any new long-term borrowings by AFC would be approved by the
Bank Group (para. 3.30);
(f) that the Bank Group would approve terms of reference and requisite
qualifications and be consulted on the appointment of the Chief
Financial Analyst, Head of the new Financial Services Department
(para 3.11);
(g) on satisfactory procedures for audit of statements of expenditure
(para 3.33); and
(h) that AFC accounts would continue to be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank Group, that the audited accounts
and the auditor's report would be submitted to the Bank Group within
six months of the end of AFC's fiscal year; and that AFC
would prepare a Project Completion Report (para. 3.36).
6.03      Conditions of effectiveness would be the ratification of the Sub-
sidiary Financing Agreements on behalf of the Government and AFC (para. 3.06),
the appointment of the Department Head, Corporate Planning (para. 3.07), and



- 51 -
an agreed timetable for the employment of credit training specialists and
implementation of the Credit Training Program (para. 3.22).
6.04      The proposed Project would be implemented in accordance with Annual
Plans, which would include five-year projections revised on a yearly basis
(para. 3.08 and Schedule 1). Bank Group approval of the Annual Plan would be
a condition of disbursement for expenditures incurred during the Project
period (para. 3.09), with the exception of agreed start-up expenditures
under the institution-building components (para. 3.32).
6.05      Subject to the above conditions, this Project is suitable
for a Bank Loan of US$25 million to the Government of Kenya with a term of
20 years including 5 years of grace and an IDA Credit of SDR 8.2 million
(US$10 million equivalent) on standard terms.



- 52 -
SCHEDULE 1
AFC Annual Plans
Part A: Contents of Annual Plans
(1) Statement of Objectives: Statement explaining the relationship
between the overall lending program of AFC for five years and
planned expansion of agricultural production and credit for the
Republic of Kenya for the period, including specific targets,
policy measures, and resources to be utilized. AFC's role in
relation to other banks and lending programs should be discussed.
(2) Annual budget for AFC including:
(a) proposed capital expenditures (e. g. on vehicles,
equipment, and civil works), for headquarters and
branches;
(b) all proposed recurrent expenditures on salaries,
materials, fuel, repairs and maintenance;
(c) a list of all staff whose salaries would be financed
through the Project;
(d) proposed expenditures for technical assistance,
studies and training; and
(e) detailed financial projections and cash flow for year
under consideration, including estimate of financing
requirement under the line of credit.
(3) Proposed terms of reference as appropriate for new staff or any
changes in agreed terms of reference.
(4) Proposed AFC lending program for the period to be covered, including
a breakdown of expected loans by purpose, size of loan, type of
enterprise, and AFC branch, including terms and conditions of
lending. Brief analysis showing financial viability of proposed
loan types and economic viability of overall lending program.
(5) Revised projections of AFC for five-year period.
(6) Proposed list of eligible expenditures for Bank Group reimburse-
ment and proposed allocations of funds to relevant disbursement
categories.
(7) A1l external or government financial resources available or
proposed.
(8) Proposed annual target and procedures for improving loan
collections.



- 53 -
Part B: Supporting Information to be Furnished in the Annual Plan to
the Bank Group
(1)  Review of previous years  lending activities of AFC, including
full breakdown of loans by purpose, size of loan, type of loan and
AFC branch and including terms and conditions of lending. Performance
with collections, by category of loan and by branch, should be
specifically described.
(2) Full staffing position of AFC at date of preparation of plan.
(3) Information on any modifications in appraisal procedures for
proposed types of lending activities.
(4) Report on progress with staff development and training programs.
(5) Statement of position of AFC accounts.
(6) Statement of AFC's accounting policies for loan write-offs, bad debt
provision, loan interest accrual, and farm properties in possession.
Report on all changes in accounting policies and procedures.
(7) Written statement on assumptions utilized in financial projections.
Part C: Criteria and conditions on which Bank Group approval of proposed
Annual Plan will be based
The suitability and volume of proposed for AFC lending and reimburse-
ment by the Bank Group will be assessed on the following basis:
(1) Types of lending activity:
(a) Conformity of proposed types of lending activity with AFC's
Statement of Policy, with objectives of the National Development
Plan, and with five-year projections;
(b) Experience with performance of various types of loans by branch
concerned, including historical collection record;
(c) Impact of proposed lending programs on AFC's financial
position;
(d) Relevant changes in lending and accounting policies and procedures;
and
(e) Financial viability of proposed types of loans and economic
viability of overall lending program.
(2) Adequacy of interest rates and consistency of levels with Government
interest rate policy.



- 54 -
(3) AFC administrative and managerial capability as measured by training
program progress, collection rates for various activities and branches,
administrative costs for various lending activities, progress with
development and use of management information systems, ratio of Loan
Officers to number of proposed loans, and adequacy of appraisal
procedures.
(4) AFC-s financial performance as measured by appropriate indicators,
including, inter alia, return on equity defined as the sum of AFC-s
irredeemable loans, grants and reserves and other profitability
indicators.
(5) Progress by AFC in improving the monitoring of use of funds under sub-
loans and the economic impact of its lending operations.
(6) Training: Suitability of proposed training programs for AFC staff and
progress with training and staff development programs.
(7) Eligibility of proposed list of Group expenditures of drawdowns for
types of lending inconsistent with Bank policies; i.e. exclusion of
land purchase loans and loans covered under other Bank Group and
external agency financed operations.
(8) Improvement in AFC loan collection rate in accordance with
agreed targets.
(9) Other sources of funds available to finance AFC operations.



- 55 -
ANNEX I
AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION
STATEMENT OF POLICY
This statement, as amended from time to time defines the policy
which shall apply to the activities and operations of the Agricultural
Finance corporation (hereinafter referred to as the Corporation).
I.   Objectives
1.        The Corporation is a parastatal finance institution established by
the Government of Kenya under the Agricultural Finance Corporation Act (Cap
323, Laws of Kenya), for the purpose of assisting the development of agri-
culture and agricultural industries. In pursuance of this objective, the
Corporation will assist the development of agriculture by making short-term,
medium and long-term loans to eligible farmers, cooperative societies, in-
corporated group representatives, private companies, public bodies, local
authorities and other persons engaged in agriculture or agricultural
industries.
2.        In its credit and management operations, the Corporation will be
guided by the principle of extending credit on a financially, economically,
and technically sound basis and will at all times strive to operate at a
cost consistent with efficient business and management practices.
II. Loans
1.        Loans shall be made for the purpose of:
(a) crop production including land preparation, the purchase
of inputs, harvesting, transportation and marketing
expenses;
(b) general farm development including fencing, construction
of farm buildings, dips, dams, boreholes, irrigation,
livestock and livestock facilities, establishment of
permanent and semi-permanent crops, bush clearing, fire-
breaks and establishment and maintenance of pastures;
(c) farm machinery and equipment, including but not limited
to tractors, combine harvesters, farm trucks and pickups,
etc.;
(d)  farm and farm business purchases including improvements
and moveables; and



- 56 -
ANNEX I
Page 2
(e) other items or operations that could be established
as relating to farming or agricultural industries.
2.        Loan applications will be appraised by loan officers at the Corpora-
tion's Branch Offices, in cooperation wherever and whenever practicable with
the extension staff of the Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock Develop-
ment. The acceptability of an application will be determined on the basis of
the financial viability of the proposed investment, the managerial ability of
the borrower, and accessability of the necessary technical advisory support
and market for the end product.
3.        To determine economic soundness, financial viability and technical
feasibility of any project or investment for which credit assistance is
sought from the Corporation, a thorough investigation of applicants will be
undertaken to analyse their current business records and operations and the
proposed plan of operation, managerial ability, credit requirement, type and
quality of collateral available. Together with the applicant the Corporation
will aim at developing farm plans which would be mutually acceptable and on
the basis of which staff would monitor implementation. Where there are no
records to evaluate a prospective borrower s current operations, attempt
will be made to study and analyse similar or related enterprises or operations
in the same area or similar ecological zone and to use the data so acquired
to develop an operational investment plan.
4.        The Corporation's financing of any single project will not normally
exceed 80% of the investment cost.
5.        The total amount of loans provided by the Corporation, together
with any other financial commitments in favor of any single borrower shall
not normally exceed 3.5% of the Corporation's capital (defined as irredeem-
able loans, grants and reserves).
6.        The Corporation will normally require suitable and marketable
securities for its loans.
7.        Loan Officers at Branch level will be delegated loan approval
authority up to a level predetermined by the General Manager and approved
by the Board. At Headquarters, a technical committee of Senior Credit
Officers will review all loan applications prior to the approval/rejection
by the Board.
III. Financial Policy
1.        The Corporation shall aim at all times to honour its obligations
when due and to achieve an income adequate to meet operating costs, to
provide for doubtful debts, to maintain adequate reserves and to provide
for sustained growth.



- 57 -
ANNEX I
Page 3
2.        The interest charged on Corporation loans shall be set by the Board
and shall be consistent with the overall Government interest rate policy for
the agricultural sector as adjusted from time to time. The Corporation shall
aim to secure an interest rate structure which will enable the Corporation to
meet its financial objectives.
3.        The Corporation shall determine the level of adequate provisions
against potential losses in accordance with prudent accounting policies and
shall build up its reserves to a level consistent with sound financial
practices. Subject to the limitations provided under the law, annual net
income shall be appropriated to the Corporation's general reserve.
4.        The Corporation shall maintain a satisfactory relationship between
the maturities of its obligations and those of the loans it provides, and
shall not incur any long-term debts where the result would be that total
indebtedness (whether present or contingent) would exceed the sum of Kenya
pounds fifty million or such amount as may from time to time be determined
in accordance with sub-section 2 of section 14 of section 14 of the Agricul-
tural Financial Corporation Act (Cap. 323) of the Laws of Kenya.
IV. Quality of Service, Lender and Borrower Obligations
1.        In the interest of improving efficiency, the Corporation will
review periodically its loan making, loan disbursement, accounting and
administrative procedures to ensure proper information collection and
analysis and timeliness of loan disbursements and collections. Every effort
will be made to increase the loan officer/borrower ratio for effective
credit supervision.
2.        Borrowers shall be required to meet their obligations when due.
They shall be required to keep in repair and good working condition, insure
and keep insured, the assets constituting security for the Corporation's
loans.
3.        For supervisory, loan monitoring and evaluation purposes, the
Corporation shall, at all times, be at liberty by itself, its agents or
servants, to enter into the borrower's land to view the assets and improve-
ments mortgaged to the Corporation.
V.   Management, Organization, Staffing and Training.
1.        The Corporation shall endeavor to develop and maintain a well-
balanced staff and management team capable fo evaluating the financing
plans/proposals put before it, assisting enterprises in the formulation
of their projects or farm plans and supervising their execution.



- 58 -
ANNEX I
Page 4
2.        To improve the quality and collectability of loans, and to support
sustained improvements on credit advisory services, the Corporation shall
maintain a credit training programme necessary to ensure adequate staff
capabilities. Such training will include all levels of Corporation staff.
The Corporation will also pay special attention to the development of a
project planning, credit appraisal and farm management capacity whose major
role will be to provide technical support to credit officers at branch level.
3.        In support of its general staff development and promotion policy,
the Corporation will be guided by a personnel policy setting out guidelines
on terms and conditions of employment, job performance criteria and evalua-
tion procedures, promotion incentives and career development programmes.
April 15, 1981



- 59 -
ANNEX 2
KENYA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
List of Materials and Working Papers Available in Project File
I.   Acts and Related Documents
AFC Act (1969)
Agricultural Act
Banking Act
Dairy Industry Act
Review of Statutory Boards ("Ndegwa Report")
II.   Kenya - General Economics
Kenya Development Plan 1978-1983
Economic Survey 1979
Sessional Paper #4 of 1980 on Economic Prospects and Policies
Budget Speeches for the Fiscal Years 1979/80 and 1980/81
Interest Rate Structure (G.W. Coleman)
Monetary Policy in Kenya (G.S. DORRANGE)
Draft Food Policy Paper (July and October 1980 versions)
IBRD Kenya-Economic Analysis and Outlook 1979/80
III.   Statistics and Specific Economic Data on Kenya
Statistical Abstract 1978
Quarterly Statistical Digest
Brief Statistical Analysis (Census of Large Farms)
Review of Land Use Changes
Yields Costs Prices 1980 (MOA)
Crop Budgets
Economic and Financial Review - Central Bank of Kenya
IBRD Commodity Markets and Prices Prospects
IV.   Ministry of Agriculture - Annual Reports
1968 Department of Agriculture-2 Volumes
Annual Reports 1978 of Various Districts and Provinces
Organization Chart



- 60 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
V.   Ministry of Livestock Development
1978 Annual Report
Stotz - Doctoral Thesis
Stotz - Paper on Heifer Requirements
Organization Chart
VI.   Ministry of Cooperative Development
Memorandum to the Civil Service Review Committee
VII.   Annual Reports
Central Bank
Commercial Bank of Kenya
Kenya Cooperative Creameries (KCC)
Agricultural Development Corporation
VIII.   USAID - Sponsored Studies and Report
Agricultural Credit in Kenya
Multinational Agribusiness Systems Inc.
Agricultural Manpower in Kenya
General Research Corporation
AFC Management Study
Research Triangle Institute
AID Request for Proposals
IX.   Agricultural Finance Corporation
Audit Reports and Financial Statements
Financial Projections (Preparation Report)
Price Waterhouse Financial Projections and Tables
Credit Review - Annual Report 1978
Procedures Manuals
- Loan Procedures
- Financial
- Administrative Procedures
Credit Manual
System Design Manual
MIS Users Manual
Application Forms
Appraisal Staffing Costs Tables
AFC Budget 1980-1981 and Annual Plan 1980-81
Structure of Portfolio and Loan Statistics
Appraisal AFC Training Information
Development and Training Programme



- 61 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
AFC Loan Processing Time Surveys
Price Waterhouse Report on Review of Management Reporting
Function of AFC
Organization Chart
Other Appraisal Mission Working Documents
X. Personnel
Study on AFC by Directorate of Personnel
Kenya Civil Service Salary Scale
Education Sector Memorandum (IBRD, March 11, 1980)
XI. Other
ILCA Paper on Trypanotolerant Cattle
Solar Electric International Paper
Note on Economics of Maize Production for Export in
East Africa
Tractor File
Kenya Seed Company
Expansion of Faculty of Agriculture
February 10, 1981



- 62 -
ANNEX 3
AFC - LOAN PROCESSING CYCLE
Loan processing generally follows:
1.   Preparation
1.   identification of the potential borrower by the extension
services of the Ministry of Agriculture (or the Ministry
of Livestock Development) or AFC field officers;
2.   purchase of an application form (fee:  K Sh 10) by the farmer;
3.   farmer preparation of the farm budget with assistance from
extension officer;
4.   inspection of farm and appraisal of project by the AFC field
officers;
2.   Approval
i.   examination of application by the district Loans Advisory
Committee, consisting of:
ii.   approval or rejection of loan by AFC Branch Manager for
Loans under Ksh 10,000 or by AFC Head Office for loans
over K Sh 10,000;
iii.   farmer registration of security documents with the Land Office;
iv.   AFC letter of approval issued to the borrower;
3.   Disbursement
i.   disbursement by AFC Branch Manager (procedure adopted April 1,
1980);
ii.   farm visit by AFC loan officer;
4.   Collection or Default Procedures
i.   instalment reminder sent by mail to farmer 1 and 2 months
in advance of instalment due date;
ii.   arrears notices is sent to borrowers 2 weeks prior to
instalment due date;
iii.   paying accounts are credited, 2-week delinquent accounts
are issued a call notice to report to AFC branch office;



- 63 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
iv.   unsuccessful attempts to collect on delinquent loan results
in farm inspection by AFC branch loan officer 4-6 weeks
following instalment due date;
v.   continual failure of farmers to make payment results in
initiation of foreclosure procedures;
vi.   advertisement of farm auction placed in newspapers;
vii.   sale of farm.



- 64 -
ANNEX 4
KENYA
Fourth Agricultural Credit Project
Draft Terms of Reference
Corporate Planning Department
1. Department Head
2. Planning Analyst
3. Financial Analysts
4. Credit Marketing Analyst
5. Agricultural Economist
6. Branch Location Study
Finance Division
7. Chief Financial Analyst
8. Systems analyst/Programmer
Personnel Training and Development
9. Personnel Management Consultant (Job Analysis
and Performance Review Specialist)
10. Staff Development Specialist
11. Short-Term Credit Training Specialists



- 65 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
1. Corporate Planning Department Head
General
The Corporate Planning Department Head would be recruited interna-
tionally for a period of 36 months.
Job Description
The Annual Plan
The Annual Plan will describe AFC's AFC's operating strategy and
financial objectives and serve as the principal vehicle for an ongoing review
of AFC lending activities and institutional development. The Department Head
will be an advisor to the General Manager and will work closely with the
three division heads of AFC in developing the Annual Plan and five-year pro-
jections and in all aspects of the plan and operations performance reviews.
Preparation of the Planning Process
The Planning process will require inputs from AFC managers at all
levels. In order to ensure effective participation in the process, the
Corporate Planning Department Head will prepare, in collaboration with AFC's
division heads, a planning instruction designed to:
- determine annual targets for lending, financial operations,
budgeting and staff development;
- define strategies to achieve these targets;
- outline information to be provided by branch offices for
the five-year projections and the Annual Plan; and
- design appropriate operating and financial performance
standards and establish management reviews.
Implementation of Planning Process
Once the objectives have been determined and the strategy and
process for the first Annual Plan proposed, the Corporate Planning Department
Head will have th following responsibilities:
(i) establish a timetable for preparation of the Annual Plan;
(ii) review all divisional objectives and strategies with the
General Manager;



- 66 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3
(iii) analyse the budget prepared by the Finance Department
for consistency with AFC's financial objectives and
coordinate required changes;
(iv) prepare the Annual Plan;
(v)  conduct quarterly revisions with the General Manager
on progress of the Annual Plan;
(vi) conduct monthly meetings with division and department
heads on major divisional projects;
(vii) follow up with division heads on progress of major
objectives; and
(viii) forecast expected financial results for the current
fiscal year against the plan in order to develop+
contingency plans where necessary.
Participation in Training Courses
The Department Head will participate in formal training courses for
AFC staff.
Reporting Relationship
The Department Head will report to the General Manager of AFC.
Replacement
The Department Head will be responsible for the informal training
of all department staff and will ensure that after 24 months his successor
has been identified within the department and properly trained to assume the
leadership of the department. During his last 12 months the expatriate
Department Head will serve as advisor to his designated successor.
Qualifications and Experience
Chartered Accountant and Master's Degree in Busikness Administra-
tion or equivalent. At least eight years experience in a financial insti-
tution including management responsibilities. Demonstrated capactities in
corporate planning and budgeting, banking, credit and financial management
and planning, experience with computerized financial and budgetary reporting
systems. Overseas experience. Minimum age: 35 years.
Salary Level
Net $45,000 to 50,000 year plus housing and other benefits.



- 67 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4
2. Planning Analyst
Corporate Planning Department
General
The Planning Analyst will be recruited internationally to staff the
Corporate Planning Department for a period of 36 months. He will be a close
assistant to the Department Head.
Job Description
Strategic and Financial Objectives of AFC
As a framework for preparation fo theAnnual Plan and five-year
projections, the Planning Analyst will develop AFC's strategic and financial
objectives resulting from:
(i) planned expansion of agricultural production and credit
for Kenya;
(ii) external and Government financial resources available;
and
(iii) lending programs of othr banks to agriculture.
The strategic and financial objectives of AFC will include:
- projected growth and programs for lending;
- collection rates and procedures;
- operating and capital expenditures;
- financing needs and eligible expenditures for IBRD
reimbursement; and
- recruiting, training and staff development.
Preparation of Planning Process
The Planning Analyst will assist the Department Head in preparing
the planaing process as stated in theDepartment Head's terms of reference.
In particular, the Planning analyst will review MIS 1/ reports with the
Finanr-e Division to ensure that they respond to management requirements in a
practica'  nd work4ble -anner.
1/   Mamog.i,tc Informaticn System.



- 68 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5
Monitoring of Planning Process
The Planning analyst will:
(i)  prepare quarterly review with the General Manager on
progress of the Annual Plan;
(ii)  assist in arranging and conducting monthly meetings
with division and department heads on major divisional
projects;
(iii) follow up with division heads on progress of major
objectives; and
(iv)  forecast expected financial results for the current
fiscal year against the plan in order to develop con-
tingency plans where necessary.
Reporting Relationship
The Planning Analyst shall report to the Corporate Planning Depart-
ment Head and will supervise the work of the Financial Analysts, Credit
Marketing Analyst and Agricultural Economist of the Department.
Replacement and Training
In agreement with his hierarchical superors, the planning analyst
will, within the staff of the Corporate Planning Department, develop a
replacement fully capable fo performing. the relinquished functions. The
Planning analyst will review and participate in AFC's training programs.
Qualifications and Experience
Chartered Accountant or equivalent. Four to five years- experience
in government planning function at middle management level with strong back-
ground in financial analysis, and familiarity with computerized management
information systems. Minimum age: 30 years.
Salary Level
$30,000 to $40,000 plus housing and other benefits.



- 69 -
ANNEX 4
Page 6
3. Financial Analysts
Corporate Planning Department
Recruitment
The Corporate Planning Department will be staffed with two financial
analysts, recruited locally.
Job Description
The Financial Analysts will assist the Department Head and the
Planning Analyst in all the tasks described in their terms of reference.
They will be specifically responsible for:
-    analysing the budget prepared by the Financial Services Depart-
ment for the following fiscal year to ensure consistency with
AFC's financial objectives, and identifying required changes;
-    reviewing detailed financial projections and cash flow for the
fiscal year under consideration, including estimates of financ-
ing required, comparing financial projections with the Annual
Plan in order to develop contingency plans where necessary;
-    preparing quarterly reviews of the budget; and
-    assisting in the training program.
Reporting Relationship
The Financial Analysts will report to the Department Head and will
be under direct supervision of the Planning Analyst.
Qualification and Experience
Bachelor's Degree in Business with strong financial background and
three years' experience in corporate finance and accounting function.



- 70 -
ANNEX 4
Page 7
4. Credit Marketing Analysts
Corporate Planning Department
General
The Corporate Planning Department will be staffed with a Credit
Marketing Analyst, recruited locally.
Job Description
1.        On basis of inputs from AFC branches, Ministry of Agriculture and
Ministry of Livestock Development extension officers, determine potential
agricultural credit demand, relate to planned expansion of agricultural
production and credit for Kenya, and develop with the Planning Analyst the
lending program for the fiscal year, including a breakdown of expected loans
by purpose, type, size of loan and AFC branch.
2.        Prepare Branch Location Study (with assistance of consultant) (see
description).
3.        In relation with Branch Location Study, develop AFC strategy for
increasing clientele in existing or new areas, operating requirements of AFC
branches, in terms of staff, equipment and vehicles for improving branch
services.
4.        Assist the Planning Analysts in setting out a process for analysing
and reviewing the administrative costs per loan in each AFC branch and follow-
up on progress of major objectives at AFC branch level (number and volume of
loans, by purpose and type).
5.        Participate in training program for branch loan officers.
Reporting Relationship
Reports to Corporate Planning Department Head an dis under direct
supervision of Planning Analyst.
Qualification and Experience
Bachelor's Degree in Economics or Business. Three year s experience
in corporate planning or financial function.



- 71 -
ANNEX 4
Page 8
5. Agricultural Economist
Corporate Planning Department
The Corporate Planning Department will be staffed with an Agri-
cultural Economist, recruited locally.
Job Description
1.        In light of Government priorities, as stated in particular in the
National Plan, the Agricultural Economist will determine the economic viability
of agricultural lending in general and of different loan types in particular.
2.        In collaboration with the departments responsible for planning in
the Ministries of Agriculture, Livestock Development, Cooperative Development
and the MEPD, he will review the planned expansion of agricultural production
and determine the implication for agricultural credit.
3.        The Agricultural Economist will review computerized farm models and
budgets to determine the financial viability of proposed loan types drawing on
information from the Ministry of Agriculture and the AFC Credit Appraisal,
Credit Review and Farm Management Departments.
Reporting Relationship
Agricultural Economist reports to Corporate Planning Department Head
and is under direct supervision of Planning Analyst.
Qualification and Experience
Bachelor's Degree in Economics or Agriculture. Three years' experi-
ence in government or corporate planning function. Familiarity with computer-
ized farm models.



- 72 -
ANNEX 4
Page 9
6. Branch Location Study
The IBRD mission which appraised the IVth Agricultural Credit
Project found that the front line loan officers serving in the 34 branches of
AFC spent too much time travelling. The Project also provides for establish-
ing six new branch offices. Hence the IBRD has recommended a Branch Location
Study to determine:
(1) At the national level, whether the existing AFC branch network
corresponds to the areas of most concentrated agricultural
credit demand, where the six new branches should be opened and
whether branches should be closed or relocated.
(2) At the local level, whether the branch offices are located the
optimal way to minimize loan officer travelling to clients and
administrative (district or provincial) headquarters, where
registration and similar functions must be executed. Failing a
satisfactory "one branch office" solution to the problem of
optimal location, the consultant will devise and cost alterna-
tive approaches to providing branch office services, e.g. use
of mobile branch office units, requiring loan officers to make
overnight trips to certain areas, establishing and manning
branch sub-offices, establishing branch sub-offices as physical
entities, but manning them on a scheduled basis.



- 73 -
ANNEX 4
Page 10
7. Chief Financial Analyst
Financial Services Department
A Chief Financial Analyst will be recruited locally to head the
Financial Services Department.
Job Description
-    prepare annual budget, coordinate with Corporate Planning
Department for presentation in Annual Plan, ensure ongoing
review and report on actual performance against budget;
-    responsible for financial control of branches and head office
using budgetary control system derived from MIS (Management
Information System), report on adequacy of these systems and
any implementation problems;
-    responsible for the cash management function including manage-
ment and transfer of branch collections, liquidity requirements
of the Corporation including short-term deposits, preparation
and review of cash flow projections and monitoring of the money
market;
-    make claims on project expenditures and follow up with relevant
ministries and Government departments;
-    ensure the Corporation meets its financial obligations on time;
and
-    assist the Head, Financial Division, as necessary.
Reporting Relationships
Chief Financial Analyst will report to Financial Controller. He
will be assisted during two years by the USAID Fiscal Planning Advisor and
will collaborate with the Corporate Planning Department to ensure the effi-
ciency of corporate annual planning.
Qualification
Bachelor's Degree in Business or Economics or equivalent. Working
experience: at least five years with responsibility in corporate finance and
budgeting, and experience with computerized financial reporting systems.



- 74 -
ANNEX 4
Page 11
8. Systems Analyst/Programmer
Electronic Data Processing Department
General
AFC will recruit internationally a Systems Analyst/Programmer for a
period of 12 months to ensure a proper follow-up and completion of the computer
system set up by the German technical assistance team on an IBM, Systems 3,
Model 15 machine.
Job Description
Assist head, Electronic Data Processing (EDP) Department in:
(1) Ensuring in collaboration with the Corporate Planning Depart-
ment, the management information requirements are properly
identified, and translated into a practical and workable
accounting system.
(2) Amending, completing and ensuring proper implementation of
computer reporting system accordingly.
(3) Ensuring proper training of staff involved, to understand
system and provide the necessary data input.
(4) Ensure that EDP department head is fully capable of managing
and amending the computerized management information system.



- 75 -
ANNEX 4
Page 12
9. Personnel Management Consultant
A Personnel Management Consultant, specialist in job analysis and
performance evaluation, will be recruited internationally for a period of 24
months.
Job Description
On the basis of the staff job analysis conducted by the Training
Advisor, the Personnel Management consultant will:
(a) Prepare and submit to General Manager and Corporate Planning
Department Head:
(i) a personnel policy statement including statement of key
skills and qualifications required for each position or
job category;
(ii) design of performance appraisal forms and procedural
instructions; and
(iii) a consolidated report on specific training needs across
AFC, within departments and by individual employee.
(b) Develop, in collaboration with the Training Advisor, three
training courses designed to achieve the following objectives:
(i) introduce and explain the objectives of the performance
appraisal system to all AFC employees, in order to maximize
employee understanding and acceptance of the program;
(ii) train supervisors and managers in the basic techniques for
conducting an effective performance appraisal internview
and for identifying training opportunities for the improve-
ment of employee performance; and
(iii) train the Personnel Department to operate and maintain the
performance appraisal system on an ongoing basis.
(c)  Conduct the training courses described in the preceding
paragraph.
(d)  Establish follow up procedures for reviewing the impact of the
performance appraisal system, and report on findings to the
General Manager and Corporate Planning Department Head.



- 76 -
ANNEX 4
Page 13
10. Staff Development Specialist
A Staff Development Specialist will be recruited for (three) months
to assist the Personnel Department in identifying key managerial, supervisory
and professional positions within AFC and in planning for their adequate
staffing.
Job Description
Using job analysis data collected by the Training Advisor, supple-
mented by interviews as appropriate, the consultant will:
-    prepare and submit to the Corporate Planning Department Head a
replacement planning and career development system, including
the preparation of the required forms, policies and procedures;
-    design and conduct a series of workshops to coach senior and
middle managers in the understanding and use of the career
developing planning system; and
-    assist the Training Department in preparing a series of special-
ized courses addressing staff development needs.



- 77 -
ANNEX 4
Page 14
11. Short-Term Credit Training Consultants
According to timetable agreed with the IBRD, short-term Credit
Training Specialists will be recruited internationally for a total of 36
man-months.
Job Description
The short-term Credit Training Specialists will assist the Credit
Training Department, the Training Advisor and the Loan Appraisal Instruction
in:
(1) preparing curricula and training materials (work sheets, case
studies) and preliminary evaluation systems;
(2) determining the right balance of lectures, study, simulation
and practise;
(3) conducting training courses tailored to the institution-s needs
and designed to lead to improved staff performance of their
duties (rather than simply increase their knowledge);
(4) recruiting credit training officers;
(5) assessing performance of local training officers and effective-
ness of locally-conducted training courses; and
(6) instituting a system of follow-up and feedback which would
assist the Training Department to adapt its course work to
changing conditions.
Experience and Qualification
The short-term Credit Training Specialists will have experience in
organizing successful credit training programs in developing countries.



- 78 -
Table I A
KENYA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
AFC Loan Portfolio as of March 31
(K Sh '000)
1977         1978          1979         1980
AFC Loan Schemes 2/
Small Scale Loans 3/
AFC Small Scale                                25,508        25,492        26,201       32,258
IDA 105/344/692                                72,120       91,260       104,246      118,020
KFW                                             9,660         9,660         9,176        9,392
Vihiga/N. Tetu                                     240          220           222          212
ICA                                                940          920           917          916
USAID CUop                                      2,980         2,780         1,019          800
Tobacco                                         5,880        8,480          6,108        6,108
IADP 4/                                           -      -                  1,354       1,202
Sub-total                  117,328      138,812       149,243      168,908
Large Scale Loans 5/
AFC Large Scale                               249,560       259,800       300,924      364,230
Livestock (IDA 129/477)                        69,600        81,880       105,957     126,348
KFW                                             1,880         1,660         1,289        1,088
Group Farm Rehabilitation 6/                    8,720       17,720         35,569       56,932
USAID Crop                                     10,580         2,580         2,337        2,134
Sub-total                  340,340      363,640       446,076      550,732
Total Portfolio 7/                             457,668      502.452        595,319     719,654
1/ All figures in current terms
2/  Description of Loan Schemes, (see Report, paras. 2.42-2.43)
I Loan amounts of less than K sh 20,000
4/  Funds onlent under IADP I (Cr. 959-KE) and IADP II (Cr. 650-KE/Ln.1303-KE)
5/ Loan amounts of K Sh 20,000 or more
6/ Funds onlent under Cr. 537-KE/Ln. 1093-KE
7/ Excludes Government seasonal crop scheme (GMR, New Seasonal Credit Scheme)
March 30, 1981



KEYA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
AFC Loan Portfolio (March 31, 1980) -/
(KSH'000)
Number of
Loan                                     Loans
AFC LOAN SCHEME                  Balance    Arrears       Disbursements, Outstanding
Small-Scale Loans:
AFC Small Scale                 32,258       8,180        11,040          7,111
IDA 105/344/692                118,020      27,540        42,620         34,078
KfW                              9,392       3,160         1,500          4,165
Vihiga/N. Tetu                     212         200           -0-
ICA                                916         840           -0-
USAID Crop                          800        -0-             80         1,420
Tobacco                          6,108         -0-         3,580
IADP                             1,202         -0-           360            746
Sub-Total                   168,916      39,920        59,180
Large Scale Loans:
AFC Large Scale                364,230      4o,74o        98,120          9,423
Livestock (IDA 129/477)        126,348      50,580        40,940          1,317
KfW                              1,088         900           -0-              53
Group Farms Rehabilitation      56,932       3,580        42,080            131
USAID Crop                       2,134         -0-           200              87
Sub-Total                   550,738     95,800        181,340
TOTAL                          719,654    135,720       .240,520        100,603                                            g.
tb
1/  Figures in current terms.  AFC audited Statements, 1979/80
March 30, 1981



-80-
Table 2
KENYA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Proposed Incremental Staffing for Project Activities
AFC
Regular Staff
Job Groups
Corporate Planning Department
1    Department Head                                            N. A. /1
2    Financial Analysts                                          J-K-L
1    Planning Analyst                                            N.A. /1
1   Marketing Analyst                                            J-K-]L
1    Agricultural Economist                                      J-K-L
3    Statistical Assistants                                      G-H
Finance Division
1    Chief Financial Analyst                                     M-N
2    Budget Analysts                                             H-J
2    Accountants                                                 H-J
Administrative Services Division
50   Loan Officers                                               J
30   Accounts Officers                                          J
2   Credit Training Officers                                   K-L
/1   Internationally recruited.
March 30, 1981



-81-
Table 3
KENYA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Proposed Staffing
AFC
Technical Assistance
Staff
Month
Staff         Cost         Total Cost
Months        --------US$-----------
1.   Corporate Planning Head              36          9,000        324,000
2.   Planning Analyst                     36           6,500       234,000
3.   Branch Location Study Consultant    6             6,000        36,000
4.   Job Analysis Specialist              12           6,000        72,000
5.   Performance Review Specialist        12          6,000         72,000
6.   Staff Development Specialist          3          6,000         18,000
7.   Credit Training Specialists          36          6,000        216,000
8.   Systems Analyst/Programmer           12          7,000         84,000
1,056,000
March 19, 1981



-82-
Table 4
KENYA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Pro,;ect Costs Summary
(K Sh Million)
1,  -Foreign
Year l-    Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Total   Exchange %
Organization
Corporate Planning Department    1.50        2.00       2.00     0.50      6.oo      63
Finance Division                  0.35       0.50       0.50     0.50      1.85      60
Loan Officers                     0.20       0.50       0.50     0.50      1.70       -
Accounting Officers               0.10       0.30       0.40     0.30      1.20       -
Branch facilities                 1.50       3.00       2.00     1.00      7.50      86
Training                          375        T.40       5.40     2.80    18.25        70
Credit Training                   2.00       3.00       0.50     -         5.50      69
Staff Performance Improvement    0.50        0.50       0.50     -         1.50       40
Career Development                -          0.25       0.25     -         0.50      40
Continuing Training               -          2.00       2.50     3.00      7.50       40
2.50      5.75       3.75     3.00    15.00        50
Credit Program -1                 -         76.oo    103.00   151.00   330.00         60
'Total Base Cost 3/                6.15     88.15    112.15   156.80   363.25         60
Physical Contingencies           0.75      1.00       0.60     0.50      2.85       56
Price Contingencies 5/           o.58      2.30       2.50     3.50      8.88       60
Total Contingencies             1.33       3.30       3.10     4.00    11.73       60
Total Project Cost                 7.48     91.45    115.25   160.80   374.98         60
1/ Project Years correspond approximately with
AFC fiscal years (April 1 - March 31)
,P/ From Line of Credit, Table 7
3/ Base costs are estimated at prices expected to prevail
in March 1981
4/ 10% physical contingencies applied to branch facilities and
office equipment and vehicles
l/  Price contingencies applied to Organization and Training Components
only, were estimated as follows:
Foreign Exchange       Local
1981        9.0                10
1982        8.5                10
1983-85     7.5                  8
March 19, 1981



-83-                        Table 5S
KENYA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA/BANK Fiscal Year                               Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                                      at Quarter End
---------  US$ thousand ---------
1981-82
September 30, 1981 a/                                   150
December 31, 1981                                       300
March 31, 1982                                          800
June 30, 1982                                         1,200
1982-83
September 30, 1982                                    2,000
December 31, 1982                                     4,000
March 31, 1983                                        6,ooo
June 30, 1983                                         8,000
1983-84
September 30, 1983                                  10,000
December 31, 1983                                    13,000
March 31, 1984                                       16,ooo
June 30, 1984                                        20,000
1984-85
September 30, 1984                                  23,000
December 31, 1984                                   27,000
March 31, 1985 b/                                    30,000
June 30, 1985                                        33,000
1985-86
September 30, 1985                                  34,000
December 31, 1985 c/                                 35,000
a/  Expected Date of Effectiveness - August 31, 1981
b/  Expected Date of Project Completion.
c/ Closing Date.
March 23, 1981



KENYA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Government Cash Flow -
(R Sh Million)
---------------------------------    Project    Year   -- - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - -- - - - -         -  _-- ___- ----------
1            2           3            4            5            6            7           8          9        10        11         12
Sources of Funds
IDA Credit                              6.0          39.0        30.0            -           -           _            _           _          _         _         _           _
Bank Loan                                -             -         45.0        105.0         37.5          -            -           _          _    -              - _
Taxes and Duties 3/                     1.4           5.0         6.8          9.4          8.1         8.7         9.3         10.0       10.8      11.6      12.5        13.4
APC 4/
- Amortization                           -             -           -             -           -           -            -         25.4       25.4      25.4      25.4        25-4
- Interest                               -            2.7         9.4         20.3         25.6        25.6        25.6         24.8       22.3      20.3      18.4        16.2
Total Sources                           7.4          46.7        91.2         134.7        65.9        34.3        34.9         60.2       58.5      57.3      56.3        55.0
Uses of Funds
Project Expenditures                    7.5          91.4       115.3        160.8                       -            -          -                -               -          -
IDA Service Charge                       -            0.3         0.6          0.6          0.6         0.6         0.6          0,6        0.6       0.6       0.6         0.6
Bank Loan 5/
- Amortization                                        --           -             -           -          6.3        12.5         12.5       12.5      12.5      12.5        12.5
- Interest                               -             -          2.2          9.4         16.2        12.4        16.2         15.0       13.8      12.6      11.9        10.8
- Commitment Fee                        1.4           1.4         1.2          0.7          0.2                      _                      -                     -
Total Uses                             8.9          93.1       119.3        171.5         17.0        24.3        29.3         28.1       26.9      25.7      23.1        23.9
Net Cash Flow                         (1.5)        (46.4)    (28.1)         (36.8)        48.9        10.0         5.6         32.1       31.6      31,6      33.2        31.1
Cumulative Net Cash Flow             (1.5)         (47.9)    (76.D)        (112.8)       (63.9)      (53.9)      (48.3)       (16.2)      15.4       47.0     80.2      111.3
1| In current prices
2/ Corresponds approximately with AFC FY (April 1 - March 31)
I Includes estimated incremental taxes
4/  Interest on AFC draw downs under line of credit is 77. in year 1 and 2, 8= thereafter;
In year 5, line of credit is converted into a term loan of sixteeni years maturity,
including 3 years of grace.
5/  The interest on the Bank Loan is 9.6%.  The term is 20 years, including 5 years grace.
March 30, 1981



KENYA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
AFC - Actual and Projected Balance Sheet at March 31st I/
(K Sh. Million)
1975      1976       1977      1978       1979      19         191       1982       1983       1984       1985
ASSERTS
Loans to Farmers                 321.7      413.1     457.6      502.1     594.3        725        725       725        819       926      1.046
Less Valuation Reserve         (21.0)    (26 6)    (30.2)    (32.5)    (38-9)   ( 47          )            (4i)      4(53     )       (6o)    t68)
300.7      8.5       427.4       9          57P7                                      766 86                978
Other Loans and Deposits          23.1       18.6      36.6       43.7      53.6         58         58        58         66         74        84
Cash                               7.1        7.6      25.8       11.0      14.7        (14)        11        12         14         15        17
Other Current Assets               3.8        6.8       7.9        5.5       5.7         12          6         6          7          8        10
Fixed Assets 2/                    6.4        6.7       7.3        8.2      13.9         23         21        20         20        20         20
Total Assets                   341.1      426.2     505.0      538.0     643.3        757        779       780        873       983      1,109
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities               11.9       12.1      13.1       13.2      17.5         52         65        30         31         17        19
Borrowings
Line of Credit                   -          -                    -         -          -                    -           76        179       330
Redeemable Loans               199.3      282.9     352.8      374.3     462.2        416        404       392        380       368        306
Irredeemable Loans              80.1       80 1      80.1       80.1      80.1        188        188       188        188        188       188
279     436          432.9     4          542,3     -*07         592                  644        735       t24
Capital
Grants                          47.4       48.3      48.2       48.3      49.8         50         53        73         84         90         95
Retained Earnings                2.4        2.8      10.8       22.1      33.7         51         69        97        114        141       171
49,87    - 51.1      59.0      70, 4      8          101        122        170       T231 
Total Liabilities & Capital 341.1       426.2     505.0      538.0     643.3        757       779        780        873        983     1,109
1/ All figures in current terms
U/ mnaudited Statements
3/ Includes Development House Phase II, Farm Properties in Possession
January 9, 1981



KENYA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
AFC - Actual and Projected Income Statement for
The Years Ended March 31st 1/
(K Sh. million)
1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980 2/ 1981    1982    1983    1984   1985
Total Interest Earned               22.0    28.1    38.5    39.5    50.2    62.0    70.0    74.0    83.0    94.0   107.0
Interest Expense
Line of Credit                       -        -       -        -        -        -        -       -       2.0      7.0    13.0
Redeemable Loans                    6.9      8.4    10.8    12.0    12.9    15.2    12.0    12.0    11.0    11.0    11.0    I
Irredemable Loans                   4.2     4.2      4.1      4.2      4.1      4.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    m
Total Interest Expense    11.1    12.6    14.9    16.2    17.0    19.2    22.0    22.0    23.0    28.0    34.0
Net Interest Income                 10.9    15.5    23..6   23.3    33.0    42.8    48.0    52.0    60.0    66.0    73.0
Other Income                         4.8      6.6     6.8    10.4    10.3    12.4    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0
Operating Expense
Administrative Expense             13.2    14.7    16.9    18.8    23.1    24.2    44.0    37.0    40.0    41.0    44.0
Provision for bad debts             4.8      6.0     3.9      2.1      6.4    10.4    10.0    14.0    27.0    22.0    23.0
Bad debts written offs               -       -       0.3       -       0.3     0.1   (15)    (15)       (15)    (15)    (15)
Depreciation                        1.1      1.1     1.3      1.6      2.0      2.8      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0
Total Operating Expense   19.1    21.8    22.4    22.5    31.8    37.5    42.0    39.0    55.0    51.0    55.0
Net Income                          (3.4)             8.0    11.2    17.7                18.0    25.0    17.0    27.0    30.0
F-3
1/  All figures in current terms
2/  Unaudited statement
January 9, 1981



KENYA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
AFC - Schedule of Selected Financial Indicators
(K Sh Million)
1975        1976        1977        1978        1979         1980        1981         1982        1983        1984        1985
PROFITABILITY
Return on Assets--                    -        (0.65%)    1.727          2.15%       1.98%      2.49%        2.34%       3.59%        2.05%       2.91/       2. 87/
2/
Net Interest Margin-                  -         3.97%      5.21%         4.587       5.537      5.987%       6.627       7.17%        7.787       7.56%       7.40%
LIQUIDITY
Loans to Senior Porrowing3'l          -        1.53       1.20           1.32        1.31      1.50         1.77         1.82        1.82        1.74        1.67
Quick Ratio                         0.60        0.63        1.97         0.83        0.95      (0.27)       0.17         0.40        0.45         0.88       o.89
LEVERAGE
Asset Leverage-                     2.63        3.25        3.63         3.57        3.93       2.62        2.51         2.18        2.26         2.35       2,44
Debt to EquSty-                     0.60        0.68        0.84         0.71        0.74       0.59        0.54         0.52        0.54         0.57       p.58
Lending to Borrowing7/              0.98        1.00        0.95         1.00        1.00       1.11        1.12         1.11        1.13         1.12       1.14
1/ Return on Assets = Net Income * Average Total Assets
2/  Net Interest Margin = (Interest on Loans - Interest Paid ) + Average'Loans to Farmers
3/ Loans to Senior Borrowings = Average Loans * (Average redeemable Loans + Line of Credit)
4/ Quick Ratio = Cash + Current Liabilities
5/  Asset Leverage = Total Assets + (Irredeemable Loans + Interest Free Grants + Accumulated Surplus)
6/  Debt to Equity = (Redeemable Loans +   Line of Credit)               + Total Loans, Grants, Surplus and
Line of Credit
7/  Lending to Borrowing = Loans to Farmers + Loans and Grants                                                                                                      !
March 30, 1981



KENYA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION
ORGANIZATION CHART
I BOARD OF DIRECTORS j
,Z       I
GENERAL
MANAGER
INTERNAL AUDIT                                 CORPORATE
DEPARTMENT                                    PLANNING
TECHNICAL    IADMINISTRATIVE                                                FINANCE
SERVICSIO                        SERVICES DIVISION                          DIVISION
DIVISION ~ ~   ~    ~     ERICSDIISO
CREDIT APPRAISAL                            I                                  ACCOUNTS
- DEPARTMENT                                                                  DEPARTMENT
CREDIT REVIEW         PERSONNEL           I                          TRAININGELECTRONIC DATA
DEPARTMENT           DEPARTMENT           I         DEPARTMENT              PROCESSING
_____ J                   DEPARTMENT
I   BUSINESS    I  I   FINANCIAL
CREDIT CONTROL           LEGAL             I           BSRIESSR
DEPARTMENT          DEPARTMENT           ISERVICES                           SERVICES
DEPARTMENT              DEPARTMENT
MANAGEMENT  |                      AREA MANAGERS                               BANKING
DEPARTMENT                              (5)                                    SECTION
BRANCH MANAGERS                            MANAGEMENT
(34)                                  SECTION
March 1981                                                                       World Bank-22776



KENYA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE (YEAR 1)
1981                                                                   1982
MARCH       APRIL      MAY        JUNE      JULY      AUGUST    SEPT          OCT       NOV         DEC    JANUARY    FEE          MARCH
IBRO L.an Proess ig/Finalization
Negotiations
GOK/AFC Ratification of Subsidiary
Financing Agreenment
AFC Board Approvai of AFC
Policy Statement
IBRD Board Presentation                                                *
AFC Appointment of Corporate
Pianning Head
AFC Submission of Credit
Training Program Timetable                                                     _          -
GOK Submission of Project Legal
Opinion                                                                         -
Effectiveness
Terms of Reference - Key Staff
Corporate Planning Department
Finance Division
- Cash Management Section
gadgeting Section
- Electronic Data Processing
- Accounts Deoarment
Credit Training Program
Staff Performance Improvement Program
Staff Recruitment
Corporate Planning Department
Department Head                                                      _          _
Financial Analysts 12)
Planning Analyst
Marketing Analyst
Agricuitural Economist
Statistical Assistants i1_
Finance DOvision
Chief Financial Analyst
Budget Analysts (2)
Accountants 121
Systems Analyst                                       .
Administrative Services Divislon
Loan Officers
Accounts Officers
Branch Location Study
Recraitment of Consultant
Completion and Review of Recommendations
Branch Constraction Program
Credit Training Program
Submission of Implementation Timetable
Recraitment of Credit Training Specialists
Preparation of Training Curricalum
Recraitment of Training ORicers
Training of Loan Officers
Training of Accounts Officers
Continuing Training Needs Report
Staff Performance Improvnment Programs
Recruitment of Performance Review Specialist
Staff Performance Appraisal
Career neveiopment Review,
March 24. 1981                                                                                                                                                             World Bak - 22777






S U) D A N --               ,  7/          \'
,/   X  l  -            -t--S  ' \ ~T H I O P  A
e -t    \0VRI,KANA   | ,l 1                               g         t   =ti  1    .                 ,ll~~~~~~~~ ~     ~~ANrDERAj
\nX   q K f  f                       0  ^d~~~~~~~~M QAit 1o/ E                                             mQ                    /
.    \s9S   - <   0             -<   -   4    s   r~A,    E   R   i\  o;1dAJ1R                            
U  GA  N   D A                    IV- t            d'-        T      3 '           >                                                1 
yEVi   >t\}/      ~30                             '      '                                           G    
-t.   '\ z - \- ~~~~~~~~SO                                                                                       AL-IAI'\ 
MT gI 08R/;9z{5;dZI A   X   /  27rlul       (        \          0    <    ~t~/F                                         5  0    AELRIN
K   E,iYAf   'X\<JADC <                                               /                      
Fourth~~~~~~~~~~~~~N 1                  AriuluaCrdtPoet fJ  tT  \''/'@.r
ECOLOGICAL  ZONES   Toglnshe    9 v  C    j   \  /\,   <           \                         /   r            /ND/AN   OCL dN~~~~~GARISS
Provmclul boundxrie~~~~~~~~s                                         Ri N - _, -  f
.-.-. ntenoson zIbourdoris   z oro  :p s                          \t              ActA   <    -       //   //                       kfAc i       ZAA
Ramfnll Preobablzt Z H8J ~~~@nl .................. 1 ANA.  /Xi R & VN  'R
_o7~ lXlyerilOaiful sheltoelsshaSOmm                                                             - /     N6    .                             .;L  
-s -2-2XtyersnB:mvieslklyofflesl=nOOm)         ;cleic zne                        \               .'          A}A.MA5                    4s sS3ae\\d 
EC LGC       A       ZONE                                                                                                                  ?,OIP OA  0  e'deEAN3uin Znl)KSf Jlj>^2  s  /.   
|~~~~~~d ,                    i    N ,    ...   T  zi tO:jrRfW;+*   






S U D A N 
:  0 f 0 0 >   ,()R.t.t;14   %5g 1 )                                      9          e                           LA^rl T    HCI40/  
7            H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
S;                                     I R*                                   E   T   H   I  O    P  I  A A  T   E  R   N
JGANDA                     -O    A LI A
:   j&-   V   P  L   L    E   V   \\  )     .                   u  
WESTERN7-,, ,.,,,,,                        s                              t      >roX                    / <
5 ,                                              E A    I E R N                                                           SOAI
~~~~~~~~A                                         T    E    R    N  ' \
,.   ANDA                                        LE        >' I,E d-
I-                                                                N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
;     X    ~V        A    L     L     E    YK>9             V\t\\I                                                /                /
*-y                 QMOr GO                R     t                                                     L
AI;grf rQ  FfrzmceCorl)orltiL3/Brfif}C  [Wf k  4,       Xd8tuAO                                                                          P.' --  4 L     ,,,,bVer.~.Cl
f   \   '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  A~C                                        0                         I
FOURTH AGRICULTUJRAL CREDIT PROJECT
Agrp*uural Finance Corporation/Branch Network                ~       ~                < 
C4TIf    ArLO   ost   .........  1;5 f \ > , C} l : .Pa;8; r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......        .
MAMASA
-o                                                            S.Ir



