Document of                            COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3042-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT AND LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
April 30, 1981
[ This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



KENYA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            -           Kenya Shilling (K Sh)
US$1.00                  -           K Sh 7.5 1/
K Sh 1.00                -           US$0.133
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                                           British Equivalents
1 meter (m)                           -          3.28 feet (ft)
1 hectare (ha)                        -          2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilometer (km)                      -          0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (sq. km)           -          0.39 square mile (sq. mi)
1 kilogram (kg)                       -          2.2 pounds (lb)
1 liter (1)                           -          0.26 US gallon (gal)
0.22 British gallon (imp. gal)
1 metric ton (m ton)                  -          2,205 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS
AFC       -      Agricultural Finance Corporation
EAC       -      East African Community
KFA       -      Kenya Farmers Association
MIS       -      Management Information System
MLD       -      Ministry of Livestock Development
MOA       -      Ministry of Agriculture
MOCD      -      Ministry of Co-operative Development
USAID     -      United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Kenya      -       July 1 to June 30
Agricultural Finance
Corporation            -      April 1 to March 31
1/   The average rate prevailing at the time of appraisal, which was US$1.00 -
K Sh 7.5 has been used in evaluating this Project.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
KENYA FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:      Republic of Kenya
BENEFICIARY:   Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC)
AMOUNT:         Credit:  SDR 8.2 million (US$10.0 million equivalent)
Loan:    US$25.0 million
TERMS:         Credit:  Standard
Loan:    Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace,
with interest at 9.6% per annum.
RELENDING
TERMS:        Government would provide the funds including the proceeds of
the Loan and Credit for AFC's lending program at an annual
interest rate of 7% in AFC FYs 1982 and 1983, and at 8% p.a.
thereafter. These would be blended rates on funds from all
sources, viz., Government, Bank/IDA and other donors, and the
Bank interest rate (9.6%) to be charged to the Government under
the Project would be reflected in full in them. AFC would lend
at a rate of at least 12% per annum for medium-term loans,
which constitute the bulk of its lending program. AFC's
onlending rates would be adjusted periodically in accordance
with Government interest rate policy. Funds onlent for credit
purposes by AFC would be repaid to Treasury under the conditions
of a term loan, to be entered into at the end of the Project
period, with a final maturity of sixteen years, including a
grace period of three years to match the average maturity of
AFC's portfolio financed under the Project. Funds for in-
creasing AF.'s planning and financial management capability,
improving branch services and facilities, and for staff training
and development would be provided to AFC as a Government
grant.
PROJECT
DESCRIPTION:  The main purpose of the Project is to strengthen AFC's insti-
tutional capability to serve the growing credit needs of
Kenya's farmers more effectively. Target clients would be
commercial farmers who can demonstrate their ability to increase
their farm productivity and to meet the related financial
obligations, including farmers who have not had previous access
to other sources of institutional credit.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Project components include:
(a) Strengthening AFC-s general management and adminis-
trative capabilities by: (i) establishing a Corporate
Planning Department; (ii) reorganizing the Finance
Division; (iii) increasing the number of loan offi-
cers; (iv) appointing an accounts officer in each
branch; and (v) improving AFC's branch services and
facilities.
(b) Improving AFC training and staff development by
introducing programs for: (i) credit training;
(ii) staff performance improvement; (iii) career
development; and (iv) continuing training.
(c) Providing credit to assist in financing AFC-s
lending program.
ESTIMATED COSTS:                 Local             Foreign              Total
---------------US$ Million---------------
Organization                       1.0                 1.5                2.5
Training                           1.0                 1.0                2.0
Line of Credit                    17.6                26.4               44.0
Total Base Cost                   19.6                28.9               48.5
Physical Contingencies             0.2                 0.2                0.4
Price Contingencies                0.5                 0.7                1.2
Total Contingencies                0.7                 0.9                1.6
Total Project Cost                20.3                29.8               50.0 1/
FINANCING PLAN:                   Local    Foreign    Total    % Net Project Cost
-------US$ Million------- …
Bank/IDA                           5.0       30.0       35.0             74
Government of Kenya               12.0         -        12.0             26
Net Project Cost                  17.0       30.0       47.0            100
(Excluding taxes and duties)
Taxes and duties                                         3.0
Total Project Cost                                      50.0
1/   Total figures rounded.



- iii -
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS:
Bank Group FY                     1982      1983      1984       1985       1986
----------US$ Million Equivalent----------
Annual                              1.2      6.8      12.0       13.0        2.0
Cumulative                         1.2       8.0      20.0       33.0      35.0
RATE OF RETURN:  The overall economic rate of return is 24%.
APPRAISAL REPORT: Report No. 3362-KE, dated April 28, 1981
MAPS:  IBRD No. 15123
IBRD No. 15111






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT AND LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA FOR A
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Republic of Kenya of SDR 8.2 million (US$10.0
million equivalent), on standard terms and a Loan for the equivalent of
US$25.0 million to assist in the financing of a Fourth Agricultural Credit
Project. The interest on the Loan would be 9.6% per annum. The Loan would be
repayable in 20 years, including five years of grace. The Government would
provide proceeds of the Credit and the Loan relating to the lending program
to Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC) which, in turn, would be on-lent by
AFC to commercial Kenyan farmers of all sizes for farm development. Funds for
increasing AFCs institutional capability and for AFC staff training and
development would be provided to AFC as a grant.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report entitled "Kenya Economic Memorandum" (Report No. 2441-KE)
dated March 1979 has been distributed to the Executive Directors. A summary
of social and economic data is in Annex I. A Basic Economic Report and an
Economic Updating Memorandum on Kenya are now under preparation.
Long-Term Economic Growth and Prospects
3.        Kenya became an independent nation in 1963.  During the entire
period since then the country has experienced remarkable continuity in both
political leadership and development strategy. That strategy has been to
promote rapid economic growth by means of public investment, encouragement
of both smallholder and large-scale farming, and promotion of accelerated
industrialization, by providing incentives for private, including foreign,
investment in modern industry. The Kenyan development model can be charac-
terized as "mixed", in the sense that it incorporates a diversity of organi-
zational forms and incentives and combines private enterprise with a signifi-
cant amount of Government participation and guidance. It is clear that the
country has made a smooth transition to new leadership following President
Kenyatta's death in 1978, and that the future will see continuity in both the
political and economic spheres. Recent peaceful elections provide additional
confirmation of this.
1/   This section is essentially the same as that of the President's
Report on the Kenya Railway Project, which was circulated to the
Executive Directors on April 6, 1981.



- 2 -
4.        Kenya's first decade as an independent nation was one of remarkable
growth and structural transformation. Total GDP grew at an annual average
rate of 6.6% during 1964-73. Both agriculture and manufacturing grew rapidly,
at 4.7% and 8.4% per annum respectively. The expansion of agriculture was
stimulated by redistribution of large estates to smallholders, rapid diffusion
of hybrid maize, and growth of smallholder output. Growth of manufacturing
was very largely made possible by the expansion of domestic demand due to
rising agricultural incomes, while investment for domestic production was
being encouraged by high levels of protection, a liberal attitude towards
foreign investment, and active Government promotion of and participation in
manufacturing ventures.
5.        Despite this rapid growth, Kenya remains a poor country, still
heavily rural and dependent upon agriculture. Average GNP per capita in
1979 was US$380. Agriculture accounted for about a third of GDP in 1975-79
and 56% of export earnings in 1979. Since the growth of the industrial sector
has been largely confined to the major urban areas, agriculture remains the
principal source of income in the rural areas where over 80% of the population
live and work. But despite the substantial economic progress the country has
made, Kenya still has significant problems of poverty and under-employment.
For example, it is estimated that about one-fourth of the population have
incomes which place them below the absolute poverty line.
6.        The most fundamental problems Kenya faces are posed by the rapid
growth rate of population, currently estimated by the Government to be 3.9%
per year, which is among the highest in the world. This is, ironically,
the result of Kenya's past success in raising living standards, which has
resulted in a steady decline in mortality and has probably resulted in an
increase in the country's already high fertility rate.
7.        With rapidly increasing population, pressure is beginning to mount
on Kenya's limited arable land. Of Kenya's total land area of about 583,000
sq km, about 520,000 sq km are categorized as potentially agricultural;
however, only 13% can be regarded as high potential land, with 6% medium and
81% low potential. Thus, less than 20% of the land area has good arable
potential, and much of it is now densely settled. Because of traditional
ethnic landholding patterns, some higher potential land is not fully utilized.
Mounting pressure on land is resulting in increasing subdivision and landless-
ness in high potential areas, and in settlement in semi-arid areas ill-suited
to farming. The latter also poses a serious threat of environmental degradation.
8.        Rapid population growth has created other problems as well.  First,
there is the strong likelihood that, unless growth slows dramatically or ways
are found to increase the rate at which income earning opportunities in
agriculture expand, excess rural labor will be pushed into urban areas. Even
if the non-agricultural formal wage sector (which employs less than 15% of the
total labor force) grows very rapidly, it will probably be unable to absorb
all the new urban labor force entrants, resulting in rising urban unemploy-
ment and underemployment. Second, considerable budgetary pressure has already
been created by the growing demand for social services, especially education.



- 3 -
Finally, efforts to improve the distribution of income will be impeded by the
relative lack of access to land and education for the children of the poorest
section of the population.
9.        A second major problem area has developed in the manufacturing
sector. The rapid growth of industry in the past has been largely based upon
investments in simple import-substitution industries by multinational companies.
To a lesser extent manufacturing production has also catered to the export
market in neighboring countries, particularly in the protected East African
Community (EAC) market. However the scope for further industrialization along
these lines is limited as most of the easy import-substitution possibilities
have been exhausted and the EAC preference for Kenyan goods has been abolished.
The past pattern of industrialization has left the sector increasingly dependent
on imported raw materials, components and spare parts and therefore vulnerable
in case of a shortage of foreign exchange. To maintain growth it will be
necessary to reorient industry toward increased use of domestic inputs and
increased production for export.
10.       A third problem is the slow growth and lack of diversification
of exports which have consistently grown at a slower pace than GDP. From
1964-74 the volume of exports expanded at an average annual rate of 4.6%.
However, over the past five years, export volume has grown slowly. In 1979,
export volume was 4% below the 1975 level. To some extent this is a
reflection of production problems in agriculture and industry, but it is also
an indicator of the need to direct more resources toward export-oriented
activities.
Economic Performance 1974-1980
11.       Kenya's growth performance since 1974 has been especially vulnerable
to swings in the country's international terms of trade. Thus, the growth
rate fell sharply during 1974-75 when the dramatic increase in petroleum and
other import prices required restrictive economic policies, accelerated
rapidly in 1976-77 as the impact of the "coffee boom" following frost damage
in Brazil worked its way through the economy, and began to decelerate in 1978
with the rapid decline in coffee prices.
12.       Fiscal and monetary policies were, in combination with incomes
policy, reasonably effective in restraining the growth of aggregate demand
during 1974-76. However, throughout this period there were increasing pres-
sures on the Government to expand its expenditures, emanating primarily from
increased school enrollments and abolition of fees for the first four years
of education; concerns about national security; and the need to replace EAC
Corporations with national entities. With the "coffee boom" of 1976-77, the
Government decided to greatly expand budgetary outlays, both recurrent and
capital. Thus, the budget deficit rose from less than 5% of GDP in 1976/77
to about 9% in 1978/79. At the same time, the monetary authorities did little
to limit the effect of rising foreign exchange reserves on commercial bank
liquidity and expansion of credit to the private sector. As a result, domestic
credit grew by an average of nearly 30% in 1977 and 1978. The combination of
the expansionary monetary and fiscal policy and the high agricultural incomes
produced a resurgence of domestic demand and a rapid rise in import levels.



- 4 -
13.       The sharp rise in the 1978/79 budgetary deficit left the Government
with an extremely difficult budgetary dilemma. It faced the need to reduce
the deficit in order to avoid severe inflationary pressures, with the almost
certain prospect of very slow growth of revenues. Thus, taxes were increased;
the general rate of the sales tax was raised from 10% to 20%, the rate for
"nonessentials" was raised from 20% to 25%, and other specific taxes were
increased as well. The rate of growth of expenditures was reduced sharply,
from 17% between 1977/78 and 1978/79 to about 5% for the 1979/80 budget, but
this could only be done by keeping development expenditures 15% below the
level budgeted and 5% below the level in the preceding year. This enabled the
Government to bring the deficit down to less than 6% of GDP.
14.       During 1978-80, Kenya again experienced strong external shocks as a
result of the latest round of petroleum price increases and declining coffee
prices. The balance-of-payments and incomes effects of this were compounded
by poor weather affecting coffee and maize production. As a result, GDP
growth slowed to 3.1% in 1979 and an estimated 2.8% in 1980. The trade
deficit rose sharply in 1978, and foreign exchange reserves were rapidly
depleted. The balance on current account deteriorated from an exceptional
surplus of US$58 million in 1977 to a deficit of over US$650 million in 1978,
while reserves fell by US$200 million. In order to prevent further depletion
of the country's foreign exchange reserves, the Government introduced a
program of import restrictions in late 1978, effecting a sharp decline in
imports and reductions in Kenya's revenue gap and current account deficit
in 1979. This, together with increased external borrowing, resulted in a
recuperation of about US$179 million in gross reserves in the same year. The
improvement in the balance of payments proved to be short-lived. The increase
in petroleum prices combined with the need for additional food imports resulted
in a 25% rise in the value of imports in 1980. While exports rose by 16%,
this was not sufficient to prevent a rise in the current account deficit to
over US$700 million and, despite increased external borrowing, a decline of
US$167 million in foreign exchange reserves.
Fourth Five-Year Development Plan, 1979-83
15.       The emphasis of the Fourth Five-Year Development Plan is on restor-
ing growth to the levels that prevailed before 1974, while alleviating poverty
through creation of income earning opportunities and provision of social
services to meet the basic needs of the population. The Plan correctly
identifies the key problems that Kenya faces and sets forth a development
strategy appropriate to their solution. It is sharply focussed, explicit in
its recommendations, and shows a sound awareness of constraints on development.
16.       The Fourth Plan recognizes the strong link between agricultural
growth and poverty alleviation. One of the most significant changes pro-
posed in the Plan is increased access to land through legalizing subdivision
of high-potential large farms. In addition, the Plan proposes that a National
Land Commission be established to review ways of encouraging land use inten-
sification and labor absorption. The Plan also proposes that marketing and
pricing policies pay closer attention to the structure of domestic and inter-
national prices and the marketing system be made more competitive and efficient



- 5 -
to improve prices to farmers. Research and extension services are to be more
closely linked to the needs of small farmers. Finally, in addition to projects
to increase larger scale commercial and smallholder production, a series of
integrated rural development projects in semi-arid areas is proposed to
redress the neglect of these areas.
17.       The major thrust of industrial policy will be to effect a transition
from import substitution to a strategy emphasizing industrial efficiency and
export diversification. This will involve further rationalization of tariffs
and elimination of quantitative restrictions on imports over a five-year
period. This policy will be very difficult to carry forward over the next
few years when, because of balance of payments problems, there is likely to
be considerable pressure to increase, rather than reduce, protection.
18.       The Plan proposes no fundamental change in Kenya-s traditionally
liberal policy on foreign investment with the important exception that re-
view and approval of projects for which special concessions or Government
participation are being sought will rely more on economic criteria and will be
centralized in the Ministry of Finance. On the whole, the Plan calls for a
more limited role for Government in terms of direct participation and inter-
vention. However, efforts will be made to restructure industrial investment
incentives to encourage employment and decentralization. Finally, while there
are doubts in Kenya about how dynamic a role the informal sector can play in
the development process, the Plan is more specific in its recommendations for
aid to small firms (provision of financial and technical support and ending
of unnecessary licensing and other restrictions) than the previous Plan.
19.       The Fourth Plan acknowledges the heavy burden rapid population
growth places on the economy and places high priority on the promotion of
family planning. The target for new acceptors during 1979-83 is 700,000,
compared to 280,000 recruited during 1974-78. In order to achieve this, the
number of field educators will be more than tripled (from 430 to over 1,300)
and the number of fixed delivery points doubled (from 315 to 630). Although
Kenya is doing more to promote family planning than most other African coun-
tries, the rate of population growth is projected to remain extremely high
(3.9%) because of strong cultural and traditional factors and even greater
efforts will be required to bring about a significant decline in fertility.
20.       Due to Kenya's worsening financial and budgetary constraints, which
had not been anticipated when the Plan was written, implementation of the
Fourth Plan has been very slow so far. As a result, the Government had to
reassess the Plan targets and has already introduced a revised shortrun
economic program incorporated in Sessional Paper (SP) No. 4 of 1980, while
maintaining the overall development strategy set out in the original Plan
document. The SP identifies and deals with Kenya-s short- and medium-term
problems in a frank and consistent manner. It offers, among other things, a
revised set of policy initiatives designed to overcome the country's urgent
financial problems resulting from continuing budgetary and balance of payments
pressures.



-6-
Economic Prospects
21.       The outlook for 1981 does not suggest a major improvement in the
balance of payments or economic growth. In fact, the first few years of
the decade are likely to be difficult ones for the Kenyan economy because of
poor terms of trade prospects and heavy debt service obligations. However,
growth appears better for the mid-1980s as the terms of trade are expected to
stabilize and growth of external debt decelerates. It would then be possible
to follow gradually more expansionary policies. A growth rate approaching
6% per annum should be attainable during the second half of the decade.
22.       The budgetary situation will also be tight over the next few years.
In early 1979, the President announced several measures which are not included
in the Plan, but which will have significant direct budgetary consequences.
These measures include: (i) provision of free milk for students in the first
seven years of school; (ii) elimination of school fees for the fifth and sixth
years of elementary school; (iii) initiation of a national literacy campaign;
and (iv) a 10% increase in employment in the public and private sectors in
exchange for agreed wage restraint. Finally, the increased military expendi-
tures will also increase budgetary pressure. This pressure, besides having a
negative impact on the availability of counterpart funds for ongoing and new
projects, also implies more restraint on new public commitments.
23.       In order to deal with the balance of payments problem, the Govern-
ment has adopted a set of policy measures in its FY1980/81 budget aimed
at enhancing both the country's export and debt management capabilities.
These measures have been agreed with the Bank Group, within the framework of
the first Structural Adjustment Credit, and include: (i) substitution of
import duties for non-tariff barriers; (ii) elimination of all Letters of No
Objection privileges; (iii) increase of the export compensation rate from 10%
to 20% of f.o.b. value of exports; (iv) simplifying the procedures for export
compensation payments; and (v) creation of a Debt Management Office with
responsibility for developing a reasonable annual borrowing program in order
to help control external borrowing more efficiently. The Government has also
reached agreement with the International Monetary Fund on a new stand-by
arrangement for US$316 million over a period of two years starting October 15,
1980. The agreement involves the upper credit tranches, through the fourth,
including the use of the Special Fund Facility. Moreover, in February 1981,
the Government devalued the Kenya Shilling, vis-a-vis the SDR, by 5.1%, and
increased domestic petroleum prices by an average of 20%.
External Debt
24.       The recent expansion of government and government-guaranteed commer-
cial borrowing has adversely affected the debt service ratio, which has risen
from 5% in 1977 to about 12% in 1980. This includes service payments
on a notional 50% share of the debt of EAC corporations. The debt service
ratio is expected to increase to about 19% in the mid-1980s, and decline
gradually thereafter. Debt service payments to the Bank in 1980 accounted for
14.5% of total debt service payments; the IDA share was 0.7%. The Bank's
share of total debt service payments is expected to rise to about 15% by 1985,



- 7 -
while IDA's share would rise to 1%. The Bank is presently holding 18.5% of
Kenya's total outstanding and disbursed external debt, and IDA 11%. The
Bank's share is expected to rise to 21% and IDA's to about 15% by 1985. The
expected rise in Bank exposure is due largely to anticipated repayments of
loans with short maturities. An additional factor, however, is the gradual
switch by other donors from loans to straight grants (including conversion
of some loans to grants). Because of the long-term balance of payments
constraint, Kenya's development program will require substantial financing
in excess of public savings and available non-Bank Group external capital
combined, and we therefore expect to continue our practice of financing a
substantial portion of total project costs, including some local costs when
necessary.
East African Community (EAC)
25.       The developments affecting the EAC were outlined in a report to the
Executive Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and more recent develop-
ments were reported in a statement to the Executive Directors during their
meeting on May 6, 1980. Dr. Victor Umbricht, the independent mediator
appointed by the Partner States in January 1978, has visited East Africa on
numerous occasions and prepared reports on the results of his fact-finding
work on the EAC Corporations and the General Fund Services, and the methodol-
ogy adopted in appraising the assets and liabilities. In March 1980, the
mediator presented to the three Governments his proposals for the allocation
of these assets and liabilities for their consideration. The mediator has
also prepared a supplement report in response to the Governments' response,
and the next step would be the start of negotiations among the three Govern-
ments based on the mediator's proposals. According to his terms of reference,
the mediator would be available to assist in arriving at a definitive settle-
ment. The mediator's report and recommendations on the future structure of
the East African Development Bank have been accepted by the Partner States.
The revised Charter, along with the Treaty to enact the new Charter, have
been ratified by the three Governments.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
26.       To date, Kenya has received 35 Bank loans, including three on
Third Window terms, and 32 IDA credits amounting to US$1,183.1 million, which
support 60 operations. In addition, Kenya has been one of the beneficiaries
of 10 loans totalling US$244.8 million which have been extended for the
development of common services (railways, ports, telecommunications, and
finance for industry), operated regionally for the three partner states of
the EAC. Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans and IDA credits
to Kenya and to the EAC corporations, and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects as of February 28, 1981.
27.       The Bank has assisted the Government in its efforts to restructure
the economy through increased lending in directly productive sectors, particu-
larly agriculture. While recent sector and economic work has also focused



on the adjustments which Kenya must make to deal with the changed interna-
tional economy, the upcoming Basic Economic Report is expected to address the
issues of income distribution, population growth, and appropriate long-term
agricultural and industrial policies comprehensively.
28.       Significant progress has been made in giving the Bank's lending
program a rural focus, and in concentrating on employment and income dis-
tribution objectives. Since January 1981, a Fifth Education Project has been
approved. In addition, a cotton processing and marketing project, an urban
transport project, a second population project, a railways project and a third
forestry project have been appraised, while a second structural adjustment
credit, a technical assistance credit for petroleum exploration promotion, and
an urban (small cities) project are under preparation.
29.       Overall, project implementation performance is satisfactory; how-
ever, progress on the Group Farm Rehabilitation Project has been slow due to
administrative difficulties and reluctance of group owners to participate.
Kenya has also experienced serious cost overruns, most notably on road cons-
truction projects, but Government has made funds available to complete these
projects. Current cost estimates for the Bura Irrigation Settlement Project
(now in the preliminary stages of implementation) indicate that heavy cost
overruns are likely to be incurred; the financial consequences are under
discussion with the Government and the co-financers.
International Finance Corporation (IFC)
30.       IFC has committed a total of US$44.3 million for six operations in
Kenya. These include loans for four companies: Pan African Paper Mills,
Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd.; Tourism Promotion Services (Kenya) Ltd.;
and Rift Valley Textiles (Ltd.). Also included are a US$2.0 million credit
line to the Commercial Bank of Kenya and US$1.4 million in equity to the
Development Finance Company of Kenya. As of February 28, 1981, IFC held for
its own account US$30.9 million comprising US$21.5 million of loans and US$9.4
million of equity. A Summary of IFC Investments in Kenya is included in Annex
II.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
Agriculture
31.       Kenya has a total land area of about 583,000 sq km; the altitude varies
from sea level to over 5,000 m, and climatic conditions range from very dry in
marginal areas of the north to high rainfall in the forests of the southwest.
The soils of Kenya's Central Plateau area are among the most fertile in
Africa, while those of the semi-desert, which covers half the country, have



- 9 -
very little agricultural potential. Kenya's population is estimated at 15.3
million and is growing at 3.9%, one of the highest rates in the world in 1979.
About 90% of the population is rural and depends on agriculture for a liveli-
hood. Population density ranges from over 200 inhabitants per sq km in the
Nyanza and Western Provinces, which have good agricultural potential, to under
five in the dry and semi-desert North Eastern Province (Map IBRD 15123). In
1963, Kenya had about two acres of high potential land per person; in the year
2000, there will be only half an acre of such land per person.
32.       Wide variety in systems of production reflects the differences
between ecological zones and patterns of land tenure and population distribu-
tion. A broad distinction can be made between the large-scale farming sector,
including Government farms, and the smallholder sector which employs the great
majority of the rural population. The Government defines farms of 20 ha and
below as small. There are about 1.7 million smallholdings in Kenya of an
average size of about 2 ha, covering about 3.5 million ha. Most smallholdings
are farmed by their owners. About 20% of the smallholders are considered
commercial farmers, another 20% are in a transitional stage between sub-
sistence and commercial production; and the remaining 60% are subsistence
farmers. Maize is the staple crop, but smallholders also produce a wide range
of other crops. A land market has been established throughout most of Kenya
and individual titles are issued, thereby providing security for financing
on-farm development and the purchase of stock. By December 1978, a total of
5.2 million ha had been registered.
33.       During the period 1972-78, agricultural production grew at an
average annual rate of 2.6% in real terms, lower than the average annual
growth rate of 4.2% in the period 1964-73, and well below the population
growth rate. Agricultural output also grew more slowly than the economy (5%)
or the industrial sector (8%) during 1972-78. The share of agriculture in
total GDP declined from about 35% in 1972 to 30% in 1978. Poor weather
conditions and high prices of inputs after the 1973 oil price increases were
the main reasons for the slow growth during 1974-76. This trend was reversed
in 1977 when, as a result of good weather and the boom in world prices for
coffee, Kenya-s main export crop, agriculture grew at over 9%. In 1978,
agricultural growth was again low (under 2%), and in 1979, agricultural
production further declined owing to poor weather. Agricultural exports,
always the largest single sector contributor to total exports, were K Sh 5,300
million (US$706 million) or 60% of total exports of K Sh 8,830 million
(US$1,177 million) in 1978. Kenya normally imports significant quantities of
agricultural products, notably wheat and edible oils, but in 1980, due in
large part to adverse climatic factors, the country had to import an unusually
high quantity (US$70 million worth) of cereals, primarily maize.
34.       With little high potential land remaining uncultivated, the growing
population is increasing pressure on lower potential areas and forests, making
resource conservation a critical issue. The Government has recently instituted
communal and individual water and soil conservation measures and specific
schemes for further intensifying development of high potential land, especially
in small farm areas. Farmers will require additional finance to intensify
production and the planned expansion of agricultural credit is expected to
provide some of these resources.



- 10 -
The Financial Sector
35.       Major developments in the past two years in the financial sector
include a decline in external reserves, a slight increase in overall credit
growth in real terms, and a shift from private to Government bank borrowing.
The latter was due to a tightening in commercial bank liquidity positions,
restrictive credit guidelines imposed on commercial banks by the Central Bank,
and the availability of attractive investment opportunities in Treasury Bills
which diverted resources from the private sector. A slowdown in economic
activity coincided with reduced bank lending to enterprises facing financial
difficulties. Credit to the Government priority sectors of agriculture and
manufacturing, however, rose substantially during 1978-79. High liquidity in
the banking system in 1977 and 1978 resulted from the boom in coffee prices.
In response to the deterioration of Kenya's balance of payments and the
increase in domestic prices in the past two years, the Central Bank raised
interest rates for advances and discounts, required commercial banks to
maintain a cash ratio of at least 3%, and limited banks' lending to the
private sector to a target annual growth rate of 18%. In addition, the
Government has imposed restrictions on the repatriation of dividends and on
borrowings by foreign companies from local banks.
36.       The Institutional Structure.  Kenya has a relatively well-developed
banking system and financial sector consisting of the Central Bank, 16 commer-
cial banks, five development banks, 15 non-Bank financial institutions,
several other financial intermediaries and a securities exchange. The Kenya
Government owns 100% of the largest commercial bank, three of the development
banks, and the specialized institutions lending to agriculture, tourism and
housing. In addition, it owns shares in several commercial banks and two
development banks. The Central Bank is primarily concerned with monetary and
credit policy. The Central Bank controls the operations of the financial
institutions through directives on such matters as sectors to be given priority
in lending, interest rates, liquidity and reserve requirements, and lending to
foreign companies. While the Central Bank is recognized as the supreme
monetary authority, it regulates the financial sector primarily through
persuasion rather than by legal enforcement. The Commercial Banks, the Kenya
Commercial Bank (KCB), Barclay's Bank and Standard Bank Ltd., dominate the
system with about 90% of total deposits and commercial banking credits. The
Government-owned KCB, the largest bank in Kenya, has developed significant
deposit and lending business in the rural areas. The commercial banks are
primarily engaged in short-term financing of manufacturing, large-scale
agriculture, and commerce, but they also handle an estimated 10,000 to 12,000
loans to medium and small-scale farmers in support of Government policy to
promote small farm loans. Four of the five Development Banks, the Industrial
Development Bank, the Development Finance Company of Kenya, the Kenya Indus-
trial Estates, and the East African Development Bank, confine their operations
to the industrial sector. The Industrial and Commercial Development Corpora-
tion's operations cover the industrial and commercial sectors. Although their
deposit resources are smaller, non-bank financial institutions have been
growing faster than commercial banks, mostly because they pay higher interest
rates on savings than the commercial banks and finance home mortgages, sales
of consumer goods, and trade receivables.



- 11 -
37.       Agricultural Credit.  Agricultural credit in Kenya is available
through a number of institutions in the formal credit market and individuals
operating informally. The main formal sources of agricultural credit are:
(i) the marketing boards; (ii) input suppliers; (iii) commercial banks; and
(iv) agricultural credit institutions. Smallholders growing certain cash
crops may obtain seasonal or medium-term credit from the respective monopoly
marketing organizations; however, subsistence crop farmers have little access
to either seasonal or medium-term credit. Marketing Boards provide semi-
commercial farmers with advances for the establishment of additional acreage
and purchase of fertilizers. The Kenya Farmers Association provides credit
for purchases of agricultural inputs to members and works closely with the
Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC) in its credit and marketing activities.
The Settlement Fund and Kenya Breweries Ltd. also provide credit to qualified
applicants.
38.       The AFC and the Cooperative Bank of Kenya Ltd. (CBK) are the prin-
cipal agricultural lending institutions in Kenya. They are the on-lending
institutions for a number of Bank Group-financed projects. These include:
for AFC, the Second Livestock (Cr. 477-KE), Group Farms Rehabilitation (Ln.
1093/Cr. 537-KE), Third Agricultural Credit (Ln. 1390-KE/Cr. 692-KE), Narok
Agricultural Development (Cr. 858-KE), First Integrated Agricultural
Development (Ln. 1303-KE/Cr. 650-KE), and Second Integrated Agricultural
Development (Cr. 959-KE) Projects; for CBK, the Smallholder Coffee Improvement
(Cr. 914-KE), First and Second Integrated Agricultural Development (Ln.
1303-KE/Cr. 650-KE and 959-KE) and Fisheries (Cr. 1051-KE) Projects. CBK was
established to mobilize the financial resources of cooperatives. It was
registered as a Cooperative Society in 1965 and as a commercial bank in 1968.
About 1,000 cooperative unions and societies, representing about 80% of
registered unions and societies, are members and shareholders of CBK. Under
Bank-sponsored projects, CBK finances loans from cooperative unions and
societies to smallholders; however, performance of some of these programs has
been poor in the past due to inefficient cooperative management.
39.       Interest Rates.  Until recently, Kenya's interest rate level and
structure remained virtually unchanged for some time. Finally recognizing the
great pressure placed on interest rates by the recent tightening of liquidity
and rise of domestic prices, and following discussions between the Government
and the Bank Group on the Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr. 999-KE), the
Government introduced a new interest rate policy in mid-1980. Government
interest rate policy was outlined in the Sessional Paper No. 4 of 1980 on
Economic Prospects and Policies. The paper was approved by Cabinet in April
and by Parliament in May. This document states that "an excessively low and
inflexible interest rate structure" has resulted in a disequilibrium in the
financial system and stresses the importance of an upward adjustment in the
level and structure of interest rates to stimulate savings and induce a more
rational allocation of resources in the economy. Regarding agriculture,
while the Sessional Paper did not specify the degree of upward adjustment, it
established the principle of comparability of interest rates between sectors
as an underlying condition for increasing credit to agricultural activities.
The Paper also indicated that other measures would be taken to strengthen
existing procedures for channelling credit to target groups within the sector.



- 12 -
40.       The resulting policy measures introduced with the 1980-81 budget
included: (i) an increase in the minimum interest rates payable by commercial
banks on savings deposits from 5% to 6%, and an increase in the maximum
commercial bank lending rate from 10% to 11%; (ii) a limitation of the maximum
lending rates for non-bank financial institutions to 14%; (iii) a reduction of
the maximum interest rate chargeable by money-lenders to 24%; and (iv) the
establishment of a joint quarterly review of interest rates by the Central
Bank and Treasury. More specifically regarding agriculture, the actions
announced in the 1980-81 Budget Message were: (i) commercial banks are
required to direct credits to the agricultural sector amounting to at least
17% of their deposit liabilities; this quota must be fulfilled by no later
than June 30, 1981; (ii) non-bank financial intermediaries are required to
direct credits to the agricultural sector equal to at least 10% of their
deposit liabilities within the same time frame; and (iii) the Central Bank is
to give favorable treatment to banking system agricultural loan portfolios
with respect to liquidity and profitability requirements.
41.       It is also Government policy to maintain healthy competition between
the commercial banks and non-bank financial intermediaries in their agricul-
tural lending activities, and also between private financial institutions and
parastatal agricultural credit institutions. In this latter connection, it is
intended that institutions channelling Government funds, whether derived from
budgetary or foreign assistance sources, will be allowed approximately the
same spread between the cost of their funds and their on-lending rates as
exists between the deposit and lending rates of the commercial banks.
42.       The interest rate dialogue between the Government and the Bank
Group in the context of the Structural Adjustment Credit centered around two
issues; the level of interest rates, which was considered too low, and more
fundamentally, the lack of a rationale for the Government-s interest rate
policy. Progress in both areas was a condition for the release of the second
tranche of the Structural Adjustment Credit. The release was approved by the
Bank Group in September 1980.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
43.       The proposed Fourth Agricultural Credit Project would follow on from
three previous Bank Group-supported agricultural credit projects. It was pre-
pared by the Development Planning Division of the Kenya Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA) and the Bank's Regional Mission in East Africa (RMEA) working closely
with AFC. The Project was appraised in March-April 1980, followed by a
post-appraisal mission in September. Negotiations were held in Washington,
D.C. in March-April 1981, with the Kenyan delegation led by Mr. J.S. Mathenge,
Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture. A Staff Appraisal Report
entitled: "Kenya: Fourth Agricultural Credit Project" No. 3362-KE, dated
April 28, 1981, has been circulated to the Executive Directors separately.
A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is provided in Annex III.



- 13 -
44.       The Agricultural Finance Corporation.  AFC was established as a
Government-owned statutory body in 1963. In 1969, under the Agricultural
Finance Corporation Act, AFC was reconstituted with wider powers and increased
responsibilities. As a major agricultural credit institution in Kenya, AFC
provides long, medium, and short-term credit to both small and large-scale
farmers. Long-term loans are primarily for land acquisition, medium-term
loans for on-farm development, and short-term loans for seasonal crop inputs.
It is Government policy, stated in Kenya's current 1979-83 Development Plan,
that "AFC will become increasingly involved in small farm credit".
45.       The AFC Board of Directors consists of eight members, including the
Permanent Secretaries of the Ministries of Agriculture, Livestock Development
and Finance. The AFC Act states that two or more Board members must represent
the banking and financial sectors. For many years, the Chairman of the Board
had been the Permanent Secretary of Finance, but in July 1980, the President
appointed a Chairman from outside the Civil Service. This was a positive
development since the former Chairman was not able to devote sufficient time
to AFC matters. Historically, the Board exercised little initiative in
corporate policy and was more active in operational details. However, with the
recent recommendations of the Presidential Commission for the Review of
Statutory Boards, elaboration of AFC's Statement of Policy and the planned
strengthening of the financial management and corporate planning functions, it
is expected that the role of the Board will become increasingly policy-oriented.
The General Manager is the Chief Executive of the Corporation. AFC-s present
General Manager was appointed in 1973, after having served as the Deputy
General Manager for eight years. The three major divisions, headed by Assistant
General Managers, are for Technical Services, Finance and Personnel Administra-
tion. The heart of AFC-s operations is its network of 34 branch offices,
grouped into five geographical and administrative areas (Map IBRD 15123).
AFCs staff numbers about 500 persons; approximately three-fifths are in the
field. Most of the staff have an educational background in agriculture,
however, they generally lack sufficient skills in finance and credit management,
a problem to be addressed by the establishment of a Credit Training Program
under the proposed Project.
46.       AFC is an organization in transition.  Since Independence in 1963,
Government's direct involvement in agriculture through a host of development
projects, general crop support schemes and extension service programs has
stimulated credit demand and also complicated AFC's job of implementing
Government policies within the financial and operating constraints of a credit
institution. The present level of AFC's operations has clearly strained its
institutional resources. AFC's operating policies need to be more clearly
defined, management needs greater depth and direction, and line staff need
strengthening in credit and financial skills.
47.       Bank Group Experience with AFC.  The Bank Group has been involved
with AFC since a 1960 economic report on Kenya endorsed the establishment of
an agricultural credit agency. By the mid-1970's, the Bank Group had become
the major source of new funds for AFC lending. AFC is currently serving as
the vehicle for Government onlending of Bank Group funds, a total of about
$71.0 million, for six ongoing projects including: the Second Livestock
Development Project (Cr. 477-KE, 1974), the Group Farms Rehabilitation Project
(Ln. 1093-KE/Cr. 537-KE, 1975), the First Integrated Agricultural Development



- 14 -
Project (Ln. 1303-KE/Cr. 650-KE, 1976), the Third Agricultural Credit Project
(Ln. 1390-KE/Cr. 692-KE, 1977), the Narok Mixed Farming Project (Cr. 858-KE,
1978), and the Second Integrated Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 959-KE,
1979). The proposed Project would be the fourth Bank Group supported credit
project for AFC. An IDA credit of US$3.6 million for the First Smallholder
Agricultural Credit Project (Cr. 105-KE) was approved in May 1967. The
majority of funds under the project were earmarked for on-farm development,
with the remainder going for dairy and crop production. Implementation
encountered a number of problems. Firstly, AFC lacked experience in handling
smallholder loans, and its weakness in appraising farm plans became a major
constraint in its loan processing. Secondly, there were delays in the Govern-
ment's land registration program, and this prevented potential borrowers from
using AFC's credit facilities since title deeds were required as security.
The Project Performance Audit Report (August 1975) and the Project Impact
Evaluation Report (May 1980) concluded that the project probably had only a
marginal economic impact at the farm level and possibly even a slightly
negative financial impact on AFC. The second IDA credit for US$6.0 million to
help finance the Second Smallholders' Agricultural Credit Project (Cr. 334-KE)
was approved in November 1972, and provided continued support for AFC's
lending operations. The credit was fully disbursed in June 1976. The Project
Performance Audit Report (July 1979) concluded that AFC performance improved
under the second project. Financial management was improved and loan admini-
stration was simplified. Loans were extended to more farmers than anticipated
at appraisal. The PPAR emphasized the continued problems of monitoring of
investments, management information systems and the general need for training
and institution-building. It concluded that the project objectives relating
to institutional development and the financial condition of the credit institu-
tion merited a more systematic and concerted approach in lending to AFC. The
Third Agricultural Credit Project (Ln. 1390-KE/Cr. 692-KE) for US$25 million
was approved in 1977 to finance a three-year time slice of AFC's lending
program to smallholders, medium-scale farmers and retail agricultural input
suppliers. The project also included funds for strengthening AFC-s loan
appraisal and loan administration capacity, staffing for the MOA's Land Farm
Management Division, and upgrading the monitoring capacity of MOA and the
Central Bureau of Statistics. Project Implementation has encountered moderate
problems related to cutbacks in budgetary allocations from Treasury, poor
coordination of AFC and MOA field staff in preparing farm budgets required for
AFC loan approval, delays in implementing an improved accounting system for
AFC, and the continued need to upgrade the credit skills of AFC loan officers.
A one-year extension of the closing date to December 1981 has been granted to
accommodate the reallocation of underutilized credit allocations for stockist
and medium-scale farm loans to the smallholder disbursement category, where
AFC commitments have exceeded appraisal estimates. The remaining balance of
project funds for onlending, about US$3.2 million as of February 1981, is
expected to be drawn down by AFC by June 1981, and fully disbursed by
September 1981.
48.       In sum, AFC's performance under these projects has been mixed,
reflecting a combination of institutional constraints, mainly limited
trained manpower, inadequate financial systems at branch and headquarters,
and a piecemeal, and thus disjointed, approach to planning and control.
Additional environmental, legal and sociological factors have further
constrained AFC's operational effectiveness and financial problems. The



- 15 -
proposed Project has been explicitly designed to address concerns about the
impact of previous lending operations on AFC and continued institutional
weaknesses of AFC. The Project focuses on efforts to support the development
of AFC as a viable financial institution for agricultural development by
upgrading credit and accounting skills of branch officers, establishing an
overall corporate planning capacity and by strengthening information collection
and analyses and financial control.
Project Description and Objectives
49.       The main purpose of the Project is to strengthen AFC, improve
its performance, and enable it to serve more effectively the growing credit
needs of Kenya's farmers. Target clients would be commercially-oriented
farmers who can demonstrate their ability to increase their farm productivity
and to meet the related financial obligations, including farmers who have not
had previous access to other sources of institutional credit. The Project
would consist of technical services to improve and expand AFC's operating
capacity and a line of credit to assist in financing AFC's lending program
over the Project period (March 1981 to March 1985). Specifically, the Project's
components would be:
(a) Strengthening AFC's organization by:
-   establishing a Corporate Planning Department;
-   reorganizing the Finance Division;
-   increasing the number of loan officers;
-   appointing an accounts officer in each branch; and
-   improving AFC's branch services and facilities.
(b) Improving AFC's staff training and development by introducing
programs for:
-   credit training;
-   staff performance improvement;
-   career development; and
-   continuing training.
(c) Providing credit to assist in financing AFC's lending program.
Detailed Features
50.       Strengthening AFC's Organization.  A Corporate Planning Department
would be established under the Project to formulate AFC's overall long-range
objectives, policies, and programs. It would be staffed with a Department
Head, one planning analyst, two financial analysts, a credit marketing
analyst, one agricultural economist, three statistical assistants, and
the necessary support staff. The Department Head and planning analyst would
be recruited internationally to complement the skills and experience of the
Kenyan staff. The terms of reference and requisite qualifications of all
professional staff of this Department would be satisfactory to the Bank Group
(Section 3.02(a) of the draft Bank and Association Project Agreements), and
the Bank Group would be consulted on the appointments of the two locally-



- 16 -
recruited financial analysts, and would approve the appointments of the
Department Head and the Planning Analyst (Sections 3.02(a) and 2.03 of the
draft Bank and Association Project Agreements). The appointment of the
Department Head would be a condition of Loan and Credit effectiveness (Section
6.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement and Section 5.01(a) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). The Department would develop AFC's strategic
and financial objectives as a framework for preparation of the Annual Plan and
five-year projections. The Annual Plan document would include, in addition to
a detailed budget for AFC, a discussion of the strategies and assumptions
built into the annual operating, investment and lending programs and five-year
projections, including the financial justification of typical loan activities
to be financed, and reports on performance in key areas such as loan
collections and write-offs, foreclosures, administrative costs, staffing and
performance evaluation, overall progress of training programs, and
construction of physical facilities. The Annual Plan would reflect the
operating requirements of AFC based on the inputs of both branch and
headquarters management, would be consistent with AFC's Statement of Policy,
and would be approved annually by the AFC Board. Content and criteria for
evaluating the Plan have been agreed between AFC and the Bank Group (Schedule
2 of the draft Bank and Association Project Agreements). Once the Annual Plan
and five-year projections have been approved by AFC's Board, they would be
submitted to the Bank Group for review and approval (Section 2.02 of the draft
Bank and Association Project Agreements). Any new long-term borrowings by AFC
would be subject to approval by the Bank Group (Section 3.07 of the draft Bank
and Association Project Agreements). A satisfactory Statement of Policy has
been approved by AFC's Board and no significant change would be made to it
without prior approval of the Bank Group (Section 3.06 of the draft Bank and
Association Project Agreements).
51.       The existing Finance Department, within the Finance Division, is
responsible for funding and budgeting, two key areas which require reorganiza-
tion and strengthening. AFC needs to prepare short-term cash flow projections
and monitor more closely the flow of funds at branch level to make better use
of its funds. The Finance Department, to be renamed the Financial Services
Department, would be split into two Sections: a Cash Management Section
responsible for cash management, and a Budgeting Section responsible for the
new budgetary control system. Under the Project, a Chief Financial Analyst
would be recruited locally to head the Department and two financial analysts
would be recruited locally for the Budgeting Section. The Bank Group
would approve the terms of reference and requisite qualifications and be
consulted on the appointment of the Chief Financial Analyst (Section 3.02(b)
of the draft Bank and Association Project Agreements).
52.       To appraise, supervise, and monitor the projected increase in loan
volume, AFC would recruit about 50 additional loan officers during the Project
period (Section 3.02(c) of the draft Bank and Association Project Agreements).
The number of loan officers to be recruited each year would be specified in
the Annual Plan, and would take into account turnover rates, projected number
and size of loans, and the capacity of the Credit Training Program; newly-
recruited loan officers would be confirmed only after they had successfully
completed the credit training program. About 40 new accounts officer positions
would be created, one for each AFC branch (Section 3.02(d) of the draft Bank
and Association Project Agreements). This would require recruitment of
only 30 additional accounts officers under the Project since 10 officers



- 17 -
would be reassigned from headquarters. Under the direct supervision of the
Branch Manager, the accounts officer would be responsible for general branch
budgeting and operations analysis, but excluding credit appraisal and follow-
up. Accounts officers would coordinate their work with branch loan officers
and manage branch clerical and supporting staff. Each accounts officer would
be required to complete the training program satisfactorily before being
confirmed in the new position.
53.       To support the projected expansion of lending operations and line
staff AFC needs to expand and improve its branch facilities and support
services in the field (Map IBRD 15111). AFC is planning to open six additional
branch offices in districts which have good agricultural potential and which
are currently served by branches located as far away as 200 km. In addition,
AFC has been considering the use of mobile branch units and experimenting with
mini-branches to serve distant farm areas where the number of clients does not
warrant the establishment of permanent facilities. The Project includes
provisions for the construction of branch offices and other physical facili-
ties; however, the technical criteria for opening new offices, and closing,
relocating, or expanding existing ones would be developed in a branch location
study to be carried out by consultants employed under the Project (Section 3.03
of the draft Bank and Association Project Agreements). The terms of reference
for these consultants would include an analysis of current travel patterns
and time utilization of loan officers, a marketing survey of credit demand in
areas for potential AFC expansion, and a cost analysis of alternative means
of servicing these areas. The Bank Group would approve the consultants'
terms of reference, requisite qualifications, proposed contracts, and appoint-
ments (Section 2.03 of the draft Bank and Association Project Agreements).
54.       Training.  One of the main objectives of the proposed Project is
to provide AFC loan officers with improved credit and financial skills. The
training program financed under the Project would be designed to provide the
maximum scope for problem-solving by the participants both on an individual
basis and in groups. Almost all loan staff would participate in the program
over a period of about two years. The Credit Training Program would be
carried out by the recently established Training Department in the Administra-
tive Services Division. The Training Department, currently staffed with only
one person, will be expanded to include a Department Head, a Training Advisor,
a Loan Appraisal Instructor and clerical support staff. The Training Advisor
and Loan Appraisal Instructor would be provided under USAID-s Agricultural
Sector Services Support Loan, and short-term consultants would be hired under
the Project to assist in developing the curriculum and teaching materials for
the credit course. The terms of reference, qualifications, proposed contracts
and appointments of credit training specialists would be approved by the Bank
Group (Section 2.03 of the draft Bank and Association Project Agreements). A
condition of Loan and Credit effectiveness would be AFC's submission of a
timetable for the employment of credit training specialists and for the
implementation of the Credit Training Program for Bank Group review and
comment (Section 6.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement and Section 5.01(b) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).
55.       In order to deal effectively with overall staff performance, a
Staff Performance Improvement Program would be developed and implemented in
two phases. The Job Analysis and Evaluation Phase would include the prepara-
tion of a personnel policy statement, training for supervisors, and establish-
ment of performance appraisal forms and procedures. The Staff Performance



- 18 -
Review and Appraisal Phase would be developed to ensure periodic review of the
quality of each employee's work, and to provide a record of progress. A
Career Development Program would help to establish an orderly system of
succession planning for key positions in AFC. Specialists in these areas
would be recruited to assist management in developing these programs. Their
activities would be coordinated under the Corporate Planning Department and
implemented by the appropriate Personnel and Training Departments. The Bank
Group would approve the specialists- terms of reference, requisite qualifica-
tions, proposed contracts, and appointments (Sections 2.03 and 3.04 of the
draft Bank and Association Project Agreements). Annual disbursements for
this component would be proposed by AFC and reviewed and approved by the Bank
Group as part of the AFC Annual Plan. A Continuing Training Program would be
developed under the Project to follow on with the recommendations of the
Staff Performance Improvement and Career Development Programs.
56.       AFC's Credit Program.  Funds would be provided under the Project to
assist in financing the expansion of AFC's overall lending program during the
Project period. This would include loans to large, medium and small-scale
farmers under existing loan categories, as well as new types of loans, but
excluding seasonal crop loans financed directly by Government and administered
by AFC. This financing approach represents a departure from past Bank Group
and other donor agency practices of tying credit funds to particular develop-
ment schemes or categories of borrowers. The rationale for this new approach
is to assist AFC management in unifying its lending program in the framework
of an overall corporate strategy. The structure of the annual lending program
by types of loans and borrowers would be determined through the Annual Plan
preparation and review process involving AFC management and the Ministries of
Agriculture and Livestock Development. Similarly, the terms and conditions
applicable to different types of loans would be defined by AFC management and
Board in consultation with the parent ministries and Treasury. Decisions
regarding AFC's lending strategy would be reflected in the Annual Plan and
five-year projections and detailed in model farm-budgets for proposed loan
activities and economic and financial analyses supporting the structure of the
proposed lending program. The approximate amount of credit funds that AFC
would require over the Project period, about K Sh 330 million (US$44 million)
has been estimated by projecting AFC-s operational program and financial
needs. These funds would be provided under a line of credit with Treasury and
would be determined on the basis of AFC Annual Plans subject to Bank Group
approval (Section 2.02 of the draft Bank and Association Project Agreements).
Given the need to review AFC's proposed lending program on a yearly basis
and to maintain adequate flexibility for AFC in the financing of its operations
under the Project, AFC draw downs from Treasury for credit purposes would be
treated as interest-bearing advances until the proposed line of credit is fully
utilized in accordance with agreed Annual Plan targets. When fully drawn
down at the end of the Project period, the line of credit would be converted
into a term loan from Treasury with a final maturity of sixteen years, including
a three-year grace period, to match the average maturity of AFC's portfolio
financed under the Project (Schedule 3 of the draft Loan Agreement and Develop-
ment Credit Agreement). Treasury would provide the funds for the lending pro-
gram to AFC at an interest rate of 7% in AFC FYs 1982 and 1983, and at 8% p.a.
thereafter (Schedule 3 of the draft Development Credit and Loan Agreements).



- 19 -
These rates reflect the blended cost of AFC's funds from all sources, including
the proposed Bank Loan to Government at the interest rate of 9.6%. AFC, in
turn, would on-lend at a rate of at least 12% per annum for medium-term loans
(Section 3.05(a) of the draft Bank and Association Project Agreements).
In the context of each Annual Plan review, the Bank Group would assess the
adequacy of AFC-s interest rates and their consistency with overall Government
interest rate policy (Section 2.02 and Schedule 2 of the draft Bank and
Association Project Agreements). AFC would periodically review its on-lending
rates to ensure an adequate spread while maintaining consistency with the
outcome of the quarterly review of overall interest rates by the Government
(Section 3.05(b) of the draft Bank and Association Project Agreements). The
inflation rates in Kenya (based on the average annual change in the consumer
price index) during 1977-79 were 12.7% (1977), 12.5% (1978), and
10.8% (1979). Although the 1980 inflation rate did not follow the downward
trend of the previous three years, the projected inflation rates for 1981-1983
are 10.0%, 10.0%, and 8.0%, respectively. This implies that AFC's prevailing
interest rates are now positive.
Project Costs and Financing
57.       Total Project costs are estimated at K Sh 375 million (about US$50
million) of which about K Sh 223 million (about US$30.0 million) or 60%
represents foreign exchange costs. A physical contingency of 10% was applied
to all Project costs except the line of credit. Price contingencies for
foreign exchange costs were applied at 9% for 1981, 8.5% for 1982, and 7.5%
p.a. for 1983-85. Price contingencies for local costs were applied at the
rate of 10% p.a. for 1981-82 and at 8% p.a. for 1983-85. These rates reflect
current estimates of price increases in Kenya and worldwide. Taxes and duties
on Project goods and services are estimated at K Sh 22 million (US$3 million).
This represents import taxes and duties on goods and services not eligible for
exemption from customs, plus taxes and duties on fuel and other operating
costs. Financing of the Project would be shared between the Government of
Kenya, which would contribute K Sh 89 million (US$12 million equivalent), and
the Bank Group, which would contribute K Sh 264 million (US$35 million equiva-
lent: US$10 million IDA Credit, US$25 million Bank Loan). The Government
would also bear the taxes and duties. The proposed Loan and Credit would
finance 74% of net Project cost, including 100% of foreign exchange costs,
US$30 million total, and 25% of local costs, US$5.0 million. Proceeds from
the proposed Loan and Credit used to finance expenditures for strengthening
AFC and its staff training and development would be given as a grant from the
Treasury to AFC. Bank Group assistance under the proposed Loan and Credit
would finance institutional expenditures, net of taxes and duties, up to
US$6.0 million or approximately K Sh 45 million. The balance of Project
expenditures, loans to farmers, would be financed by the Treasury under a line
of credit with AFC. The drawdown period for AFC under the line of credit
would be from March 31, 1981 to March 31, 1985. Due authorization or ratifi-
cation of the Subsidiary Financing Agreements by the Government and AFC would
be a condition of Loan and Credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(c) of the draft
Loan Agreement and Section 5.01(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 20 -
Procurement and Disbursement
58.       Goods and services to be procured by AFC and sub-borrowers under
the Project are not likely to attract international bidding competition
because of their nature and the low value of individual orders. Consultants
and technical assistance personnel would be contracted in accordance with
Bank Group guidelines. Average cost per staff/month would be between US$6,000
and US$9,000. Orders for office equipment, vehicles, furniture, and training
materials would be bulked to the extent possible and procured following AFC's
procurement procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank Group (Section
2.03 of the draft Development Credit and Loan Agreements and Section 2.04 of
the draft Bank and Association Project Agreements). Purchases for agricul-
tural development by sub-borrowers under AFC's lending program would be
through normal commercial channels; given the diverse representation of
commercial interests and competition among suppliers, this procedure is
satisfactory. Civil works contracts for branch buildings would be procured
in a manner to be decided, in consultation with the Bank Group, after the
recommendations of the branch location study are known (Section 2.04(b) of
the draft Bank and Association Project Agreements).
59.       With the exception of funds required for start-up costs estimated to
be incurred prior to the approval of the first Annual Plan, Project funds
would be retained in an "uncommitted" Loan and Credit account and allocated to
appropriate disbursement categories following Bank Group approval of each
Annual Plan (Schedule 1 of the draft Development Credit and Loan Agreements).
Disbursements are expected to be made according to the following indicative
schedule: (a) 100% of expenditures for technical assistance, US$1.0 million;
(b) 90% of civil works, US$1.0 million; (c) 100% of foreign or 80% of local
expenditures for office equipment, vehicles, furniture and training materials,
US$1.0 million; (d) 100% of local expenditures for incremental staff salaries
and related operating expenditures of AFC under the Project as defined under
AFC Annual Plans, US$3.0 million; and (e) up to 70% of expenditures for
subloans, US$29.0 million. Disbursements against (a), (b) and (c) would be
fully documented. Disbursements against (d) and (e) would be made against
statements of expenditure certified by the General Manager of AFC and retained
by AFC for inspection by Bank Group review missions. AFC has provided
assurances regarding procedures for auditing these statements of expenditure
(Section 4.02 of the draft Bank and Association Project Agreements).
Accounts, Audit and Reports
60.       AFC's audited financial statements for the fiscal years up to March
31, 1980, have been submitted to the Bank Group. As part of the 1979 audit,
the auditors reviewed and assessed AFC's internal control systems and made
recommendations for their improvement. The new AFC computerized accounting
system, installed in April 1980, has incorporated the proposed improvements
and is being programmed to provide a series of regular management information
reports. AFC accounts will continue to be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank Group and the accounts and the auditors' report will
include the "Long Form Audit". All agreed reports would be made available at
the Bank Group-s request, and AFC would prepare and submit to the Bank Group a
Project Completion Report (Sections 2.07(d) and 4.02 of the draft Bank and
Association Project Agreements).



- 21 -
Benefits, Risks and Justification
61.       The Government of Kenya considers this Project an opportunity to
expand agricultural lending by investing substantial resources in strengthen-
ing AFC which is one of the primary sources of medium and long-term credit
for farmers.  The proposed line of credit would finance approximately 22,000
loans with an average size of K Sh 15,000 over the Project period. The
proposed line of credit would allow AFC's total portfolio to grow at an annual
rate of 13% in current terms beginning in AFC fiscal year 1982/83. The
estimated level of portfolio growth under the Project, while indicative, is
consistent with the appraisal judgment of the rate at which AFC can strengthen
its branch services and overall institutional capacity to handle a modest
expansion of credit business more efficiently and effectively than in the
past.
62.       This Project does not lend itself to a precise calculation of an
overall economic rate of return, because it will be implemented according to
flexible Annual Plans and five-year projections, the contents of which will be
determined and revised on an annual basis. Each Annual Plan, however, will
contain an analysis of the estimated economic benefits and costs of AFC's
overall lending program. The economic value of annual incremental production
would range from K Sh 80 million (US$11 million) to K Sh 150 million (US$20
million).   The overall economic rate of return resulting from farmers
investments financed under the Project would range from 17% to 30%, with a
mid-point estimate of 24%.  Cost and benefit calculations are based on prices
expected at time of appraisal to prevail in March 1981.
63.       The principal Project risk would be a deterioration of AFC's port-
folio resulting from failure of AFC to improve loan collections. The prin-
cipal portion of outstanding loans in arrears is protected by the value of
the collateral, and it is recommended that AFC continue to require that loans
be secured by land. Project investments in staff training and development,
improved loan appraisal and monitoring, corporate planning and review pro-
cesses are aimed at improving AFC's collection rate and overall financial
performance. Another risk of the Project is that productivity increases might
not be attained. Achieving targeted output depends on a number of factors,
including timeliness of land preparation, availability of required inputs,
progress in land adjudication (for new AFC clients), and good rainfall. Due
to the current food shortages in Kenya, and the upward trend in prices of
agricultural products, it is unlikely that market prices for incremental
production will adversely affect the value of output.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Development Credit and Loan Agreements between the Republic
of Kenya and the Association and the Bank, the draft Project Agreements between
the Association, the Bank, and AFC, the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of
the Association and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.



- 22 -
65.       Conditions of effectiveness include the appointment of the Head of
the Corporate Planning Department (Section 5.01(a) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement and Section 6.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement), a satis-
factory timetable for the employment of credit training specialists by AFC and
for the implementation of the Credit Training Program (Section 5.01(b) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement and Section 6.01(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement), and provision of evidence of the due authorization or ratification
of the Subsidiary Financing Agreements (Section 5.01(c) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement and Section 6.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Special features of the draft Development Credit, Loan and Project Agreements
are referred to in Annex III of this report.
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit and Loan would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Association and the Articles of Agreement
of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit and Loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 30, 1981



-23-                                                  ANNEX I
Page 1
KENYA - SOCIAL INDtCATORS DATA SHEET
KENYA                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE_%4GES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. RIS.                                                        - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            582.6
AGRICULTURAL      60.4                                 MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIHATE lb   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTN OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  110.0       170.0     380.0                 260.0                    868.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     143.0        135.0     139.0                  80.0                   699.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      8.0         11.3      14.7
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  7.4         10.2      13.3                  17.3                     2P.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       32.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        109.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2140
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. KEM.                       14.0        19.0      25.0                  27.4                    61.7
PER SQ. 10. AGRICULTURAL LAND    142.0        191.0     243.0                  82.6                   126.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         47.5         45.8      49.5                  44.9                    45.5
15-64 YRS.                         50.0         51.6      48.0                 52.2                     51.6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   2.5          2.6       2.5                   2.8                     2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               3.2         3.4       3.3                   2.7                     2. 7
URBAN                               5.8         6.6       6.9                   6.8                     4.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      51.0        50.0      51.0                  47.4                     46.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      19.0        15.0      14.0                  19.6                     16.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..         3. 4      3. 8                  3. 2                     3. 2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..        30.9      71.4
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..          2. 2
FOOP AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          99.0        102.0      87.0                  91.8                    94.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REqUIRE4ENTS)                   99.0         99.0      88.0                  90.2                    92. 7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          70.0         68.0      52.0                  53.0                    53.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       29.0         28.0      20.0                  18.4                    15.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY EATE     25.0         18.0      14.0                  27.7                    21.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    47.0         52.0      53.0                  45.3                    50. 1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          126.O0       119.0
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               *-         15.0      17.0                  23.2                    31.0
URBAN                               ..        100.0     100.0                  58.0                    66.8
RURAL                               ..          2.0       4.0                  16.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         50.0      55.0                 28.9
URBAN                               ..         85.0      98.0                 67.0
RURAL                               ..         45.0      48.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          10560.0      7839. OL  11954.0/d           30910.4                  14508.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     2230.01c_d  1476.Oj   1116.Ojd              5793.2                  3279.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                            807.01c      775.0     629.0                1198.9                  1141.5
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..
HOUS INC
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..          4.7
URBAN                               ..          4.7
RURAL                               ..          4. 7
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROCK
TOTAL                               ..           ..
URBAN                              2.5/c        ..
RURAL                               ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF VNELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..



- 24 -
Page 2
KEPYA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
KENYA                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEICHTED AVE AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT             LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
LDU' ATl:O:
AD-OTEL E!ŽCLLL"LN'T RATIO:;
'RIMARY:     TOTAL                  47. 0        64.0      104.0                   57.7                      61. 7
.lAL                   64.0         74.0     110.0                    74.2                      69.2
FFIMALE               30.0          53.0      98.0                   54. 1                     51.4
SCObODARY:   TOTAL                    2.0          9.0       17.0                   10.0                      20.6
MALE                    3.0         12.0      21.0                    13.7                      29.2
FEMALE                  2.0          5.0      13.0                    7. 1                      14. 7
VOCATIONAL ENOL.. I1 OF SECONDARY        ..          2. 0       2.0                    6. 8                      7. 0
PUPIL-TIEACHER RATIC
PP LMAaY                            42.0          34.0      33.0                   45.0                      36.6
SECONDARY                            15.0         21.0      24.0                   25.2                       24. 3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          20. 0/c      30. 0      40.0                   25.5
CONSUM7PTION
PASSENGER CARS PER TIOUSAND
POPULATION                            8. 0         9. 0       7. 8                  3. 6                     38.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            7.0         45.0      38.0                   31.5                      83.5
TV RECEIVERS PER 'THOUSAND
POPULATION                            0. 3         1.4        3. 7                   1.8
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
IHOUSAND POPULATIOR                    13.0         14.0       10.0                    4.6                      24. 2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  1.0              ..        0. 4                    ..                       0. 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        3230. 3      4324.4    5437.9
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    34.8          33.6      34.0                   33.5                      38. 1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                85.8         82. 1      79.0                   80. 7                     54.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   5. 1          7.1        8.0                   8.1                       17.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENTI
TOTAL                                  41.2         40.6       39.2                   42.2                      36. 8
MALE                                   54. 5        53.8       52.3                   55.1                      58.4
FEMAILE                                28.2         27.4       26. 1                  29. 5                     29.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1. 2         1.3        1.4                    1.2                       1. 3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..         20.2/e
HICHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            52.6/e
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..          3. 9/e
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..        11. 7/c
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTaIATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (NIS5 PER CAPITA'
URBAN                                 ..           ..       150. 0                183.2
RURAI                                  *-           *-      112.0                  86.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
IRBAN                                 ..           ..       179.0                 107.0
RURAL                                  ..          ..       106.0                  65.0
ESTLMATED POPULATION BELOW AB3SOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
UBRAS                                  ..          ..        10.0
RURAL                                  * -                  55. 0                  66. 9
.ot avail3ble
Noc applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each, indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
mlong the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
Ic   1962;  /d Registered, not all practicing in the country;  /e Urban only.
Moss recent estimate of GNF per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



-25-                                                                         ANNEX I
Peas 3
DEFINITIONS OF S011IA. lIICATORS
Notes:  Ahithoh  the dens ar  d-ae  Oro- souce  g9s-1ay p ldged the most  -oh-rittiv- ed reliable, It should  L.. be o-ld that they eay vet he inte-
neloiiyz corarabte  beaef t~he lank vi otadadi-ed defie1tIoss  atod .o.topte o-d byai  retnotieEnthen                                     the dlat.  Tbe dot -u.re  ..r.-
thieess    eIn0edeene th  odainoioa0tde. lad inan  -red, sad therane--erepat --                          jor-J.,  iferet    er   irore..
The eeeenegruser            ,i)tt..econrygop of nOr sIbjeEt country andIi) a--eY groop  ilth  hoh t hgh-e averge innos  than  h  -a-tyr gr-p
othsoletocoy eeatfn"oino   upo  dEl  ootr'   Moo   vr   Oiddie 1-nos  Ntorh Afloi- ead fioddlo PAen' is chas..e t...oat of etrager
heart bit of  ho nocaric  t  a troop h-o 3-n  tof  htsOatr nre t he o--ra    of  orniaeeer  the ind-.oeor  dep-ods on tIe. avilebtilty of
dat  es   srecifors  cato             -ut beesero-sad 10 reatto              ..er .e of ore hodi-anor to soother   Thea  erarae  era ooy, -sefc.  in  -op-rg the  -elas
1.0011  REA Itonn       q.ke.l                                                                    ooatare    osne   fo11totatO   Otnsd   b Op easte   05reait-as pny-
Total - Tota  suelan  tre    nopo      Ig adaeaadObad   vaet.                                     bb. qadtid   rona  e -oa  enrol at aai-e-i tp  teoe.
oarinuttora1 - tEtt-,, of netunvl  rs'td     Ioold   rprtevl                                   o eton. -e  Notate  Pecti- - Population dfloded Op comberr   ret
for oops  pseoran, eaker  vl h onhegaen orrie. felto-  l9OT dete.                      eis sad femal  greloate na.      s,par.s..r....dealtatassa
fresletitate  1teg  ted-ttal. orhac. med postl - Papalentos fetal1,
ANy PE  ChPta (los  -GiP p-  naploco  -nts  tnrn     art  price, cal-                       obn,ederl d2~~inded by the Er  -p-tei-e cober at.Pt bretalhda
nabatgd by sne corveratn aroicf ws AvId nooktl. knee   1 709 haste); c1tO0,           emeislebl  t  pobiio and pinnate ge-ne  end epentalteed bhsPlta1 andte
1907. And  II1  dot.                                                                            hblftretia a-ter.-   H-apitsla are .t.htbli eh ts p-seaetlp staffed
by etbse   n  physl, a.    lannibeeaeproiding Petsiral1yrs--diai
~ENEn   CAtSllPTOtFt ACAITA -.dA,"e    ..srtv    f  oc ta  enegy  coI cin ot:rt Isoded.  Repe  hosyttals, ho-re, benlde hesbeb end median
_od ltgrine,pentlea,norIgaadcy'dr-,  ule   n  genealea-                                         rteaotperosatetly staffed byi  pbysItie  (hot hy a ndices.. asistant,
Jtntoll  klolgers of -o1rqstv-l-n  pernapine; l960. t970l. ad l97t                         sos,asf.er)ebbofrt-pati-nt -nn-sdgtne sad Peridt
d~~~~~~~~..                                                                          9     ..~~~~~~~~~~tae,ftne  fsdin-I feai1tbite.  For etatiea-o1  a-pose  -rba hospi-
tals tatlode WfHA. prinoipa   enate  god sperialfeed heepitea1s.sed -atel
data.                                                                 finn hospItals~~~~ft   dlvtded by te somber of beds.
dEfft  -ta daftitlln-  of orbaeea   ey aff-t  -ofp-rbility  fl data                      gOtUsoIN
ear    -ironnte   1960, 1970, nod loon d-n.Aeaeie    ffoeod(asn   arhueod      oe,ubn   a   tel
_____________________                                                  ~~~~~~~A I..seit1d noe ..stfn  a geooy of iedtitdoela rh. sheen 1via   quaters
tota  popalottor by  alean  se  ed trir  -nroaiop  -od f-rttn   cases                      the ho-shold- d i  Inn-1 e Ansie p--urpoens.y-1b.i- d
Pruletrtna   parsete.. .or  .v-nelty  --at  vospris of three Ieeeag ..e.rubr  forispe   or-nta.obn   n  rora                                                     A- totag9nm
itt  lf        ..enln   an. bIrth Entr.asIos o'tb   _too p   ncr rapine Iotos            he   fpros  e   os  a  l   rI.sdrrlory e   ovnton
larel,  Ied efn1l  ItI ,e rop.n.an. .steit,iso   an 77.0 years.  The P--s                   doelltnge, raetvl.   ietor                 .d.olern-p-.- eetetr -ssesad
_rten   tonP teriloty rate also bane thre  1-vel  -taitg d-iltn  in                          .. -tononld yr
fetlt    nodOt   o         _nos    e  and leer''I  P,ll  p-,,ag P""-",eo..       goent  ElentrInity (-arn-n  of d-elin)-iti  obe   a   ua 
Oath  .oanney te abh  ..asigeat on  oftnina  nine-       siaeie       f  -oantetn            ovetoa  Inalitt' aitb sb.n.rintn  , I  inv              qsi-     ea
end fenilInY Iiede - pr-(e-tn- poyns                                                         fttl           Irov  andrua  Inl   -etrn      -tiv-lp
Drtonr  voleieIv.aac.tlotan..y popuhtootther  is..                 on gnanthtao               ofte..
the birthroei  aqoa  to ohs deathrate                 1_d...h.g..ro .tr...    EDUCATION
ain-nosti-.  Thi is ahiea   onl  ate  fetiitEl Ian. d_oine. tO                           Adfoe-d nE-1-man  Rouns
ofZontr_psc-  Itsef __ert.  The  natonis-Y populattot site  -5                                cooleto   l   gsa   h                         .rylnli   eonaa   freetr
aelatdonre  aiso  teor-rd                                                                         -11ereleero    he.p.tinpesr  enst-feg1s-poythltane poratyl  -InFiol    otgdre  age  h-it
sent ival .                                                                              toafrs'hdl.un.v..e...daian   erfiteet as  esred  10  neets
sI tehas:         00.-   ,.- bass- neetbed.tiisnoa-ary anboal -j   nsiffmal ae   eae-Caprdasr;eolr
only.                                                                            loneatonel saraliseni (rarnast ofh. Yenohdary)--y popettoiel tnsrAaoIInva
l2enttn; tSt,tO).andlOtdes                                                                     Puu-naherant -  rrlaaav. and aenodar-   Tuani esloe-t  e.r...   te"
yeas         k. rs a ioas lop toolnp,101- P     q.. i,t eno 107--It.            forree.ot dla -qievte..     ..t',,   .h~f                               .    ~-
p1ptenio; 1906, 1900,  aod lO7     t dana.                                                 Ceotp
all fey resia; osIly  live-6pstavrae  so6  7   din  in7 107        91   e   07                 vsveee   ect   ol 5rnoeo   fppten;etue    tt
reall  Pbaaina- Anonnof. lonoa ihoaaod- A-I g-hu sombe  of aAasnor rpp-                       enin    tn  ru--ie  eo Lin yer  oben. rsle treto  of rad-iotse
ofIteth. -n no 1950 o0   a onden70  -dpre f1970        a   eol   lonngpora.s75tefet;dn  fo trtnasnI per  may eati  he. nompnshi  siEe  ls
ovat ofh thid-e           ..o age) 11-6  yearn da.ho oat  lhrn-n...ndf  idennce  no..~ TV -neeoue                neithu    d parulanlan     -  F.c..eannar  --t -roatas.t
al  rpU.ined  1960n to70 sam   age8 dsu.-gnrlpbinprr sn   popo ion;-eaiudt   ovbtne-st  TI-esnetfat
POol dOS ifITrITIfh.POn                         __i_fgeasrarerI-                     ~     d        Ciroleie I  1p nhoosed   roru,i-tlo- 1-1ty Ibaeb i-raetrof- lar
Prodotho t-o1f  l  fod-i  noeod-t... PrI dottf  coti-      de  sendy p  isodda   n            ti-tto   drnd prtar    to  etadin g_ _rr  ses.I   Is  oiee
nvea  f  euglr)        g. (5mb  u ...llesdvtaOah. u-rienh-e.g  d-fe  ad                  inm  hnualA-Oeedeoe re .2ents par   ea..e- -se    so the easie  of
LoDtANDoUeReTaON                                                                                 I.coa   rc    egi;init,tO,ed10   aa   and enhol   o ife.   .._1
tororra, aed nianesa On snarl.  net supplies entlade onimal feed, aceta,  ersed loaves and Iteerlored'  oatYeon1iItoPP  bromenire-. irod.e.e..err.
h  Ispo -day0  ln-6T,  1900.       htad  1070 1d6ta   19tIg  n  eren.g rdins1lho  frt;  Oh,  90  ad  oo1dta
alP.,  reofh  grate of~ total. -pri.de ..peri dp-sd-00igra   of-tanIma  aed                atenisa Fo - l te .n.a.ia  -  ral          al,te.eml p,-.ari-lpadinoO
-rda ar  bersottoe  f7dgs                  o  Ottegl pIone-k  madt23ppniss of -penoennelenf.t                oftta,a-ped   fml   ooalny    lteseptce
IIrl  fodY    rcy    96-5  17d h th- di.   1000 -dana,        bage-et ed ructart Lo thepb-lnnn,ae- ls   im   tea.                                                  - fen' "at
rIld  tao  an-ibaloien f ples. toa-s  psr dap-., 1061.-At,00er190dt.                      fotrleadnyato-a:ai pPpo-ttr   ederiTtothd I5edne
arias dat  de.ve I;F1961bEe 19o0ls;  10177 1000. and 1077p... dane.                                                               ,,  9lO19TnO5d1978Zn
as hEron  1060,  070 and  018 dsn.bii~   yUD   t,d   - ii                               90.d17   ..
Infant 0O g..e.i      . ne ...nerrhoo taid   -  nna  deans. of  9nateonder -itt PtOF    P0103CoPl.R
Pf gepe P-tironeha         h1)   - .1.d liv    -ania.__sniToted Abelute.  -oet  em   Lvllt   e  capIta) - ehe  soI_                                                        rs
knrstoSfeAee  lnrrrhnn of nrutntsl -tolpted.ore  and  rua3                -N
oarer sorbas that frn froreora   horebold, tr     by,  n  seAOmer7 ~ sells) ne970tisato      Reltie     5 vety. leh-e Leve  IL01  Per ogl.ti - sebe  an  corel
prrcnFoaoeS--vl        91-5  1970r -adnn977 p   dusta. Taabnrapht                              oe   altn    oet.aosEvlO  nttido.nrs    tnpe
foanneon vnttenpvstlocartdsnrarevhonlllaanerarvsabnoae maybe                prtmoralfofosdo theonetc. d1rharieod el~ indrIr...dterAefeesrt
knnea..aooryonasird Piaso.,~oa hfuo.ttl7-aoea orian1 ..an g ..
nooal-voubarvfpto1lrltotal  nohar. sod rural) eerred- Rhyi ed by re
de saaeprntager  Onenoaptth                 oosaos   tlifea  die-                                                       tootoell-t20p- ,  - t en   oillaalvs
pfagi ear  tnnud r.....      onooa d       isposal, atni or attEan  areenmestE- osoIa-  l-syi1                                                e   rjoraaIprmn
tt   '~~~~~~~~~~"  W""  '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                      itsr   10
vftsrnrsadassatidn taicAlesorhoao
pit- lrift  nod ttitilar                                                                                          IItoeIt-lIith-ra.



k8.ie Dh         t T  _C t
19tS       I  t76L I tt8 1990                                                                 it711D  iw  1991  * inc ;    436  1 al  198C-7t  1985.90    Dr.
4.1A{-~a922¶146 poI..)
1.  CDV                                   *374.1      3767.0      4077.8      4176.0      4282.6     4605.5      5216.6      6759.4         3.2           6.9           463            53            1 30.0
2.   44-n* fr  TT                             -       .344.5       .26.3       .17.6      -62.1      -106.1      -159.0     -191.2          .              .                                           0.6
0Dr                                   3474.1     4111.5      4104.1      4158.6      4220.5     4229.5      5059.6      6546.2         1.9           4.4            4.2           5.4
4.   [port.                                1103.2     3100.3      1621.4      1344.1      1413.0     1358.5      1467.5      1762.8       -3.2            4.3            2.0           4.0             39.8
5.  zEport -  Vol                          1127.4     1094.4      1104.2      1045.4     1083.5      1151.1      1449.6      1949.1        5.8            0.4            5.9          6.1              27.1
8.  [sport. -T U dj.td                     1127.4      1439.9     1130.5      1027.9      1021.3     1045.1      1290.6      1757.9       -0.8           -1.5            5.4           6.0             27.7
7.  A.o.rr  G., - TT .dj.t-d               -24.2      .138.6       490.9       316.3      391.7       313.4       176.8       25.0          .              .              .            -2.
8.  Tota C.n ption                         2746.7     3021.1      3426.8      3610.1     3742.9      3718.5      4164.9      5198.0        1.2            6.2            2.9           4.5             84.C
9.  lnn.--ero                               703.3      951.8      1168.2       84.6       869.3       894.4      1071.5      1395.1       -3.2            4.9            4.6           5.0            28.6
10.   9atlooal Saivngs                       604.6      906.8       465.1       528.0      470.4       560.1       858.6     1356.6        -0.'           -1.5           11.3          9.6             .6.3
IL.   D_.ti  SavIng.                         727.4     1090.4       677.3       36. 3      077.6       581.0      894. 7     1370. 2        4.6           -4.4           11.4          8.9              16.6
12. .  l at urrnr  U3 S                    3474.1      4493.5      5324.1      6037.3     4912.4      7821.9    12030.6    19M87.8         13.8           17.6          11.4          10.6
5. 39409r00ut0
TEFj va 1576 polo..
1.  9s-of-otrt 1n4srp                       16.2        17.0        17.9        18.7       18.6        1. 7       19.0        20. 3        2.4            5.0           4.8           6.8
2.  Aoli-lt-r.                               37.9       38.3        37.3        36.0       35.3        35.2       34.2        32.2         2.3            3.4           3.6           4. 0
3.  Otl-r                                    45.9       44.6        44.8        45.3       46.0       06.1        46.0        47.5         3.3            6.1           4.7           5.6
C.  Polo...
1.  loport Prio- IrAn                       100.0      143.5       132.6       145.5      162.7      172.2       236.7       337.2        17.1          11.5            8.3           7.3
2.   s      por prr. ltd..                  1.10.0     109.2       127.9       149.3      178.1      199.9       284.1       397.1        25.0          14.9            9.2           6.9
3.  Tsr of Tg                              100.0       131.4       103.7        97.5       91.3       86.1        83.3        84.9
4.  00? -xOlatop (US 37                    I1O.0       119.3       130.6       144.6      161.4      177.5       230.5       294.2        13.9          12.2            6.9           5.0
5.   -0r.. [s-soS  Rats
(U3 sox)                                2.390       2.416       2.588       2.675       2.667
1972.76       1976-80         1981.85         1986-90
0.   3.laoo.d  lodi tatr.
1. ICaI                                                 9.2            6.1             5.0            3.9
2. Ixpoot  1lol t                                      .1.4           -0.3            0.1             0.7
3. A-.rg. DO-Ittt Rantas tao.                          20.0           17.7           15.9            19.8
4. A-rq. 9.00-2l *S.nig  Rats                          17.8           15.9            15.2           19.3
3.  MargInal aova-l S.oins. Rat.                        2.41          .0.05           0.64            0.33
6. Iaporos./60                                         37.9           34.2            29.1           27.0
7. Inv1--_o/CODY                                       23.9           22.6            21.0           21.4
8. R .o.r..   G0950DY                                   3.21           5.0             5.1            1.6
' 7 vIaoornss.                                               1975           1976           1977            1978            2979
1. Labor Ioro.  To-ti                              6,400,000
2. W1a.. Esplors_t                                   919,100        857,500         902,900        611.C00         972 300
r.  rLblLc2~8~0'                                          1972173        1973174         1974/75        1975/76         1976/77         1977178        1978179             1979t80
1.  k ooor.o   oano. *l149.0                                          190.4           226.3          269.2           314.1          471.4           490.1               590 .
2. R--ora.t E.pandftoo                                 139.6          162.7           207.4          246.8           285.1           400.1          467.3               522.0
3. g.orr- .  srpL..                                     .9.4          .27.7           .18.9          .22.4           .29.0           .71.3          .22.0               .68.5
4. l-.rso -xv  Proso  101.. 
.,h*. 8 .o. IlI .1 ... Earlpt                      0.6            0.3             _               -              6.4             0.8             0.5                Q.3
5. roo.. igt btt                                         0.5            3.2             8.2            7.0            10.5             9.0           13.3                18.1
6. SWrplo AoOAib for P-nr"lng
D anboyssot Espandiour.                           10.5           31.3            27.4           29.4            45.9            81.2           36.6                86.9
3. Ilao.lop.a.t Expa..AOoooa                            41.9           67.4            94.2          128.3           124.7          190.7           220.3               236.9
8.  -0.rall D.oftl                                     -51.3          .35.9          .66.8           .9C.9           -78.7          -109.1         -183.7              -130.D
9. FPnb-lns of  h. Dlflt,
Ero-ro-l L                                         24.7          14.5            20.1           43.7            29.8            43.2           81.8                96.6
Long-or toooo.1ng                                 21.3          18.8            15.5            52.8           25.0            66.9            88.6               36.6
shoro-.oa   brroW.tng                             6.8            2.9            12.7            32.5           29.7           -29.3            68.5               16.8
Cr-.                                               0.02           -                              -              .               -               -
Ch6.   1lv Cash 8B1-s                              .1.5          .5.6           .18.4           .32.0           .5.8           -28.3            55.3
Ar'I 13. 1901



RKRNYA
Balance of Panents end Internal Assistance
(us$ million)
1976           1977           1978           1979           1980           1981           1982            1993           1984           1985            1990
A.   S-nmarv of BaIance of PaY-ents
1.   Exports (intl. NFS)                                                      1131.7         1572.1         1475.5         1567.6         1821.0         2069.1         2364.7         2720.Z          3115.3         3559.0         6667.8
2.   Inperto (ifcl. NFS)                                                      1132.9         1441,4         2085.7         2020.7         2517.6         2707.3         2955.2          3301.2         3692.2         4124.3         6952.0
3.   Resc-r1e Balance                                                           -1.2          130.7         -610.2         -453.1         -696.6         -638.3         -590.5         -581.0          -576.9         -565.4         -284.2
4.   Net Fctor Service lnnom                                                  -1374          -143.4         -142.4         -142.3         -172.4         -216.5         -265.2         -299.2          -331.3         -371.0         -533.9
4.1  Net Interest Paymets of which:                                            -34.7          .12.1          -13.9          -.53.5         -62.1         -116.9         -140.4          -159.9         -176.0         -197.9         -239.7
(Intenest en Public M & LT Loans)                                  (-12.7)        (-21.3)         (-5.2)        (-27.4)        (-17.5)       (-100.3)       (-123.7)        (-151.2)       (-174.8)       (-195.2)        (-296.3)
4.2  Direct Investe.nt Income (Bet)                                           -113.8         -143.8         -176.5         -142.5         -149.6         -157.1         -165.0          -181.5         -199.6         -219.6         -326.6
4.3  Workers' Remittance (Net)
4.4  Other Factor Service Icome (Net)         7                                 34.7           12.1           50.0           55.7           59.3           57.4            40.2           42.2           44.3            46.5           59.4
5.   Correct Transfers (Net)                                                    14.6           71.3          103.1          105.6          160.6          180.3          202.4           227.3          255.2          286.6           491.6
6.   Belsnce en Corrent Account                                               -124.0           58.2        -649.5          -489.8         -708.4         -674.5         -653.4          -652.9         -653.1         -649.7         -326.6
7.   Priocat  Direct Inceetmeex                                                 22.9           17.9           67.7           87.0           95.8          122.4          134.6           148.2          163.0          179.3           288.8
Public M & LT Lo.se
2.   Disb-rs-neets                                                              87.2           80 7          181.0          193.9          344.8          513.8          445.6           601.1          495.3           523.5          742.6
9.   Anr,rtieation                                                             -19.4           -1.7          -21.0          -26.3          -31.6          -47.2           -59.6          -86.3          -94.8         -121.6          -226.2
10.  Net Dixbhre.-ents                                                          67.8           79,0          159.9          167.5          313.2          466.6           386.1          514.8          400.5           401.9          516.4
Pricate M & LT Loans
1).  DiOb-rsenents L/                                                          127.9          115.2          208.9          295.4          167.8          139.7           297.4          256.1          390.7           460.6          177.1
12.  A-ioriatien 1/                                                             -1.9           -1.5          -48.3          -47.7         -109.1         -145.6         -169.8          -206.2         -229.4         -312.1          -501.9
13.  Net Disbucem,ents 1/                                                       26.3          fl13.7         160.6          247.8           358.7           3.9           127.6           49.9           161.2          148.5         -324.8
14.  Use of IMP11 Rieece                                                        i9.8          -54.4            8.0          -10.f           73.3          146.5            65.1            0.0            0.0             0.0          -30.0
15.  Shoct-cern Capital Tran. accieo-                                           -5.0            7,7           35.0          187.0            0.0            -               -              -              -               -              _
16.  Capitnl Transacti.ns, n.r.i.                                               -2.6           -4.3           25.1              0                           -               -              -               -
13.  Change in Easeroes (--= increase)                                        -134.9         -217.4          193.2         -189.5          167.4          -55.1          -60.0           -60.0          -71.7           -80.0         -123.8
B.   Gr-eta and Loan Ceesitnents
1.   Offieial Grants                                                            40.3           40.0           40.0           40.0           40.0           44.0            48.4           53.2           58.6            64.4           82.2
2.   Public M & LT Leans                                                       210.6          356.7          537.1          566.2          562.0          553.4           844.2          821.5         1028.3          1068.8         1043.7
2.1 I80D                                                                        31.0           84.0          156.0          110.0           92.5          136.5           160.0          161.0          196.0           177.6          261.0
2.2  IDA                                                                        14.0           36.0           61.0           27.0          184.8          110.5           144.8          151.8          155.0           125.0          169.0
2.3  other Moltilt-eral                                                         10.7           67.1           44.3           57.0           50.0           27.3            29.7           32.4           35.3            38.5           59.2
2.4 4 oGernenste                                                                35.5           69.0          173.9          136.7          125.0          189.6           205.7          223.3           242.4          263.1          397.7
of hich, centrally pl.exd .e.noejias                                    0.0            0.0            0,0             0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0             0.0            0.0            8.0            0.0
2.5  Sppliar-  Credits                                                         56.5           19.4            0.0            0.4           30.0           30.0            50.0           52.5            55.1           57.9            0.0
2.6  Financial Intitutien.  2/                                                  62.9           81.2          102.0          235.5           79.7           59.5           253.9          200.5          344.6           416.7          156.9
2.7  Bondo                                                                       0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0             0.0            0.0            0.0             0.0            0.0
3.   other M & LT L..ns  (chare acailabla)                                       7.5            0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0
C.   Memnrondne Items
1.   Grant Element of Tortl C-it.otment                                         23.0           36.5           34.9            35.0           45.9           46.5           28.3            33.6           25.8           23.2            38.6
2.   A-ersen Interset (Percen-)                                                  6.4            5.2            8.5             8.5            4.1            4.9            6.4             6.0            6.6            6.9             5.3
3.   A-ergfe Mat-rity (YSrs)                                                    17.5           25.6           31.u            30f.           30.2           28.8           19.9            21.9           18.4           16.3            24.9
Ij  Incledxx financing of projected bhlence of psynort. deficit (1980-1990> an co--nereia  termn.
2/  I-        edo- niteente on gapfill.                                                                                                                                                                            EAN CPIA
-                                                                                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Apr01 13, 1991



- 28 -
ANNEX I
KENYA
Debt 1/ and Creditworthiness
Actual
1976           1977           1978           1979
A.   Mediun' and Long-term Debt (Disbursed Only)
(US $ million)
1.   Total Debt Outstanding (DOD:  End of Period)                           100.5          917.1          1290.7         1616.7
2.   Including Undisbursed                                                 1331.2         1700.4          2343.7         2841.9
3.   Public Debt Service                                                    -49.4          -57.3          -121.9         -118.2
3.1  Interest                                                               -23.9          -32.4           -52.6          -68.2
4.   Other M & LT Debt Service
B.   Debt Burden
1.   Debt Service Ratio                                                       4.4            3.6             7.8            8.4
2.   Debt Service/GDP                                                         1.4            1.3             2.3            2.0
3.   Public Debt Service/Government Revenue                                   6.6            6.1            10.5            8.4
C.   Terms
1.   Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                                          3.4            3.5             4.1            4.2
2.   Total Debt Service/Total DOD                                             7.1            6.2             9.4            7.3
D.   Dependency Ratios for M & LT Debt
1.   Gross Disbursements/Imports (incl. NFS)                                 15.9           16.1            17.5           23.3
2.   Net Transfer/Imports (incl. NFS)                                        11.6           12.1            14.2           19.6
3.   Net Transfer/Gross Disbursements                                        72.6           75.2            81.0           84.3
E.   Exposure
1.   IBRD Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements                            31.0           44.5            14.6           10.7
2.   Bank Group Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements                      15.0           22.6            20.1           16.4
3.   IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                                      24.2           37.7            25.2           22.2
4.   Bank Group DOD/Total DOD                                                22.0           34.2            35.1           31 4
5.   IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service                                    29.7           31.3            21.0           28.6
6.   Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service                              31.5           33.2            22.1           29.9
/  Includes Kenya's share of a notional 50 percent of EAC debt.
EAN CPIA
April 13, 1981



- 29 -
ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
A.  Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of February 28, 1981
US$ Million
Loan or                                                           A!1?unt (Less Cycellations)
Credit #   Year  Borrower   Purpose                            Bank-   TW    IDA-   Undisbursed
Thirteen (13) Loans and seventeen (17) Credits
fully disbursed                                 236.30         179.72
477       1974  Kenya       Livestock                                        21.50     14.34
993       1974  Kenya       Tea Factories                     10.40                     1.01
(1093      (1975 (Kenya      (Group Farm Rehabilitation          7.50                   ( 7.50
( 537      (1975 (Kenya      (Group Farm Rehabilitation                         7.50    ( 3.71
1105       1975  Kenya       Sites and Services                 8.00                     4.67
1133       1975  Kenya       Transportation - Pipeline         20.00                      .24
1167       1976  Kenya       Mombasa & Coastal Water Supply  35.00                       7.42
1184       1976  Kenya       Third Education                   10.00                     8.66
( 650      (1977 (Kenya       (Integrated Agri. Development                    10.00    ( 4.31
(1303-T    (1977 (Kenya       (Integrated Agri. Development           10.00             (10.00
1304-T     1977  Kenya       Wildlife and Tourism                    17.00              12.41
( 651      (1977 (Kenya       (Rural Access Roads                               4.00    (  .59
(1305      (1977 (Kenya       (Rural Access Roads                4.00                   ( 4.00
1389       1977  Kenya       South Nyanza Sugar                25.00                     9.60
( 692      (1977 (Kenya      (Third Agriculture                                20.00      1.42
(1390-T     1977 (Kenya      (Third Agriculture                        5.00             ( 5.00
1438       1977  IDB         Third Industrial Dev. Bank        20.00                    10.26
( 722      (1977 (Kenya      (Bura Irrigation Settlement                        6.00    ( 1.97
(1449      (1977 (Kenya      (Bura Irrigation Settlement        34.00                   (34.00
750       1978  Kenya       Small Scale Industry                             10.00      9.56
1520       1978  NCC         Second Nairobi Water Supply       30.00                    25.49
( 791      (1978 (Kenya      (Second Urban                                    25.00    (23.60
(1550      (1978 (Kenya      (Second Urban                      25.00                   (25.00
797       1978  Kenya       Fourth Education                                 23.00     21.35
1636       1979  Kenya       Sugar Rehabilitation              72.00                    69.18
1637       1979  Kenya       Rural Water Supply                20.00                    19.89
858       1979  Kenya       Narok Agricultural Development                   13.00     12.52
1680       1979  Kenya       Telecommunications                20.00                    18.28
1684       1979  Kenya       Highway Sector                    90.00                    89.95
914       1979  Kenya       Smallholder Coffee Improvement                   27.00     27.00
959       1980  Kenya       Second Integrated Agri. Dev.                     46.00     45.99
962       1980  Kenya       Baringo Pilot                                     6.50      6.27
1799       1980  Kenya       Third Power (Olkaria Geothermal)40.00 2/                   20.99
1817       1980  IDB         Fourth Industrial Dev. Bank       30.00                    30.00
1045       1980  Kenya       Export Promotion                                  4.50      4.50
1051       1980  Kenya       Fisheries                                        10.00     10.00
Total                            737.20 32.00  413.72    600.68
of which has been repaid         36.74   -       2.00
Total now outstanding            700.46 32.00  411.72
Amount sold                11.81
of which has been repaid 11.64    .17
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA 1/          700.29 32.00  411.78
TOTAL undisbursed                          306.13 _____  187.4    600.68
1/   Prior to exchange adjustment.
2/   Includes Loan S-12 ($9.0 million).



- 30 -
ANNEX II
B. Summary Statement of Bank Loans for Common Services Involving
Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda as of February 28, 1981
Amount (less cancellations)
Loan No.  Year  Borrower  Purpose                   Bank 1/    Undisbursed
------US$ million-----
Six loans fully disbursed                           93.40
638-EA   1969   EAHC      Harbours                35.00          0.52
674-EA   1970   EARC      Railways                42.40          0.03
865-EA   1972   EAHC      Harbours                 26.50         0.35
914-EA   1972   EAPTC    Telecommunications       32.50          0.53
1204-EA   1976   EADB      Development Finance    15.00           3.38
Total                                         244.80          4.81
of which has been repaid                     63.02
Total now outstanding                         181.78
Amount sold                       24.36
of which has been repaid    24.36           0.00
Total now held by Bank 1/                     181.78
Total undisbursed                               4.81          4.81
1/   Net of exchange adjustments.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
C. Projects in Execution 1/
(As of February 28, 1981)
There are currently 31 projects under execution in Kenya.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Loan No. 993-KE - Tea Factories Project: US$10.4 million Loan of
June 5, 1974; Effective Date: September 23,. 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
Although international tea prices have dropped from the
extraordinarily high figures in 1976/77, growers continue to show considerable
interest in tea as a cash crop. Yields continue to rise, and from 1979/80
onward the appraisal projections are likely to be exceeded. The project
factory building program has been behind schedule primarily because
of late delivery of machinery from overseas. Due to cost escalations, funds
from the Bank and Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) loans will cover
only 12 of the 17 factories included in the project. However, the OPEC
Special Fund has agreed to finance the foreign exchange cost of 3 factories
under the project, and CDC has agreed to provide additional financing for the
remaining 2 factories. CDC has brought forward their Fourth Plan and the
financing of factory extensions as the three OPEC factories will not be
operative until December 1982. The standard of Kenya Tea Development
Authority's management continues to be high, and institutional improvements
together with strengthened staffing should further improve performance. An
economic analysis of the project indicates that despite substantial cost
increases the economic rate of return on investments in new tea factories is
over 40%. Although the Loan should be fully disbursed by the Closing Date,
the Project will not be completed until the OPEC factories are operational,
and it will continue to be supervised after the loan is fully disbursed and
closed.
Credit No. 477-KE - Second Livestock Project: US$21.5 million Credit
of April 5, 1974; Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The implementation of this project has been hampered by a number
of policy and institutional issues. Consequently, disbursements have been
exceedingly slow and the outstanding balance as of December 31, 1980, the
closing date, was US$14.3 million. Agreement was reached with the Government
that the credit would be extended for a period of two years to December 31,
1982, if a number of conditions necessary to resolve the above issues were
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress on projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
implemented by November 1980. These conditions implied a more realistic and
modified project with decreased project costs. It was thus also agreed that
since the total amount of the credit could not be utilized even with the
proposed new closing date, the Government should also request a cancellation
of US$4.0 million and a re-allocation between categories in Schedule 1 of the
Credit Agreement, once the conditions were met. The conditions have been met
to the Association's satisfaction. The Government and the Agricultural
Finance Corporation agreed with the Association to extend the closing date to
December 31, 1982, to cancel US$4.0 and to reallocate the remaining funds.
Loan No. 1093-KE/Credit No. 537-KE - Group Farm Rehabilitation Project:
US$7.5 million Loan and US$7.5 million Credit of March 26, 1975;
Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The Project faces major problems. The progress of rehabilitation of
existing project farms is encountering a variety of legal, social, political
and financial problems. Despite project efforts to recruit qualified farm
managers, most of the farms continue to suffer from inadequate financial and
operational management. The majority of project farm group owners would like
to subdivide, but are constrained by large debts for common assets and by the
absence of a clear Government policy and guidelines on legal subdivision of
group farms. Although rehabilitation of a few farms, particularly coffee
estates, seems to be proceeding satisfactorily, the Bank and the Government
are jointly reviewing the project objectives in light of difficulties
encountered, and the Government has undertaken a study of the financial impact
of various alternative solutions to the financial problems of group farms and
will review the implications of sub-division for the regions concerned. In
the interim, recruitment of additional farms has stopped, and Government has
requested the cancellation of the total loan amount.
Loan No. 1132-KE/Credit No. 565-KE - Second Forestry Plantation Project:
US$9.9 million 1/ Loan and US$10.0 million Credit of June 27, 1975;
Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The Project is a continuation of the first Kenya Forestry Plantation
Project (Loan 641-KE), to complete the Government's long-term afforesta-
tion program target of 130,000 ha. of sawlog and 24,000 ha. of pulpwood
plantations by 1980. The credit and the loan are now fully disbursed. A
completion Report is under preparation. At completion, the planting program
was 35% below target due to a variety of reasons, including bad weather
conditions as well as poor and deteriorating management. The building and
labor housing programs were considerably behind schedule. A number of the
Credit Agreement covenants were not complied with, notably regarding the
sawmilling sector, the national land use study, the gazetting of natural
reserves, the study of stumpage rates for sawlogs and the timely submission of
audited accounts. In the later years Government provided adequate budgetary
allocations. A Phase III project has been appraised.
1/ Net of cancellation, an amount of US$0.1 million was cancelled on July 20, 1979
since items which were to have been financed under the loan were not procured
in accordance with Bank guidelines.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 1303T-KE/Credit No. 650-KE - Integrated Agricultural
Development Project: US$10.0 million Loan and US$10.0 million
Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: March 15, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The reorientation of the project towards assisting large numbers
of subsistence farmers rather than progressive smallholder farmers has led to
a number of difficulties, low rates of credit repayment, and loanee
participation. Late release of credit funds has led to delayed application
of farm inputs, and expected yield increases were therefore not achieved.
Measures are now being taken to ensure availability of credit funds at the
appropriate time. The overall balance between numbers of loanees and
infrastructural support -- staff, storage and transport -- at cooperative
union level has been improving, and greater efforts have been made to improve
the input supply and marketing systems.
Loan No. 1389-KE - South Nyanza Sugar Project: US$25.0 million
Loan of April 15, 1977; Effective Date: November 3, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The sugar factory is in operation, agricultural development has
advanced well and nucleus estate development is on target. Yields from
outgrowers cane have been higher than anticipated, probably because of
excellent and well distributed rainfall and heavy fertilizer applications.
About 20% of the drainage component has been completed, and the benefits can
already be seen. Although several components are slightly behind schedule,
progress is generally satisfactory. Certain weaknesses in project management,
particularly cane handling and transport, have become apparent with sugar
production, and consultants are being employed to rectify this problem. As
statutory sugar prices have not changed between 1977 and April 1981, SONY (the
Project entity) is experiencing serious financial difficulties.
Loan No. 1390T-KE/Credit No. 692-KE - Third Agricultural Credit Project:
US$5.0 million Loan and US$20.0 million Credit of April 15, 1977;
Effective Date: September 14, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The closing date of the Project has been extended one year to
December 31, 1981. This is to compensate for initial disbursement problems
related to budgetary cutbacks and cumbersome administration of reimbursement
requests and to reallocate underutilized credit funds for medium-scale farmers
and stockists to the small-scale farmer category, where AFC commitments have
exceeded appraisal estimates. The balance of funds for onlending, about $3.2 million
is expected to be fully drawn down by AFC by June 1981. The new, computerized
accounts system is now operational, and is being programmed to provide
improved arrears reporting, budgeting and financial control.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 1449-KE/Credit No. 722-KE - Bura Irrigation Settlement
Project: US$34.0 million Loan and US$6.0 million Credit of June 22,
1978; Effective Date: June 27, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Despite a slow start-up, project implementation is proceeding
satisfactorily. However, a detailed review of cost estimates indicates
that the Project will experience serious cost overruns; the revised estimate
is about twice the appraisal figure, and there seems to be little scope
for reduction. The Government has indicated that it will proceed with the
Project despite the significant burden on its finances, and is currently
reviewing its budget and seeking additional external assistance. No supple-
mentary IDA financing is proposed.
Loan No. 1636-KE - Sugar Rehabilitation Project: US$72.0 million
Loan of December 20, 1978; Effective Date: September 20, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Implementation of this Project is facing a serious problem. The
Government has indicated reluctance to sign the Subsidiary Financing Agreements
for two of the three factories to be rehabilitated under the Project, but has
not confirmed its intentions formally to the Bank. Other developments in
these project areas have thus been in suspense. Rehabilitation of the third
factory has been held up by delays in the recruitment of consultants; serious
cost over-runs are expected. Cane supply is expected to drop unless cane
prices are significantly increased. In spite of the economic difficulties
facing the sugar production sector, investments in new factories are being
projected. A study to review sugar marketing prospects is due to start soon,
and appropriate changes in project design will be discussed immediately
thereafter.
Credit No. 858-KE - Narok Agricultural Development Project: US$13.0
million Credit of December 20, 1978; Effective Date: June 28, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Implementation is proceeding slowly due to difficulties in developing
effective credit programs adapted to the special circumstances of the
traditional Masai farmers of the district. Land adjudication, initially an
obstacle to medium-term lending by AFC, is proceeding relatively well, the
construction of a central Farmers Training Center is finished, and project
staffing is nearly complete; however, project coordination and supervision of
extension services has been weak due to a change in the District Agricultural
Office (DAO) and the continued lack of an Assistant DAO. Disbursements for
seasonal and medium-term loans are likely to proceed more slowly than expected,
because of the need for intensive extension work and resolution of disputes on
land issues and credit terms. The Government has requested the reallocation
of some credit funds to other areas, including improvement of critical access
roads, and this proposal is under review.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Credit No. 914-KE - Smallholder Coffee Improvement Project: US$27.0
million Credit of June 11, 1979; Effective Date:  April 3, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Principal project activities started slowly due to the lower than
estimated Government budgetary allocations to finance SCIP lending operations
for coffee factory rehabilitation/construction and farm improvements. However,
most project personnel are in post and it is expected that the Project will be
fully staffed shortly. Training has made good progress, but training programs
need to be expanded and accelerated. Financial difficulties are expected to
continue to prevail in the near future, and whether Project infrastructure,
equipment and personnel will be utilized in an optimal fashion will depend on
future Government funding of the Project.
Credit No. 962-KE - Baringo Semi-Arid Areas Project: US$6.5 million
Credit of March 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 10, 1980;
Closing Date: October 31, 1984
Project activities are proceeding well given the remoteness of the
project area and the pilot nature of the project. The internationally-
recruited technical staff and the local agricultural and livestock extension
staff are all in place. Due to the 1980/81 Government budget constraints,
allocations for the project were only a third of the amount requested and
approved in project Work Plans. This shortfall has had a particular impact on
construction of project housing, which is sorely inadequate, and the budget
for project field services, which consequently remain limited. Despite these
problems, the project team has launched a number of experiments in dry-land
and irrigated farming, soil conservation and water harvesting, and range
management. Project demonstrations have attracted local interest, and
participation of area residents in project activities is increasing.
Credit No. 959-KE - Second Integrated Agricultural Development Project:
US$46.0 million Credit of April 23, 1980; Effective Date: July 2, 1980;
Closing Date: April 30, 1986.
IADP II faces many of the same problems as IADP I, mainly high
drop out rates of project recruited farmers and low credit repayment rates.
These problems are partly related to the inefficiencies of the farm input
delivery system, the financial and managerial weaknesses of cooperative
intermediaries, and inadequate marketing arrangements for smallholder
production. Supervision of the project has emphasized streamlining of the
credit and agricultural input delivery system and greater technical assistance
to cooperatives and the strengthening of the Ministry of Cooperative
Development's extension and audit services. IADP II provides significantly
more support than IADP I for infrastructure, including rural access roads,
rural water supplies, small-scale irrigation, and resource/soil conservation.
Most infrastructure components are in the planning stage with construction to
start in 19Yl/82. General delays in project implementation are expected due to
severe Government budgetary constraints, which have resulted in cuts in the
annual Work Plan programs.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Credit No. 1051-KE - Fisheries Development Project: US$10.0 million
Credit of July 14, 1980; Effective Date: October 9, 1980: Closing
Date: September 30, 1987
Project start-up activities are proceeding satisfactorily. The
Project Manager and key Area Managers have been appointed. An early problem
regarding a potential project overlap with a proposed Kenyan/Nordic cooperative
fisheries project has been reviewed with Government. Recommendations discussed
include concentrating the Kenyan/Nordic project activities in a more limited
geographical area and a possible reallocation of some IDA funds. A subsidiary
financing agreement between the Government and the Cooperative Bank of Kenya
for the cooperative credit program is being finalized. Recruitment of
technical assistance for the fish farming center and boat building components
is scheduled to be completed by July 1981.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Loan No. 1184-KE - Third Education Project: US$10.0 million Loan
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 17, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Physical implementation of the project is about two years behind
schedule and is now expected to be completed by about December 1982, six
months after the Closing Date. Government is taking measures to counter
cost overruns and difficulties in making available their financial
contributions by, inter alia, phasing activities in the project implementation
period. Achievements of educational project objectives continue to be satis-
factory, especially in the field of curriculum development for basic education.
Credit No. 797-KE - Fourth Education Project: US$23.0 million Credit of
June 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 25, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
Physical implementation of the project is basically satisfactory
and is expected to be completed as scheduled. Revised total project cost
increased to about KShs 300 million representing approximately 17% cost
overrun in terms of local currency, which is manageable. The Technical
Assistance program as well as the pursuance of educational objectives under
the Credit are proceeding satisfactorily.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1167-KE - Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply Project: US$35.0 mil-
lion Loan of October 15, 1975; Effective Date: January 13, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Substantial project completion is now forecast about May 1981,
29 months behind schedule. Moreover, some lesser project elements will not be
completed before September 1981. Although there is a substantial cost overrun,
this is not seen as a major problem since Government is fully committed to



- 37 -
ANNEX II
earliest project completion and is providing the additional funds, 80% local
currency, as needed. Regarding key personnel vacancies requiring the Ministry
of Water Development's (MWD) attention, MWD is fully aware of this situation
and, while progress is slow, remedial action is being taken. The Water
Engineering Department of the MWD was able to start small scale operations, by
means of temporary arrangements, in December 1980 and helped eliminate
substantially Mombasa's water shortage during the 1980 year end dry season.
The Closing Date has been postponed by two years to June 30, 1982.
Loan No. 1520-KE - Second Nairobi Water Supply Project: US$30.0 million
Loan of March 27, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Implementation started on schedule but completion is now forecast
about 21 months behind schedule due to difficulties with tender evaluations
and delays by the Borrower in contract administration and in concluding
satisfactory arrangements for construction supervision. Most supply contracts
financed by other donors and the construction contracts being financed by
the Bank now have been awarded. Good progress is being made on detailed
design and tendering for the remaining contracts. Bid prices to date have
been favorable, but due largely to the delays there is an estimated increase
of 35% in local currency costs and 5% in total costs. Water supply and
sewerage operations are in sound financial condition. However, the Borrower
has been slow in fulfilling financial covenants pertaining to external audits.
Loan No. 1637-KE - Rural Water Supply Project: US$20.0 million
Loan of December 20, 1978; Effective Date: January 24, 1980;
Closing Date: July 1, 1985
With the introduction of new tariffs for rural water supply and
progress in appointments of key staff in the Ministry of Water Development
(MWD), this Loan became effective on January 24, 1980. The preparations for
the design and construction of the Project's Thirty water supply schemes, for
bidding of transport equipment, and for the Ministry's reorganization are in
progress. The size of the individual water supply schemes will enable project
costs to remain at the appraisal level of US$30.5 million.
ENERGY SECTOR
Loan No. 1133-KE - Mombasa-Nairobi Oil Product Pipeline Project:
US$20.0 million Loan of June 27, 1975; Effective Date: December 3,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Construction was completed in October 1977 and commercial operations
commenced in January 1978 as originally planned. The final project cost
overrun is only US$9.5 million or 11%, the increase being primarily due to
escalation in construction costs. KPC's long-term financial prospects are
quite satisfactory although there could be cash flow problems in the initial
few years of operation because of the preponderance of short and medium-term
loans in the financing package. About 99% of the loan has been disbursed.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
The Closing Date was postponed to December 31, 1980 to allow time for
completion of procurement of equipment related to the operation of the
pipeline. The project completion report has been completed.
TRANSPORT SECTOR
Loan No. 1305-KE/Credit No. 651-KE - Rural Access Roads Project:
US$4.0 million Loan and US$4.0 million Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective
Date: October 7, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Progress on the Rural Access Roads Program (RARP) was reviewed in
depth by all donors and discussed with Government during the Annual Review
Meeting held in October 1980. The project is about two years behind schedule
due to administration and procurement problems which delayed establishment
of construction units. All eight Bank-financed construction units are fully
equipped, and are now operational, and satisfactorily staffed since these
problems were resolved in the beginning of 1978. By September 15, 1980, 646
km of access roads had been constructed, of which 135 km were gravelled due to
the above-mentioned delays and later to the labor shortage. The decline of
annual output and productivity of construction units, also due to a shortage
of labor, was increased from 30 km per annum to 33 km per annum primarily
because the Government granted a daily minimum wage increase that was proposed
by MOTC. The labor supply has been adequate since June 1980, following the
May wage increase.
Loan No. 1684-KE - Highway Sector Project: US$90.0 million Loan of
April 30, 1979; Effective Date: June 18, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
Implementation of the Government s Highway Sector Plan has been
delayed by about one year because a critical shortage of funds has caused
a reduction in the highway work program. While this has not yet affected
the project appreciably, the continuation of this trend in FY81 could touch
projects included in the Sector Loan. The two contracts for construction of
Uplands-Limmuru (11 km) and Nairasha-Nakuru (56 km) were recently signed and
mobilization is satisfactory. The contracts for strengthening the Mau Summit-
Kisumu road (136 km) is being retendered while the Nakuru-Timboroa road (81
km) tender documents are completed. The remaining two subprojects, the
Nairobi-Thika and Longonot-Uplands roads, are under design. The regravelling
of gravel roads projections were achieved during the past two years (1979-80).
Resealing of paved roads is behind schedule with only 18% of the appraisal
target accomplished due to shortage of bitumen and poor organization. Bitumen
is now being imported and four resealing units out of the six planned are
operational. The resealing operation is now progressing. The funds allocated
for road maintenance are about 15% below appraisal estimates but with better
organization and utilization of existing resources, the targets could be
achieved.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1799-KE - Olkaria Geothermal Power Project: US$40.0 million
Loan of April 25, 1980, Effective Date: November 18, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
This Loan became effective on November 18, 1980. This includes the
US$9.0 million for the Engineering Loan (S-12-KE) which was refinanced under
this project. Progress under the engineering Loan has been satisfactory.
Drilling is proceeding on schedule; fabrication of the new drill rig and
accessories has been completed, and erection of the rig at the site is
expected to be completed by the end of the year. Miscellaneous supplies and
equipment have been purchased under International Shopping procedures.
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Loan No. 1438-KE - Third Industrial Development Bank Project: US$20.0
million Loan of June 22, 1977; Effective Date: November 10, 1977;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
This loan was declared effective on November 19, 1977. Twenty-one sub-
projects have been approved. As at February 28, 1981, US$20.0 million has
been fully committed and US$9.7 million had been disbursed.
Credit No. 750-KE - Small Scale Industry Project: US$10.0 million
Credit of November 28, 1977; Effective Date: June 26, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Kenya Industrial Estates (KIE) is making efforts to improve its slow
implementation rate and high arrears of clients. IDA is seeking Government
assistance to correct two deficiencies in KIE's finances subsequent to the
transfer of a loan portfolio from another DFC: (i) the lack of compensation
for the doubtful debts in the portfolio, and (ii) a debt/equity ratio much
in excess of the agreed ceiling since 1979. As of February 28, 1981, US$2.1
million was committed for subloans and some technical assistance to 42
subprojects (none for estate construction), but only US$440,000, had been
disbursed. About half of the commitments were for four subprojects with the
remainder allocated to smaller free-limit subprojects.
Loan No. 1817-KE - Fourth Industrial Development Bank Project: US$30.0
million Loan of June 16, 1980; Effective Date: August 21, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
This Loan became effective on August 21, 1980. Two subprojects have
been approved under the Loan to date. As at February 28, 1981, US$0.9 million
had been committed and no disbursements had been made.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 1550-KE/Credit No. 791-KE - Second Urban Project: US$25.0
million Loan and US$25.0 million Credit of May 5, 1978; Effective Date:
October 3, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress in implementation of physical components of the project is
generally satisfactory. Consultants for detailed design and engineering of
Phase I sites in all three cities (Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu) are making
good progress. Appointment of consultants for Phase II sites has now been
completed and design work is underway. The Housing Development Departments
are operational in all three cities with most key posts filled. Recruitment
of other staff is underway. Progress on studies included in the project
is slower than expected. Municipal finance reforms have been delayed pending
Cabinet approval of a paper on the subject.
WILDLIFE AND TOURISM SECTOR
Loan No. 1304T-KE - Wildlife and Tourism Project: US$17.0 million Loan
of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: November 10, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
After initial delays, project implementation is accelerating.
Officers for the Project Management Unit have been appointed, and six key
Wildlife Planning Unit positions have been filled. The Ministry of Transport
and Communications has appointed various consultants for the design and
construction of all physical project components. The Tourism Pricing Study
and the very Large Herbivores Study have been completed, and recommendations
contained in these two studies are under review by the Government. The
anti-poaching units are fully staffed and deployed, and initial effectiveness
of the units appears satisfactory. Draft amendments to the Wildlife (Con-
servation and Management) Act of 1976 to fulfill the requirements of the
supplementary letter giving detailed proposals for anti-poaching operations
have been approved by the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources and
are now in the final stages of processing.
East African Community
There are currently five projects in execution in the East African
Community. 1/
1/   Since October 1, 1977, the East African Community loans (excluding the
East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of
separate national guarantees. The agreed allocation of undisbursed
balances for each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive
Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12,
1978, is given in this Annex. The Closing Dates for Loans 638-EA,
674-EA and 865-EA have passed. However, since the amount allocated
to and guaranteed by each Partner State is clearly identified under
the terms of the agreement signed on January 25, 1978, as proposed
in the above report (R77-312), we are continuing disbursements.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: US$35.0 million Loan
of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness: December 16, 1969;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: US$26.5 million Loan of
December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness: April 16, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single buoy tanker terminal for the Port of Dar es Salaam;
two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa; tugs, lighters,
cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general improvements for both
ports. The Third Harbours project included three new deep water berths,
modernization of two berths and a lighterage quay, a training school building
and central repair area for Dar es Salaam; modernization of several berths and
a lighterage quay, construction of a tug berth, cold storage facilities and a
training building in Mombasa and improvement of a lighterage quay in Tanga.
Construction of all major project elements has been completed and a joint
project completion report was issued in January 1979. Because of shortage
of funds under both loans, the following minor project elements have not
been submitted for Bank financing: the second phase of modernization of the
lighterage quay and a training school for Dar es Salaam; and modernization
of the lighterage quay and a training school for Mombasa. Locally financed
contracts have been awarded for these project elements with the exception of
the modernization of the lighterage quay in Mombasa. General cargo throughput
has increased above appraisal forecasts for Dar es Salaam, and cargo handling
productivity has generally improved with increasing throughput; however, port
labor productivity has stagnated in Mombasa where general cargo throughput has
declined considerably. Legislation to establish a Tanzania Harbours Authority
and a Kenya Ports Authority has been enacted. Management of ports in both
countries is competent. Some US$34.5 million of Loan 638-EA and US$26.2 mil-
lion of Loan 865-EA has already been disbursed. The agreed allocation of
undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977 between the countries concerned is
given below:
For Loan No. 638-EA             (US$ million)
Kenya                            0.7
Tanzania                         0.6
Total                        1.3
For Loan No. 865-EA
Kenya                            1.7
Tanzania                         0.3
Total                       2.0



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 674-EA - Third Railways Project: US$42.4 million Loan
of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness: October 30, 1970;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The original purpose of the project was to complete the Railways
1969-1972 Development Program, including track improvement, procurement of
rolling stock and other equipment, and to finance studies of the economic
feasibility of certain railway lines and services. The physical execution
of the original project has been seriously delayed due to administrative and
political problems within the Community. In November 1974, the Executive
Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of the Loan to be
used for consultant services and emergency investments in track material. All
three countries have now enacted legislation to establish their own Railways
Corporations. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977
among the countries concerned is given below:
Kenya                2.0
Tanzania             3.8
Uganda               1.9
Total                7.7
This Loan is now fully disbursed except for US$27,000 of the amount allocated
to Kenya; this amount is expected to be disbursed shortly.
Loan No. 914-EA - Third Telecommunications Project: US$32.5 million
Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness: September 19, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment,
and training. All project items, except the microwave radio system, have
been completed; this system is likely to be completed by mid-1980. The
slippage in the project's completion was due to initial delays in procurement
caused by staffing and other problems associated with the relocation of
headquarters. About US$32.0 million of the loan has now been disbursed.
The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds as at October 1, 1977 among the
countries concerned is as follows:
(US$ million)
Kenya                2.4
Tanzania             3.5
Uganda               0.1
Total                6.0



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 7, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The environment within the Community has continued to have a
negative impact on EADB operations. Level of operations both for appraisal
and supervision has been depressed, but there has been some improvement in
the state of the portfolio with the arrears affected portfolio falling from
50% as of June 30, 1977 to 43% as of June 30, 1980. Some US$11.6 million of
the loan has been disbursed to date, and the uncommitted balance amounts to
US$1.9 million. The closing date has been postponed to March 31, 1981 to
allow for completion of the project.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
D. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT IN KENYA AS AT
February 28, 1981
Fiscal Year        Obligor               Type of Business   Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Equity   Total
1967, 1968
and 1973        Kenya Hotel Properties   Hotels                5.2      0.7     5.9
1970, 1974,
1977 and 1979  Pan African Paper Mills  Pulp and Paper    17.2          6.3    23.5
1972            Tourism Promotion
Services                 Hotels               2.4      -       2.4
1976            Rift Valley Textiles
Ltd.                     Textiles             6.3     2.8      9.1
1977           Kenya Commercial Bank
Ltd.                     Capital Market       2.0      -       2.0
1980            Development Finance       Development           -       1.4     1.4
Company of Kenya Ltd.       Finance
Total Gross Commitments                    33.1    11.2    44.3
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                    11.6      1.8    13.4
Total Commitments now held by IFC          21.5     9.4    30.9



- 45 -
ANNEX III
KENYA - FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare:                            24 months
(b)  Prepared by the Government, AFC, and RMEA
(c)  Date of first major presentation to the
Bank Group:                                     September, 1977
Identification Mission:                           July, 1978
(d)  Appraisal Mission:                                March-April, 1980
(e)  Negotiations:                                     March-April, 1981
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:                    September, 1981
II.  Special Bank Group Implementation Actions
None
III.  Special Conditions
(a)  AFC shall establish and thereafter maintain a Corporate Planning
Department, with responsibilities and staffing satisfactory to the
Bank Group. The Bank Group shall approve the terms of reference
and requisite qualifications for all professional staff of the
Department, be consulted on the appointments of the two locally-
recruited financial analysts, and approve the appointments of the
Department Head and the Planning Analyst (para 50).
(b)  AFC shall, on a yearly basis, prepare and submit for Bank
Group review and approval a detailed Annual Plan and five-
year projections including proposed expenditures for operating
and lending programs (para 50).
(c)  AFC shall reorganize its Finance Department, to be renamed Financial
Services Department, into a Cash Management Section and a Budgeting
Section. A Chief Financial Analyst will be recruited locally to
head the Financial Services Department and two financial analysts
will be recruited locally for the Budgeting Section. The Bank
Group would approve the terms of reference and requisite qualifica-
tions and be consulted on the appointment of the Chief Financial
Analyst (para 51).
(d)  AFC shall recruit about fifty additional loan officers during
the Project period, with the number to be recruited in each
fiscal year to be specified in the Annual Plan. In addition,
AFC would establish an accounts officer position for each AFC
branch and recruit about thirty persons for these positions
(para 52).



- 46 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(e) AFC shall improve its branch facilities and services according
to recommendations of a branch location study and an investment
program to be detailed in the Annual Plans (para 53).
(f) AFC shall develop and implement a Credit Training Program and a
Staff Performance Improvement Program acceptable to the Bank
Group and shall hire appropriate consultants and experts for
developing and implementing such programs. The terms of
reference, requisite qualifications, proposed contracts, and the
appointments of consultants and experts shall be approved by the
Bank Group (paras 54 and 55).
(g) The Government would provide the proceeds of the Credit and
Loan relating to the lending program to AFC at an interest
rate of 7% in AFC FYs 1982 and 1983, and at 8% p.a. thereafter.
AFC, in turn, would on-lend at a rate of at least 12% per
annum for medium-term loans (para 56).
(h) Special conditions of effectiveness include the appointment
of the Head of the Corporate Planning Department (para 50),
AFC's submission of a timetable for the employment of credit
training specialists and for the implementation of the Credit
Training Program for Bank Group review and comment (para 54),
and due authorization or ratification of the Subsidiary
Financing Agreements by the Government and AFC (para 57).



SUDAN~ ~ ~   /                       0e                                                                                          .t
S U D A N   .                                 0 
v-/(&  T  t  t    __.4sE  ~~T H I 0 P I A
/4            /
t ( t S i . ,>N_,                                                                                                                               MANDERA 0
,*/        \                                               /                                                                                         -T   LZ/-  
Xk \ 7 A b ~~~~~~~~MARSABI r   . 
E     A   N ,T   E  N. /'1                         /;                          -
U G A NDLTA                                        L                                        . -    -L<  f -                       J   .ANERA.
1/RIFT  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I5
Rjfl Ptobebi,ty =~s                                                i "         F\ <.T'1/*W1
40   _0-  0( yloelotdsn \0eoel,IkII be \es then .0mm            ,o!5  100                             *0           -/  EN
-3-.-3%Syeens, y 0eefI sod   Ike, )eb les the SOm.          -ft Monod  oet00dnotoeZnsIE                               
_._.Internaronal ~  ~         ~         ~         Moo coo/borO!         _~s end (Zoe05   5. e0                                                  5 R   CdsR{\
0anil    40uiiyln~.laaes                                                          \ .  Dnoeooole= =hnenlene(Zooel
o      -oestFnS           Ie/            !        Lnyw hdono-hosheond ZoneY)                       t          2           0g            00.    
o  o  0    o0     5      100                    .Seml dosortoegehtoton (ZoneOO)               NueSIz =;                                         P ': =    I 
non                                      boo so neleso~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AR55






<?    g   X   S  l20 0 E - ~~~~~~A- ~ a>..f - ^  -;i- 
> UUfANA XMNFA/
U A(A
' I '                                                        N %  l  1--;/ o _ ' ' 
- Ec\                                                                                                               F                        r~;
ruRKMJA              I N A_,.'  i N    ' K        I     U    i  AfTU                7ANA    RMANDFRA                           /
S   t                                    0                                              -  Eli ,  ~.bt 0-,.saS#o 
I  T                                 MARSAB:r                 /                           -SAM U~/ 
Id.- ~ ~    ~        ~        ~       ~        
AIERU ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ W
-   ft.  040000. 00 ~ ~ E
2                 0400M0.0E09                                        GAIS
TOPOr ~ Solodo               '~GARISSA



