CREDIT NUMBER 1143 KE
Development Credit Agreement
(Fourth Agricultural Credit Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated       ,CQ     k       2b     1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1143 KE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      QCQW&..      t        , 1981, between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the Bank to provide
additional assistance towards the financing of the Project and
by an agreement between the Borrower and the Bank (hereinafter
called the Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such
assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to twenty-
five million dollars ($25,000,000) (hereinafter called the Loan);
(C) the Project will be carried out by the Agricultural
Finance Corporation with the Borrower's assistance and, as part
of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the
Agricultural Finance Corporation the proceeds of the Credit
as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agre2d, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Association
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and the Agricultural Finance Corporation;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).


﻿- 2 -
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "AFC" means the Agricultural Finance Corporation
established by the Agricultural Finance Corporation Act, 1969
(No. 1 of 1969) of the Borrower;
(b) "Project" and references to "Parts" thereof mean the
project and parts thereof described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement;
(c) "Association Project Agreement" means the agreement
between the Association and AFC of even date herewith, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules to the Association Project Agreement and all agree-
ments supplemental to the Association Project Agreement;
(d) "Second Subsidiary Financing Agreement" means the
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the AFC
pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may
be amended from time to time;
(e) "Statement of Policy" means AFC's statement of policy
adopted and approved by AFC's Board of Directors on April 15,
1981, as amended and restated from time to time; and
(f) "Annual Plan" means AFC's operational and financial
plan as formulated and submitted annually pursuant to Section 2.02
of the Association Project Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to eight million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 8,200,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from


﻿-3-
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of loans made by AFC under Part C of
the Project and the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for Parts A and B of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
set forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of the Association
Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1985,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
February 1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 1991, and ending
February 1, 2031, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on February 1, 2001, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment there-
after to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall cause AFC to perform in accordance with


﻿-4-
the provisions of the Association Project Agreement and the Second
Subsidiary Financing Agreement all the obligations therein set
forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable AFC to perform such obliga-
tions, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to AFC under a subsidiary financing agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and AFC under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Association
including except as the Association may otherwise agree, the terms
and conditions set out in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Second
Subsidiary Financing Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Second Subsidiary Financing Agreement or any provision
thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall cause AFC to carry out the Project in accor-
dance with the operating policies and procedures set forth in
Article III of the Association Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be used exclusively for the Project until its comple-
.tion.
Section 3.04. The Borrower: (i) shall cause AFC to maintain
records adequate to reflect, in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices, the operations,
resources and expenditures of AFC in respect of the Project;
and (ii) shall cause AFC to furnish to the Association all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning
the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿-5-
(a) AFC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Association Project Agreement;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that AFC will be able to perform its
obligations under the Association Project Agreement;
(c) the Agricultural Finance Corporation Act, 1969 (No. 1
of 1969) or any other enactment relating to AFC shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way
as to materially and adversely affect the ability of AFC to
carry out the obligations set forth in the Association Project
Agreement; and
(d) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of AFC or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and AFC; and
(b) the events specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of
the General Conditions:
(a) the Department Head of the Corporate Planning Depart-
ment, referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of the Association Project
Agreement, shall have been appointed;
(b) the timetable for the employment of credit training
specialists by AFC and the implementation of the credit training


﻿-6-
program shall have been furnished to the Association for its
review and comment; and
(c) the execution and delivery of the Second Subsidiary
Financing Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and AFC, respec-
tively, has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
corporate and governmental action.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Association Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by AFC, and is legally binding upon AFC
in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Second Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and AFC and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and AFC in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date h\'"    \ti \J%JJ is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
III of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister responsible for finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Treasury
P.O. Box 30007
Nairobi, Kenya


﻿-7-
Cable address:                        Telex:
FINANCE                             22003
Nairobi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By                                         0
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 8 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   (a) The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of such proceeds to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                       0            90%
(2) Office equip-                 130,000          100% of foreign
ment, vehicles,                               expenditures
furniture and                                 and 80% of
training                                      local expendi-
material                                      tures
(3) Incremental                   210,000          100% of
staff salaries                                local ex-
and related                                   penditures
operating
expenses
(4) Consultants'                  290,000          100%
services
'(5) AFC sub-loans                    0            70% of AFC
eligible under                                disbursements
the Annual Plans
Subtotal          630,000
(6) Uncommitted and             7,570,000
to be allocated
to Categories (1)
through (5) in
the Annual Plan
TOTAL        8,200,000


﻿- 9 -
(b) The allocation of the amounts of the Credit shown in
Categories (1) through (5) above represents the allocation made
before the first Annual Plan for the fiscal year 1981-82 will have
been submitted. Upon receipt by and approval of the Association
of the Annual Plan for the fiscal year 1981-82 and for each
subsequent fiscal year, in accordance with the provisions of
Section 2.02 of the Association Project Agreement, the Association
may, by agreement with the Borrower, reallocate the amounts of the
Credit out of Category (6) to Categories (1) through (5) to the
extent required to meet the expenditures proposed to be incurred
thereunder by such Annual Plan and which are eligible for financ-
ing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(c) The table in Schedule 4 to this Agreement sets forth the
aggregate amounts of the proceeds in respect of the Credit and
funds made available by the Bank which are expected to be allo-
cated to each of the Categories referred to above for withdrawal
from time to time pursuant to Annual Plans over the Project
period.
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:


﻿- 10 -
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and
(b) payments made for expenditures which have already been
financed by the Bank.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in Categories (1)
through (5) of the table in paragraph 1 (a) above, but without
limitation to the provisions of paragraph (1) (b) above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the
Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allo-
cated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Asso-
ciation are -not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if
such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expend4tures thereunder shall have been
made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
.limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reason-
able opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Support to AFC
Strengthening AFC's general management and administra-
tive capacities by:
(i) establishing a Corporate Planning Department;
(ii) expanding the Financial Services Department by
creating a Banking Section and a Budgeting Section;
(iii) increasing AFC's staff by hiring about 50 qualified
loan officers and about 30 qualified accounts
officers for AFC's branch offices; and
(iv) expanding AFC's physical facilities and support
services by establishing six branch offices and
providing about 20 vehicles for branch operations.
Part B:   Training and Staff Development
(i) Preparing and implementing a credit training
program to provide loan officers as well as
accounts officers with appropriate financial and
credit skills.
(ii) Improvement of staff performance by implementing
a performance improvement program which shall
consist of a Job Analysis and Evaluation System and
a Performance Review and Appraisal System.
(iii) The design and implementation of a career develop-
ment program.
(iv) The provision of a continuing training program for
all AFC staff.


﻿- 12 -
Part C:   Credit
The support of AFC's lending program by the provision
of credit to commercial farmers including those who have
not yet had access to other sources of institutional
credit.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1985.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Terms to be Included in the
econd Subsidiary Financing Agreement
(Section 3.01 (b))
Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Second
Subsidiary Financing Agreement shall include the following terms
and conditions:
1.   AFC shall prepare, on an annual basis, an Annual Plan and
five-year projections containing, inter alia, detailed budget of
estimated operating costs, capital expenditures and lending
activities and financing plan. The context of the Annual Plan and
review criteria shall conform to Schedule 2 of the Association
Project Agreement and shall be reviewed by the Borrower and
approved by AFC's Board prior to the submission of the Annual
Plan to the Association for review and approval.
2.   Proceeds of the Credit withdrawn by the Borrower for the
institution-building components of the Project (Parts A and B of
the Project) shall be made available to AFC, promptly upon their
withdrawal, as a grant.
3.   (a) Proceeds of the Credit and the contribution of the
Borrower withdrawn for onlending to farmers under AFC's lending
program as approved under the Annual Plan (Part C of the Project)
shall be provided to AFC, upon their withdrawal, at a blended
rate which fully takes into account the interest rate at which
the proceeds of the Credit must be lent (namely 9.6%) and would
not be less than 7 per cent (7%) per annum in AFC's fiscal years
1981/82 and 1982/83 and thereafter not less than 8 per cent (8%)
per annum.
(b) The Borrower shall take all necessary steps to ensure
an adequate interest rate agreed to by AFC.
(c) The Borrower shall establish a line of credit for AFC
with a drawdown period from April 1, 1981 to March 31, 1985. Each
fiscal year, AFC shall be able to borrow advances under the line
of credit up to the amount of the commitment agreed in the Annual
Plan for that year, except in such cases as otherwise agreed
between the Association and the Borrower. Upon expiration of the
drawdown period on March 31, 1985, all outstanding advances under
the line of credit shall be ronverted into a term loan with a


﻿- 14 -
final maturity of not more than sixteen years including a three
year grace period. The interest rate on the term loan shall be
in accordance with provisions in paragraph 3 (a) above.
4.   AFC's basic lending policies and procedures shall be based
on AFC's Statement of Policy and reflected in the Annual Plans.
5.   AFC shall periodically review the structure and level of
agricultural interest rates to ensure consistency with the outcome
of the quarterly review of overall interest rates by the Borrower.
6.   The proceeds of the Credit shall be made available to AFC in
the currency of the Borrower, converted at the official rate of
exchange prevailing at the time funds are received by AFC. The
Borrower shall bear the foreign exchange risks associated with the
Credit.
7.   The Borrower will provide to AFC, out of funds other than
the proceeds of the Credit, the additional funds required to
finance AFC's operations as defined and approved by the Borrower
and the Association in AFC's Annual Plan.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 4
Expected Allocation of the Proceeds
of the Credit and Funds made available
by the Bank on the Basis of the Annual Plan.
Amount of the
Credit and Funds
from the Bank
Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                 Dollar Equivalent)
(1) Civil works                                    1,000,000
(2) Office equipment,                              1,000,000
vehicles, furniture
and training
materials
(3) Incremental staff                              3,000,000
salaries and
related operating
expenses
(4) Consultants'                                   1,000,000
services
(5) AFC sub-loans                                 29,000,000
eligible under
the Annual Plans
TOTAL                                   35,000,000


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of    vc.,
198
FOR SECRETARY


