LOAN NUMBER 1995 KE
Loan Agreement
(Fourth Agricultural Credit Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated      k   czA    .    t       ), 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1995 KE
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                     , 1981, between REPUBLIC
OF KENYA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the International
Development Association (hereinafter called the Association) to
provide additional assistance in an aggregate principal amount
equivalent to eight million two hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 8,200,000) (hereinafter called the Credit) towards
the financing of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the Development Credit
Agreement) to be entered into by the Borrower and the Association;
and, in the event the Association shall not provide the Credit,
in whole or in part, the Borrower shall provide such additional
financing on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations
of the Borrower under this Agreement; and
(C) the Project will be carried out by the Agricultural
Finance Corporation with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Agricul-
tural Finance Corporation the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter
provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Bank Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the Agricul-
tural Finance Corporation;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein


﻿-2-
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "AFC" means the Agricultural Finance Corporation
established by the Agricultural Finance Corporation Act, 1969
(No. 1 of 1969) of the Borrower;
(b) "Project" and references to "Parts" thereof mean the
project iand parts thereof described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement;
(c) "Bank Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Bank and AFC of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Bank Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the Bank
Project Agreement;
(d) "First Subsidiary Financing Agreement" means the agree-
ment to be entered into between the Borrower and the AFC pursuant
to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time;
(e) "Statement of Policy" means AFC's statement of policy
adopted and approved by AFC's Board of Directors on April 15,
1981, as amended and restated from time to time; and
(f) "Annual Plan" means AFC's operational and financial plan
as formulated and submitted annually pursuant to Section 2.02 of
the Bank Project Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000).


﻿-3 -
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of loans made by AFC under Part C of the Project and the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for Parts A and B of the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions set
forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of the Bank Project Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31 1985,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of nine and three-fifths per cent (9-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Bor-
rower shall cause AFC to perform in accordance with the provisions
of the Bank Project Agreement and the First Subsidiary Financing
Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and


﻿cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate
to enable AFC to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan avail-
able to AFC under a subsidiary financing agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and AFC under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Bank including, except as the Bank
may otherwise agree, the terms and conditions set out in Schedule
3 to this Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the First
Subsidiary Financing Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
First Subsidiary Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause AFC to carry out the Project in accordance
with the operating policies and procedures set forth in Article
III of the Bank Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.04. The Borrower: (i) shall cause AFC to maintain
records adequate to reflect, in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices, the operations,
resources and expenditures of AFC in respect of the Project;
and (ii) shall cause AFC to furnish to the Bank all such informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned


﻿-5 -
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the
allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange,
such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at*no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan,
and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the creation of
such lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason
such provision cannot be made with respect to any lian created
on assets of any of its political or administrative subdivisions,
the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an
equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or ex-
change stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Sect-.on 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) AFC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Bank Project Agreement;


﻿-6-
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that AFC will be able to perform its
obligations under the Bank Project Agreement;
(c) the Agricultural Finance Corporation Act, 1969 (No. 1
of 1969) or any other enactment relating to AFC shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way
as to materially and adversely affect the ability of AFC to carry
out the obligations set forth in the Bank Project Agreement;
and
(d) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of AFC or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Bank to the Borrower and AFC; and
(b) the events specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the Department Head of the Corporate Planning Depart-
ment, referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of the Bank Project
Agreement, shall have been appointed;
(b) the timetable for the employment of credit training
specialists by AFC and the implementation of the credit training
program shall have been furnished to the Bank for its review
and comment; and


﻿-7-
(c) the execution and delivery of the First Subsidiary
Financing Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and AFC, respec-
tively, has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
corporate and governmental action.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Bank Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by AFC, and is legally binding upon AFC in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the First Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and AFC, and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and AFC in accordance with its
terms.
Section 6.03. The date   OLAM CXk,\oNl, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister responsible for finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 30007
Nairobi
Kenya
Cable address:                     Telex:
FINANCE                            22003
Nairobi


﻿For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By                         Ott. tlC
Authorized Represent tive
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By                       kt 4   --'"~
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Loan
1.   (a) The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of such proceeds to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)       To be Financed
(1) Civil                          0                90%
works
(2) Office                      150,000             100% of
equipment,                                     foreign ex-
vehicles,                                      penditures
furniture                                      and 80% of
and train-                                     local ex-
ing material                                   penditures
(3) Incremental                 250,000             100% of
staff                                          local ex-
salaries                                       penditures
and related
operating
expenses
(4) Consul-                     345,000             100%
tants'
services
(5) AFC sub-                       0                70% of AFC
loans                                          disburse-
eligible                                       ments
under the
Annual Plans
Subtotal                   745,000


﻿- 10 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)      To be Financed
(6) Uncommitted
(a) to be allo-           5,255000
cated to
Categories
(1) through
(4) in the
Annual Plans
(b) to be allo-           19,000,000
cated to
Category
(5) in the
Annual Plans
TOTAL                     25,000,000
(b) The allocation of the amounts of the Loan shown in
Categories (1) through (5) above represents the allocation made
before the first Annual Plan for the fiscal year 1981-82 will have
been submitted. Upon receipt by and approval of the Bank of the
Annual Plan for the fiscal year 1981-82 and for each subsequent
fiscal year, in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 of
the Bank Project Agreement, the Bank may, by agreement with the
Borrower, reallocate the amounts of the Loan out of Category (6)
to Categories (1) through (5) to the extent required to meet the
expenditures proposed to be incurred thereunder by such Annual
Plan and which are eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Loan.
(c) The table in Schedule 4 to this Agreement sets forth the
aggregate amounts of the proceeds in respect of the Loan and any
funds which may become available from the Association which are
expected to be allocated to each of the Categories referred to
above for withdrawal from time to time pursuant to Annual Plans
over the Project period.


﻿- 11 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and
(b) payments made for expenditures which have already been
financed by the Association.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in Categories (1) through
(5) of the table in paragraph 1 (a) above, but without limitation
to the provisions of paragraph (1) (b) above, if the Bank has
reasonably estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated to
any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage
of all expenditures in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures; and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated short-
fall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such


﻿- 12 -
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Support to AFC
Strengthening AFC's general management and administra-
tive capacities by:
(i) establishing a Corporate Planning Department;
(ii) expanding the Financial Services Department by
creating a Banking Section and a Budgeting Section;
(iii) increasing AFC's staff by hiring about 50 qualified
loan officers and about 30 qualified accounts
officers for AFC's branch offices; and
(iv) expanding AFC's branch facilities and support
services by establishing six branch offices and
providing about 20 vehicles for branch operations.
Part B:   Training and Staff Development
(i) Preparing and implementing a credit training
program to provide loan officers as well as
accounts officers with appropriate financial and
credit skills.
(ii) Improvement of staff performance by implementing
a performance improvement program which shall
consist of a Job Analysis and Evaluation System and
a Performance Review and Appraisal System.
(iii) The design and implementation of a career develop-
ment program.
(iv) The provision of a continuing training program for
all AFC staff.


﻿- 14 -
Part C:   Credit
Support of AFC's lending program by the provision of
credit to commercial farmers including those who have
not yet had access to other sources of institutional
credit.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1985.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Terms to be Included in the
First Subsidiary Financing Agreement
(Section 3.01 (b))
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the First Subsidiary
Financing Agreement shall include the following terms and condi-
tions:
1.   AFC shall prepare, on an annual basis, an Annual Plan and
five-year projections containing, inter alia, detailed budget of
estimated operating costs, capital expenditures and lending
activities and financing plan. The context of the Annual Plan and
review criteria shall conform to Schedule 2 of the Bank Project
Agreement and shall be reviewed by the Borrower and approved by
AFC's Board prior to the submission of the Annual Plan to the Bank
for review and approval.
2.   Proceeds of the Loan withdrawn by the Borrower for the
institution-building components of the Project (Parts A and B of
the Project) shall be made available to AFC, promptly upon their
withdrawal, as a grant.
3.   (a) Proceeds of the Loan and the contribution of the
Borrower withdrawn for onlending to farmers under AFC's lending
program as approved under the Annual Plan (Part C of the Project)
shall be provided to AFC, upon their withdrawal, at a blended
rate which fully takes into account the interest rate at which
the proceeds of the Loan must be lent (namely 9.6%) and would
not be less than seven per cent (7%) per annum in AFC's fiscal
years 1981/82 and 1982/83 and thereafter not less than eight per
cent (8%) per annum.
(b) The Borrower shall take all necessary steps to ensure
an adequate interest rate agreed to by AFC.
(c) The Borrower shall establish a line of credit for AFC
with a drawdown period from April 1, 1981 to March 31, 1985. Each
fiscal year, AFC shall be able to borrow advances under the line
of credit up to the amount of the commitment agreed in the Annual
Plan for that year, except in such cases as otherwise agreed
between the Bank and the Borrower. Upon expiration of the
drawdown period on March 31, 1985, all outstanding advances under
the line of credit shall be converted into a term loan with a


﻿- 16 -
final maturity of not more than sixteen years including a three
year grace period. The interest rate on the term loan shall be
in accordance with provisions in paragraph 3 (a) above.
4.   AFC's basic lending policies and procedures shall be based
on AFC's Statement of Policy and reflected in the Annual Plans.
5.   AFC shall periodically review the structure and level of
agricultural interest rates to ensure consistency with the outcome
of the quarterly review of overall interest rates by the Borrower.
6.   The proceeds of the Loan shall be made available to AFC in
the currency of the Borrower, converted at the official rate of
exchange prevailing at the time funds are received by AFC. The
Borrower shall bear the foreign exchange risks associated with the
Loan.
7. - The Borrower will provide to AFC, out of funds other than
the proceeds of the Loan, the additional funds required to finance
AFC's operations as defined and approved by the Borrower and the
Bank in AFC's Annual Plan.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Expected Allocation of the Proceeds of
the Loan and any Sums which may become
available from the Association on the
Basis of the Annual Plan
Amount of
the Loan and
Funds from the
Association
Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                    Dollar Equivalent)
(1) Civil works                                   1,000,000
(2) Office equipment, vehicles,                   1,000,000
furniture and training
materials
(3) Incremental staff salaries                    3,000,000
and related operating
expenses
(4) Consultants'                                  1,000,000
services
(5) AFC sub-loans                                29,000,000
eligible under
the Annual Plans
TOTAL                          35,000,000


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 5
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 1 and August 1
beginning February 1, 1987
through   February 1, 2001                  835,000
On August 1, 2001                                785,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 19 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                   1.45%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                          2.90%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                   5.30%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                                   7.70%
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                                   8.65%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                                   9.60%


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this /L2      day of  lA-- , 198 J.
FOR SECRETARY


