Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
Report No.:  AB5997 
 
Operation Name 
MEDEC Low-Carbon DPL Loan 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Country 
Mexico 
Sector 
District heating and energy efficiency services (20%); General 
transportation sector (20%); Forestry (20%); Solid waste 
management (20%); Renewable energy (20%) 
Operation ID 
P121800 
Lending Instrument 
Development Policy Loan 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF MEXICO 
Implementing Agency 
HCP 
Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico 
Palacio Nacional, Patio de la Emperatriz 
Edificio 12, Piso 2, Col. Centro 
Mexico 
DF 
Mexico 
06000 
Tel: (52-55) 3688-1438 
Fax: (52-55) 3688-1490 
carlos_delgado@hacienda.gob.mx
Date PID Prepared 
October 12, 2010 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal  
October 12, 2010 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
November 23, 2010 
Corporate Review 
Decision 
 
Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to proceed 
with the preparation of the operation.  
 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Mexico has demonstrated its commitment to addressing climate change risks and solutions, both 
through international efforts and domestic policies.  
Given Mexico’s current climate and 
geography, the country faces the risks of a number of climate change impacts, including an 
increase in average and extreme temperatures, a reduction in rainfall and runoff patterns, and an 
increase in the intensity of tropical storms which is compounded by the fact that the country lies 
between two oceans.
 
Recognizing the threat of climate change, the country has become a 
leading advocate for an international climate change treaty and at the same time has been at the 
forefront of putting in place domestic policies to address climate change.  While Mexico could 
sit by and let other countries take the lead in reducing GHG emissions, the country has instead 
taken a proactive position on climate change mitigation, and has emphasized the importance of 
all major countries being involved.  Most recently, Mexico’s leadership on climate change is 
Page  2
reflected in its hosting the 16th Conference of the Parties (COP16) of the UN Framework 
Convention on Climate Change in November-December 2010. 
 
Mexico’s domestic climate change program has steadily developed over the past five years, 
making it a model for other countries.  Since creating the Inter-secretarial Commission on 
Climate Change (CICC) in 2005 (a commission that includes major ministries and the 
President’s Office), Mexico has systematically developed a national climate change strategy 
(ENACC, 2007), national laws on energy efficiency and renewable energy (2008), and an 
economy-wide action plan known as the Special Program for Climate Change (PECC, 2009).  
The PECC provides the overarching framework for addressing climate change in Mexico in the 
near term (2009-2012), and was presented in Copenhagen as a key reference for the development 
of Nationally Appropriate Mitigation Actions (NAMAs).
1
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The Policy Development Objective (PDO) of the Development Policy Loan is to support sector-
specific, high-priority policy and regulatory reforms that have been identified as critical to 
achieve Mexico’s climate change mitigation targets under the PECC for:  
 
·
Increasing renewable energy supply, promoting energy efficiency through cogeneration, 
and reduce gas flaring and venting;  
·
Improving the efficiency of the vehicle fleet and road transport operations in Mexico; 
·
Strengthening the market for energy-efficient housing; and  
·
Mainstreaming climate change considerations into land-use and forestry activities. 
 
This proposed DPL is a logical extension of other analytic and financing operations by the World 
Bank that have supported climate change policy in Mexico over the past three years.  Previous 
DPLs have helped to support a national strategy for climate change (ENACC), a short-term 
program of action (PECC), the passage of national laws for renewable energy and energy 
efficiency, and the establishment of the national energy efficiency commission and urban 
transport program. Building on recent analytical work that prioritizes climate mitigation actions 
in Mexico, this DPL supports specific regulatory and institutional reforms for implementing 
important actions throughout Mexico’s economy – ranging from energy efficiency to forest 
management – that have been identified as having large climate change mitigation benefits, good 
financial and economic returns, and the ability to be implemented. 
 
Objectives at the sector level
:
Energy:
 
The DPL will provide support to the institutional and regulatory initiatives underway 
in Mexico, aimed at mainstreaming renewable energy supply, increasing cogeneration, reducing 
gas flaring and venting, and thus contributing to Mexico’s Climate Change and Low-Carbon 
Development agenda and helping to diversify the energy matrix.  Specifically, the operation will 
1
Communications received from Mexico in relation to the appendix 2 of the Copenhagen Accord:
 
http://unfccc.int/files/meetings/application/pdf/mexicocphaccord_app2.pdf 
Page  3
support key regulatory changes in the electric power and oil and gas sectors that will allow the 
implementation of the Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Laws of 2008 and the related 
regulatory, policy, and institutional initiatives launched in 2009.
2
Specific interventions supported by this operation include new regulations in the electric power 
sector that actively encourage the development of Mexico’s untapped cogeneration and small-
scale renewable energy capacity; and a directive by Mexico’s new petroleum sector regulator 
(CNH) that requires Pemex, the national oil & gas company, to reduce its flaring and venting of 
methane and reach international norms. 
 
Transport:
 
The objective of the Bank support in the road transport sector is to assist the 
Government in creating a regulatory framework and incentives for increased energy efficiency 
and lower vehicle emissions.  While previous Bank operations have focused on the issues of 
urban mass transit, including aspects of urban planning and non-motorized transport, this 
operation focuses largely on the issues of vehicle efficiency and efficiency of interurban freight 
and passenger road transport operations.  Specifically, the DPL will support the agreement to 
adopt Mexico’s first efficiency standard (kilometers per liter) for new light-duty vehicles.
 
Urban:
 
The objective of the DPL in the urban sector is to assist the Government in meeting its 
short- and medium-term climate change goals through the promotion of energy-efficient housing. 
The DPL will build on past efforts, specifically supporting the PECC goals that address energy 
use in the housing sector.   Given the expected large expansion of the housing market in Mexico 
in the coming decades, it is crucial to ensure that new housing is as efficient as possible, 
including the key energy systems for lighting, water heating, and space conditioning.  A key 
barrier to sustainable housing is the lack of financing to help overcome higher upfront costs of 
energy efficient technologies; this is particularly true for low-income housing.  Therefore, the 
policies supported here focus on the national housing programs for low-income consumers 
established by the national housing commission (CONAVI), and the primary mortgage provider 
(INFONAVIT) that is responsible for about two-thirds of total mortgages in Mexico.   
Specifically, the DPL will support the Government’s new nationwide housing program that 
provides incentives for contractors to build, and low-income households to purchase, energy-
efficient housing that is also tied to Mexico’s “green mortgage” program. 
 
Land-Use:
 
Lastly, in the Land-Use sector, the DPL supports the Government in reforming the 
regulatory framework for sustainable forest management, which will contribute to Mexico being 
able to meet the PECC target of placing 2.95 million hectares of forests under sustainable 
management, and will serve as the basis for Mexico’s REDD+ program.   Specifically, the 
current operation supports the reform of Mexico’s national forest management regulations that 
removes the main bottleneck to increasing the scale of the country’s sustainably forested lands. 
 
As a single tranche operation, the DPL acknowledges the important steps already taken by the 
Government of Mexico to develop Energy, Transport, Urban, and Land-Use sector policies that 
combat climate change and reduce GHG and other emissions. 
2
Such as the secondary regulations for the Renewable Energy Law (
Reglamento de la Ley para el Aprovechamiento 
de Energías Renovables y el Financiamiento de la Transición Energética
), September 2, 2009. 
Page  4
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The Bank has been engaged in a dialogue on Climate Change with Mexico since the mid-1990s,
 
supporting Mexico’s climate change and sustainable development agenda through a range of 
analytical and advisory, convening and coordination, and financial services.  Previous DPLs 
related to climate change have supported the development of national legislation, institutions, 
and financing mechanisms for meeting the country’s short and medium-term goals.   The current 
DPL thus builds on a number of past operations prepared by the World Bank in support of 
Mexico’s Climate Change policy and institutional development, including the programmatic 
Environmental SALs, the Climate Change DPL and the Environmental Sustainability DPL (both 
approved in 2008), the Green Growth DPL (2009) and the DPL for Adaptation to Climate 
Change Adaptation in Mexico’s Water Sector (2010).  These previous DPLs have helped to 
support: (i) Mexico’s overall climate strategy, including the adoption of the ENACC and the 
PECC programs, (ii) the establishment of key institutions in the energy and transport sectors, 
namely CONUEE and PROTRAM, and (iii) the passage of key legislation in the energy sectors, 
namely the energy efficiency and renewable energy laws. 
 
Box 1. Prior Actions for the Low-Carbon Development Policy Loan 
 
The government has agreed and implemented the following Prior Actions: 
 
Policy Area 1: Cogeneration and Small-Scale Renewable Energy Development 
·
CRE adopts and publishes interconnection and net-metering regulations, and model contracts for 
cogeneration and RE-based electricity. 
 
Policy Area 2:  Gas Flaring and Venting Reduction 
·
National Hydrocarbons Commission adopts the 
Resolution to Reduce Gas Flaring
 and Technical 
Specifications for reducing gas flaring at Pemex. 
·
Pemex adopts a series of gas-flaring and recovery goals and submits them to CNH. 
 
Policy Area 3: Fuel Efficiency in Vehicles and Transport Operations 
·
SEMARNAT began the formal process for establishing a new energy efficiency standard for new light 
duty vehicles as part of the 2010 National Standardization Program.  
 
·
SEMARNAT and SCT establish a Voluntary Clean Transport (VCT) Program to assist private long-
distance passenger and freight operators and freight transport service users to improve the fuel 
efficiency of their operations 
Policy Area 4:  Energy Efficient Housing Development 
·
CONAVI establishes a Sustainable Housing Program (
Programa Especifico para el Desarrollo 
Habitacional Sustentable ante el Cambio Climatico).
 
Policy Area 5:   Sustainable Forest Management 
·
SEMARNAT publishes an agreement in the 
Diario Oficial d
e
la Federación
 that modifies the 
regulatory framework for forest management activities, including the simplification of administrative 
procedures for forest management (June 2010). 
·
The Inter-Secretarial Commission for Climate Change within SEMARNAT creates an internal Working 
Group to coordinate the development of a national REDD+ strategy (December 2009). 
 
Page  5
Drawing on the results of recent analytical work, such as the 
Low-Carbon Development for 
Mexico 
study
 
(2010),
3
this program supports priority “low-carbon” measures in key sectors of 
the Mexican economy – energy, transport, urban housing, and forestry.  The measures that have 
been chosen are important for Mexico’s climate change mitigation program, not only because 
they have large potential for reducing GHG emissions, but because they are cost-effective, 
implementable in the short-term, and are fundamental to fulfilling other sustainable development 
goals.  The fact that the measures supported by the operation have large financial and economic 
benefits is particularly important in light of Mexico’s steady, but still fragile, macroeconomic 
recovery. 
In agreement with the objectives stated in the Country Partnership Strategy, this DPL builds on 
the Mexican authorities’ desire to maintain a strong financial and knowledge-based relationship 
with the Bank based on the need for increasingly flexible, on-demand services.   Given the recent 
impact of the global economic crisis on the Mexican economy, this DPL comes at a relevant time 
in the country’s development path, complementing a series of programmatic interventions 
including loans in addition to non-lending advisory services and technical assistance.  More 
specifically, the DPL constitutes the next step in the Bank’s support for Mexico’s adoption of 
effective policies to combat climate change and follows up more specifically on the Climate 
Change DPL (2008) and the Green Growth DPL (2009).   
 
4. Tentative Financing 
 
Source: 
Borrower/Recipient 
($m) 
 
0
IBRD
400
Total 400 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The current DPL, structured as a single tranche operation, will not require the creation of a 
separate Project Implementation Unit (PIU), but rather will rely on the governmental institutions 
responsible for each and every policy area or activity included in this program for monitoring 
and evaluation.  Because of the focus on policy, regulatory and institutional development, the 
majority of the monitoring steps involve one-step evaluation of program achievements by the 
time of ICR.  The Ministry of Environment ((
Secretaria de Medio Ambiente y Recursos 
Naturales
 or
 
SEMARNAT) will be responsible for the coordination among these agencies under 
this DPL.  The sectoral Ministries and agencies responsible for the monitoring and evaluation of 
the different Policy Areas are listed below. 
 
Policy Area 1:  
The Energy Regulatory Commission (
Comisión Reguladora de Energía 
or
CRE), 
the agency responsible for regulating and providing technical standards for the operation of the 
3
Johnson, T., C. Alatorrre, Z. Romo, and F. Liu. (2010). Low-Carbon Development for Mexico (
México: Estudio 
sobre la Disminución de Emisiones de Carbono, MEDEC). 
Washington, D.C.: The World Bank.  
Page  6
electricity sector, will monitor the success of the new regulations for small-scale renewable 
producers and cogeneration, establishing baseline indicators for the cogeneration contracts, the 
number of small-scale renewable producers that connect into the grid, and will verify the 
existence of any contract between CFE and Pemex in order to purchase power.  
 
Policy Area 2:  
The National Hydrocarbons Commission (
Comisión Nacional de Hidrocarburos 
or
 
CNH) is the agency created to regulate the upstream activities in hydrocarbons.  CNH adopted 
the Resolution to Reduce Gas Flaring and Technical Specifications which intends to reduce gas 
flaring at Pemex, and is the responsible for approving the Declarations (Manifiestos) outlining its 
gas recovery goals and gas flaring reduction work plan and timeline by Pemex.  Accordingly, 
CNH will publish the timeline and goals derived from these commitments and establish a 
methodology for M&E of the Pemex compliance (including baseline and specific targets) and 
will regularly publish an evaluation of the degree of compliance by Pemex to its gas flaring and 
venting reduction goals. 
 
Policy Area 3:  
As the entity leading the actions in fuel efficiency standards, SEMARNAT will 
publish a set of fuel efficiency standards for new light duty vehicles and will be the pivotal entity 
for the Voluntary Clean Transport (VCT) program that will assist private long-distance 
passenger and freight operators and freight transport service users to improve fuel efficiency of 
their operations.  Specifically, SEMARNAT will establish the baseline and the targets for this 
activity and will remain responsible for the monitoring and evaluation of the VCT program. 
 
Policy Area 4: 
The National Housing Commission
 (Comisión Nacional de Vivienda 
or 
CONAVI), responsible for the Sustainable Housing Program. Accordingly, will establish the 
methodology and the M&E system for this program, in particular the monitoring of the three key 
indicators included in this DPL: (i) new housing units with energy efficient housing criteria, (ii) 
qualification for international carbon credits under the CDM programmatic methodology for 
sustainable housing, (iii) joint participation in CONAVI’s housing subsidy and in the green 
mortgage (Hipoteca Verde) program. 
 
Policy Area 5: 
SEMARNAT, responsible for modifying the regulatory framework for forest 
management activities and the simplification of the relevant administrative procedures on this 
area, will establish a methodology to evaluate how these modifications helped to reduce the 
number of steps and the processing time in order to obtain a forest management license.  
 
The implementation of the sector reforms and the regulatory framework embedded in this 
program is likely to require strong inter-institutional coordination capacity, horizontally as well 
as vertically.  In response to this need, the World Bank has been engaged in the last years, 
through lending instruments and technical assistance programs in supporting the Government of 
Mexico in implementing its Transport, Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy programs, as 
well as strengthening its Housing Financial Markets and the Protected Areas System.  A core 
element of the assistance is helping to build the capacity of the institutions involved and to 
strengthen the linkages of those institutions in their policy-setting, investment review and 
financing capacities.  
 
Page  7
The proposed monitoring framework for this operation includes 7 monitoring indicators and 
corresponding expected outcomes, which can be considered strategic milestones in assessing 
progress in implementation of the DPL. The Bank will monitor actions taken to achieve these 
outcomes and review progress in the implementation of the DPL, as well as subsequent 
government actions, through the closing of the loan. 
 
6. 
Risks and Risk Mitigation 
 
The regulatory, institutional, and policy reforms supported by this loan are intended to 
ultimately help Mexico reach its GHG emission reduction targets while developing low-carbon 
and sustainable development of its energy, transport, urban, and land-use sectors.  The selection 
of the policy areas contained in this DPL was based on extensive analytical work and 
consultations in Mexico over the past three years.  The policy areas and actions included have a 
large potential for reducing GHG emissions, have excellent financial and economic returns, and 
were judged by Mexican and international experts to be politically and institutionally feasible 
to implement (and most all are already being implemented at some scale in Mexico today).  
 
At the same time, a number of financial, economic, institutional, environmental and social risks 
been identified with respect to the successful implementation of the various sectoral programs 
supported by the DPL.  Overall, however, none of them is expected to have a significant impact 
on the sustainability of the supported government programs.  
 
Despite the severe economic downturn in Mexico, the Government has continued to support 
(both institutionally and financially) and expand the country’s climate change program.  The risk 
of a contraction in the overall investment in renewable energy, green housing, and other 
programs related to this DPL is mitigated by the Government’s passage of national legislation 
and an ambitious investment plan supported by the Fund for the Energy Transition and the 
Sustainable Use of Energy.  The DPL increases the likelihood of these investments taking place 
by supporting regulations that reduce the transactions costs of new energy technologies, such as 
the interconnection and net-metering legislation for cogeneration and renewable energy.  In 
terms of institutional risks in the energy sector, the Bank and other international partners are 
actively engaged in supporting the Government to implement the RE program (including for 
large-scale wind and solar), which includes technical assistance for institutional capacity 
building.  The risk that the large parastatals in the energy sector (CFE and Pemex) will not have 
the financial authority or incentives to implement the reform measures in the power and oil and 
gas sectors is mitigated by the legislative and organizational reform measures that have been 
passed in the past two years (oil and gas reform, renewable and energy efficiency laws, the 
liquidation of LFC). Finally, the risk that Pemex and CFE lack the financial authority to make 
new investments in RE and EE is mitigated by the now dominant model of using independent 
power purchase (IPP) agreements with the private sector for financing infrastructure (such as RE 
capacity and cogeneration) investments.  
 
In the Forestry sector, there is broad consensus that the forest management licensing process is 
inhibiting sustainable forest management and Semarnat has consequently simplified and 
Page  8
strengthened the process, and is facilitating the reforms with local training programs. 
Furthermore, as st
ipulated in Mexico’s Forestry and Rural Development Laws, the Government 
of Mexico has set in place national and state forest councils that also promote close coordination 
between agencies.  
 
The risk that the fuel efficiency and emission control standard for new light duty vehicles will 
not be issued is mitigated by the fact that the current Administration has committed itself to issue 
fuel efficiency standards through two key policy documents; the PECC and the National 
Program for Sustainable Energy Use 2009-2012.  The publication in April 2010 of compulsory 
energy efficiency guidelines for the federal public administration’s vehicle fleet signaled a first 
step.  The details of the emission control and fuel efficiency standard for light duty vehicles have 
been studied and discussed for more than two years, and the standardization process was 
officially launched in September 2010.  There will certainly be negotiations with the car industry 
on the fuel efficiency targets, which may result in them being reduced somewhat; however, even 
weaker targets will be a critical first step in moving to more efficient new vehicles.  In addition, 
an opportunity for further strengthening the new standards will be presented again after 2016. 
 
The risk of adverse social and poverty impacts associated with low-carbon policies is mitigated 
through the consultations that have accompanied the adoption of the Government’s national 
climate change program (ENACC, PECC), as well as the consultations for sector-specific 
programs.  To mitigate social risks related to the implementation of the reforms in the Forestry 
sector, the Government is undertaking a broad consultation program at the local level.  In 
addition, the Bank is closely engaged with CONAFOR in the development of Mexico’s REDD+ 
National Strategy, and CONAFOR already has experience in conducting these types of analyses 
through Bank-funded projects like PROCYMAF and the Environmental Services Project. 
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Poverty and Social Aspects
 
In the 
Energy
 sector, the proposed programs are not expected to have significant negative 
poverty or social impacts on consumers or the population at large.  By improving the efficiency 
of the energy sector, both for oil and gas and electric power, there are likely to be cost reductions 
in the provision of energy services and a positive effect on affordability.  The renewable energy 
technologies (wind, hydro, geothermal) that are likely to be stimulated through the program’s 
reforms are not expected to raise supply costs, and some large-scale renewable energy 
technologies (such as wind) have recently been procured in Mexico at costs below conventional 
thermal plants (such as natural gas and coal).
 
The 
Transport
 sector programs and regulatory changes supported by the operation are not likely 
to have significant adverse social or poverty effects, being concentrated primarily on vehicle and 
transport operation efficiency.  The participation in the Clean Transport Program is voluntary for 
freight and passenger transport operators and freight transport service users, and many of the 
Page  9
measures to reduce fuel consumption are very cost-effective and the initial investment can be 
recovered in a couple of years.  As such, the introduction of these measures will have a positive 
impact on operators, who often struggle to survive in the competitive environment, since they 
help them to save fuel costs.  
 
With respect to fuel efficiency standards for new vehicles, no significant increases in vehicle 
prices are envisaged nor are these standards expected to negatively affect the mobility of low-
income households and small businesses.  Indeed, prices of new vehicles normally depend much 
more on the accessories than on their efficiency.  A recent market study by the Mexican car 
industry showed that 36 percent of all new cars are sold at a price higher than the price of the 
“top-runners” in terms of energy efficiency.  Other studies quantifying vehicle price increases 
due to the standard showed that the average price of new vehicles in Mexico could go up by 
US$1,600 to 3,000, but this increase could be considerably lower if the Government implements 
a
number of flexibility mechanisms currently under consideration, such as weighted corporative 
fuel performance averages, compensation among companies, and fuel-efficiency banking, that 
reduce the cost for car companies to comply with the standard.  Likewise, the cost-benefit 
analysis for this measure, carried out by SEMARNAT/INE, showed positive results.  Most 
importantly, middle and high-income households buy new cars in Mexico, while low-income 
households generally drive used vehicles or use public transport.  Thus, even if prices of new 
vehicles increase, this would unlikely affect the mobility of low-income households. 
 
Similarly, in the 
Urban
 sector, the energy efficiency and other sustainable urban housing 
programs are expected to have largely positive social effects, as they will help improve the 
quality of lives of dwellers, including by having a positive impact on the affordability of 
electricity services.  
 
Through the promotion of sustainable forest management at the community level, the 
Government programs supported in the 
Land Use
 sector will help ensure the incorporation of 
rural livelihoods and increase the organizational and technical capacity of communities or 
ejidos
 
to make sound decisions with respect to the use of forest resources.  Therefore, the policies 
supported by the DPL are expected to positively contribute to the Government’s overall 
development and policy-reduction goals, as most of Mexico’s forests are owned by indigenous 
communities and 
ejidos
,
some of the country’s poorest people.  The government has planned 
environmental and social assessment also in the context of the related
 
FCPF Readiness planning 
process, to also include a consultation process with indigenous peoples.  
 
Environmental Aspects 
 
Supportive of the Government’s policies aimed at tackling Mexico’s overall economic and 
sustainability challenges, the Development Policy Operation is expected to have largely positive 
environmental effects.  The policies and programs supported through the DPL are expected to 
facilitate more efficient use of energy in the supported sectors and, in turn, lower the associated 
GHG and local air pollutant emissions.  
 
Page  10
In the 
Energy
 sector, the policy reforms supported by the loan will contribute to providing access 
to efficient, renewable and clean energy, thereby reducing air pollution and mitigating its 
impacts on human health and associated costs related to treatments of respiratory diseases.  The 
focus on increasing energy efficiency through cogeneration and reducing gas flaring at Pemex 
facilities, similarly, will help reduce the use of fuels that have negative local environmental and 
health externalities, and genera
te substantial energy and efficiency gains for Mexico’s state-
owned energy companies.   
 
In the 
Transport
 sector, the reforms and programs supported by the operation will contribute to a 
more efficient and less polluting vehicle fleet, thus bringing Mexico on a path to greater energy 
self-sufficiency and reducing local air pollution and the related negative health impacts and 
costs.  Likewise, the supported reforms and programs will contribute to a more efficient road 
transport sector, reducing the related externalities and improving the financial health of the 
operators.  
 
In the
 Urban se
ctor, the policy reforms supported by the operation will contribute to reducing 
energy demand from the residential sector, in particular increasing energy demand buildings, 
lighting, and home appliances.  The promotion of sustainable eco-technology improvements in 
residential buildings will further help reduce the use of fuels and, in turn, the associated 
emissions of GHG and local air pollutants.  
 
In the 
Forestry and Land Use
 sector, the actions supported by this operation are expected to 
have only positive impacts on the environment, as they aim to generate global environmental 
benefits through the reduction of emissions generated by deforestation and land degradation 
(REDD+) and the promotion of biodiversity conservation and protection.  
 
There may be short-term negative environmental impacts associated with the policy reforms, 
such as through the construction of renewable energy facilities, cogeneration plants, or new 
energy-efficient housing. For these potential effects, Mexico will rely on its well-developed 
environmental impact assessment process to mitigate unwanted environmental impacts.   
 
In its dialogue with the Government of Mexico, through numerous analytical studies and through 
the MOUs with SENER, SEMARNAT, and the Ministry of Finance, the Bank will continue to 
help the relevant agencies in developing a framework and, where necessary, the capacity to 
identify, assess, monitor and evaluate, and manage any social and environmental impacts that 
may result from the planned institutional and policy changes.  Through the Energy Sector 
Management and Assistance Program (ESMAP), for instance, the World Bank is supporting the 
Mexican Government in identifying mechanisms to address environmental and social issues 
when developing energy projects, including the expected sharing of costs and benefits. 
 
In sum, this DPL, supported by the Bank’s other investment and advisory efforts – and building 
on existing and ongoing engagement -- in Mexico’s energy and transport sectors, is expected to 
contribute positively to the sectors' ability to manage environmental and social impacts and risks, 
and to strengthen stakeholder engagement and transparency.
 
Page  11
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes No 
TBD 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
4.01) [ 
] 
[x] 
 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04) [ 
] 
[x] 
 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[x]  
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
[ ] 
[x] 
 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12) [ 
] 
[x] 
 
Indigenous Peoples ( OP/BP 4.10) 
[ ] 
[x] 
 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36) [ 
] 
[x] 
 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37) [ 
] 
[x] 
 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
7.60)
*
[
]
[x]  
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
7.50) [ 
] 
[x] 
 
Piloting the Use of Borrower Systems to Address Environmental 
and Social Issues in Bank-Supported Projects (OP/BP 4.00) 
[
]
[x] 
 
8. Contact point 
 
World Bank 
Contact: Todd M. Johnson 
Title: Lead Energy Specialist 
Tel: (202) 458-2435 
Fax:  
Email: Tjohnson@worldbank.org 
 
Borrower 
Contact: Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico 
Palacio Nacional, Patio de la Emperatriz 
Edificio 12, Piso 2, Col. Centro 
Mexico 
DF 
Mexico 
06000 
Tel: (52-55) 3688-1438 
Fax: (52-55) 3688-1490 
Email: 
carlos_delgado@hacienda.gob.mx
9. 
For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  12
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
