Page  1
1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
 
Report No.: AB5967
 
Project Name 
Low-Carbon Development DPL 
Region 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
Sector 
Transport, Energy, Land Use and Forestry, Urban Housing 
Project ID 
P121800 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF MEXICO 
Implementing Agency 
Secretaria de Hacienda y Crédito Publico 
Palacio Nacional, Patio de la Emperatriz 
Edificio 12, Piso 2, Col. Centro 
Mexico, DF 
Mexico 
06000 
Tel: (52-55) 3688-1438 
Fax: (52-55) 3688-1490 
carlos_delgado@hacienda.gob.mx 
Date PID Prepared 
August 27, 2010 
Estimated Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
September 30, 2010 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
November 23, 2010 
1. Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Mexico has demonstrated its commitment to addressing climate change risks and solutions, both 
through international efforts and domestic policies. Recognizing its vulnerability to climate 
change impacts and a willingness to take proactive mitigation efforts, the country has been a 
leading advocate for an international climate change treaty and has been at the forefront of 
putting in place domestic policies to address climate change impacts and reduce the emissions of 
greenhouse gases. As yet another indication of the country’s strong and continued commitment 
to addressing climate change, Mexico will host the 16th Conference of the Parties of the UN 
Framework Convention on Climate Change at the end of 2010. 
 
In terms of specific policy initiatives, on May 25, 2007, President Felipe Calderón announced 
Mexico’s National Climate Change Strategy (ENACC), which put climate change at the center 
of Mexico’s national development policy. The ENACC established an initial blueprint for the 
long-term climate change agenda for the country, together with medium- and long-term goals for 
adaptation and mitigation. The Special Program for Climate Change (PECC), released in August 
2009, in turn, defines the specific policies and actions to put in place over the subsequent three 
years (2009-2012), in particular, by identifying vulnerable sectors and priority actions for 
mitigating GHG emissions. Although the PECC does not prioritize actions according to their 
financial costs and benefits, such considerations are recognized by the Government as critical to 
Page  2
2
the success of the country’s climate change program and this has been one of the areas of support 
by the World Bank and other international organizations.  
 
As reflected in the PECC, low-carbon development is an economy-wide undertaking by multiple 
sectors. Among the activities that are the largest sources of emissions in Mexico are energy 
production and consumption, transportation, urban services (such as emissions associated with 
buildings and municipal organic wastes), deforestation, and agriculture (such as from livestock 
and fertilizers). For simplicity, four sectors are defined for the purposes of categorizing Mexico’s 
principal GHG emissions and mitigation efforts: energy, transport, urban, and land-use. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The Project Development Objective is to strengthen the environmental sustainability of 
development in Mexico by lowering the carbon footprint of development. The proposed 
Development Policy Loan will thus support the Government of Mexico in continuing to pursue 
its proactive policies and programs aimed at addressing climate change through greenhouse gas 
(GHG) mitigation across a number of sectors. Drawing on the results of recent analytical work, 
the project will focus on measures throughout the Mexican economy that have the greatest 
potential for GHG reduction, that have been identified as ready to be implemented, and that have 
large financial and economic benefits without considering their climate change mitigation 
impact. Such a focus is particularly important in light of Mexico’s macroeconomic recovery. 
 
Specifically, the DPL intends to reinforce the Government’s key policy and regulatory reforms 
and programs to:    
·
Increase renewable energy supply, promote energy efficiency, and reduce gas flaring; 
·
Improve the efficiency of the vehicle fleet and road transport operations in Mexico; 
·
Strengthen the market for energy-efficient housing; and 
·
Mainstream climate change considerations in land-use and forestry activities. 
 
In pursuing the objectives outlined above, the DPL (structured as a single tranche operation) 
builds on a number of important steps already taken by the Government of Mexico aimed at 
mitigating GHG emissions in the key sectors of the economy (Box 1). 
 
Box 1. Prior Actions for the Low-Carbon Development in Mexico 
 
The government will have agreed and implemented the following Prior Actions before the presenta
tion of the 
loan to the Executive Board: 
 
Policy Area 1: Regulatory Framework for Small-Scale Renewable Energy Development 
·
CRE Publishes interconnection and net-metering regulations, and model contracts for RE-
based 
electricity. 
 
Policy Area 2:  Support to Energy Efficiency and Cogeneration 
·
CONUEE/CRE publish a national Strategy to Promote Cogeneration in Mexico (
Estrategia Integral 
para el Fomento a la Cogeneración
 
en México
). 
Page  3
3
3. Preliminary description 
 
In the 
Energy
 sector, the DPL will provide support to these institutional and regulatory 
initiatives underway in Mexico, aimed at mainstreaming renewable energy supply, increasing 
cogeneration, reducing gas flaring, and promoting electricity price reform in agriculture, and thus 
con
tributing to Mexico’s Climate Change and Low-Carbon Growth agenda and helping diversify 
the energy matrix. 
 
In the 
Transport
 sector, the DPL will assist the Government in creating a regulatory framework 
and incentives for increased energy efficiency and lower vehicle emissions. The main policy 
measures and interventions supported by the operation include: (a) the establishment of a 
coherent set of standards for fuel efficiency and emissions in vehicles as well as the expansion 
and improvement of vehicle inspection, especially in the border area with the U.S.; and (b) the 
Policy Area 3:  Strengthening the Regulatory Framework for Gas Flaring Reduction 
·
National Hydrocarbons Commission adopts the 
Resolution to Reduce Gas Flaring
 and Technical 
Specifications for reducing gas flaring at PEMEX. 
·
Pemex submits to the CNH a series of Manifests outlining the gas recovery goals and gas flaring 
reduction work plan and timeline, by field. 
 
Policy Area 4: Regulatory and Policy Reform to Promote the Sustainable Use of Electricity in Agriculture 
·
SAGARPA/INE publish the 
Lineamientos Específicos de Operación para el Acceso al Proyecto Piloto 
de Recuper
ación de Mantos Acuíferos (Desacoplamiento de las Tarifas Eléctricas de Uso Agrícola) 
in 
the
 Diario Oficial de la Federación, 
effectively launching the  pilot program to reduce electricity 
consumption and overexploitation of aquifers through de-coupled subsidies (Reform of 
tarifa 9
). 
 
Policy Area 5: Efficiency and Emission Standards for New and In-use Vehicles 
·
CONUEE publishes energy efficiency guidelines for the federal public administration  vehicle fleet 
(
Lineamientos de eficiencia energetic para la administracion publica federal).
 
Policy Area 6:  Adoption of the Voluntary Clean Transport Program 
·
SEMARNAT/SCT/CCE adopt a Voluntary Clean Transport Program to assist private long-
distance 
passenger and freight operators and freight transport service users t
o
improve their fuel and energy 
performance (
Convenio del Programa Transporte Limpio).
 
Policy Area 7:  Policy Support to Sustainable Housing Development 
·
CONAVI establishes a Sustainable Housing Program (
Programa Especifico para el Desarrollo 
Habitacional Sustentable ante el Cambio Climatico).
 
Policy Area 8:  Institutional Support to Reduce Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation  
·
The Inter-Secretarial Commission for Climate Change within SEMARNAT creates an internal Working 
Group focused on REDD+ (GT-REDD).
 
·
CONAFOR creates a REDD+ Technical Advisory Committee (CTC-REDD+).
 
Policy Area 9:  Regulatory Reform to Promote Sustainable Forest Management 
·
SEMARNAT publishes an agreement in the 
Diario Oficial de la Federación
 that modifies the 
regulatory framework for the approval of forest management activities and to the simplification of 
relevant administrative procedures (June 2010) 
Page  4
4
operation of a program to assist long-distance freight and passenger transport operators and 
freight transport service users to enhance their fuel and environmental performance. 
 
The actions supported by the DPL in the
 Urban
 sector include key low-carbon policy and 
regulatory measures that will assist the Government in meeting its short- and medium-term 
climate change goals through the development of the market for energy-efficient housing. The 
DPL will build on past efforts, supporting the PECC goals that address energy use in the housing 
sector. Given the dynamic expansion projections of the housing market in Mexico, it is crucial to 
define and adopt norms, regulations and criteria for adequate technology that will ensure energy 
efficiency and sustainable housing development that significantly reduces GHG emissions. 
 
In the 
Land Use, Land-Use Change, and Forestry
 sector, the DPL will support the Government 
in establishing the institutional framework that will allow for the development of a national 
REDD+ strategy involving the participation of all relevant government agencies. The operation 
will also promote regulatory reform for sustainable forest management, and allow Mexico to 
meet the PECC target of placing 2.95 million hectares of forests under sustainable management.  
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
Supportive of the Government’s policies aimed at tackling Mexico’s overall economic and 
sustainability challenges, the Development Policy Operation is not expected to have any 
significant negative environmental and social impacts in either of the supported sectors. 
 
In the 
Energy
 sector, the policy reforms supported by the loan will contribute to providing access 
to efficient, renewable and clean energy, thereby reducing air pollution and mitigating its 
impacts on human health and associated costs related to treatments of respiratory diseases. The 
reform of 
Tarifa 9 
is expected to have a positive environmental impact by reducing the over-
exploitation of aquifers through the promotion of sustainable irrigation practices. 
 
In the 
Transport
 sector, the reforms and programs supported by the operation will contribute to a 
more efficient and less polluting vehicle fleet, thus bringing Mexico on a path to greater energy 
self-sufficiency and reducing local air pollution and the related negative health impacts and 
costs. The DPL is not expected to have adverse social or poverty impacts, being concentrated 
primarily on transport vehicle efficiency as opposed to spatial transport planning. 
 
In the
 Urban se
ctor, the policy reforms supported by the operation will contribute to reducing 
energy demand from the residential sector, in particular increasing energy demand buildings, 
lighting, and home appliances.  
 
In the 
Land Use, Land-Use Change, and Forestry 
sector, the actions supported by this operation 
are expected to have only positive impacts on the environment, as they aim to generate global 
Page  5
5
environmental benefits through the reduction of emissions generated by deforestation and land 
degradation (REDD+) and the promotion of biodiversity conservation and protection. 
Furthermore, through the promotion of sustainable forest management at the community level, 
the Government of Mexico will have the opportunity to ensure the incorporation of rural 
livelihoods and increase the organizational and technical capacity of communities or 
ejidos
 to 
make sound decisions with respect to the use of forest resources.  
 
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source:                        
 
 
 
 
            ($m.) 
 
Borrower                  
 
 
 
 
 
    0 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development                400 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: 
Todd Johnson (TTL) 
Title: 
 
Lead Energy Specialist 
Tel:  
202-458-2435 
Email:  
tjohnson@worldbank.org
