Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7979-MX 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Low-Carbon Development Policy Loan) 
 
between 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated December 8, 2010                                       
Page  2
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated December 8, 2010, entered into between UNITED MEXICAN 
STATES (“Borrower”), represented by its Ministry of Finance and Public Credit and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in 
the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Bank has decided to provide this financing on the 
basis, 
inter alia
,
of (a) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the 
Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and (b) 
the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic policy framework.   
 
Whereas the Borrower has informed the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan (as 
set forth in the table in Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and for purposes of 
supporting the Program), shall be used in conformity with the requirements of the 
Borrower’s income, budgetary and public debt laws and the terms of this Agreement, the 
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of four hundred one million two 
thousand five hundred seven Dollars ($401,002,507), as such amount may be 
converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
As a consequence of the Borrower’s maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic 
policy framework and its satisfactory implementation of the Program, the 
Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section II 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Unless the Borrower’s representative 
designated in Section 6.01 of this Agreement otherwise informs the Bank, the 
Borrower’s Representatives for purposes of taking any action required or 
permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section are the 
Director General
 of 
BANSEFI, or the 
Director General Adjunto de Banca Institucional 
of
BANSEFI 
Page  3
-2- 
or any person or persons whom such representative shall jointly or severally 
designate in writing. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04.  
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; 
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on 
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable 
Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed 
Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to 
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be conside
red a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
Page  4
-3- 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section II of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions 
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this 
Agreement and relating to 
Cooperation and Consultation
), the Borrower shall 
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this 
Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request. 
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM  
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation (to 
be coordinated, within the Borrower, by SEMARNAT).  To this end, and further 
to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy 
framework and the progress achieved in the implementation of the 
Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower, through 
SEMARNAT, shall furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a 
report on the progress achieved in the implementation of the Program, in 
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation 
that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program or any action taken under the Program including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
(a)  
The Borrower, through SHCP, shall enter into a contract (
Contrato de 
 Mandato
)
among SHCP, SEMARNAT, and BANSEFI, satisfactory to 
 
the Bank, whereby: 
 
(i) 
BANSEFI agrees to act as financial agent of the Borrower with 
regard to the Loan, meaning that, 
inter alia
,
BANSEFI agrees to 
represent the Borrower 
vis-
à-vis
 the Bank for purposes of 
submitting Loan withdrawal applications to the Bank in form 
and substance sufficient to justify disbursement by the Bank to 
Page  5
-4- 
the Borrower of Loan proceeds in compliance with the terms of 
this Agreement; and 
 
(ii) 
the Borrower, through SHCP, shall cooperate fully with 
BANSEFI to ensure that BANSEFI is able to comply with all of 
BANSEFI’s obligations referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower, through SHCP, shall exercise its rights and carry out its 
obligations under the 
Contrato de Mandato
 in such a manner as to 
protect the interests of the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Loan.  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
amend or fail to enforce any provision of the 
Contrato de Mandato
.
In 
case of any conflict between the terms of the 
Contrato de Mandato
 and 
those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of, namely, that a situation has 
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, 
will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of, namely, that the 
Contrato 
de Mandato
 has been executed by the parties thereto. 
 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the Borrower 
(in its legal opinion) and BANSEFI (in a separate legal opinion satisfactory to the 
Bank, issued by BANSEFI counsel acceptable to the Bank), indicate that the 
Contrato de Mandato
 has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and 
delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and BANSEFI and is legally binding upon 
the Borrower and BANSEFI in accordance with the 
Contrato de Mandato
’s 
terms.    
 
5.03. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
which expire on May 23, 2012. 
 
Page  6
-5- 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
Except as set forth in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower’s 
Representative is the 
Titular de la Unidad de Crédito Público
 of SHCP. 
 
6.02. The 
Bor
rower’s Address for purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions 
is: 
 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
 
Unidad de Asuntos Internacionales de Hacienda 
 Palacio 
Nacional 
 
Edificio 12, segundo piso 
 Colonia 
Centro 
 
06000 México, D.F. 
 
Facsimile: 011-52-55-3688-1216 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Cancun, Mexico, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
By /s/ Ernesto Cordero Arroyo 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Robert B. Zoellick 
 
Page  7
-6- 
Authorized Representative 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
 
A. 
Increasing Renewable Energy Supply, Promoting Energy Efficiency, and 
Reducing Gas Flaring and Venting
1. 
The Borrower, through SENER (through CRE), has taken steps to strengthen the 
regulatory framework for Net-Metering and interconnection for renewable 
energy-based electricity suppliers, as evidenced by: (i) Resolution No. 
RES/054/2010 issued by CRE and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette 
(
Diario Oficial de la Federación
)
on April 8, 2010 issuing the model contract for 
the interconnection to the grid by medium scale cogeneration and renewable 
energy-based electricity producers and substituting the model contract for the 
interconnection to the grid by small scale solar energy producers with the model 
contract for the interconnection to the grid by small scale cogeneration and 
renewable energy-based producers; (ii) Resolution No. RES/066/2010 issued by 
CRE and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (
Diario Oficial de la 
Federación
)
on April 16, 2010 setting forth the methodology for the 
determination of the service charges for the transmission of electric energy based 
on renewable energy or efficient cogeneration; and (iii) Resolution No. 
RES/067/2010 issued by CRE and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette 
(
Diario Oficial de la Federación
)
on
April 28, 2010 issuing the model contract 
for the interconnection for renewable energy generation or efficient cogeneration 
and the model contract for the transmission service of electricity from renewable 
and efficient cogeneration energy suppliers. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through SENER (through CNH) has taken steps to gradually 
reduce gas flaring and venting, as evidenced by: (i) Resolution No. 
CNH.06.001/09 issued by CNH and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette 
(
Diario Oficial de la Federación
)
on
December 4, 2009, setting forth technical 
specifications to reduce gas flaring and venting in the exploration and 
exploitation of hydrocarbons; and (ii) declarations (
manifiestos
)
issued by 
PEMEX (as a result of the issuance of Resolution No. CNH.06.001/09)  and 
submitted to CNH, and published on CNH’s website in July , 2010 
(www.cnh.gob.mx) , outlining, 
inter alia
,
PEMEX’s gas recovery goals and gas 
flaring reduction work plan and timeline.  
 
Page  8
-7- 
 
B. 
Improving the Efficiency of the Vehicle Fleet and Road Transport Operations in 
the Borrower’s Territory
1. 
The Borrower, through SEMARNAT and SCT, has taken steps for the creation of 
a
regulatory framework and incentive system to improve fuel efficiency of new 
vehicles and road transport operations, as evidenced by: (i) a supplement to the 
2010 National Standardization Program, published in the Borrower’s Official 
Gazette (
Diario Oficial de la Federación
)
on September 13, 2010, initiating the 
process for t
he
standardization on carbon dioxide (“CO2”) emissions control and 
energy efficiency for new light duty vehicles; and (ii) an agreement between 
SEMARNAT and SCT adopting the Voluntary Clean Transport Program, signed 
on October 6, 2010 and published on SEMARNAT’s website in October 2010 
(www.semarnat.gob.mx). 
 
C. 
Promoting Energy-Efficient Housing
1. 
The Borrower, through CONAVI, has taken steps to promote low carbon urban 
development and integrate programs and instruments in housing policies to 
reduce direct and indirect GHG emissions,  as evidenced by the establishment of 
the Sustainable Housing Program dated December 1, 2009 and published on 
CONAVI’s website on December 1, 2009 (http://www.conavi.org.mx). 
 
D. 
Promoting Sustainable Forest Management
1. 
The Borrower, through SEMARNAT, has modified the national regulatory 
framework and simplified the administrative procedures for processing and 
approving forest management plans, and issuing associated permits, as evidenced 
by a declaration (
Acuerdo
)
issued by SEMARNAT and published in the 
Borrower’s Official Gazette (
Diario Oficial de la Federación
)
on
June 29, 2010. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through SEMARNAT with the support of the Inter-secretarial 
Commission on Climate Change, has created a working group on reducing 
emissions from deforestation and forest degradation (REDD+) (under the 
purview of the Inter-secretarial Commission on Climate Change) which is 
involved in the development of, 
inter alia
,
a
strategy for reducing emissions from 
deforestation and forest degradation, as evidenced by the minutes of the 2009 
second meeting of the Inter-secretarial Commission on Climate Change dated 
December 2, 2009, the minutes of the first meeting of the working group 
REDD+, dated March 22, 2010, the minutes of the second meeting of the 
working group REDD+, dated June 16, 2010 and the minutes of the extraordinary 
meeting of the working group REDD+, dated July 12, 2010. 
 
Page  9
-8- 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Borrower may, or may cause BANSEFI to, withdraw the proceeds 
of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional 
instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts.
 
The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the 
Front-end Fee and any amount due pursuant to Section 2.07 (c) of this 
Agreement, as applicable) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which 
the Borrower may, or may cause BANSEFI to, make withdrawals of the Loan 
proceeds.  The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the 
table below: 
 
Allocations
Amount of the Loan Tranche 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars)
(1) Single Withdrawal 
Tranche 
 
400,000,000.73 
(2) Front-end Fee 
 
1,002,506.27 
(3)Amount due pursuant to 
Section 2.07(c) of this 
Agreement 
 
0
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 401,002,507 
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.
 
1. 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank 
is satisfied (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with 
the appropriateness of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework. 
 
D. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts.
 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an 
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and 
 
2.  
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into 
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 
Page  10
-9- 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Borrower shall use the proceeds of the Loan in 
accordance with its laws and shall not use them to finance Excluded 
Expenditures
.
If the Bank determines at any time that an amount of the Loan 
was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the amount of 
such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request 
shall be cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is June 23, 2012. 
 
Page  11
-10- 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on October 15, 
2024. 
 
Page  12
-11- 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions
1. 
“BANSEFI” means 
Banco del Ahorro Nacional y Servicios Financieros, S.N.C.
,
a
Mexican development bank serving as the Borrower’s financial agent for 
purposes of the Loan, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank for the 
purposes of this Program. 
 
2. “CFE” 
means 
Comisión Federal de Electricidad
,
the Borrower’s Electricity 
Commission, established pursuant to the Borrower’s which creates the 
Borrower’s Electricity Commission published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette 
(
Diario Oficial de la Federación
)
on August 24, 1937. 
 
3. 
“CNH” means 
Comisión Nacional de Hidrocarburos
,
the Borrower’s National 
Hydrocarbons Commission, established pursuant to the Borrower’s National 
Hydrocarbons Law.  
 
4. “CONAVI” 
means 
Com
isión Nacional de Vivienda, 
the Borrower’s National 
Housing Commission, established pursuant to the Borrower’s Housing Law. 
 
5. “
Contrato de Mandato
”
means the contract referred to in Section 3.02 of this 
Agreement. 
 
6. “CRE” 
means 
Comisión Reguladora de Energía
,
the Borrower’s Energy 
Regulatory Commission, established pursuant to the Borrower’s CRE Law.  
 
7. “CRE 
Law” 
means 
Ley de la Comisión Reguladora de Energía 
published in the 
Borrower’s Official Gazette (
Diario Oficial de la Federación
)
on
October 31, 
1995, as amended through November 28, 2008. 
 
8. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, 
or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
Page  13
-12- 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-
manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear 
reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals 
(except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
Page  14
-13- 
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower 
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur. 
 
9. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010 with the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
10. 
“GHG” means greenhouse gas.  
 
11. 
“Housing Law” means 
Ley de Vivienda
,
the Borrower’s housing law published in 
the Borrower’s Official Gazette (
Diario Oficial de la Federación
)
on
June 27, 
2006.  
 
12. 
“Inter-secretarial Commission on Climate Change” means the commission 
composed of SEMARNAT, SCT, SENER, SHCP, SSA, SAGARPA, SE, SG, 
SRE, SEDESOL and the ministries and entities invited by said commission, 
created pursuant to a declaration (
Acuerdo
), published in the Borrower’s Official 
Gazette (
Diario Oficial de la Federación
)
on
April 25, 2005 in charge of 
coordinating the actions, within the respective Ministries’ purview, related to the 
formulation of climate change mitigation and adaptation policies, programs, and 
strategies. 
 
13. 
“National Hydrocarbon Commission’s Law” means 
Ley de la Comisión Nacional 
de Hidrocarburos
,
the Borrower’s national hydrocarbon commission’s law 
published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (
Diario Oficial de la Federación
)
on November 28, 2008.  
 
14. 
“National Standardization Program” means the Borrower’s program to plan, 
inform and coordinate the national standardization activities of the public and 
private sector. 
 
15. 
“Net-Metering” means the system by which the owner of a renewable energy 
facility receives credit from CFE for the electricity generated by the owner of the 
referred renewable energy facility. 
 
16. “PECC” 
means 
Programa Especial de Cambio
 Climático,
 the Borrower’s 
program for combating climate change while establishing the sectoral level 
interventions that will result in GHG emission reductions, published in the 
Borrower’s Official Gazette (
Diario Oficial de la Federación)
 on August 28, 
2009, which provides an accounting of emissions by sector, creates a framework 
for monitoring improvements and establishes a blueprint for emission reduction 
initiatives, sector by sector.   
Page  15
-14- 
 
17. 
“PEMEX” means 
Petróleos Mexicanos
,
a
Borrower’s decentralized entity (with 
separate legal personality), established by a Borrower’s decree, dated June 7, 
1938, and regulated by, 
inter alia
,
the Borrower’s 
Petróleos Mexicanos
 Law (
Ley 
de Petróleos Mexicanos
)
published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (
Diario 
Oficial de 
la Federación
)
on November 28, 2008.  
 
18. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
support sector-specific policy and regulatory reforms that have been identified to 
achieve the United Mexican States’ climate change mitigation targets included in 
the PECC as set forth or referred to in the letter dated October 14, 2010 from the 
Borrower, through SEMARNAT, to the Bank, which includes measures 
implemented by the Borrower during 2009 and 2010 (as described in Section 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement) declaring the Borrower’s commitment thereto. 
 
19. “SCT” 
means 
Secretaría de Comunicaciones y Transporte, 
the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Communications and Transport.  
 
20. “SAGARPA” 
means 
Secretaría de Agricultura, Ganadería, Desarrollo Rural, 
Pesca y Alimentación
,
the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock, Rural 
Development, Fishing and Food. 
 
21. “SE” 
means 
Secretaría de Economía
,
the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy. 
 
22. “SEDESOL” 
means 
S
ecretaría de Desarrollo Social, 
the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Social Development. 
 
23. “SEMARNAT” 
means 
Secretaría del Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales
,
the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources.  
 
24. “SENER” 
means 
Secretaría de Energía, 
the Bo
rrower’s Ministry of Energy. 
 
25. “SG” 
means 
Secretaría de Gobernación
,
the Borrower’s Ministry of Interior. 
 
26. “SHCP” 
means 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
,
the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit.  
 
27. “SRE” 
means 
Secretaría de Relaciones Exteriores, 
the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Foreign Affairs. 
 
28. “SSA” 
means 
Secretaría de Salud
,
the Borrower’s Ministry of Health.  
 
29. 
“Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the 
category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of 
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Page  16
-15- 
 
30. 
“Sustainable Housing Program” means 
Programa Específico para el Desarrollo 
Habitacional Sustentable ante el Cambio Climático
,
the Borrower’s program to 
define guidelines, norms, criteria and technological aspects to achieve significant 
reductions in GHG emissions in the urban sector. 
 
31. 
“Voluntary Clean Transport Program” means 
Programa Transporte Limpio
,
a
voluntary program developed by SEMARNAT and SCT to help private long 
distance passenger and freight operators and freight transport service users to 
reduce: (i) fuel and energy consumption; (ii) emissions of GHG; and (iii) 
operation costs for the transport. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 5.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 5.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower 
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
Section 5.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
Page  17
-16- 
 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a 
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan 
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal 
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan. 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly:
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their 
entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout 
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in 
support of which the Loan is made.”   
 
