Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GET GRANT NUMBER TF028695 JA
Global Environment Trust 
Fund
Grant Agreement
(Demand Side Management Demonstration Project)
between
Jamaica
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as Trustee of the Global Environment
Trust Fund
Dated June 1, 1994
GET GRANT NUMBER TF028695 JA
Page  2
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 1, 1994, between JAMAICA (the Recipient) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(the Bank) acting as Trustee of grant funds provided by Participants of the Global 
Environment Facility into the Global Environment Trust Fund (GET) (the 
Trustee).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 
1991 of the Executive Directors of the Bank (the Resolution), established the 
Global Environment Facility consisting of the GET, Cofinancing Arrangements 
with the GET and the Ozone Projects Trust Fund, to assist in the protection of the 
global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and 
sustainable economic development;
WHEREAS (B) certain members of the Bank (the Participants) have 
provided resources by way of grant into the GET and the Participants have 
requested and the Bank has agreed, to administer such grant funds as Trustee, 
for the purposes of, and in accordance with, provisions of the Resolution;
WHEREAS (C) the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility 
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has 
requested assistance from the resources of the GET in the financing of the Project, 
and the Trustee has determined that such assistance would be in accordance with 
the provisions of the Resolution;
WHEREAS (D) the Recipient has obtained for the purpose of financing the 
Project: (i) a loan in the amount equivalent to four million Dollars ($4,000,000) 
(the IDB Loan) from the Inter-American Development Bank (the IDB) under the 
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement entered into between the 
Recipient and IDB on April 8, 1991 (the IDB Loan Agreement); and (ii) a grant in 
an amount equivalent to two hundred thirty-seven thousand Dollars ($237,000) 
(the RF Grant) from the Rockefeller Foundation (the RF) under the terms and 
conditions set forth in an agreement entered into between the Recipient and the 
RF on May 14, 1990 (the RF Agreement);
WHEREAS (E) the Project will be carried out by JPSCO (as defined below) 
with the Recipient’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Recipient will 
make available to JPSCO (as defined below) the proceeds of the GET Grant as 
provided in this Agreement;
WHEREAS (F)
the Recipient intends to receive a grant, in an amount 
Page  3
equivalent to one hundred fifty thousand Dollars ($150,000) (the Canadian 
Grant) from IDB, as administrator (the IDB Administrator) of funds provided by 
Canada (the Canadian Trust Grant Fund) also for the purpose of financing the 
Project; and
WHEREAS (G) the Trustee has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the GET Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions 
Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 
1985, with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the 
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (18) and 
(20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 6.04 
and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, and 9.08;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Sections 12.03 and 12.04.
Page  4
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph (21) shall be added to the end of Section 
2.01 to read as follows: "the term "Special Drawing Rights" 
and the symbol "SDR" mean special drawing rights as 
valued by the International Monetary Fund in accordance 
with its Articles of Agreement";
(ii)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
other than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last 
use of such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Trustee, 
except that in Section 6.02 the term "Bank" shall also include 
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
acting in its own capacity;
(iii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Recipient;
(iv)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(v)
the term "Loan" and "loan", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GET Grant;
(vi)
the term "Loan Account" wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GET Grant Account (as defined 
below);
(vii)
in Section 6.02 of the General Conditions, subparagraph (k) 
is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) 
is added to read: "An extraordinary situation shall have 
arisen under which further disbursement under the GET 
Grant would exceed the resources available for 
disbursement from the GET."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context 
otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in 
the Recitals to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth, 
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Annual Operating Plan" means each of the plans referred to in 
Section 3.02 (d) of this Agreement;
Page  5
(b)
"DSMU" means the JPSCO’s (as hereinafter defined) unit 
responsible for the implementation of demand side management projects, 
created on April 1, 1990; 
(c)
"JBS" means the Recipient’s Jamaica Bureau of Standards, an entity 
created by the Standards Act, of 1968;
(d)
"JPSCO" means the Recipient’s Jamaica Public Service Company, a 
company established on May 25, 1923 by Memorandum and Articles of 
Association under the Companies Act, or any successor thereof, acceptable to the 
Trustee, to which the power distribution activities of JPSCO have been 
transferred;
(e)
"JPSCO Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 
3.02 of this Agreement;
(f)
"NGO" means a non-governmental entity duly established and 
operating in the Recipient’s territory;
(g)
"NRCA" means Natural Resource Conservation Authority, the 
Recipient’s environmental agency created by the Natural Resource Conservation 
Authority Act, of 1991;
(h)
"Operating Guidelines" means the project operating guidelines 
referred to in Section 3.07 of this Agreement; 
(i)
"Policy on Energy Efficiency" means the Recipient’s policy on 
energy efficiency referred to in Section 3.06 of this Agreement; and
(j)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 
of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The GET Grant
Section 2.01. The Trustee agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-ment, the GET Grant 
in an amount in various currencies equivalent to two million eight hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GET Grant may be withdrawn from the 
Page  6
GET Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Trustee shall so agree, to be made) 
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying out 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GET Grant.
(b)
The Recipient shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in the Bank of Jamaica on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Trustee. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998 or such later 
date as the Trustee shall establish. The Trustee shall promptly notify the 
Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall cause 
JPSCO to carry out the Project in accordance with the Annual Operating Plans, 
the Operating Guidelines and the Policy on Energy Efficiency, with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, technical, 
managerial and engineering practices and with due regard to ecological and 
environmental factors, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. The Recipient shall make the proceeds of the GET Grant 
available to JPSCO under an agreement to be entered into between the Recipient 
and JPSCO, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Trustee, including, 
inter alia, the following obligations of JPSCO:
(a)
to carry out the Project, through DSMU;
(b)
to maintain, until completion of the Project, DSMU with 
organization, staff, functions, and responsibilities, satisfactory to the Trustee;
(c)
not later than July 31 of each year of Project implementation, to 
furnish to the Trustee a training program under Part E.1 of the Project, 
satisfactory to the Trustee;
(d)
not later than July 31 of each year of Project implementation, to 
Page  7
furnish to the Trustee a plan, satisfactory to the Trustee, detailing the Project 
activities to be carried out during the following year, including specific measures 
to be taken for proper disposal and storage of replaced materials;
(e)
not later than May 31 and November 30 of each year of Project 
implementation and without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 (a) and 
9.07 (a) (iii) and (c) of the General Conditions, to furnish to the Trustee a 
semiannual progress report on the Project, of such scope and detail as the Bank 
may reasonably request, including, inter alia: (i) the results achieved in the 
implementation of the Project during the previous semester; (ii) any issue that 
may have arisen in the implementation of the Project, during the previous 
semester and the measures taken or proposed to be taken for their settlement; 
and (iii) the execution of the relevant Annual Operating Plan;
(f)
not later than August 31, 1994, to adopt, and thereafter implement, 
a
power cogeneration policy and the relevant standard contracts for purchase of 
power from private cogenerators, all satisfactory to the Trustee;
(g)
to enter into contractual arrangements, satisfactory to the Trustee, 
with JBS, NRCA and NGOs that shall have been approved by the Trustee, for 
purposes of regulating the participation of such entities in the carrying out of the 
Project;
(h)
to exercise its rights under the contractual arrangements referred to 
in paragraph (g) above in such a manner as to protect the interests of the 
Recipient and the Trustee and to accomplish the purposes of the Project; and
(i)
to comply with the provisions of Sections 3.03 and 4.01 of this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the JPSCO 
Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the 
Trustee and to accomplish the purposes of the GET Grant, and, except as the 
Trustee shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
fail to enforce the JPSCO Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.04. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the GET Grant shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Recipient shall include in the structure of its power 
subsector regulatory framework referred to in Section 3.10 of the Loan 
Page  8
Agreement entered into between the Recipient and the Bank, on October 21, 1992 
(Loan 3502-JM - Energy Sector Deregulation and Privatization Project), specific 
provisions to encourage investments in energy efficiency, satisfactory to the 
Trustee.
Section 3.06. The Recipient shall adopt, and thereafter implement, a policy, 
satisfactory to the Trustee, with respect to energy efficiency (the Policy on 
Energy Efficiency).
Section 3.07. The Recipient shall adopt, and thereafter implement, Project 
operating guidelines, satisfactory to the Trustee (the Operating Guidelines).
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall cause JPSCO to maintain records and 
separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices JPSCO’s operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project 
or any part thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall cause JPSCO to:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Trustee;
(ii)
furnish to the Trustee as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Trustee shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Trustee such other information concerning 
such records, accounts and financial statements and the 
audit thereof as the Trustee shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
GET Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Recipient shall:
Page  9
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Trustee has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the GET Grant Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Trustee’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
 Remedies of the Trustee
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
JPSCO shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
JPSCO Agreement;
(b)
the Recipient, or any authority having jurisdiction, shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of JPSCO or for the suspension 
of its operations, without the previous written consent of the Trustee; and
(c)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Recipient to withdraw the proceeds of 
the IDB Loan or of the RF Grant shall have been 
suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in 
part, pursuant to the terms of the IDB Agreement or 
Page  10
the RF Agreement, respectively; or 
(B)
the IDB Loan shall have become due and payable 
prior to the agreed maturity thereof;
(ii)subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Recipient 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not 
caused by the failure of the Recipient to perform any of its 
obligations under the IDB Agreement or the RF Agreement, 
as the case may be; and (B) adequate funds for the Project 
are available to the Recipient from other sources on terms 
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Recipient under this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as  conditions to the 
effectiveness of the GET Grant Agreement:
(a)
that the Trustee shall have been furnished with a certified copy of 
the JPSCO Agreement duly executed on behalf of the parties thereto;
(b)
that the Policy on Energy Efficiency shall have been adopted; and
(c)
that the Operating Guidelines shall have been adopted.
Section 6.02. The date August 29, 1994 is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GET Grant 
has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their 
obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Chief Executive Officer of JPSCO is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Page  11
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Jamaica Public Service Company
6 Knutsford Boulevard
P.O. Box 54
Kingston, Jamaica
Page  12
Cable address:
Telex:
JAMSERVICE
        2180
KINGSTON, JAMAICA
For the Trustee:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
  197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
  248423 (RCA)
   64145 (WUI) or
   82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the 
day and year first above written.
JAMAICA
By /s/ Robert Pickersgill
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
as Trustee of the Global Environment
Page  13
Trust Fund
By /s/ Yoshiaki Abe
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GET Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GET Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GET Grant to 
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in 
each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
% of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
700,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 70%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(2)
Consultants’
1,500,000
100%
services and
training
(3)
Unallocated
600,000
TOTAL
2,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  14
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services 
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Recipient; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency 
of the Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the 
Recipient.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date 
of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $300,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after a date which is the latter of October 1, 1993 or a date 
twelve (12) months before the date of this Agreement; (b) payments made for 
expenditures incurred by, or on behalf of, or for the benefit of, JBS, NRCA, or 
NGOs, unless the Bank has been furnished with a certified copy of the respective 
contractual arrangement referred to in Section 3.02 (g) of this Agreement, duly 
executed by the parties thereto; and (c) payments made for expenditures under 
Category (1) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 above incurred by, or on behalf 
of, or for the benefit of, any NGO.
4.
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment made 
from the GET Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with 
the provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Trustee, refund to the Trustee for deposit into the GET Grant Account, an 
amount equal to the amount so used or the portion thereof as specified by the 
Trustee.
5.
The Trustee may require withdrawals from the GET Grant Account to be 
made on the basis of statement of expenditures for expenditures under contracts 
for goods not exceeding the equivalent of $25,000 and contracts for consultants 
services not exceeding $100,000 equivalent for firms and $50,000 equivalent for 
individuals, under such terms and conditions as the Trustee shall specify by 
notice to the Recipient.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to demonstrate the potential for 
electricity savings to reduce fossil fuel consumption in power generation; (ii) to 
develop the basis for expanding demand side management programs 
Page  15
throughout the Recipient’s territory; and (iii) to build and strengthen the 
institutional capabilities of JPSCO and other governmental and private entities to 
enable them to implement full-scale demand-side management programs in the 
power sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Trustee may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A
:
Commercial Sector Demonstration
1.
Testing and demonstrating the viability of energy savings and efficiency 
in the commercial sector as well as their long term sustainability through:
(a)
carrying out of a comprehensive energy audit in about thirteen (13) 
large commercial buildings, providing design assistance to the construction of 
seven (7) large commercial buildings and adopting cost-effective measures to 
improve efficiency in the use of energy in such large commercial buildings, 
including installation of, or retrofitting with, energy-efficient appliances and 
equipment;
(b)
carrying out of a comprehensive energy audit in about ten (10) 
small commercial buildings and adopting cost-effective measures to improve 
efficiency in the use of energy in such commercial buildings, including 
retrofitting with energy-efficient appliances and equipment;
(c)
assessing potential savings and market conditions of commercial 
refrigeration (including air-conditioning); and
(d)
based on the evaluation of the results of the activities referred to in 
paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) above, development and implementation of a program 
of energy-efficient measures in the commercial sector.
2.
A program to promote private cogeneration of electric power, in 
particular in hotels, including, inter alia:
(a)
feasibility studies;
(b)
technical assistance for identification and installation of the 
appropriate equipment, quality control, monitoring and evaluation; and
(c)
support for the sale of electric power.
Page  16
Part B
:
Residential Demonstration
Implementation of energy-efficient measures in residences including:
(a)
 installation of compact fluorescent lamps in about one hundred 
(100) homes at no cost to the residents and assessment of the results of such 
activity;
(b)
assessment of the solar water heater market and monitoring 
performance of solar water heaters, including those installed in the Oakland 
Housing Development;
(c)
assessment of potential savings and market conditions of 
residential refrigeration (including air-conditioning); and
(d)
based on the results of the assessments referred to above, 
development and implementation of a program to support the provision of up to 
100,000 compact fluorescent lamps to residential customers and schools, 
strengthening of the solar water heater market and the residential 
energy-efficient refrigeration market.
Part C
:
Industrial Sector
Assessment of potential energy savings in the industrial sector and 
development and implementation of a strategy to foster such savings.
Part D
:
Monitoring and Evaluation
1.
Development and implementation of a data base for the execution of the 
Project.
2.
Development and implementation of detailed monitoring and evaluation 
plans for the execution of the Project, including evaluation of the long-term 
sustainability of the demand side management measures tested on a 
self-financing basis.
Part E
:
Institutional Strengthening, Market Infrastructure and Public 
Awareness
1.
Support to the institutional strengthening and development of JPSCO (in 
particular of DSMU), JBS, NRCA, NGOs and other entities involved in demand 
side management programs in the power sector, in particular for the 
enhancement of market infrastructure and public awareness.
Page  17
2.
Carrying out of public awareness campaigns about energy efficiency and 
dissemination of information on demand side management programs in the 
power sector, including, inter alia, promotion of building codes and labeling 
programs for electric appliances.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods
Part A
:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth 
in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits" published by the Trustee in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in 
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is 
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder’s bid price 
shall be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors 
acceptable to the Trustee, one to be applied to all foreign currency components 
and the other to the local currency component of the bid price. Such an increase 
shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
(b)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the 
Recipient shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the 
Trustee with such modifications thereto as the Trustee shall have agreed to be 
necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding 
documents have been issued by the Trustee, the Recipient shall use bidding 
documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed 
with the Trustee.
Part B
:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers and Regional 
Manufacturers
1.
For purposes of this Schedule, "CARICOM" means the Caribbean 
Page  18
Common Market created by the General Treaty for the Caribbean Community 
signed at Chaguaramas, Trinidad and Tobago, on July 4, 1970 by Anguilla, 
Antigua, the Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, 
Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines and 
Trinidad and Tobago.
2.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of 
goods: (a) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) 
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured 
goods; (b) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales 
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (c) the 
cost to the Recipient of inland freight and other expendi-tures incidental to the 
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
3.
For goods manufactured in Jamaica and in member countries of 
CARICOM, the Recipient may grant a margin of preference in accordance with, 
and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)
All bidding documents shall clearly indicate any preference which 
will be granted, the informa-tion required to establish the eligibility of a bid for 
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be followed in 
the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)
After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the 
following groups:
(i)
Group A
:
bids offering goods manufactured in Jamaica if the 
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the 
Recipient and the Trustee that the manufacturing cost of 
such goods includes a value added in Jamaica equal to at 
least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(ii)
Group B
: all other bids offering goods from within Jamaica.
(iii)
Group C
:
bids offering goods manufactured in a country 
other than Jamaica which is a party to CARICOM and 
entitled to preferential tariffs thereunder.
(iv)
Group D
: bids offering any other goods.
(c)
All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among 
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be 
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to 
Page  19
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of 
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this 
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for 
the award.
(d)
If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the 
lowest evaluated bid is a bid from group C or group D, all group C and group D 
bids shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after 
adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported goods offered in each group C 
and group D bid, for the purpose of this further comparison only, an amount 
equal to the smaller of: (i) the amount of customs duties and other import taxes 
which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation of the 
goods offered in such group C or group D bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of 
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the 
group A bid or a group C bid is the lowest in such further comparison, it shall be 
selected for the award.
(e)
If, as a result of the further comparison under paragraph (d) above, 
a
bid from group D is the lowest, all group D bids shall be finally compared with 
the lowest evaluated bid from group C, as determined under paragraph (c) 
above, after adding to the evaluated bid price of goods to be imported offered in 
each group D bid, for the purpose of this final comparison only, an amount equal 
to the smaller of: (i) the difference between the amount of customs duties and 
other import taxes which would actually be payable for the importation of goods 
offered in such group D bid and for the importation of goods offered in the 
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of goods to be imported offered in 
such group D bid. If the lowest bid in such comparison is the group C bid, it shall 
be selected for purposes of award; if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group D, 
as determined under paragraph (c) above, shall be selected for purposes of 
award.
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Software estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $150,000 per contract 
or per bid package, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $450,000, and 
goods, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $670,000, may be procured 
under contracts awarded through limited international bidding procedures on 
the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a list of qualified 
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with the procedures 
set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 
and 2.56 thereof).
2.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $25,000 per contract, 
Page  20
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $60,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a 
list of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Trustee.
Part D
:
Review by the Trustee of Procurement Decisions
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods under Parts A and C.1 
above, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of 
the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two 
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Trustee 
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Trustee prior to the 
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding 
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of 
the Special Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two 
conformed copies of the contract together with the other information required to 
be furnished to the Trustee pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the 
Trustee as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the GET Grant Account are to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II
.  Employment of Consultants
1.
In order to assist JPSCO in the carrying out of the Project, the Recipient 
shall cause JPSCO to employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and 
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Trustee. Such 
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures 
satisfactory to the Trustee on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing 
Agency" published by the Trustee in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). 
Page  21
For complex, time-based assignments, the Recipient shall employ such 
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants’ 
services issued by the Trustee, with such modifications as shall have been agreed 
by the Trustee. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued 
by the Trustee, the Recipient shall use other standard forms agreed with the 
Trustee.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the 
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Trustee review or 
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, 
proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to contracts with 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, up to an 
aggregate amount equivalent to $1,800,000 and to contracts with individual 
consul- tants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each, up to an 
aggregate amount equivalent to $800,000. However, this exception to prior 
Trustee review shall not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts nor to 
the employment of individuals, to single source selection of firms, to assignments 
of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the Trustee and to amendments 
of contracts raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above for 
consulting firms and to $50,000 equivalent or above for individuals.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and consultants’ services required for  the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GET Grant allocated from time to 
time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$200,000 to be withdrawn from the GET Grant Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
Page  22
3.
After the Trustee has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee a request or requests for a deposit or deposits  which do 
not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of 
such request or requests, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw 
from the GET Grant Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Trustee shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient 
shall furnish to the Trustee the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to para-graph 4 of this Schedule 
for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the GET Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Trustee from the GET Grant Account 
under the respective Eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified 
by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Trustee shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Trustee such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was 
made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Trustee shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GET Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions 
Page  23
and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GET Grant allocated to 
the Eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment 
entered into by the Trustee pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GET Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the GET Grant allocated to the Eligible Categories shall 
follow such procedures as the Trustee shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Trustee shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;  or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Trustee, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Trustee: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Trustee may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Trustee shall so request, 
refund to the Trustee) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Trustee shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Trustee into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further 
payments for Eligible Expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Trustee, refund to the Trustee such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Trustee, refund to the 
Trustee all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Trustee made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the GET Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant  provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
Page  24
