Report No. PID8204
Project Name                     Georgia-Agricultural Research, Extension...
and Training (ARET) Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Environmentally and Socially Sustainable
Development
Project ID                       GEPE65715 (IDA)
Borrower                         Government of Georgia
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industries
41 Kostava St.
Tblisi, 380023 Georgia
Contact: George Maglakelidze,
Project Coodinator
Tel: (995-32) 999-942
Fax:: (995-32) 932-939 or
(1-908) 888-9698 Extl26
(this is a US number that connects
to Georgia)
Email: PPIU@wbagro.ge
Environmental Category           C
Date this PID Prepared           September 20, 1999
Initial PID Prepared             January 31,1999
Project Appraisal Date           September 27, 1999.
Projected Board Date             May/June 2000
Country and Sector Background
Agriculture is the mainstay of the Georgian economy, accounting in 1997 for
about 28% of GDP and about 55% of employment.   The country produces a variety
of agricultural crops, including grain crops (54%), wine (12%), and fruits
(119). Agricultural production was seriously disrupted during the civil
conflict that followed independence in 1991. Since 1994, however,
agricultural output has started to recover and significant progress has been
made in areas of land reform and farm restructuring. Distribution of land has
essentially created a smallholder, or subsistence sector, and a commercial
sector. Smallholders, estimated to number 1.02 million, on average have less
than 1.0 ha of garden and farmland in rural areas.
Main sector issues reflect the shift from a command economy and the problems
faced by emerging private farmers who have little experience with farm
management or operating in a market economy. These issues include, inter
alia: cash constraints and limited access to credit; outmoded research,
extension and training services ill suited to meet the needs of the emerging
market economy; shortage of inputs, particularly lack of good seeds and
inappropriate seed legislation; obsolete agricultural machinery and shortage
of spare parts, equipment and service facilities; inadequate marketing
systems and infrastructure; and degradation of surface and ground water
resources and of the Black Sea, caused mostly by non-point sources of



agricultural pollution.
Environmental Issues. During Soviet times, agriculture and livestock
production systems were highly intensified in Georgia to meet the needs of
the FSU. Intensification resulted in the heavy use of mineral fertilizers
and pesticides. The lack of conservation tillage systems and crop rotations
promoted the movement of fertilizers and pesticides to rivers resulting in
the pollution of the Black Sea from agricultural production systems. In
addition, animal production systems were highly industrialized, resulting in
large amounts of manure flowing into major water bodies and causing large
scale pollution of the Black Sea. Also, Georgia's biodiversity is under
threat from unsustainable agricultural practices, environmental pollution,
over-exploitation of forests for commercial purposes, drainage,
eutrophication of lakes and other water bodies and deforestation.
The Proposed Loan/Credit
Objectives
The overall objective of the Project is to develop an efficient and cost-
effective agricultural knowledge and information system to demonstrate,
disseminate and promote the adoption of appropriate technologies that
increase sustainable agricultural production and reduce pollution of natural
resources. In support of this objective, the Project would assist the
Government of Georgia to:
- Put in place a Competitive Grant Scheme for agriculture to be used as a
vehicle for funding: (i) appropriate on-farm technology acquisition,
adaptation and dissemination to enable the new farmers to respond
better to the challenges of a privatized economy based on market
principles; and (ii) investment in practices to reduce agricultural
nutrient pollution of the Black Sea.
- Develop a national strategy and Action and Implementation Plan for
reforming the national agricultural knowledge system that is responsive
to the needs of farmers and agro-processors.
Project Global Environmental Objectives. The Project will initiate measures
aimed at improving on-farm environmental practices, which over the long-term
would reduce nutrients entering the Black Sea. The Project activities,
especially those relating to better manure management, including its storage
and application, are linked directly to "The Black Sea Strategic Action
Plan" formulated with the assistance of GEF. Through support for relatively
low-cost investments, policy adjustments, changes in consumers practices and
employing alternative technologies, the Project would also complement the
Danube Delta Environmental Program and assist the Government in meeting its
international commitments under the Bucharest Convention. An ancillary
global environmental objective of the Project is to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions from stored manure by promoting the use of biogas energy among
rural farmers.
Description
The proposed 5-year project seeks to reform the Georgian agricultural
knowledge system through appropriate technology acquisition, adaptation and
dissemination that would respond better to the new realities and needs of the
- 2-



emerging private farmers and at the same time promote environmentally
friendly agricultural practices to protect Georgia's surface and ground water
and reduce agricultural pollution to the Black Sea.
The project will comprise three components: (i) Competitive Grant Scheme (ii)
Support for Reform of the Agricultural Research, Extension and Training
System; and (iii) Project Implementation Unit.
In addition, the U.K. Know How Fund will provide base cost parallel financing
of US$380,000 for adaptive research and information dissemination among
farmers, agro-processors and other beneficiaries and encourage active
participation of farmers, farmers' organizations and NGOs in these
activities.
Component 1: Competitive Grant Scheme.    The Competitive Grant Scheme (CGS)
will support the following activities: (i) Adaptive Research and Technology
Dissemination (IDA funding) and (ii) Support for Agricultural Practices to
Reduce Environmental Pollution (GEF funding).
(i) Adaptive Research and Technology Dissemination. This will combine a
program of on-farm technology acquisition, adaptation and dissemination, as
well as the provision of agricultural advisory services, to tackle immediate
priorities for improving on-farm productivity, profitability and long-term
sustainability on private farms, both small-holder and commercial. The
project will encourage the participation of farmers, farmers organizations,
NGOs and other stakeholders in diagnostic surveys of farmers' needs and
constraints, identification of priority activities and their implementation.
These activities, to be funded under the Competitive Grant Scheme, will build
national capacity and increase the competitiveness of Georgia's agricultural
sector.
The terms and conditions for operating the CGS have been set out in an
Operating Manual that has been approved by the Inter-Ministerial Commission
(IMC) and the Bank. The CGS will be implemented by a Competitive Grant Board
(CGB) which is functionally responsible to the IMC and administratively to
the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. The CGB will be serviced by a full-
time Secretariat that would report to the CGB and be responsible for day-to-
day operations.
(ii) Support for Agricultural Practices to Reduce Environmental Pollution.
The CGS will also be used to fund activities to improve Georgian surface and
groundwater and reduce nutrient load of the Black Sea from point and non-
point sources of pollution from agricultural practices in Georgia. Such
activities, to be implemented in a pilot watershed in western Georgia, would
include: (i) promotion of efficient manure management practices; (ii)
conducting on-farm trials and demonstrations of improved sustainable
agricultural practices, including reduced tillage, better chemical management
systems, contour farming and buffer strips for water quality benefits; (iii)
promotion of the use of bio-gas digesters in the villages to reduce methane
emissions into the atmosphere and to provide bio-gas for cooking and other
domestic use to rural families; and (iv) establishment of a watershed scale
water quality monitoring program to monitor agricultural pollution of major
rivers draining into the Black Sea.
Technical Assistance from U.K. Know How Fund. Details of technical
- 3 -



assistance to be provided by United Kingdom's Know How Fund (KHF) will be
discussed during the appraisal mission in September 1999. Briefly, it is
envisaged that KHF will support diagnostic surveys for priority setting with
full participation of farmers/beneficiaries and assist in CGS training and
promotion.
Component 2: Support for Reform of the Agricultural Knowledge System. This
component will provide a combination of technical assistance, training and
capacity building to produce a national strategy and Action and
Implementation Plan for Reform of the Agricultural Knowledge System
(US$0.5m). A vision document - "National Strategy for Reform of the
Agricultural Research, Education and Extension System" - has been prepared
and approved by the Inter-Ministerial Commission set up by the President to
support reform of the Georgian AKS.
It is expected that by the end of the first year of project effectiveness,
the country would have developed a national strategy for reforming Georgia's
agricultural knowledge system as well as a detailed plan for its
implementation. If such a national strategy and action plan for its
implementation are found satisfactory by the Government and agreed upon by
the Bank, an amount of US$2.0 million (IDA credit) will be made available to
eligible institutions for implementing the reforms. The project will thus
earmark an amount of US$2.0 million for such implementation efforts which
will include activities related to civil works and rehabilitation;
procurement of laboratory and field equipment and goods; human resource
streamlining; training and operational costs.
Component 3: Project Implementation Unit. The Project will support a small
unit to co-ordinate project implementation and handle monitoring and
evaluation of project activities (Figure 1). A Project Implementation Unit
(PIU), comprising Head of PIU, Accountant and Secretary, has been established
within the World Bank Projects' Coordination Unit (PCU) located in MOAF. The
PIU, with the assistance of existing PCU procurement and financial staff,
would provide: (i) day-to-day co-ordination of the project activities; (ii)
procurement of goods and services; (iii) accounting and financial management;
and (iv) monitoring and evaluation of project progress and impact. A CGS
Board would approve annual work plans and budgets for each component and the
PIU/PCU and CG Secretariat would execute the decision of the CGS Board. The
PIU/CGS Secretariat would also house an Environmental Advisor, an
Environmental Engineer, Accounts Assistant and Office Assistant to help
coordinate day-to-day operations of the GEF-funded component.
Financing
The IDA credit in the amount of US$7.85 million would be lent to the
Government of Georgia at standard IDA terms with       years' maturity and a
___year grace period. The share of the IDA credit is equivalent to 65t of
total project cost. The Government of Georgia (GOG) would contribute
approximately US$1.30 million equivalent, or about 11    of total project
costs. Prior to negotiations, the GOG confirmed its intentions to provide
appropriate contributions that are necessary to fulfill its share in the
project financing of the local currency components and ensure adequate and
timely project implementation.
Implementation
The Project would be implemented under the aegis of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Food (MOAF), with specific responsibility for overall co-
-4 -



ordination assigned to a Project Coordinator designated by the Minister of
Agriculture and Food - the Project Coordinator has been appointed and is
satisfactory to the Bank. The Inter-Ministerial involving broad
participation from relevant ministries and agencies, including Ministry of
Environment, will provide overall guidance and support at the highest level
A small Project Implementation Unit (PIU), comprising Head of PIU, Accountant
and Secretary, has been established within the World Bank Projects'
Coordination Unit (PCU) located in MOAF. The PIU, with the assistance of
existing PCU procurement and financial staff, would provide: (i) day-to-day
co-ordination of the project activities; (ii) procurement of goods and
services; (iii) accounting and financial management; and (iv) monitoring and
evaluation of project progress and impact. A CGS Board would approve annual
work plans and budgets for each component and the PIU/PCU and CG Secretariat
would execute the decision of the CGS Board. The PIU/CGS Secretariat would
also house an Environmental Advisor, an Environmental Engineer, Accounts
Assistant and Office Assistant to help coordinate day-to-day operations of
the GEF-funded component. The financial, procurement and administrative
functions will be the responsibility of the PIU/PCU.
Activities under component 1 will be implemented through the Competitive
Grant Scheme (CGS), to be managed by a Competitive Grant Board and
Secretariat. Functionally, the Secretariat would be responsible to the
Competitive Grant Board, but administratively to the PIU. Staff would be
recruited on a competitive basis according to terms of reference acceptable
to the Bank.
Overall policy direction and support for Component 2 -- the reform of the
research, extension and training system -- would be overseen by a small
committee comprising the president of the Georgian Academy of Agricultural
Sciences (GAAS), the Rector of the Georgian Agrarian University (GAU) and
MOAF's Project Coordinator. A manager for the component has been selected
following World Bank procedures to head the Working Group which will be
staffed with short-term consultants. The unit will be housed in GAAS.
Sustainability
The objective is to build a cost-effective and efficient institutional
infrastructure for research, extension and training services and promote
environmentally sustainable agricultural practices, with the participation of
all stakeholders. The result should be technology adaptation and transfer
programs responsive to the needs of the end-users and in which they will
share the costs. The CGS has deliberately been kept to a fairly modest level
of funding which could be further funded by the Government budget, other
bilateral donors, or a combination of the two, by the end of the project
implementation period. The program is therefore designed to be fiscally
sustainable, within reasonable expectations for increases in government
budget over the next few years. The parallel reform and restructuring of the
agricultural research complex will result in a leaner, more efficient public
sector structure. The project, through education, familiarization and
demonstration of environmentally-friendly practices, strives to increase the
acceptability of these practices by large number of farmers, leading to
commercialization of manure management and bio-digester services.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in Country/Sector
[Note:   Lessons learned from completed and ongoing projects financed by the
Bank and other development agencies.]Previous experience of agricultural
support services aimed at developing private farming sector in other
countries in the region has shown that such projects must be focused on
- 5 -



private farmer needs, facilitate farmer participation in decision making and
implementation, and have attainable objectives and targets particularly in
terms of sustainability. Competitive Grant Scheme funding has proved
effective in improving client orientation and the productivity of the
agricultural knowledge system as well as in reforming the supply-driven,
centralized research management prevalent in many transition economies.
Key lessons learned from agricultural and environmental projects in the
region include:
- The need for long-term commitment to address agriculture and environment
issues through phased programs of interventions and broad-based
participation;
- the need to work directly with farmers and agro-processors to encourage
ownership of the initiatives;
- The high capacity of local and national Government officials for
innovation and effective management;
- The importance of calculating and disseminating the benefits of improved
environmental management in rural areas;
- The importance of adequate counterpart training and specialized support
for project related activities, especially procurement, disbursement and
supervision; and
- The benefits of catalyzing support from within for policy and
environmental reforms.
Poverty Category
This project does not specifically target poverty.
Environmental Aspects
It is anticipated that since the project would contribute to a more
sustainable and environmentally responsible use of agricultural resources,
the overall impacts of the project will be positive. Competitive Grant
Scheme-funded (CGS) activities under the environment component will be
screened for their impact on the environment to ensure that there are no
negative impacts or that the proposal has incorporated mitigating measures.
Efficient use of farm inputs has been identified as one of the priority areas
of research and extension needs of farmers and agro-processors. Some of the
CGS funds would be directed to research and extension contracts to address
this concern of farmers and agro-processors and would over time contribute to
a reduction of nutrient runoff from the crop sector. In the livestock sector,
the project is expected to support interesting and innovative research and
extension proposals relating to the use of organic wastes and biodigesters.
Manure management will be an important activity under the project. Demand-
driven productivity-oriented farming is expected to promote the efficient and
effective use of agriculture inputs. Research proposals which imply any
adverse environmental effects will not be funded. In fact, because of the
nature of the work likely to be funded, there should be long term
environmental, welfare and health and safety benefits.
Program Objective Categories
The primary beneficiaries of this project are private farmers, i.e.
individual producers that produce a surplus for sale, members of family
associations and formal associations, agro-processors, and contractors for
CGS projects. During preparation the views of a number of private farmers,
agro-processors, and members of the development community are consulted to
ensure that adequate mechanisms are built into the project design. Public
- 6 -



meetings were also held to discuss the proposed project design. More formal
diagnostic surveys will be carried out in selected areas as the project
proceeds. Two of the members of the Competitive Grants Board are private
farmers and two other members represent farmers' organizations.
Project Benefits
Private farmers and agro-processors will be the main beneficiaries of the
Project. Introduction of improved technologies would result in agricultural
diversification, higher productivity and lower costs of production and, in
turn, increase profitability and improve living standards in rural areas -
the incentives needed to invest further in farms and businesses. Higher
productivity and better animal nutrition, management and health will bring
about improvements in product quality to meet specific market needs,
including those of export markets. The types of farms benefiting will range
from smallholders (around 1 ha land and part-time farmers) with small crop or
livestock surpluses to sell from time to time, to larger leased farms with
land ranging in size from 5 ha to about 50 ha. The establishment of CGS
along with capacity building and training will help build a sustainable
system capable of generating improved technologies responsive to the needs of
end-users.
The country, the public at large and the global community would also benefit
from the adoption of environmentally sustainable activities to be implemented
under the Project. Specifically, reducing the discharge of nutrient load
into the Black Sea will promote the maintenance of productive ecosystems and
critical natural habitats in the freshwater, estuarine and near shore waters
along the Black Sea Coast. Broad-based stakeholder participation will
increase public awareness and demand-driven approaches for protecting the
Black Sea. Promotion of biodigesters in the rural areas will meet the
heating and cooking needs of the rural communities, will reduce felling of
trees and will strengthen the global climate change objectives.
Project Risks
The project risks include: i) research does not develop appropriate new
technologies to raise productivity and conserve the environment; ii) domestic
and export markets unable to absorb increased production; iii) farmers don't
have access to credit, machinery and inputs, and land; iv) farmers not
sufficiently organized to develop partnerships with other farmers and the
development community; v) Ministry of Finance unable to maintain core funding
for the agricultural research complex and research salaries remain very low;
vi) process dominated by current research structure; vii) number of grant
applications insufficient to apply stringent evaluation criteria; viii) CGS
is not sustainable; ix) current technology in bio-digesters does not work in
Georgia; and x) new private sources of funding do not come forward. The
overall risk rating for this component is 'modest'.
Contact Points:
Iain Shuker/Jitendra Srivastava, ECSSD
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C.
Telephone No:   (202) 473-5519/473-8975
Fax No:     (202) 614-1414/522-1164
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
-7-



Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 458-5454
Fax:  (202)  522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending October 1, 1999.
- 8 -



