Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20275-GE
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 5.5 MILLION (US $7.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
AND A GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 1.8 MILLION (US $2.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
GEORGIA
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH, EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
April 11, 2000
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 2000)
Currency Unit = Lari
Lari 1= US$ 0.52
US$ 1 = Lari 1.93
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP                      World Bank Agriculture Development Project
AKS                      Agriculture Knowledge System
ARET                     World Bank Agricultural Research, Extension and Training Project
CAS                      World Bank Country Assistance Strategy
CGB                      Competitive Grant Board
CGS                      Competitive Grant Scheme
FSU                      Former Soviet Union
GAAS                     Georgian Academy of Agricultural Sciences
GAU                      Georgian Agrarian University
GDP                      Gross Domestic Product
GEF                      Global Environment Facility
GHG                      Greenhouse Gas
HVWI                     Horticulture, Viticulture, and Winemaking Institute
IBRD                     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA                      International Development Association
IDRP                     World Bank Irrigation and Drainage Rehabilitation Project
IFAD                     International Fund for Agriculture Development
IMC                      Inter-Ministerial Committee
ISNAR                    International Service for National Agricultural Research
KHF                      UK KnowHow Fund
M&E                      Monitoring and Evaluation
MAF                      Ministry of Agriculture and Food
MOE                      Ministry of Economy
NEAP                     National Environmental Action Plan
NGO                      Non-govemnmental Organization
PCU                      Project Coordination Unit
PHRD                     Policy and Human Resources Development Grant of the Japanese Government
PIP                      Project Implementation Plan
PMR                      Project Management Reports
PMU                      Project Management Unit
PPF                      Project Preparation Facility
PPU                      Project Preparation Unit
SOE                      Statements of Expenditure
STAP                     Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel of the GEF
TACIS                    European Union Technical Assistance Program for the Commonwealth of Independent States
UNDP                     United Nations Development Programme
USAID                    United States Agency for International Development
Vice President:    Johannes Linn
Country Director:    Judy O'Connor
Sector Manager:    John Hayward
Program Team Leader/Task Team Leader:    lain Shuker/Jitendra Srivastava



GEORGIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH, EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                       3
2. Global objective                                                                    3
3. Key performance indicators                                                          3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          5
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      12
3. Benefits and target population                                                     12
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      13
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                           16
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         17
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           18
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   19
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        20
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           21
2. Financial                                                                          22
3. Technical                                                                          22
4. Institutional                                                                      23
5. Social                                                                             24
6. Environment                                                                        24
7. Participatory Approach                                                             24
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     25
2. Critical risks                                                                     25



3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    27
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           27
2. Other                                                                             28
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        28
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        28
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         29
Annex 2: Project Description                                                            34
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        40
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                  41
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              42
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      44
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    55
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  56
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 57
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           59
Annex 11: Environmental Data Sheet                                                      61
Annex 12: Approval of the Environment Component by GEF Council                          63
Annex 13: GEF Incremental Cost Analysis                                                 64
Annex 14: Comments of STAP Reviewers                                                    70
MAP(S)
IBRD 28703



GEORGIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH, EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSSD
Date: April 11, 2000                              Team Leader: lain G. Shuker
Country Manager/Director: Judy M. O'Connor        Sector Manager/Director: Kevin M. Cleaver
Project ID: P065715                               Sector(s): AE - Agricultural Extension, AR - Research,
VM - Natural Resources Management
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): ENVIRONMENT; RURAL DEVELOPMENT
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Global Supplemental ID: P064091                   Team Leader: Jitendra P. Srivastava
Sector Manager/Director: Kevin M. Cleaver
Supplement Fully Blended? Yes                     Sector(s): AY - Other Agriculture
Project Financing Data
C Loan          M Credit        Z Grant         O Guarantee     O Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 7.6 (IDA); 2.5 (GEF)
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                               Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: 0.50                                   Service charge: 0.75%
Financirg Pltan:   Source                                    Local         Foreign         Total
GoveInment                                                      1.43           0.24           1.67
IBRD
IDA                                                             5.10           2.50          7.60
BENEFICIARIES                                                   0.50           0.16          0.66
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY                                     1.84           0.64          2.48
Total:                                                          8.86           3.54          12.41
Borrower/Recipient: GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA
Responsible agency:
Ministry of Agriculture and Food
Address: 41 Kostava Street, Tbilisi, Georgia
Contact Person: Mr. George Maglakelidze
Tel: 995.32.999.942                Fax: 995.32.934.651               Email: ppiu(wbagro.ge
Estimated disbursements 1 Bank FY/US$M):
FY           2001        2002         2003       2004        2005
Annual      1.8          2.5          2.0         0.6        0.7
Cumulative     1.8          4.3          6.3         6.9         7.6
Project implementation period: 5 Years
Expected effectiveness date: 07/01/2000  Expected closing date:  12/31/2005



GEF Estimated disbursements  Bank FYIUS$M):
FY              2001             2002            2003           2004            2005
Annual              0.4             0.4            0.5             0.6             0.6
Cumulative              0.4             0.8             1.3             1.9             2.5
*Note: Total Local costs in the Financing table do not add due to rounding.
OCS PAD FonD RP- RAd,. 20X
-2 -



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The Overall Development Objective of the Project is to initiate the development of an efficient and
cost-effective agricultural knowledge system to demonstrate, disseminate and promote the adoption of
appropriate technologies that increase sustainable agricultural production and reduce pollution of natural
resources. In support of this objective, the Project would assist the Government of Georgia to:
*   Put in place a Competitive Grant Scheme for agriculture to be used as a vehicle for funding: (i)
appropriate on-farm technology acquisition, adaptation and dissemination to enable the new farmers to
respond better to the challenges of a privatized economy based on market principles; and (ii)
environmentally-friendly agricultural practices to reduce negative impacts on soil and water quality;
*   Support Reform of the Agricultural Research System through preparation of a detailed implementation
and investment plan for one high priority research direction, followed by investments to implement this
plan; and
-   Invest in Environmental Pollution Control (manure storage and handling facilities and biogas digesters,
as well as soil and water quality monitoring programs) on a pilot basis to reduce agricultural nutrient
pollution of the Black Sea.
2. Global objective: (see Annex I)
Project Global Environmental Objectives. The Project will initiate measures aimed at improving on-farm
environmental practices, which over the long-term would reduce nutrients entering the Black Sea. The
Project activities, especially those relating to better manure management, including its storage and
application, are linked directly to "The Black Sea Strategic Action Plan" formulated with the assistance of
GEF. It developed a systematic approach to policy development through the application of a
Trans-Boundary Diagnostic Analysis. Results of the pollution source inventory conducted during the
preparatory work show that non-point sources of agricultural pollution are a serious problem facing the
Black Sea. In addressing this problem, through support for relatively low-cost investments, policy
adjustments, changes in consumers' practices and employment of alternative technologies, the Project
would also complement the Danube Delta Environmental Program and assist the government in meeting its
international commitments under the Bucharest Convention. An ancillary global environmental objective of
the Project is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from stored manure by promoting the use of biogas
energy among rural farmers.
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 1700-GE                  Date of latest CAS discussion: 10/21/97
The Project is consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy, which identifies agriculture as one
of the priority sectors, and fully supports the CAS objectives of: (i) deepening and diversifying the sources
of growth; (ii) reducing poverty; and (iii) protecting the environment through sustainable natural resource
management.
-3 -



The main thrust of the Project is on providing services to private farrners in terms of technology
dissemination and adaptation so that they are better prepared to respond to the emerging market conditions
and global environmental needs. Strengthening the agricultural knowledge system and adopting
environmentally sustainable agricultural practices would assist farmers in realizing their potential for
increased agricultural productivity and profitability, and improve the competitiveness of Georgia's
agricultural sector. In line with government policy, the provision of more productive technologies and
improved access to information would also support more efficient and profitable production for traditional
export markets as well as the development and addition of new products. Higher farm-level output and
increased productivity is one of the conditions for raising rural incomes and reducing poverty.
la. Global Operational strategy/Program objective addressed by the project:
The Strategic objectives of this project are directly tied to the objectives of the Strategic Action Plan for the
Black Sea, supported by GEF, and would complement the initiatives under the Danube Delta
Environmental Program. The Project's objective of reducing non-point source pollution from agriculture is
consistent with GEF Operational Program Number 8, "Waterbody Based Operational Program," which
focuses "mainly on seriously threatened water-bodies and the most important trans-boundary threats to
their ecosystems". Under the Program, priority is accorded to projects that are aimed at "changing sectoral
policies and activities responsible for the most serious root causes or needed to solve the top priority
trans-boundary environmental concems".
The objective of promoting the use of biogas is consistent with GEF Operational Program Number 6,"
Promoting the Adoption of Renewable Energy by Removing Barriers and Reducing Implementation
Costs. " The Program is designed to promote widespread use of renewable energy technologies, such as
bio-digesters, because they "offer some of the best prospects for achieving deep reductions in greenhouse
gas emissions at the global level".
The Project will provide an opportlunity for the GEF to be a catalyst for actions to bring about the
successful integration of land and water resource management practices. GEF support will reduce costs of
and barriers to farmers in adopting improved sustainable agricultural practices (including the use of
bio-digesters). It will also help develop mechanisms to move from demonstration level activities to
operational projects that reduce non-point source pollution from agriculture to the Black Sea and reduce
carbon emissions to the atmosphere. The Project builds on the Poland - Rural Environment Project funded
by IBRD and GEF, and is expected to serve as a "model" for initiatives to be launched in the other littoral
states for which a strategic partnership between the GEF and Bank is envisaged. The World Bank is
preparing a Black Sea/Danube Strategic Partnership paper for GEF Council discussion in May 2000.
-4 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Agriculture sector highlights: Agriculture is the mainstay of the Georgian economy, accounting in 1997
for about 28% of GDP and about 55% of employment. The country produces a variety of agricultural
crops, including grain crops and fruits, which make up 54% and 11% of agricultural GDP respectively.
Agricultural production was seriously disrupted during the civil conflict that followed independence in
1991. Since 1994, however, agricultural output has started to recover and some progress has been made in
areas of land reform and farm restructuring. Of the total land area, only about 26% is privately owned.
The rest is still owned by the Govemnment, of which some is leased out. However, in terms of land under
arable crops and perennial trees, about 58% is privately owned and a further 25%-30% is leased by private
individuals or legal entities, implying that approximately 85% of the total arable land is farmned privately.
Most pasture land is still under the control of the government. The land privatization process has resulted
in a bipolar land distribution pattern, essentially creating a smallholder, or subsistence sector, and a
commercial sector. Smallholders, estimated to number 1.02 million, on average own less than 1.0 ha of
garden and farmland in rural areas. About ten percent of smallholder farmers lease additional land from
the Government land reserve, increasing their farms by a few hectares. As for the commercial sector, it
comprises 41,000 individuals and 5,500 enterprises, with farm size ranging from five ha to more than 100
ha, including leased land, and a few farms even larger than this.
The main sector issues reflect the shift from a conmmand economy to a market-based economy and the
problems faced by emerging private farmers, who have little experience with farm management or
operating in a market economy. These problems include, inter alia: a collapse of markets for Georgian
products, particularly high-value products, in the former Soviet Union (FSU); cash constraints and limited
access to credit; outmoded agronomic and farm management practices, ill suited to meet the needs of the
emerging market economy; shortage of inputs, particularly the lack of good seeds; obsolete agricultural
machinery and shortage of spare parts, equipment and service facilities; and inadequate rural infrastructure,
including roads and electricity supply.
Environmental Issues. During Soviet times, agriculture and livestock production systems were highly
intensified in Georgia to meet the needs of the FSU. Intensification resulted in the heavy use of mineral
fertilizers and pesticides. Georgia imported large amounts of pesticides, fertilizers, growth regulators and
other chemicals to meet the needs of agriculture. For example, in 1986, about 35,000 tons of pesticides
and 250,000 tons of fertilizers were imported. The lack of conservation tillage systems and crop rotations
promoted the movement of fertilizers and pesticides to rivers, resulting in the pollution of the Black Sea
from agricultural production systems. In addition, animal production systems were highly industrialized,
resulting in large amounts of manure flowing into major water bodies and causing large scale pollution of
the Black Sea. Since 1991, although livestock production has dwindled and been decentralized, there is
almost no adequate manure storage and management. Also, Georgia's biodiversity is under threat from
unsustainable agricultural practices, environmental pollution, over-exploitation of forests for commercial
purposes, drainage, eutrophication of lakes and other water bodies, and deforestation. The majority of
Georgian high mountain settlements are concentrated in sub-alpine zones and farms/meadows in these areas
are highly degraded because of agricultural activities and over-grazing. This is causing severe soil erosion
resulting in the loss of flora and fauna.
Government Strategy: Govemnment strategy for the sector is set out in the Ministry of Agriculture and
Food's "Concept of Agrarian Policy of Georgia" (issued as a Presidential Decree, April 7, 1997). The
main strategic thrust is to ensure the country's food security and to strengthen the country's independence
by using its agro-industrial potential, both to meet internal demand and increase income from exports.
Government policies support the deepening of the reforms in the sector, particularly with regard to land
-5 -



reform, the formation of an environment to stimulate competition, and the development of a market
infrastructure. Only those assets that are of strategic importance will be retained in state ownership for the
time being.
With the assistance of several donors, the Government is implementing its strategy by addressing the sector
issues laid out above. First, a number of donor-supported initiatives (including the World Bank
Agriculture Development Project (ADP)) to develop agricultural credit programs for farmers and
agro-processors are in progress. Success is dependent on the soundness of the overall financial system and
an encouraging start has been made working through commercial banks and by establishing rural Credit
Unions. Second, a USAID-assisted project implemented by ACDI/VOCA in conjunction with GTZ and
CARE, is tackling the problem of improving seed production and getting it into private hands. Third, a
number of organizations (TACIS, British Know How Fund and GTZ, as well as several NGOs) have pilot
projects underway to provide private farmers and agro-processors with technical, price and business
planning advice. Fourth, a large number of donors, including KfW, USAID, Sweden, UNDP, and the
Bank are supporting the government's land titling program.
The Bank is supporting the Government in implementing the strategy through the ADP, which is
co-financed by IFAD. Its key components include: loans to private enterprises engaged in economic
activities in rural areas; a credit scheme for small farmers and micro-enterprises; promoting the
development of land markets through a systematic program of land titling; and preparation of an
agricultural sector investment program.
Two years ago, the Bank began supporting the reform of the agricultural research system through its"
Regional Initiative on Reforming Agricultural Knowledge Systems in Central Asia and the Caucasus". In
May 1998, the Government established a high level Inter-Ministerial Commission (IMC) to oversee the
reform process. Also, with the support of ISNAR (IFAD financing), the status of the agricultural
knowledge and information systems has been reviewed and a Country Profile report has been issued.
ISNAR also helped with the preparation of a conceptual framework for Reform of the Agricultural
Research, Extension and Training System.
Environmental issues: Georgia has entered a new phase of environmental activism, with the transition to a
parliamentary democracy. The Ministry of Environment, responsible for coordinating govermment efforts to
protect and conserve the country's environment, has made important progress in strengthening the legal and
regulatory instruments for improved management of Georgia's environment through enactment of major
environmental legislation. These include the "Enviromnent Protection Law," (1996), the "Law on
Environmental Permnits" and the "Law on State Ecological Expertise." A National Environmental Action
Plan (NEAP) is under consideration for formal adoption by the Government. Georgia has also ratified the
Bucharest Convention for the Protection of the Black Sea Against Pollution (1992), the Odessa Ministerial
Declaration (1993) and is a participating in the preparation of the Strategic Action Plan for the
Rehabilitation and Protection of the Black Sea (1996).
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Issues to be addressed. The Project will build on the initiatives currently being implemented under the
ADP, and extend and deepen the reforn of the sector through measures aimed at addressing the following
key issues:
*  developing the capacity of private smallholder and commercial farners through introduction, validation
and dissemination of improved technologies at the farm level, covering production, post-harvest
-6 -



operations, inputs, marketing and natural resource management;
*   making research, extension and training more responsive to the needs of farmers and relevant to the
emerging market conditions;
*   fully integrating environmental concems into agricultural practices to make them more sustainable,
including the better management of nutrient and chemical loads; and
* as part of the overall management of nutrient load, demonstrating environment-friendly bio-digesters
and removing barriers to their more widespread use.
There is an immediate need to address the priority problems of private farmers through the validation of
improved technology (production, post-harvest operations, inputs, marketing and natural resource
management) and dissemination at the farm level, as well as to undertake studies to identify policy and
regulatory reforms needed to eliminate bottlenecks affecting the sector. Towards this, the Project will
support initiatives directed at on-farm technology adaptation and dissemination, through adaptive research
(including field trials and demonstrations), extension and training activities that would directly impact
productivity and incomes of private farms, both smallholder and commercial.
To achieve the objectives of the Project, Georgia's agricultural knowledge system needs to be reformed.
Currently, Georgia's agricultural research, extension and training system faces five major challenges: to
re-orient the system to make it serve private agriculture based on market principles; to adopt
socio-economic ecological and business criteria in planning, priority setting, monitoring and evaluating
agricultural knowledge systems; to restructure, selectively rehabilitate, decentralize and consolidate the
system to make it efficient, effective and financially sustainable; to develop and strengthen the linkages
between researchers and users, and among research, extension and training activities; and to facilitate
increased investment in agricultural knowledge systems (AKS), both public and private.
Reforming Georgia's AKS will require fundamental changes in decision making, priority setting, incentive
systems, cost-effectiveness, potential revenue generation through cost recovery and accountability to
stakeholders. These changes are long-term and would require about 10 years to achieve. As a first step,
however, there is a need to selectively support the research and extension system to serve private
agriculture with already available or selectively introduced technology and information. This is expected to
bring increased productivity of crop and livestock, increased profitability through better farm management
and collective bargaining for inputs and markets, and increased sustainability through more
environmentally sound technologies and practices. At the same time, it is important to assist the
government in a longer-term action plan to reform the agricultural knowledge system. Thus, the project has
a two-pronged approach: (i) support targeted, priority activities in research and extension that will provide
immediate benefits to farmers and agro-processors and will serve as a catalyst to jump-start the reform
process; and (ii) provide assistance in developing a national strategy for reform of Georgia's AKS, in
preparing implementation and investment plans for one high priority research direction (to develop a model
for wider application), and in making investments in this selected area to act as a demonstration and pilot
project for restructuring the rest of the AKS.
-7 -



The main vehicle to be used to support initiatives directed at on-farm technology adaptation and
dissemination, is the proposed Competitive Grant Scheme for Agriculture (CGS). The CGS will fund
adaptive research (essentially field trials and demonstrations), extension and training activities that would
directly impact productivity and incomes of private smallholder and commercial farms, as well as actions
to reduce agricultural pollution of the environment. Both private and public sector agencies would be able
to compete for funds under the CGS. Funds from the CGS would be additional to existing, core funds for
the research system. It will be essential to maintain this core funding but link it to a wider reform of the
agricultural research complex which would also be supported under the project.
The CGS will encourage, inter alia: (i) user participation in setting priorities for research and extension
activities; (ii) increased emphasis on cost effectiveness; (iii) shift from basic to applied research; (iv)
resource commitments based on monitorable outcomes; (v) cooperative research/extension by
multi-disciplinary teams; (vi) selectivity in research/extension programs; (vii) equitable access to
research/extension funds for research institutions, extension agencies and universities, private industry and
NGOs; and (viii) linkage with global research/extension community and private sector. Experience with
the CGS will feed into the recommendations for the reform of the agricultural research, extension and
training system to be prepared as part of the Project.
Strategic Choices. Two strategic choices were made before proceeding with the preparation of the Project.
First, whether investments in Georgia's agricultural knowledge system were justified at this juncture. In
this regard, land reform, an initiative supported by the Bank, had resulted in ownership of farmland being
vested in individuals with minimal experience with small-scale or commercial farming. Without providing
the smallholders and commercial farmers access to information on agricultural practices and technology, it
was highly unlikely that the reform would yield anticipated benefits. That existing institutions would be
able to provide such information in an efficient and cost-effective manner was also equally unlikely, given
that they were not designed to meet the needs of the sector as it has evolved. On that basis, the need for and
timing of the operation were deemed appropriate.
Second, whether to reform the existing institutions or build new ones. The latter was rejected on the
grounds that this would not only be divisive but also protracted and, hence, not in the interest of the
country. Also, institutional reform is a long-term process and it was agreed that the immediate need of the
country was to identify those priority areas of activities that could demonstrate quick successes and
underscore the importance of reforming the countries agricultural knowledge base. The reforms envisaged
are designed to meet three requirements: transparency through greater stakeholder participation;
accountability; and greater efficiency and cost-effectiveness. For this, establishing the proposed
Competitive Grant Scheme (CGS) is a key innovation of the Project. The CGS should not be seen as a
replacement for core funding of the research complex. However, it will encourage reallocation of limited
budgetary funds to relevant and effective institutions. Details of the CGS are discussed in the Operational
Manual.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The proposed 5-year project seeks to reform the Georgian agricultural knowledge system through
appropriate technology acquisition, adaptation and dissemination that would respond better to the new
-8 -



realities and needs of the emerging private farmers, while at the same time promoting environmentally
friendly agricultural practices to protect Georgia's surface and ground water and reduce agricultural
pollution to the Black Sea.
The project will comprise four components: (i) Competitive Grant Scheme; (ii) Support for Reform of the
Agricultural Research System; (iii) Environmental Pollution Control; and (iv) Project Management Unit.
Component 1: Competitive Grant Scheme (US$5.6 million - IDA Credit + GEF Grant)
The Competitive Grant Scheme (CGS) will support the following activities: (i) Adaptive Research and
Technology Dissemination (IDA funding); and (ii) Environment-friendly Agricultural Practices to reduce
negative impacts on soil and water quality (GEF funding).
(a) Adaptive Research and Technology Dissemination. This will combine a program of on-farm
technology acquisition, adaptation and dissemination, as well as the provision of agricultural advisory
services, to tackle immediate priorities for improving on-farm productivity, profitability and long-term
sustainability on private farms, both small-holder and commercial. The project will encourage the
participation of farmers, farmers' organizations, NGOs and other stakeholders in "needs assessments" of
farmers' priorities and constraints, identification of priority activities and their implementation. These
activities, to be funded under the Competitive Grant Scheme, will build national capacity and increase the
competitiveness of Georgia's agricultural sector.
The terms and conditions for operating the CGS have been set out in an Operational Manual, which has
been approved by the Inter-Ministerial Commission (IMC) and the Bank. The CGS will be implemented
by a Competitive Grant Board (CGB) that is responsible functionally to the IMC and administratively to
the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. The CGB will be serviced by a full-time Secretariat that would
report to the CGB and be responsible for day-to-day operations. Terms of Reference and job description
details are provided in the Operational Manual in Annex 12.
The British Know How Fund (KHF) is considering providing parallel financing of about US$400,000 to
support the dissemination of agricultural knowledge and encourage active participation of farmers,
farmers' organizations and NGOs in these activities. It is envisaged that KHF will support the training,
technical assistance and operating costs of the "needs assessments" for priority setting in developing
contracts between farmers associations and providers of agricultural advisory services to be funded by the
CGS. If these grant funds do not materialize, the Bank would consider reallocating funds from other
components to finance these activities.
(b) Support for Agricultural Practices to Reduce Environmental Pollution. The project will be used to
fund activities to improve Georgian surface and groundwater and reduce the nutrient load entering the
Black Sea from point and non-point sources of pollution from agricultural practices in Georgia. The
selected project area is located within the Khobi River watershed in Westem Georgia, and comprises three
districts - Khobi, Chkhorotsku and Tsalenjikha - bordering the Black Sea. Activities to be implemented in
this pilot watershed would include: (i) promotion of efficient manure management practices; and (ii)
conducting on-fann trials and demonstrations of improved sustainable agricultural practices, including
reduced tillage, better chemical management systems, contour farming and buffer strips for water quality
benefits.
The testing and introduction of the above environrnentally-friendly agricultural practices to reduce negative
impacts on water quality, would be funded through the Competitive Grant Scheme. Procedures would be
-9-



similar to those for adaptive research as described in the Operational Manual. The CGS Research
Specialist and Environmental Engineer would together handle the review of project proposals.
Component 2: Reform of the Agricultural Research System (US$3.52 million)
A Conceptual Framework for a National Strategy for Reform of the Agricultural Research, Extension and
Training System was approved June 17, 1999, by the Inter-Ministerial Commission set up by the President
to support reform of the Georgian AKS, and published. The Government has agreed with the Bank to pilot
reforms in one priority research direction, namely Horticulture and Viticulture. This component will
provide a combination of technical assistance, training and investments to pilot reforms in this research
direction.
At appraisal, an action plan to develop an Institutional Reform Implementation Plan for the Horticulture,
Viticulture and Winemaking Institute (HVWI) was agreed with MAF. It is expected that the draft
irnplementation and investment plan would be completed and the final plan agreed with all stakeholders by
December 2000. Finalization of this plan, and its subsequent approval by the Government, with agreement
by the Bank, is a Condition for Disbursement for the US$2.0 million (IDA credit) which is allocated for
implementation of the reforms. The project will thus earmark an amount of US$2.0 million for such
implementation efforts which will include activities related to civil works and rehabilitation; procurement of
laboratory and field equipment and goods; human resource streamlining; training and operational costs.
Component 3: Pilot Environmental Pollution Control Program (GEF funding - US$1.17 million)
The project would support a pilot program in the Khobi River watershed, in the areas of Khobi,
Chkhorotsku and Tsalenjikha in Westem Georgia, and cover the following activities: (i) the promotion of
efficient manure management practices - installation of manure storage tanks/pits; (ii) adaptive research,
on-farm testing and demonstration of the use of bio-gas digesters in the villages to provide bio-gas for
cooking and other domestic use to rural families and to reduce methane emissions into the atmosphere; and
(iii) the establishment of a watershed scale water quality monitoring program to monitor agricultural
pollution of major rivers draining into the Black Sea.
Bio-digesters will be tested and evaluated for their performance in these villages to select the most desirable
design and size for western Georgia before moving into installing relatively large number of bio-gas
digesters. Following work on design issues during the pre-project period and in the first year, the project is
expected to install about 200 bio-digesters by project end. Pilot project activities to test the design of
bio-gas digesters will be launched in early Spring and completed in the Fall of 2000.
This demonstration component will familiarize and widen the understanding of farm/rural families and the
public at large of the benefits accruing from the use of bio-gas units through study tours, farm visits,
seminars/workshops and other outreach methods, including radio, video, and leaflets. Part of the GEF
funds will be used to provide training to technicians who will assist farmers in installation, operation and
maintenance procedures for the bio-gas units. The aim of this component is to pilot the introduction of
bio-digesters and manure management in one watershed and study its effectiveness at reducing non-point
source pollution, with the expectation that the program could be expanded to other watersheds in the future.
The environmental pollution control investments above will be undertaken once the pilot project is
completed in 2000. These activities would follow normal Bank procurement procedures for civil works and
goods, and not through competitive grants. Investments in manure storage and handling facilities and
- 10-



bio-gas digesters, as well as soil and water quality monitoring programs would be handled under the
supervision of an environmental engineer located in the Project Management Unit.
Component 4: Project Management Unit (US$0.71 million)
The Project would provide for a Project Management Unit (PMU) to co-ordinate project implementation
and handle monitoring and evaluation of project activities (Figure 1). The PMU would be headed by a
Project Manager, who would report to the Minister of Agriculture and Food, and would comprise the
Environmental Engineer (heading the Environmental Pollution Control component), the Reform Component
Coordinator, an Administrative Officer and Secretary/Interpreter.
Indicative            GEF       Bank-      %0 of
Component                Sector       Costs     % of    financing  financing    Bank-
(US$M)    Total     (Us$m)    (US1M)   financing
Component 1: Competitive Grant  Agricultural     4.71      38.0       0.00     4.07      54.0
Scheme.                       Extension
Subcomponent (a): Adaptive
Research and Technology
Dissemination.
Subcomponent (b): Support for    Natural         1.37       11.0      1.19     0.00       0.0
Agricultural Practices to Reduce   Resources
Environmental Pollution       Management
Component 2: Reform of the    Agricultural       4.14       33.4      0.00     2.76      36.6
Agricultural Research System  Extension
Component 3: Pilot Environmental Natural         1.34       10.8      1.29     0.00       0.0
Pollution Control Program     Resources
Management
Component 4: Project                             0.85        6.8      0.00     0.71        9.4
Management Unit
Total Project Costs                 12.41      100.0      2.48      7.54     100.0
Total Financing Required                  12.41      100.0      2.48     7.54     100.0
- 11 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The government of Georgia has made a commitment to reform policies in the area of agricultural research,
extension and training in order to improve the efficiency and cost effectiveness of the agricultural
knowledge system and meet the needs of the private fanning sector, including both smallholder and
commercial farmers. An initial review of the institutional structure of agricultural research, extension and
training activities, undertaken with the assistance of ISNAR, underscores the need for making these
institutions more cost-effective and efficient and equally importantly, responsive to the emerging needs of
the smallholder and commercial farmers, i.e. demand-driven. The CGS would establish an institutional
mechanism to foster the achievement of these objectives. Specifically, it would promote decentralized
project implementation, introduce greater transparency and accountability through broader stakeholder
participation in priority setting, reduce costs, and promote efficiency by encouraging partnerships between
researchers, fanners, extensions workers and NGOs. At the same time, the Project would provide direct
assistance for institutional reform of HVWI, which would serve as a pilot for the broader institutional
reform of the Georgian Academy of Agricultural Sciences (GAAS). The project would also assist the
Government to honor its conunitments under the Bucharest Convention to protect and rehabilitate the Black
Sea through, inter alia, the adoption of environmentally sustainable agricultural practices. It would also
develop capacity to implement a watershed management program to reduce non-point pollution from
agricultural production.
3. Benefits and target population:
Private farmers and agro-processors will be the main beneficiaries of the Project. Introduction of improved
technologies would result in agricultural diversification, higher productivity and lower costs of production
and, in turn, increase profitability and improve living standards in rural areas. Higher productivity and
better management will bring about improvements in product quality to meet specific market needs,
including those of export markets. The types of farms benefiting will range from smallholders (average
farm size one hectare) and part-time farmers with small crop or livestock surpluses to sell from time to
time, to larger leased farms with land ranging in size from five ha to about 100 ha.
Investments in applied agricultural research, coupled with effective technology transfer, can yield relatively
high returns, especially when starting from a low technological base, as is the case in Georgia. The
involvement of a broad range of stakeholders, especially farmers, in adaptive agricultural research will
increase its practical relevance. The establishment of CGS along with capacity building and training will
help build a sustainable system capable of generating improved technologies responsive to the needs of
end-users.
The country, the public at large and the global community would also benefit from the adoption of
environmentally sustainable activities to be implemented under the Project. Specifically, reducing the
discharge of nutrient load into the Black Sea will promote the maintenance of productive ecosystems and
critical natural habitats in the freshwater, estuarine and near shore waters along the Black Sea Coast.
Broad-based stakeholder participation will increase public awareness and demand-driven approaches for
protecting the Black Sea. Promotion of bio-gas digesters in the rural areas will help to meet the heating and
cooking needs of the rural communities, reduce felling of trees, and strengthen the global climate change
objectives.
The approach adopted under this project to reduce non-point sources of pollution to the Black Sea is
innovative and replicable. During Soviet times, manure management practices (such as manure storage
tanks, use of manure for crop production, and use of manure for biogas production, use of manure slurry
from biogas digesters) were almost absent and very little, if any, manure was disposed of in an
- 12 -



environmentally acceptable fashion. Reduced tillage, crop rotations, buffer strips, and other soil erosion
control practices will be first tested and evaluated on farmers' fields. If successful, these technologies will
be demonstrated to other farners of western Georgia. Farmers will teach other farmers the usefulness of
these sustainable technologies and assist in such technology replication.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project Co-ordination: The Project would be implemented under the aegis of the Ministry of Agriculture
and Food (MAF), with specific responsibility for overall co-ordination assigned to a high level Project
Manager, who has already been appointed. The Inter-Ministerial Commission (IMC) (established by
Presidential Decree #357 of May 28, 1998) will oversee the reform of the Agricultural Research, Extension
and Training System). Membership comprises: Minister of Agriculture (Chairman); Ministers of Education
and Environment, Deputy Ministers of Finance, Economics and Justice; Chairman Agrarian Parliamentary
Committee, Secretary Agricultural Science Department, Georgian Academy of Sciences, President
Georgian Academy of Agricultural Sciences (GAAS), Rector Georgian Agrarian University (GAU), and
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) Director. The IMC, involving broad participation from relevant ministries
and agencies, including Ministry of Environment, will provide overall guidance and support at the highest
level.
The Project Manager would have the overall responsibility for the project and would report to the Minister
of Agriculture and Food. He would head the PMU comprising the Environmental Engineer (heading the
Environmental Pollution Control component), the Reform Component Coordinator, an Administrative
Officer and Secretary/Interpreter. In consultation with the Project Manager, accounting, financial
management, procurement and disbursement matters would be handled by the already existing World Bank
Projects' Coordination Unit (PCU). The expenses incurred by PCU, including staff time related to the
proposed ARET project, will be covered by the Project. This arrangement will make fill use of already
available expertise at the PCU without hiring new personnel. The ARET Project Manager will discuss and
agree with the PCU Director on processes for budgeting and release of funds.
Implementation arrangements: Activities under component 1 will be implemented through the Competitive
Grant Scheme (CGS), to be managed by a Competitive Grant Board and Secretariat. The members of the
Competitive Grant Board (CGB) were appointed in December 1998 and comprise a Chairman and fourteen
members representing all relevant stakeholders, including farmners, farmers associations and NGOs.
Member affiliation is as follows: Private farming sector - 4; NGOs - 1; Georgian Academy of Agricultural
Sciences - 1; Agrarian University - 1; MAF - 1; Ministry of Finance - 1; Ministry of Economy - 1;
Ministry of Environment - 1; PCU - l; Parliament - 1; Head of Secretariat - 1. The Chairman and
one-third of the members have no affiliations with either the Government or the research, extension and
training complex. The Secretariat will comprise three technical specialists covering research, extension and
economics disciplines plus administrative staff. The Head of the Secretariat, who will act as the economist,
has been appointed and is also a member of the Board as its executive secretary. Functionally, the
Secretariat would be responsible to the Competitive Grant Board, but administratively to the Project
Manager. Staff would be recruited on a competitive basis according to terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank.
The terms and conditions for operating the CGS have been set out in an Operating Manual that has been
approved by the Inter-Ministerial Commission and the Bank. Priority areas for technology validation,
adaptation and dissemination for which proposals would be requested under the CGS, have been finalized
under three categories - import substitution, export-orientated production and services for production,
processing and marketing - and approved by the CGB. The range of activities deemed eligible would be
- 13 -



reviewed annually as the reform process proceeds.
Proposals for work on priority areas will be solicited publicly by the Competitive Grant Board following
the procedures set out in the Operating Manual. The Secretariat will collect and collate relevant
information on the proposals provided by the applicants and also obtain comments of the pre-approved
local and international peer reviewers, who will evaluate the proposals against predetermined criteria such
as, relevance to the farming community, contribution to national priorities, technical quality and scientific
merit, qualifications and experience of the sponsor, plans for transfer of technology and environmental
impacts. The Secretariat will subsequently submit the proposals, with all the information, to the CG Board
for their decision on awards.
The Chairman of the Board will assign each proposal for in-depth review to two relevant Board members
who will lead the discussion on their projects at the Board meeting. Successful applicants would be
contracted by the CGB (contracts to be drawn up by the PMU/PCU on the instructions of the Secretariat)
to carry out the agreed works or services over a period of up to three years. Funds to be covered for
approved proposals could include laboratory equipment, vehicles, materials, office equipment, travel costs,
short-term training, field labor, fuel, supplies and up to 20% administrative overheads (see CGS
Operational Manual Section 6). Large items of equipment would not be normally financed under the
Project. Institutions would contribute 15-20% of sub-project costs in cash or kind. The level of the initial
payment would be determined by the Secretariat and subsequent payments would be made on the basis of
progress against specific milestones.
Overall policy direction and support for Component 2 - the reform of the agricultural research system -
would be overseen by a small committee comprising the president of the GAAS, the Rector of the Georgian
Agrarian University (GAU), MAF's Representative and the Project Manager. A coordinator for the
component has been selected, following World Bank procedures, to prepare implementation and investment
plans for priority research at HVWI.
Component 3 will be directly managed by the PMU, using an environmental engineer hired for this
purpose.
Financial Management:
Financial Management Assessment: The overall responsibility for financial management of the project
will rest with the PCU. The PCU already includes a full complement of accountants to support the needs
of the other projects being implemented by the PCU, and this complement will be increased as required
during project implementation. The Bank conducted a financial management assessment of the PCU and
concluded that the PCU's financial management arrangements did satisfy the Bank's minimum
requirements and is capable of producing the Bank's Project Management Reports (see below). However,
the PCU is going to implement a new accounting software system with better functionality than its existing
software system that should result in increased efficiency. An action plan to implement the new accounting
software system is included within the Project Implementation Plan (PIP).
Project Management Reports: The agreed indicative formats for the Project Management Reports (PMRs)
are included within the PIP and the PCU will produce these PMRs for every calendar quarter throughout
the life of the project. Project funds will be initially disbursed under the Bank's established procedures,
including Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), however, a move to PMR-based disbursements will be made
at the mutual agreement of the Govemment and the Bank and will be considered once the PCU is familiar
- 14 -



with the project's monitoring aspects and is considered able to produce the PMRs in a sufficiently timely
and reliable manner. A change to PMR-based disbursements will be considered by December 31, 2000.
Audit Arrangements: Extemal audits by independent private auditors acceptable to the Bank and on terms
of reference acceptable to the Bank are already being satisfactorily performed in respect of the other
Bank-financed projects for whose financial management the PCU is currently responsible. The audit
arrangements of these other projects will therefore be extended to include the ARET project beginning with
the year ending December 31, 2000 and annually thereafter for the life of the project. The results of the
audits of the ARET project will be available within six months of the end of the relevant fiscal year and the
cost of the audit will.be financed by the project.
Monitoring and Evaluation arrangements: Project monitoring and evaluation would be the responsibility
of the PMU. An intemational expert would assist the PMU to design a simple management information
system for M&E, reporting formats for each component, including targeted annual performance objectives
and monitoring indicators using Annex 1 details as the basis. These indicators include evaluating the
project's impact on reducing poverty, by measuring the change in income levels for farmers that adopt
technologies recommended by the individual sub-projects, and the distribution of incomes for adopters and
non-adopters. This information will be used to identify target groups for follow-on subprojects. Quarterly
reports will cover progress in physical implementation, the use of project funds and project impact. The
format of reports will be agreed with the Bank. Evaluation of completed research and extension projects on
a sample basis would be undertaken as a regular part of M&E. The results of these M&E activities will be
fed back into the implementation process as improved practices.
Quarterly reports will be consolidated by the PMU into half-yearly progress reports to be submitted
through MAF to the Bank within two months of the end of each six-month reporting period. These
half-yearly progress reports will also include an implementation plan and work program for the six months
following the reporting period.
A mid-term review will be carried out to assess overall progress. Lessons leamed from the CGS and
progress with the reform of the research and extension complex would be used in restructuring the Project,
if necessary.
The PMU will continuously monitor and evaluate the project using performance indicators detailed in the
Project Design Summary in Annex 1.
- 15-



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Alternatives considered were: (a) to make direct investments in the existing knowledge and information
systems institutions (universities, research institutes etc.) once a complete implementation plan for
restructuring the agricultural research, education and extension system had been agreed; (b) to attach a
small field trials and demonstration component to the Irrigation and Drainage Rehabilitation Project
(IDRP); and (c) whether or not to add an environmental component to the project to reduce non-point
source pollution entering the Black Sea from Georgia. With regard to (a), it was concluded that the work
already done in collaboration with ISNAR (including the conceptual framework for a national reform
strategy) demonstrated the readiness of the Government and agricultural research complex to tackle reform
of the system. However, it was considered desirable to proceed in a step-wise process, with the project first
providing technical assistance and capacity building to develop a reform investment plan for one research
direction and institution. Provision would be made for selected investments in physical structures,
equipment and training of personnel for the one research area1institution to develop a model approach to
institutional reform. The approach of restructuring the whole GAAS and University agricultural research
system under this project was rejected because the restructuring process would have absorbed all the funds
available, with benefits only realized in the longer-term. The decision was therefore taken to focus on
achieving "quick wins" by getting results in farmers' fields using the CGS, while establishing the
groundwork for long term restructuring of the knowledge system by completing a pilot restructuring of
HVWI. With respect to option (b) above, simply adding a small component to the IDRP would unlikely
have the desired results, as it would not get the necessary attention of the research system nor of the
management of the IDRP. It would also not bring about effective reform of the Agricultural Knowledge
System in Georgia.
With regard to (c), it was decided to expand the scope of the project and include an environmental
component. The Black Sea plays a crucial role in the welfare of Georgia's population. Sustainability of
Georgia's economic growth will depend, in part, on the Government's ability to integrate development of the
many productive sectors of the Black Sea coast, including agriculture and forestry. Over the past decade,
uncontrolled pollution from point and non-point sources, coastal erosion, intensified by human intervention,
and off-shore dumping in the region has devastated the Black Sea and its littoral zone. Lost revenues from
these traditional sectors and the cost of mitigating future environmental impacts from non-point source
agricultural pollution could have serious adverse impacts on public sector resources and on places of
strategic and economic importance. To address this, the scope of the project was expanded to include a
component aimed at protecting the water quality of the Black Sea from non-point sources of agricultural
pollution.
Also, the task of promoting environmentally sustainable agricultural practices could have been left to the
Ministry of Environment or NGOs. However, it was decided that to ensure the participation of all relevant
stakeholders, to develop a firm commitment for promoting sustainable agricultural practices, and to build
national capacity for improving and protecting the waters of the Black Sea, the best route would be to
ensure the participation of both MAF and MOE. Thus the Competitive Grant Scheme System would be
used for testing environment-friendly agricultural practices, while investments would be made in manure
handling and biogas digesters following a pilot period to test bio-gas digester design.
- 16 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                 (PSR) Ratings
_____________________ _____ _  (Bank-financed projeots only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Land reform, agro-processing,     Agricultural Development          S             S
agricultural credit               Project
Urgent investments for reduction of    Municipal Infrastructure     U             S
pollution in Black Sea cities     Rehabilitation--MIRP
National Environment Action
Environmentally Sustainable       Plan (IDF/Bank)
Agricultural Practices and Protection of
the Black Sea
Forestry Biodiversity Project
Cultural Heritage Project         S             S
Biodiversity Strategy and
Action Plan (GEF/Bank)
Integrated Coastal Management     S             S
Project
Other development agencies
Credit for grain production and support
to creation grain market          TACIS - RARPl 
Establishment of rural information  TACIS
centers
Development of agro-business       TACIS - ABC
consultancy centers
Agro-business development,         Know How Fund
preparation of business plans
Seed privatization                FAO
Supply of agricultural machinery  Japan Grant
Development of private sector      GTZ
agriculture
Small farmer extension             CARE
Development of Maize, Wheat, Potato  USAID
and Sunflower seed production in
private sector
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 17 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Previous experience of agricultural support services aimed at developing the private farming sector in
similar countries has shown that such projects must facilitate farmer participation in decision making and
implementation, focus on adaptive research rather than basic research, and have realistic objectives and
targets particularly in terms of sustainability. Competitive Grant Scheme funding has proved effective in
improving client orientation and the productivity of the agricultural knowledge system as well as in
reforming the supply-driven, centralized research management prevalent in many transition economies.
Key lessons learned from agricultural and environmental projects in the region include:
*   The need for long-term commitment to address agriculture and environment issues through phased
programs of interventions and broad-based participation;
*   The need to work directly with farmers and agro-processors to encourage ownership of the initiatives;
*   The high capacity of local and national Government officials for innovation and effective management;
D   The importance of calculating and disseminating information about the benefits of improved
environmental management in rural areas;
*   The importance of adequate counterpart training and specialized support for project related activities,
especially procurement, disbursement and supervision; and
3   The benefits of catalyzing support from within relevant government ministries, and other stakeholders,
for policy and environmental reforms.
The project design team incorporated ideas from similar projects in the region and across the Bank. A
"Shared Learning" workshop for half a day was facilitated by the Agricultural Knowledge Systems
Thematic Group to share experiences and conmment on the design of this project. Lessons leamed from
Bank-supported CGS in other countries are as follows:
   there must be strong commitment from the government and managing organization to the concept of
CGS;
*   although the number of proposals received for evaluation may be small initially, there is an increase
over time as applicants and grant recipients become more aware of the benefits of participation;
*   CGS need to be designed after extensive consultation with potential participants ensuring both
awareness, a feeling of ownership and enthusiastic participation;
*   in the initial stages, applicants may face problems in completing application forms, and it may be
necessary to allow for a learning period and to provide some instruction;
*   project quality gradually improves as experience and awareness of the value of accurately articulated
proposals for successful competition become accepted;
* transparency in operations and decision making is essential to remove suspicion that grants are destined
only for a favored few and that applications are not being fairly assessed; and
- 18-



*  decision-makers should avoid any suspicion of a conflict of interest by absenting themselves from the
decision making process for any proposals with which they are personally associated or which involve
their institutions.
These lessons were taken into account when designing the CGS for the proposed Project. Consultations
were held with stakeholders in the country including government officials, researchers, practitioners and
farmers through several public seminars and workshops over the course of two years. This allowed time
for a consensus to build amongst the leadership in the country on the approach that should be adopted.
PPF funds have been used for pre-project training in CGS procedures and include provisions for
encouraging greater private sector participation, including NGOs, farners and farmer organizations. The
Competitive Grant Board and its Secretariat are: (a) running a publicity campaign to explain the CGS
opportunities and procedures to the agricultural research, extension and training community; and (b)
holding training workshops prior to project effectiveness to facilitate an early uptake once funds become
available. Also, procedures for the award and implementation of research projects are being tested through
a pilot program funded by the PPF - 3 pilot technology adaptation projects together with one pilot project
for the environment component, have been awarded and are underway. The risk of a potential conflict of
interest on the Competitive Grants Board (members representing a diversity of organizations that could
benefit from competitive grant funding) will be mitigated by: (i) setting clear criteria against which
submissions under each technology adaptation and dissemination category would be evaluated; (ii) the
process of evaluation using local and intemational specialists to do the technical evaluation of proposals;
and (iii) inclusion of farmer and private sector representatives on the Board.
4. Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership:
In reaffirming its commitment to the Project, the Government established an Inter-Ministerial Commission
in May 1998 to oversee the reform of the agricultural research, extension and training complex. A working
group was established to work on initial data collection and analysis with the assistance of ISNAR. The
information collected by the working group formed the basis of a workshop held on September 15 and 16,
1998, which was chaired by the Minister of Agriculture and attended by representatives of research
organizations, development agencies, civil society, farmers associations and NGOs. A good dialogue was
established and a number of institutional issues were clarified, both during the workshop and the Bank's
Identification and Preparation Missions.
In December 1998, the Minister of Agriculture nominated the Chairnan and members of the Competitive
Grant Board and a first meeting was held on December 10. The Competitive Grant Scheme was
established by Ministerial Order issued February 26, 1999, and a meeting of the Inter-Ministerial
Commission (IMC) on March 3, 1999, approved the Chairman of the CGB and the Head of the Secretariat.
An Operating Manual detailing the procedures for the CGS has been prepared and approved by the Bank,
CGS Board and the Inter-Ministerial Commission. Agreement has been reached between MAF and the
Ministry of the Environment to collaborate on the environmental component funded by the GEF.
The recipients of funds under the CGS would be expected to contribute either in cash or kind 15-20% of
the cost of any individual research project and about 20% to 25% of the cost of equipment for
environmental management. This provision would encourage institutes, individuals and other agencies
submitting requests, to confirm up-front the priority they give to the proposal. However the difficulty of
meeting this contribution under present budgets would be mitigated by including the salary costs of
research staff assigned to the proposal, as well as a value for existing building and machinery assets to be
used. Nevertheless, in some exceptional cases, and with prior approval of the Bank, this requirement could
- 19 -



be waived. Funds from the IDA credit will support the purchase of research equipment, machinery and
materials, training of researchers, incremental operating costs and 20% administrative/overhead charges.
Arrangements for handling the reform of the Agricultural Research, Extension and Training system were
agreed between the President of the Georgian Academy for Agricultural Sciences (GAAS), the Rector of
the Agrarian University (GAU) and MAF, in March 1999. A Working Group has prepared a vision
document, "Conceptual Framework for a National Strategy for Reform of the Agricultural Research,
Extension and Training System," which was approved by the Inter-Ministerial Comrnission June 17, 1999.
The appraisal mission agreed with MAF on an action plan covering the period from October 1999 to
expected project effectiveness July 1, 2000. This plan is proceeding satisfactorily.
5. Value added of Bank and Global support in this project:
Assistance from other donors in research and advisory services has rightly focused to date on tackling
credit and input issues as well as establishing some fledgling farmer information services. Now there is a
need for critical technological and information backstopping to support the Government's efforts to
improve the performance of the agricultural sector. Bank experience in other countries would help map the
transitional steps and create and maintain ownership for such transition on the basis of demand-driven
investments. The Bank's value added derives from its experience worldwide in reforning agricultural
research, extension and training services, and its ability to make a long-term commitment to supporting the
reform of public investments in these fields.
The principal value added of GEF support for the Project comes from providing additional funds to
promote address the priority trans-boundary water problems of the Black Sea and promote renewable
energy. Of the practices supported by this Project, GEF funds will specifically help reduce the barriers to
farmers' adoption of environmentally sensitive practices and will allow the Government to consider
expanding early pilot operations into a larger program. Without GEF support to coordinate these activities,
Georgia might undertake a series of small activities in different parts of the country to address these issues.
It would lack a mechanism to coordinate the financing, approaches and geographical targeting of activities.
Without support from the GEF, the project would lack sufficient resources to accelerate the program, to
demonstrate measures on a wide range of farm types and to undertake a public outreach program. The
GEF is thus leveraging funds from other donors and stimulating a program to coordinate activities, increase
coverage and generate a larger impact.
Because of their international scope, the World Bank and GEF can provide funds and finance the
incremental costs for replicating such activities both within Georgia and in other countries in the region.
This is particularly important, as agricultural pollution is a major local and trans-boundary problem in
most ECA countries, particularly those in the Baltic, Danube and Black Sea drainage basins. Some level of
financial support from the public sector and the international community will continue to be necessary,
particularly in lower income countries, because these activities address externalities, affect trans-boundary
pollution and involve an element of public good.
-20 -



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit     NPV=US$ million; ERR = %  (see Annex 4)
o Cost effectiveness
O Incremental Cost
* Other (specify)
Ex-ante quantification of benefits of research and extension investments (rates of return) is usually not
undertaken, as it is difficult, if not impossible, to anticipate precisely the outcome of these activities.
Predicting and quantifying economic costs and benefits ex-ante of research and extension activities is
problematic because the outcomes of the technology innovation or dissemination are not defined at the time
of project design, but instead evolve with the project through a process of priority setting and consumer
demand for the technologies. The lack of reliable technical and economic data on different variables,
including farmer adoption rates, and difficulties in linking cause (costs) and effect (outcomes) is also a
problem. Whatever parameters one includes would be questionable. Even large surveys give spurious
results. Social and environmental benefits of research and extension projects are particularly difficult to
express in monetary terms. Economic returns from such an exercise are therefore difficult to predict.
However, ex-post analysis of agricultural research and extension over the past two decades shows that in
most countries there are high returns to these investments, often in the range of 35-75 percent or higher.
For public sector agricultural research, average returns were about 48 percent for developed countries and
about 80 percent for developing countries. Similarly, for agricultural extension, the average returns were
about 63 percent for developed countries and about 50 percent for developing countries. In Georgia, with
the new private farners starting at such a low production and productivity base, the returns to the transfer
of technology and information are expected to be high.
The range of benefits likely to be realized by testing alternative technologies and methods, and promoting
their replication and adaptation would be diverse. New fanning methods could lower production costs,
increase output efficiency; produce more profitable crops and livestock; improve product quality; reduce
capital expenditures on machinery, irrigation equipment and buildings; reduce crop and livestock losses;
make better use of available land, labor and other resources; and improve environmental sustainability of
production systems.
The Competitive Grant Scheme (CGS) will be implemented using a set of rigorous criteria and indicators
already established. These criteria and indicators will assess proposed investment priorities (in sector
development), client relevance, and cost-effectiveness in terms of providing immediately needed technology,
information and training which are critical to increase agricultural productivity, sustainability and incomes.
Since the conventional FRR/ERR analysis will not be done for purposes of investment decision-making in
the CGS, the project's M & E system has been designed to ensure that the proposals funded by the CGS in
applied research and extension are implemented in a cost-effective and efficient manner.
The goal of the Reform of the Agricultural Research System Component of the Project is to restructure
HVWI. This is expected to increase the efficiency of resource use at the institute by reorganizing the assets
of the institute, modernizing equipment and reducing staff, to ensure that the level of funding per staff is
adequate to conduct research, and the research conducted by the institute is well-focused on a few key
priorities. While the direct benefits of restructuring this institute are relatively small, the completion of this
- 21 -



restructuring exercise is expected to have a demonstration effect that would in time allow the restructuring
of the whole National Academy of Agricultural Sciences. This restructuring would have a significant
positive benefit in terms of the efficiency with which Government expenditures on research are used. At
the present time, the Academy of Agricultural Sciences has about 2,700 staff, of which 870 are considered
to be scientists, operating in 16 institutes. In 1998, it had a total annual budget of GEL 810,000. This is
less than GEL 1,000 (or $750 at the time) per researcher per year, which is not sufficient for conducting
any meaningful research. In the longer run, the restructuring of the Academy is expected to resolve this
problem, and make more effective use of Government research funds.
The incremental cost analysis for the GEF-funded component is described in Annex 13. The analysis
assumes a baseline under which the prevailing agricultural practices are only partially corrected, resulting
in continued discharge of nutrients into the Black Sea and emissions of methane. Continued reliance on
fossil fuels and unsustainably harvested fuelwood, the source of energy in rural areas, further increases
greenhouse gas emissions. The Project would introduce and demonstrate more sustainable and
environmentally benign technologies and practices at an estimated incremental cost of US$2.5 million.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Fiscal Impact:
The introduction of a CGS combined with the restructuring of one public research institute is expected to
initiate a process of increasing the cost effectiveness of publicly funded research in Georgia, while at the
same time increasing the overall level of government expenditures on agricultural research, in order to
make Georgia more competitive in this area. The project is designed to gradually introduce these changes
at funding levels that would be sustainable at the end of the project, given Georgia's very tight fiscal
situation. The CGS will shift current emphasis of Government funding for the AKS from the Georgian
Academy of Agricultural Sciences (GAAS) to strengthening national research, extension and training
systems, broadly defined to include agriculture research institutes, universities, private sector, farmer
organizations and NGOs, thus increasing competition and the efficiency of research, extension and training.
Supporting both public and private institutions may also gradually reduce the total dependence of research
and extension institutions on public funding by bringing diversification of funding support. However, it
should be pointed out that the CGS builds on, but does not replace, the need for government funding for the
core functions of key public research institutes. If the project is successful in enhancing the confidence of
farmers and other stakeholders in research and extension institutions as providers of new technologies,
information and training, it should convince policymakers to increase government budgets for research to
levels that are more in line with international standards, thus increasing Georgia's competitive position in
the longer run. The average expenditure on agricultural research in developed countries is about 2.4 percent
of agricultural GDP, whereas developing countries invest about 0.5 percent. Georgia currently invests
about 0.3 percent of agricultural GDP in agricultural research, and is therefore lower than the developing
countries average. In summary, a system of providing core budgets only to key public research institutions
combined with the supplemental funding from the CGS, is expected to lead to a research, extension and
training system that is more efficient, and therefore makes better use of Government expenditures in this
area. If the system is successful in delivering good results, it is expected that both government and private
expenditures in this area will increase.
3. Technical:
Based on available information, the majority of Georgian farmners would benefit from advice and
- 22 -



technology on: (a) farm planning and management; (b) crop agronomy and integrated cropping systems; (c)
new crops to diversify systems; (d) livestock management; (e) good quality seeds and planting material; and
(f) sustainable on-farm environmental management. During project preparation, farm surveys were
reviewed and additional information sought to better define priorities. These priorities will be used to
define the focus areas for which CGS proposals will be solicited and evaluated. In addition, an inventory
will be carried out of already existing technology to identify relevant farm and environmental technologies
that are fully developed and have been adopted in certain areas, but not yet promoted across the country.
The technologies for reducing water pollution are known; however, these have to be validated and
demonstrated under Georgian conditions. For example, bio-gas digester technology will require fine-tuning-
and adaptation to Georgian conditions.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
Ministry of Agriculture and Food has significantly changed its role in the Agricultural sector since
independence in 1991. It has disposed of most of its commercial activities and is beginning to focus more
on policy making and the provision of public services. This process is still ongoing and is expected to last
at least another five years. In the implementation of this program the Ministry has been open to the
introduction of new ideas and approaches that will enhance its role and position in a market economy. The
ministry has strong management, and has demonstrated in the ADP project that it has the capacity to
successfully implement a complex project. The project coordination unit for the ADP project is an
incremental part of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and was established to supplement the capacity of
the Ministry. It has been instrumental in providing implementation capacity to the Ministry on new
initiatives. The Project Management for the ARET project will also be housed in the Ministry and be an
integral part of the Ministry's operations. It will also make use of the existing accounting and procurement
management capacity built up in the ADP project.
The Georgian Academy of Agricultural Sciences is in a financial crisis and has.been unable to adjust to
the new economic environment. However, the leadership in the GAAS has demonstrated that they are open
to new concepts and are willing to pilot the restructuring of one research institute. The management of the
Horticulture Institute has also agreed to participate in program. They will be supported in the
implementation of their restructuring by local consultants and through a twinning relationship with an
international research institute.
b. Project management:
In order to supplement the capacity of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, day-to-day project
management will be carried out by a project management unit hired under the project. The CGS under
component 1 will be managed by the Competitive Grant Board with representation from government,
GAAS, Agrarian University, farmers and agribusiness. The 15-member Board that has been established
comprises an independent chairman together with fourteen members, including representatives from the
Georgian Parliament, Ministry of Agriculture and Food, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Economy
(Department of Science and Technology), Ministry of Environment, Georgian Academy of Agricultural
Sciences, the Agrarian University, Farmers' Organizations, Private Farmers and NGOs. The Chairman
and a third of the members are independent of GAAS and government Ministries. A list of the membership
of the Inter-Ministerial Comnmission and CGS Board are included.
The work of Reform of the Research System (Component 2) will be managed by the four-member
MAF/GAAS/GAU/Project Manager Advisory Committee with the assistance of the full-time Reform
- 23 -



Component Coordinator assigned to the PMU. Findings and recommendations together with
implementation and investment plans for the selected, priority research direction will be submitted to the
Inter-Ministerial Commission.
Component 3 will be managed by the Environmental Engineer in the PMU.
5. Social:
Three recent farm-level studies (including a rural Poverty Study by IFAD) describe the existing farm
structure in specific regions. The results of these studies have been used for the priority setting process to
define topics for support by the CGS that would provide smallholders on-farm demonstrations of
appropriate agricultural and environmental management technologies. Full social assessments were
prepared for the IDRP, which have been used in the design of this project. Since the CGS is a demand
driven process and the subprojects will be geographically disbursed, it was decided that the most
appropriate approach in this situation would be to conduct "needs assessment" surveys prior to funding of
advisory services/extension sub-projects for fanners groups in specific areas. Results of the surveys will
form part of the M&E program.
6. Environmental assessment:               Environment Category: C
It is anticipated that the project would contribute to a more sustainable and environmentally responsible use
of agricultural resources.
Efficient use of fann inputs has been identified as one of the priority areas of research and extension needs
of farmers and agro-processors. Some of the CGS funds would be directed to contracts to address this
concern of farmers and agro-processors and would, over time, contribute to a reduction in nutrient runoff
from the agricultural sector. In the livestock sector, the project is expected to support interesting and
innovative adaptive research, demonstrations and proposals relating to the management and use of organic
wastes.
The Project will support environmentally-friendly and socially sensitive agricultural practices.
Demand-driven, productivity-oriented agricultural practices are expected to promote the efficient and
effective use of agricultural inputs. Proposals that imply any adverse environmental effects will not be
funded. In fact, because of the nature of the work likely to be funded, there should be long-term
environmental, and health and safety benefits. The project is targeted toward specific environmental
interventions, funded by GEF, that are expected to reduce non-point source pollution from agricultural
wasrte, and thus reduce the nutrient load deposited into the Black Sea.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The primary beneficiaries of this project are private farmers, i.e. individual producers that produce a
surplus for sale, members of family associations and formal associations, agro-processors, and contractors
for CGS projects. During project preparation, private farmers, agro-processors, and members of the
development community were consulted to ensure that adequate mechanisms are built into the project
design. A number of small consultative workshops and a national level workshop were held as part of
project design. This will be extended to more formal "needs assessment" surveys in selected areas as the
project proceeds. Two of the members of the Competitive Grant Board are private farmers and two other
- 24 -



members represent farmers' organizations.
b. Other key stakeholders:
All stakeholders (including MAF, MOE, GAS, GAAS, Department of Science and Technology, Farmers
Union, NGOs, and Private Farmers) involved in policy setting and implementation of the Agricultural
Research, Extension and Training system, were consulted during project preparation. A number of small
workshops, culrninating in a national workshop were held to discuss the project design and concept. The
Consultative Group for Intemational Agricultural Research (CGIAR centers), particularly ISNAR and
CIMMYT, have participated in project design. The use of a wide range of local peer reviewers (including
farmers, advisory staff, scientists, in-country donor officials, and the private sector) for evaluating CGS
grant proposals, would be encouraged.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The objective is to build a cost-effective and efficient institutional infrastructure for research, extension and
training services and promote environmentally sustainable agricultural practices, with the participation of
all stakeholders. The result should be technology adaptation and transfer programs responsive to the needs
of the end-users and in which they will share the costs. The CGS has deliberately been kept to a fairly
modest level of funding which could be further funded by the Government budget, other bilateral donors, or
a combination of the two, by the end of the project implementation period. The program is therefore
designed to be fiscally sustainable, within reasonable expectations for increases in government budget over
the next few years. The parallel reform and restructuring of the agricultural research complex will result in
a leaner, more efficient public sector structure. The project, through education, familiarization and
demonstration of environment-friendly practices, strives to increase the acceptability of these practices by a
large number of farmers, leading to commercialization of manure management and bio-gas digester
services.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating           Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Domestic researchers do not have the        M         Pilot grants have been implemented, with
capacity to develop and disseminate                   promising results so far. If domestic research
appropriate new technologies that                     capacity becomes a constraint, the Project would
increase productivity and conserve the                begin requiring training and/or international TA
environment.                                          as a part of every subproject proposal.
Farmers don't have access to credit,        S         Grant proposals would have to demonstrate that
machinery and inputs, as well as land,                those farmers involved in the project have
that would enable them to utilize new                 sufficient access to credit, machinery and inputs
technologies.                                         to make the subproject viable. These resources
are available in the country.
- 25 -



Farmers not sufficiently organized to        M         There are a large number of bilateral donors and
develop partnerships with other farmers                NGOs working on formation of farmers'
and researchers.                                       associations and groups. Links with farmer
groups is a necessary requirement for
subprojects under the CGS. The amount of
effort and resources devoted to developing these
partnerships can be increased if necessary.
Farmers are not receptive to new             M         Farmer input in the selection of technologies to
technologies and advisory services.                    be researched and disseminated is a key
requirement of the Project design. Farmer
involvement in the development process is
expected to improve adoption rates.
There is little or no political support from  M        Indications to-date are that there is strong
local and national governments for reform              government support for reforn of the research
of the agricultural research, extension and            system. If this situation changes, the Bank
training system.                                       would support a renewed policy dialogue
through workshops, as was done during project
preparation.
There is insufficient demand by farmers      S         Pilot projects to test biodigesters and manure
for manure handling and biogas units.                  handling will provide lessons on how to achieve
high adoption rates. If by the time of the
mid-term review, the project is not achieving its
goals, funds will be reallocated to promoting
other environmentally sound practices.
From Components to Outputs
The CGS does not maintain a transparent      H         CGS manual stipulates clear and transparent
and fair process for issuing grants, free of           procedures for issuing grants, including
political interference.                                procedures for addressing conflict of interest
situations. In addition, the technical evaluation
of grants will be made by CGS Secretariat, and
reviewed by both national and intemational
reviewers. The Bank will also review all grants
awarded during the project period.
NGOs do not continue to support the          M         NGO support is strong at present. NGO
system.                                                participation will be maintained.
Farmers and other end-users are not able     S         Farmers and other end-users can contribute their
to contribute to cost sharing.                         time, reducing the need for cash contributions.
- 26 -



Project incentives are not sufficient to     N         Each grant application will be reviewed to
motivate farmers to participate.                       ensure that it has a viable plan for motivating
farners to participate.
There are insufficient competent research    M         By allowing the private sector to compete for
organizations to create a viable                       grants, the CGS would create new entities and
competitive grant program.                             make the system more competitive. Allowing
neighboring country scientists to compete could
also be used to address this issue.
Grant funding from KHF not available.        N         Other donors will be asked to participate, or
funds will be reallocated from other components
of this project.
The reform of the agricultural research      M         If the expected reform of the system or the cost
system does not proceed or achieve cost                savings cannot achieved in the pilot project, it
savings, or cost savings are not                       will not be expanded to the broader research
re-invested in the research system.                    system.
Researchers cannot develop new manure        M         Early designs and pilots have been implemented
handling and storage systems that are                  to develop low-cost manure handling and
financially attractive to farmers.                     storage systems that are financially attractive to
farmers. However, if this technology is not
financially attractive to farmers, other low-cost
manure handling practices will be considered
and implemented.
Overall Risk Rating                          M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
*   The Effectiveness condition that the PMU be fully staffed has already been met. The Project Manager;
technical specialists for the Competitive Grant Scheme, Reform, and Environment components; Office
Manager; Office Assistants; Accountant; and other relevant staff have been hired.
Condition of Disbursement
*   Prior to disbursement of any of the allocated funds for implementation of Component 2: "Reform of the
Agricultural Research System", the government, with the assistance of international experts, will
prepare a detailed plan for the reform of the HVWI, and present the plan for Bank approval.
Disbursement of any of the allocated funds under this category is contingent upon Bank approval of
this reform plan.
- 27 -



2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
*   The CGB will implement the CGS in accordance with the requirements of the Operational Manual.
*   Govermment shall maintain the same value of core funding, in real terns, to the GAAS and HVWI
during the period of the project.
H. Readiness for Implementation
l 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
PPF funds have been used to launch three pilot projects on Adaptive Research and Technology
Dissemination (Component 1). Also, under the GEF-assisted activities, a pilot study for validating bio-gas
digester technologies (prior to the investrnent phase under Component 3) has been started. The PHRD
grant will be used to continue preparing the detailed plan for HVWI under Component 2: "Reform of the
Agricultural Research System".
i. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
r                     Ze1vin M. Cleaver
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director           Country Manager/Director
~L                 G2 EFT-
- 28 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
GEORGIA: AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH, EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Key Perforiance
Hielarchy of Objectives           Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:          Sector! country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Economic growth, poverty    Increased incomes for rural   Baseline and Project-end  Govemment economic
alleviation and environmental households that adopt    assessments of income levels  policies do not change
protection.                project-recommended         and distribution in areas  adversely.
technologies.              covered by technology       Political stability.
dissemination projects.    Policy and economic
environment encourages use
of improved agricultural
practices.
GEF Operational Program
The project's objective of  Increased adoption of      Baseline and Project-end   Lessons learned in pilot
reducing non-point source    recommended environmental  assessment of the impact of   operations under the project
pollution to the Black Sea is  practices in pilot areas.  environmentally-friendly  will be adopted on a larger
consistent with the GEF                                technologies adopted.      scale in the future.
Operational Program No. 8 -
Waterbody Based Operational
Program
The objective of promoting the
use of biogas is consistent
with GEF Operational
Program No. 6 - Promoting
the Adoption of Renewable
Energy by Removing Barriers
and Reducing Implementation
Costs
-29 -



;0Hierach  of Obectvs0  w0ww0 00  00-Z 0i0000i0i; Iniatr  Mtitoring^D  000 Ev ati . Criia1  ssmptins
Project Development       Outcome I Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
The overall development   End of Project Indicators:   Systematic surveys of    Technologies respond to
objective of the Project is to                       technology adoption for each  farners' needs.
create an efficient and    1. 20% of farmers in project  technology dissemination
cost-effective agricultural    areas adopting improved farm  sub-project.       Markets and prices provide
knowledge system to       production, marketing,                                sufficient incentives to
demonstrate, disseminate and management, and post-harvest Progress reports.     producers and processors to
promote the adoption of   technologies.                                         make farming profitable
appropriate technologies that                        Project completion reports.   enough to want to adopt new
increase sustainable      2. 10% of farms in project                            technologies.
agricultural production and   areas adopting production and
reduce pollution of natural   resource conservation                             Continuing government
resources.                technologies                                          commitment.
(environmentally-friendly
agriculture practices).                              Continuing political stability.
3. 10% of farmers in project
areas adopting manure
management plans, including
the use of bio-gas units.
4. Successful completion of
the reform and rehabilitation
plan for HVWI.
- 30 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives           InOicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Output from each           Output Indicators:          Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
End of Project Indicators:
1. An effective system for  1. Technology Development,  Monitoring system to be   1.1 Domestic researchers
agricultural technology    Acquisition, Adaptation, and  established by CGS       have the capacity to develop
development, acquisition,  Dissemination:              Secretariat.               and disseminate appropriate
adaptation, and dissemination   *  Competitive Grant                              new technologies that increase
established.                    Scheme established with Project Monitoring and    productivity and conserve the
peer review and       Evaluation Reports.         environment.
monitoring systems in
place, sufficient to attain Special surveys.      1.2 Farmers have access to
self-sustainability                               credit, machinery and inputs,
post-proj ect.                                    as well as land, that would
*  For both Technology                               enable them to utilize new
Development and                                   technologies.
Adaptive Research, the
total number of                                   1.3 Farmers are sufficiently
approved grants by                                organized to develop
project end should be at                          partnerships with other
least 40.                                         farmers and researchers.
*  At least 40 institutions
participated in grant                             1.4 Farmers are receptive to
implementation.                                   new technologies and advisory
*  2400 farmers in areas                             services.
served by
advisory/extension
providers receiving
services.
2. Reform of the overall    2. Reform of Agricultural   Project Management Reports  2.1 Political support from
agricultural research complex Research Complex:                                   local and national government
accelerated, with particular  *  Conceptual Framework                             for reform of the agriculture
emphasis on completion of       adopted.                                          research, extension and
reform and rehabilitation of  *  Implementation and                                training system continues.
HVWI.                           investment plans agreed
for one priority research                         2.2 GAAS remains
direction.                                        committed to reform of the
*  Successful                                        system.
implementation of the
reform and
rehabilitation plan for
HVWI.
- 31 -



3. Adoption of improved,    3. Environmental Pollution    Resource tracking system.    3.1 Sufficient demand by
sustainable agricultural   Control                                                 farmers for manure handling
practices to reduce          *  700 farms in project    Water quality monitoring   and biogas units.
environmental pollution.        area with improved
manure handling and
storage.
*  Installation of 196
biogas units and
associated slurry tanks.
*  Water monitoring
system installed for one
pilot area.
-32 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
1. Competitive Grant      1. CGS - US $5.68 million.   Project Management Report.  1.1 The CGS maintains a
Scheme (includes IDA Credit                                                    transparent and fair process
and GEF Grant). Includes                                                        for issuing grants, free of
cost of CGS Secretariat.                                                        political interference.
1.2 NGOs continue to support
the system.
1.3 Farmers and other
end-users are able to
contribute to cost sharing.
1.4 Project incentives are
sufficient to motivate farmers
to participate in the project.
1.5 There are sufficient
competent research
organizations to create a
viable competitive grant
program.
1.6 Grant funding from UK
KnowHow Fund made
available.
2. Reform of Agricultural   2. Reform of Agricultural                           2.1 Ministry of Finance
Research System.          Research System - US $3.52                            initially maintains, and then
million.                                             increases core funding, for
agricultural research and
technology transfer when CGS
introduced.
2.2 The reform of the
agricultural research system
proceeds and achieves cost
savings which are reinvested
in the system.
3. Pilot Environmental    3. Environmental pollution                            3.1 Researchers can develop
Pollution Control Program  Control - US $1.17 million.                          new manure handling and
(Biodigesters) (GEF).                                                           storage systems that are
financially attractive to
farmers.
4. Project Management Unit.  4. PMU - US $0.71 million.
- 33 -



Annex 2: Project Description
GEORGIA: AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH, EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
By Component:
Project Component I - US$5.68 million
Competitive Grant Scheme
This component comprises a Competitive Grant Scheme (CGS) to fund: (a) a program of on-farm
technology adaptation and dissemnination with provision of agricultural advisory services to tackle
immediate priorities for raising on-farm productivity, profitability and sustainability on private farms, both
smallholder and commercial (IDA funding); and (ii) support for environmentally-friendly agricultural
practices to reduce negative impacts on soil and water quality (GEF funding).
The Competitive Grant Board (CGB) for Agriculture was established by Ministerial Order No
2-55 of February 26, 1999. The CGS will create a mechanism in Georgia's agricultural research,
extension and training system to provide, on a competitive basis, direct assistance for adaptive research,
extension and environmental activities that address the practical problems of increasing on-farm
productivity and improving the processing/marketing system. CGS will not replace the core funding of the
agricultural knowledge system. While the CGS will provide funds for priority activities in technology
adaptation and dissemination and environment-friendly agricultural practices, it should not be seen as a
solution to the overall funding needs of the agricultural knowledge system complex.
The purpose of the CGS would be to achieve full stakeholder participation in the adaptation and
transfer of technology responsive to the needs of the emerging private farming sector, both smallholders
and commnercial farmners. It would foster a close association between research scientists and the needs of
the private farmers in setting priorities for adaptive research and in the formnulation and evaluation of
adaptive research project proposals. The CGS would also build more effective linkages between the
agricultural research, extension and training complex and the rest of the development community including
universities, NGOs working with small-holders, farmers associations and private industry, as well as the
various Georgian farmners unions and donor-assisted initiatives for establishing farm advisory services.
The CGS would be managed by a Competitive Grants Board (CGB), which will be served by a
Secretariat to handle day-to-day work. The charter of the Board requires representation of all key
stakeholders, which include: Private farming sector - 4; NGOs - 1; Georgian Academy of Agricultural
Sciences - 1; Agrarian University - 1; MOAF - 1; Ministry of Finance - 1; Ministry of Economy - 1;
Ministry of Envirorunent - 1; PCU - 1; Parliament - 1; Head of Secretariat - 1. and the Chairnan (who is
a well-known citizen independent of MOAF and the GAAS) for the first term were approved by the
Inter-Ministerial Commission on March 3, 1999. The head of the Secretariat has also been appointed.
Specifically the CGS would fund two categories of activities:
l(a).  Adaptive Research and Technology Dissemination. The CGS will fund proposals on priority
topics of technology adaptation, validation (crop and livestock production, post-harvest operations, inputs,
marketing and natural resource management) and dissemination (including pilot extension activities, use of
media etc.). The CGS would also support studies to identify policy and regulatory reforms needed to
eliminate bottlenecks affecting the sector. Priority areas of technology validation, adaptation and
dissemination for which the CGB would request proposals from the research and development community,
- 34 -



would reflect farners immediate needs and would meet the national research priorities as set out in the
"Concept of Georgian Agrarian Policy" (issued as Presidential Decree, April 7, 1997). However, priorities
would be periodically examined and up-dated as the project proceeds, and match with changes in state
policy with regard to the agro-industrial sector.
The broad areas of research and development have been provisionally identified as falling under
three main categories: (i) improved productivity in import substitution products; (ii) export product
development and (iii) production, processing and marketing services. A list of specific topics responding to
immediate on-farm needs has been identified for the first announcement of CGS grants within this broad
classification and approved by the CGB. Proposals would be evaluated against clear criteria on a
competitive basis. Proposals would be requested for work that could be completed in four years and
progress would be closely monitored against specific milestones. Payments would be made on the basis of
progress against these markers.
Proposals for funding under the CGS would be evaluated by the Secretariat with the assistance of
local and intemational peer reviewers, against pre-determined criteria (e.g. relevance to farning
community, contribution to sector strategy, technical quality and scientific merit, qualifications and
experience of researchers, plans for transfer of technology, and environmental impact). Funds for approved
projects could cover laboratory and field equipment, materials, vehicles, office equipment, computers, staff
allowances, travel costs, short term training, field labor, fuel and supplies. Large items of equipment
would not be funded. Participating institutions would provide 15-20% of costs in cash or kind.
In addition, the CGS will fund advisory services/extension activities to tackle immediate priorities
for improving on-farm productivity, profitability and sustainability on private farms, both smallholder and
commercial, in irrigated and rainfed areas. The objective of the CGS extension component would be to
help address the priority needs of rural agricultural producers and, at the same time, nurture embryonic
advisory services. Support for advisory services would be provided in areas likely to be receptive (to be
measured against agreed criteria). Some criteria to be used in determining eligibility for assistance are as
follows:
(a) Farmers are organized in an association, e.g. Water User Association, Credit Union, Producer
Association, Service Union, NGO etc;
(b) Farmers have access to a minimum level of inputs needed to benefit from extension services;
(c) Other investments planned in an area (e.g. investrnents in rehabilitation of water management
schemes by the Irrigation and Drainage Rehabilitation Project, or support for establishing a Credit
Union etc.);
(d) The association is able to provide up to 15-20% of the cost of services in cash or kind; and
(e) The experience is likely to be replicable in other parts of Georgia.
CGS grants would fund contracts between farmers associations and service providers. Eligible
agencies to supply services could include the Agricultural Business Centers established with TACIS
support, Rayon Department of Agriculture, Georgian Farmers Union, Farmers Service Union, GAAS
Agricultural Research Institutes, Agricultural College, NGOs etc. who have, or have the potential to form
strong links with local farming communities, and who are able to demonstrate their abilities to address
priority problems as identified through "needs assessments". The contracts (generally for a two-year
- 35 -



period) would cover the provision of agricultural advice, carrying out on-farm trials and demonstrations,
assistance with accessing inputs and markets etc. The contracts would be drawn up following on-farm "
needs assessments" conducted by the service provider and farmer association with technical assistance (in
the form of a facilitation team) provided by the project.
The CGS Secretariat would contract an agency(s) to establish three facilitation teams (in west,
center and east Georgia) to work with farmers associations and potential service providers on the "needs
assessments" and drawing up contract proposals for evaluation by the CGS Secretariat and peer reviewers.
The project would provide the technical assistance, training and operating costs required for setting up the
facilitation teams and conducting the "needs assessments".
Technical Assistance from United Kingdom Know How Fund. The United Kingdom's Know How Fund
(KHF) participated in the appraisal mission and is considering funding the technical assistance, training
and operating costs (to a total of about US$400,000) of the "needs assessments."
I(b).  Support for Agricultural Practices to Reduce Environmental Pollution. The CGS will act as a
channel for the testing and introduction of environment-friendly agricultural practices to reduce negative
impacts on water quality. This activity, together with those described in Project Component 3 below,
comprise the GEF-funded program to promote agricultural practices that will improve the surface and
groundwater quality of Georgia's water bodies as well as reduce nutrient loads entering into the Black Sea
from point and non-point sources of pollution.
Under the CGS, the project will invite competitive proposals from eligible research institutes and
universities for conducting on-farm trials of best management practices to control soil erosion and reduce
the leaching of nutrients from fertilizers and animal manure to surface and ground water. Proposals
selected for funding would conduct on farm experiments in farmers' field to demonstrate the use of reduced
tillage, different cropping systems, manure and chemical management practices, and buffer strips for
envirownental benefits.
Project Component 2 - US$3.52 million
Reform of the Agricultural Research System
The long-term productivity, profitability and sustainability of Georgian agriculture will be
determined to a large extent by the capacity of its agricultural knowledge system, public and private, to
respond to emerging problems and opportunities. While the agricultural knowledge system (AKS) in
Georgia is gradually adjusting to changes in the economic systems and policy reforms, serious problems
remain. The AKS, comprising agricultural research, extension and training, needs to be critically analyzed
and examined for its relevance, efficiency and cost-effectiveness. It should then be re-structured to make it
responsive to market conditions and the needs of new stakeholders, and also financially sustainable. These
changes will require a longer-term vision for a reforming AKS for Georgia and an action and
implementation plan to rationalize the programs, structure, organization, management and financing of a
lean, integrated functional and viable AKS.
During project preparation, a "Conceptual Framework for a National Strategy to Reform the
Agricultural Research, Extension and Training System" was prepared under the guidance of the Reform
Component Management Group. This framework, which reflects comments by the Bank on an earlier
draft, was approved by the Inter-Ministerial Commission on June 17, 1999. The Reform Component
Management Group has selected one priority research direction - Horticulture and Viticulture - for the
preparation of implementation and investment plans to provide a model for institutional reform. The
- 36 -



Reform Management Group would develop a reform strategy, action and investment plans with the help of
consultants working with the Reform Component Coordinator by October 31, 2000. Subsequently, upon
approval by the Government of Georgia and the Bank of the final plans, an amount of US$2.0 million (IDA
loan) will be made available for implementing these plans. The project will thus earmark an amount of
US$2.0 million for such implementation efforts which will include activities related to civil works and
rehabilitation; procurement of laboratory and field equipment and goods; human resource streamlining;
training and operational costs.
Project Component 3 - US$ 1.17 million
Pilot Environmental Pollution Control Program
Investments in manure storage and handling facilities and bio-gas digesters, as well as soil and
water quality monitoring programs in the Khobi River watershed of westem Georgia that drains into the
Black Sea, will include the following activities:
* install and promote manure storage facilities/pits and handling system in villages for efficient
manure management;
* test, demonstrate and promote the use of bio-gas digesters in the villages to provide bio-gas for
cooking and other domestic use to farming families as well as to reduce methane emissions into the
atmosphere and to; and
o  establish a water quality monitoring program for the Khobi River watershed that drains into the
Black Sea.
The Khobi River watershed in westem Georgia comprises three districts: Khobi, Chkhorotsku and
Tsalenjika The selection of the watershed by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and Ministry of
Environment was endorsed by the appraisal mission.. The investment phase will be preceded by a pilot
study (in Terjola, Imereti) to determine the best design for the bio-gas digesters. This pilot phase has been
started, with financing from the PPF, and is expected to be completed by the end of 2000.
Investments in manure storage facilities and promotion of best management practices. This
sub-component will aim to install and promote manure storage and handling facilities for eligible farmers in
the selected watershed in western Georgia. Since 1991, farmers' production systems have been
decentralized and are primarily mixed crop/livestock operations. The manure produced from decentralized
animal production systems can be easily absorbed by the cereal production system if properly managed.
This sub-component will provide environmental advice to farmers on technologies for efficient and
cost-effective use of manure and slurry on croplands to reduce the risks of water contamination from
manure use and handling. These activities will include investmnents in manure storage tanks, slurry pits,
specialized equipment for manure spreading and handling, and on extension and outreach activities.
During the pilot phase, in the first year the project, about 30 manure storage tanks/pits will be
installed, and demonstration programs on the use of best management practices for erosion and pollution
control in selected villages of the project area will be established (Table 2.1). In subsequent years, the
frequency of installation of manure storage pits/tanks will be increased. It is expected that about 700
storage pits/tanks will be installed by project end.
Annex Table 2.1: Estimated number of manure storage tanks/pits to be instaUed
Region                       Year I    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Total
Watershed in Western Georgia   30        70        150       200        250       700
- 37 -



Proposals for the installation of manure storage tanks/pits will be invited from all qualified
contractors in Georgia and contracts will be awarded using standard World Bank procurement procedures.
The Project will provide handling equipment, in the form of manure spreaders and manure
transportation equipment, to the selected villages if needed. Villages selected for field demonstration study
will be located in the selected watershed that will also be used for ground and surface water quality
monitoring programs. Work on environment-friendly agricultural practices funded through the CGS will
be carried out simultaneously in the same geographical areas, to provide comprehensive demonstrations of
practices to reduce pollution and improve production. This would include on-farm trials and
demonstrations to promote the use of improved sustainable agricultural practices, such as reduced tillage,
better chemical and manure management systems, and buffer strips for reducing soil erosion and improving
water quality.
Investments in manure bio-dieesters. This sub-component will make investments in testing,
demonstrating and promoting the use of bio-gas digesters in villages as an alternative source of energy by
providing bio-gas for cooking and other domestic use and ultimately help in reducing the emission of green
house gases into atmosphere. The project will implement programs in installation, testing, and evaluation of
bio-gas digesters in selected villages and will provide training for farmers and contractors on the use and
maintenance of bio-digesters.
Bio-digesters will be tested and evaluated for their perfornance in these villages to select the most
desirable design and size for western Georgia before installing a relatively large number of bio-gas
digesters. Following work on design issues during the pre-project period and the first year of the project,
about 196 bio-digesters are expected to be installed by project end:
Annex Table 2.2: Estimated number of bio-gas digesters to be installed
Region                       Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Total
Watershed in Western Georgia  10        19        39         58         70         196
Since bio-gas technology is to be introduced slowly, training must be provided to farmers in
operating and maintaining the functions of bio-digesters such as feeding rates of manure, frequency of
feeding, quality of manure to be used for feeding, storage and handling of slurry from digesters. There is a
possibility that potential contractors may have to be trained on the use of quality material for construction
as well as construction techniques. Most farmers are not familiar with this technology and under the
proposed project, efforts will be made to educate them on the advantages of bio-digester use.
This demonstration component will familiarize and widen the understanding of farm/rural families
and the public at large of the benefits accruing from the use of bio-gas units through study tours, farm
visits, seminars/workshops and other outreach methods, including radio, video, leaflets and the Internet.
Part of the GEF funds will be used to provide training to technicians who will assist farmers in installation,
operation and maintenance procedures for the bio-gas units. The aim is to develop and build Georgia's
capacity for large-scale use of bio-digesters in the future.
The above GEF-funded activities will help in reducing non-point source pollution of Georgia's
water bodies as well as the Black Sea. Quantitatively, these sustainable practices have the potential of
reducing the discharge of chemicals and manure into water bodies by 20 - 30% from the project area.
- 38 -



Investments in a water auality monitoring program. This sub-component will make investments in
implementing a water quality monitoring program in the Khobi River watershed. A methodology for
monitoring water quality in the watershed will be developed in the first year of the project, and will be
based on internationally accepted technology and standards. A baseline study of water quality was started
during project preparation. Separate contracts will be signed with laboratories for carrying out monitoring
of groundwater, drainage water and soil quality on plots where any of the improved technologies will be
applied. Water quality will be tested regularly in the rivers Chanis Tskali and Khobis Tskali that drain
from the project area into the Black Sea. The dynamics of water quality in these rivers will be used as an
indicator of the rate of nutrient pollution in the project area.
Project Component 4 - US$0.71 million
Project Management Unit
The Project would provide for a Project Management Unit (PMU) to co-ordinate project
implementation and handle monitoring and evaluation of project activities. The PMU would be headed by
a Project Manager, who would report to the Minister of Agriculture and Food, and would comprise the
Environmental Engineer (heading the Environmental Pollution Control component), the Reform Component
Coordinator, an Administrative Officer and Secretary/Interpreter. All accounting, financial management,
procurement and disbursement matters would be handled by the World Bank Projects' Coordination Unit
(PCU) under the overall supervision of the Director, who reports to the Minister of Finance. The PCU
would be reimbursed for these services by the Project. The Project Manager would agree with the PCU on
the budget process and release of funds, and would report to the PCU on the use of the funds.
For the CGS component (component 1), the CGS Board would approve annual work plans and
budgets for each component and the PCU and CGS Secretariat would execute the decision of the CGS
Board as described in the Operational Manual. The head of the Secretariat would be functionally
responsible to the CGS Board, but will report administratively to the Project Manager. The Reform
Component Management Group would oversee the work on the Reform Component (component 2) while
the Environmental Engineer in the PMU would manage the Environmental Pollution activities (component
3). The Inter-Ministerial Commission (established by Presidential Decree #357, of May 28, 1998, to
oversee the reform of the Agricultural Research, Education and Extension System) would provide overall
guidance and support at the highest level.
- 39 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
GEORGIA: AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH, EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
1. Competitive Grant Scheme                                                            0.00
a) IDA Grants for Applied Research and Extension           2.55         0.85          3.40
b) GEF Grants for Dissemination of Pollution Reducing      1.09          0.25         1.34
Practices
c) Competitive Grant Scheme Secretariat                    0.71         0.23          0.94
2. Support for Reform of the Agricultural Research, Education,  1.63      1.89         3.52
and Extension System
3. Pilot Environmental Pollution Control Program (Biodigesters)  0.76     0.41         1.17
4. Project Management                                       0.70          0.01         0.71
Total Baseline Cost                                         7.44          3.64        11.08
Physical Contingencies                                     0.28          0.23         0.51
Price Contingencies                                        0.67         0.15          0.82
Total Project Costs               8.39          4.02         12.41
Total Financing Required                8.39         4.02         12.41
Note: The individual component totals shown here in Annex Table 3 will not match the Indicative financing
for each component in the Component Table in the Description section of the main text of the PAD. This
table requires that the cost of contingencies be separated from the components, and then shown as line
items in aggregate. By contrast, the Component Table in the Description section of the PAD shows totals
for each component which include that component's portion of physical and price contingencies.
- 40 -



Annex 4
GEORGIA: AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH, EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Predicting and quantifying economic costs and benefits ex-ante of research and extension activities
is problematic because the outcomes of the technology innovation or dissemination are not defined at the
time of project design, but instead evolve with the project through a process of priority setting and
consumer demand for the technologies. As a result economic returns from such an exercise are therefore
difficult to predict. Please see the Summary Project Analysis section of the main text above for more
informnation on the expected economic benefits, and fiscal impact, from the project.
- 41 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
GEORGIA: AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH, EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Years Ending
2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004
Hear 1Y     Year 2      Year 3     Year 4     Year 5     Year 6     Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            2.4        3.2        2.8         1.2       1.3
Recurrent Costs              0.3        0.3        0.3        0.3        0.3        0.0
Total Project Costs           2.7        3.5        3.1         1.5       1.6        0.0        0.0
Total Financing               2.7        3.5        3.1         1.5       1.6        0.0        0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                    1.8        2.5        2.0        0.6        0.6       0.0        0.0
Government                  0.4        0.4        0.3        0.3        0.3       0.0        0.0
Central                 0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries     0.1        0.2        0.3        0.0        0.1       0.0        0.0
Others                      0.4        0.4        0.5        0.6        0.6       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing      2.7        3.5        3.1         1.5        1.6       0.0        0.0
| Yearl     Year2      Year 3     Year 4  | Year 5      Year6      Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.7        0.7
Total Project Costs          0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0       0.7        0.7
Total Financing              0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0       0.7        0.7
Financing
IBRD/IDA                   0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Government                 0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.7        0.7
Central                0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.7         0.7
Main assumptions:
1.  The total Government contribution of US $1.7 million includes approximately US $540,000 in taxes.
2.  For the Operational Period, Years 6 - ?: The CGS proves the cost-effectiveness of using grants to
distribute limited government budget, and therefore government continues to finance the CGS at approx. US
$500,000 per year.
-42 -



3. For the Operational Period, Years 6 - ?: The government maintains core funding of the selected research
institute of approximately US $160,000 per year.
NOTE 1: "Others" in the Financing Implementation Table refers to Global Environment Facility (GEF).
NOTE 2: Due to rounding down in the Project Document System (PDS), the beneficiary contribution in
Project Year 4 is shown as 0.0. Beneficiaries will contribute approximately US $40,000 during PY4.
NOTE 3: Again due to rounding down in the PDS, and therefore, for consistency in summation between
tables, the Beneficiary contribution in Project Year 5 is shown as US $100,000. The actual amount of
Beneficiary contribution in PY5 is approximately US $25,000.
-43 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
GEORGIA: AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH, EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Procurement
The procurement arrangement for goods and services to be financed under the project, their estimated
costs and proposed methods of procurement are presented in Table A. All procurement of goods to be
financed from IDA credit proceeds would be procured in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines
for Procurement under IBRD loans and IDA Credits, January 1995, revised January and August 1996,
September 1997 and January 1999, and using the Bank's Standard Bidding documents. Consulting
Services and training would be procured in accordance with the Guidelines for Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, revised September 1997 and
January 1999. A "General Procurement Notice" containing inf6rmation about bidding opportunities
was published in January 2000, issue of Development Business before project negotiations in
accordance with paras. 2.7 and 2.8 of IBRD Guidelines. Specific Procurement Notices will also be
published, as appropriate, in Georgian newspapers with national circulation.
The PCU/PMU, staffed by a full time procurement specialist familiar with the Bank procurement
requirements (already on the staff of the PCU), would be responsible for procurement arrangements
with assistance of the PMU. Information regarding procurement administration would be collected and
recorded and quarterly reports would be sent to the Bank. These reports would indicate: (i) status of
procurement; (ii) an updated procurement plan; and (iii) compliance with aggregate limits on specified
methods of procurement.
Competitive Grant Contracts
The Competitive Grant Scheme (CGS) that funds the research and extension activities of the research
and extension community from the public and private sector form the main element of the project. The
CGS, administered by an Competitive Grant Board (CGB), will award research and extension grants
(estimated to range between $5,000-$100,000 based on an initial assessment of the likely size of
proposals that would need grant assistance) to successful applicants of the grants. The Secretariat of
the CGB will solicit research and extension proposals. The CGB will establish broadly the priority
areas of research and extension services, the procedures for applying for the grant, and the criteria for
review of proposals. All qualified private and public sector research, extension and farning
specialists/organizations will be eligible to submit proposals to the CGB, which will be reviewed with
the assistance of peer reviewers. Funds will be approved for projects based on pre-determnined criteria
outlined in the CGS Manual and will be directly disbursed to the successful applicants.
In exceptional situations, if for one specific scope of work and the same quality of proposal there are
more than one competing agencies, the following principles will guide procurement:
(a)    Government-owned universities, research institutes and extension agencies that do not
demonstrate independence and do not operate under commercial law will not compete with private
sector. However, they may be sub-consultants to private sector firms.
(b)   If one or more government-owned universities, research institutes and extension agencies are
able to provide the same services of equal quality, the following procedures may be applied:
-44 -



(i) Single-Source Selection when the case meets the criteria for this method of selection as set
out in paras. 3.8 to 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
(ii) Quality-Based Selection (QBS) when more than one of these institutions qualifies to
execute the assignment and the assignment meets the criteria set out in the Consultant
Guidelines (para. 3.2).
(iii) Selection Based on Qualifications when more than one of these institutions are uniquely
qualified to execute the assignment and the assignment meets the criteria set out in the
Consultant Guidelines (para. 3.7).
(c)  Government-owned universities, research institutes and extension agencies under the direct
control of the borrower shall be excluded from provision of services.
For research agreements, the grant will finance mainly the operating expenses, materials, field
labor, fuel and supplies, project related over head costs and some expenses for capital items such as
laboratory equipment, field equipment for small plots, vehicles, computers, technical bibliographic
material and office equipment. For the extension agreements, the grant will finance items such as field
demonstrations, leaflets, booklets, training, overhead costs, and some office equipment and vehicles.
Procurement under the CGS will be done by the successful grant applicants through competitive
procedures requiring as a minimum obtaining of three offers from three different suppliers/contractors
and their thresholds would be same as described under Goods and Services.
Applicants, who are awarded the research and extension grants will carry out their own
procurement as the items procured will vary significantly among the agreements depending on the
nature of their work. It may be difficult to package items in terms of economy and efficiency since the
items needed are quite small and needed at different times and at different places in the country. Also,
it is expected that most of the grant agreements will use project funds to finance their operating costs of
research and extension services.
The PMU will be responsible for supervising the technical and administrative aspects
respectively of the contracted research and extension services. In order to ensure transparency, the
successful CGS applicants will be required to keep all quotations, receipts and invoices of their
procurement requests for inspection by PCU supervisors. For the implementation of CGS, a detailed
Manual has been prepared by MAF which has been reviewed and agreed by the Bank.
The grants will be disbursed in tranches, and second and subsequent disbursements will require
approvals by the technical team and the administrative team in the PCU based on physical
implementation progress report and financial records.
Works
The works (estimated to cost US $871,000) to be financed would include construction of
biodigesters, and manure storage and handling structures, and will be procured through national
competitive bidding (NCB). These works to be implemented over the life of the project, are small,
labor intensive and scattered through the county. Due to the nature of works these contracts cannot be
packaged in larger packages.
-45 -



Goods
The goods (estimated to cost US $48,000) to be financed under the project would include
furniture, vehicles, and office equipment required for the Project Coordination Unit and the Secretariat
that administers the Competitive Grant Scheme. Furniture valued at not more than $11,250 in
aggregate will be procured through national shopping. Equipment packages valued under $50,000,
which would consist mainly of office computers, fax machines, copiers and vehicles would be procured
through national shopping obtaining price quotations from at least three qualified national suppliers.
Consultants for Technical Assistance and Training
The Consultants for TA and training will be selected competitively using the methods defined in
the Loan Agreement and procurement plan. PCU/PIU staff competitively hired under PPF/PHRD will
be financed under the project. The CG Secretariat core staff also hired competitively under PPF funds
will continue to be financed under the project. Other short-term consultants will be hired on an as
needed basis.
Reform of AKS
The reform of AKS will be defined only after the review of the institutes have been completed
(possibly in the second year of the project). The procurement of the works, goods and services, if any
will be procured through competitive procedures using the methods and thresholds defined in the Loan
Agreement.
Incremental Recurrent Costs
The recurrent costs associated with the project includes O&M costs of office and vehicles of the
PIU and Secretariat and their per diem cost for field travel.
Institutional Capacity building in Procurement
An assessment of MAF/PMU capacity to implement project procurement in accordance with the
criteria outlined in Annex 3 of LACI Implementation Handbook was completed. This review
addressed the legal aspects, procurement cycle management, organization and functions of the
procurement unit in the PMU, support and control systems, record keeping, and staffing. The review
assessed the risks (institutional, political, procedural etc.) that may negatively affect the ability of the
agency to carry out procurement processes and has rated it a high risk country. Therefore, the prior
review thresholds recommended are those applicable to a high risk country. In collaboration with PIU,
who already has a procurement specialist on its staff, an action plan to address deficiencies has been
prepared to strengthen PIU/PCU capacity to administer procurement in an effective and transparent
way as part of sound governance and good project management. This includes: (a) provide additional
training for procurement and PIU staff on the World Bank procurement procedures; (b) conduct a
comprehensive procurement training for all project related staff as part of the project launch workshop;
and (c) use of Bank's Standard Bidding Documents. The Bank will monitor procurement activities,
contract management and record keeping during periodic supervision missions. The Bank procurement
specialist will not only conduct ex-post reviews but will also provide guidance and support to the
PIU/PCU in carrying out the procurement plan.
-46 -



Prior Review
First two contracts for procurement of civil works, and first contract for procurement of goods
would be subject to prior review. Consulting contracts in excess of $100,000 for firms and $20,000
for individuals would be subject to prior review procedures. The Bank will also review, regardless of
value, terms of reference of all consultants. All other contracts would be subject to ex-post review by
the Bank on a random basis. The first international and national shopping contracts will also be
subject to World Bank prior review.
The Bank would review the all contracts awarded from the CGS. Any that do not correspond to the
eligible types established in the Operational Manual would also be subject to prior review.
-47 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Procurement Methods - Table A (in US $'000)
ICB       NCB       Other            NBF        Total          IDA          GEF-
financing    financing
Works
Environmental Pollution Control
Program Pilot (Biodigesters)
Sub-total                                         871.00                                      871.00
(779.81)                                                              (779.81)
Equipment
Vehicles                                                         13.35
Furniture                                                       11.25
Computers                                                       16.31
Communications Eq.                                                7.20
Sub-total                                                       48.11                          48.11
(40.89)                                    (40.89)
Consultants and Technical
Assistance
Sub-total                                                     1,539.70                      1,539.70
IDA                                                           (812.93)                                    (812.93)
GEF                                                            (726.77)                                                 (726.77)
Reform of AKIS
Study for AKIS Ref.
Implementation of AKIS Reform            800.00               1,554.21       1,313.65       3,667.86
(640.00)            (1,325.74)                                 (1,965.74)
Project Operating Cost
(Recurrent Cost)
Under IDA'                                                    1,538.56                       1,538.56
(1,312.39)                                 (1,312.39)
Under GEF                                                       97.63                          97.63
(82.99)                                                  (82.99)
Research and Extension Program
Competitive Grant Scheme
Under IDA                                                     3,630.61                      3,630.61
(3,115.06)                                 (3,115.06)
Under GEF                                                      835.00                         835.00
(709.75)                                                 (709.75)
Training and Public Awareness - GEF                            183.00                         183.00
(183.00)                                                 (183.00)
PPF
Sub-total                                                      293.01                         293.01      (293.01)
TOTAL                                                                                      12,704.48    (7,540.02)    (2,482.32)
IDA'                                                                                                    (7,540.02)
GEF''                                                                                                                 (2,482.32)
NOTE:
National Competitive Bidding for contracts for works (biodigesters) estimated to cost <US $ 100,000 in aggregate of US $871,000
National Shopping for contracts for goods estimated to cost -US $ 50,000 in aggregate of US $48,000
Research and extension grant Agreements - procurement will be based on the Competitive Grant Scheme selection proces (US $4.47 million)
Technical Assistance includes peer reviewer contracts, local and foreign specialists for adaptive research and extension, environmental
specialists, monitoring/evaluation specialists, AKS reform specialists. All TA specialists, will be contracted form private sector and thus,
not Government staff.
Training includes: training on biodigesters quality control, manure handling, environmentally friendily agricultural practices.
Reform of AKS will be defined only after the review of institutes have been completed (possibly in a second year of the project)
Recurrent cost includes administrative staff, drivers, office maintenance cost, consumables, utilities, translations and interpretations,
travel allowances, services to be provided by PIU (accounting, audit, procurement, and ministerial coord.) and miscellaneous expenditures.
- 48 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
(US$ mll on equivalent) Section 1: Pr curement Review            _       _      _
Goods and Civil      ICB          NCB           IS          NS           Minor       Other methods   Percentage of loan
Works                                                                Works                       amount subject to
prior review
Procurement         G > 0.100    W<0.500      n.a.       G<0.050         n.a.        n.a.
thresholds:                     (US$0.871)               (US$0.048)
individual and
aggregate, in ()
Prior Review        All          First two    n.a.       First          n.a.         n.a.              1.5%
Consultants         QCBS         QBS          LCS        Qualifications  Individual    Sole Source
Procurement         >0.200       n.a.         n.a.       <0.100         <$0.050*     Only cons.
method thresholds                                                                    contracts
competitively
selected under
PHRD/PPF
Prior Review        All          n.a.         n.a.       All            TORs for    All                US$0.63 million
all and                        or 8.5%
contracts
>0.020
Expost Review All   Explain briefly the ex-post review mechanism:
other procurement    All the remaining procurement packages will be subject to ex-post review. Supervision missions will include a
packages            procurement specialist as needed to assist the TM with ex-post reviews.
Section 2: Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance requirements
The capacity of the PIU, which will with the PCU implement the project, has been assessed. Based on the analysis compiled in the Attachment
2 of the Assessment, the result is that Georgia is high risk country form the public procurement point of view. It has been determined that PIU
is fully staffed and well equipped, and does have experience in Bank's project, procurement procedures and practices. The following is
recommended to build PIU capacity to undertake procurement: i) staff will be provided with the additional training during the project launch
workshop and other training organized by the World Bank and other institutions form time to time; ii) training shall also include the preparation
of documents for each type of the procurement method proposed in the loan agreement. PIU/PCU will follow the World Bank Standard bidding
documents, procedures, Guidelines and any other agreed procedures.
Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement  Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions of the first
Strategy Paper status: N/A                                    year ready by negotiations
IYes X No
* except for PMU Manager and Head of CGS Secretariat
- 49 -



5 7 0 2 2 L                                                                   f.;mLSetio' 3 Trainin  Infraiono ent- on   S roureen t  0  
Estimated date of    Estimated date of publication   Indicate if there is procurement   Domestic Preference for  Domestic Preference
Project Launch      of General Procurement Notice  subject to mandatory SPN in  Goods                for Works, if
Workshop            January 2000                Development Business                                 applicable
September 2000                                  Yes X                         Yes No X                Yes    No X
No
Retroactive financing                                                                 A    c precurement
Yes    No  X    Explain:                                                            Yes    No  X E.xpain:
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System: Procurement implementation progress will be monitored through progress reports and
supervision missions. Each supervision mission will include a procurement specialist. She/he will be responsible for updating the
procurement plan, and conducting ex-post reviews. His/her findings will be included in the supervision reports for monitoring their
implementation.
Co-financing: Explain briefly the procurement arrangements under co-financing: Procurement for GEF co-financing activities will be
administered by the PIU following the Bank procedures.
..6.4                   Sii    Prcuem7   Stf 7ing
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible for the procurement in the Project:
Name: SnezanaMitrovic,ProcurementSpecialist, Ext. 32812
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in procurement: A project officer in the Resident Mission would be responsible for
helping to supervise project implementation and would provide procurement support, in which she/he will have received training.
- 50 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit/grant proceeds (Table C)
Although the IDA Credit and GEF Grant will be implemented together - Allocation of Loan
Proceeds (Table C) - is presented twice, to clearly indicate the different categories for each source of
financing. The project will be implemented over a five year period, during which the total loan amount
from both sources of $10.02 million will be disbursed. This total does not include approximately US
$500,000 utilized during project preparation from a Project Preparation Facility. This amount will be
refunded from the proposed Irrigation and Drainage Rehabilitation Project. The proposed closing date for
the project will be December 31, 2005.
IDA Credit
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$ million      Financing Percentage
Parts A, C, and D
1) IDA Competitive Grants for             2.75           80% of total sub-project cost
Applied Research and Extension
2) Consultant Services and Training                                100%
a) under Parts A, C, and D of the         1.07
Project
b) for the detailed design of Part B      0.10
of the Project
3) Goods                                  0.03                 100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory
costs); 80% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
4) Incremental Operating Costs            1.21                      80%
- 51 -



Part B
5) Reform of Priority Institutions                2.04                     To be detenrnined
(a) Goods                                           --                      100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory
costs); 80% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
(b) Consultant Services                                                          100%
(c) Works                                                                   100% of foreign
expenditures; 80% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
(d) Incremental Operating Costs of                                                80%
HVWI for Part B                                                     l
6) Unallocated - IDA                               0.34
TOTAL                                              7.54
Incremental Operating Costs include: salaries of project management staff; office maintenance; vehicle operation and
maintenance; local travel; and public relations. This definition also pertains to Incremental Operating Costs under the GEF
(see below).
- 52 -



Table C: Allocation of Credit/Grant Proceeds
- Expenditure    2  aategory  Amount in USml in aFinancing Percentage
GEF Competitive Grants for                 0.89               80% of total sub-project cost
Dissemination of Pollution Reducing
Practices
Civil Works - GEF (Pilot                   0.79           100% of foreign expenditures; 80% of
Environmental Pollution Control                             local expenditures for other items
Program)                                                           procured locally
Consultant Services and Training - GEF     0.63                         100%
Incremental Operating Costs - GEF          0.08                         80%
Unallocated - GEF                          0.08
Total Project Costs                        2.47
Total                                      2.47
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
For both the IDA Credit and the GEF Grant, the following disbursements will be supported by full
documentation: (a) goods with a contract value of US$50,000 equivalent per contract or more; (b) services
with a contract value of US$ 100,000 or more for consulting firms, and US$20,000 or more for individual
consultants. All other disbursements will be made on the basis of State of Expenditures (SOEs) against
eligible expenditures. Supporting documentation for SOEs will be retained by the Borrower, be made
available to the Bank during supervision, and be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank.
Although project funds will be initially disbursed under the Bank's established procedures,
including Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), there is the option of disbursing on the basis of submitted
Project Management Reports (PMRs). A change to PMR-based disbursements will however only be made
at the mutual agreement of the Government and the Bank and will be considered once the PCU is familiar
with the project's monitoring aspects and is considered able to produce sufficiently timely and reliable
project management information. A change to PMR-based disbursements will be considered by December
31, 2000.
Special account:
As noted elsewhere, the PCU for the Agriculture Development Project will serve this project
administratively for financial, procurement, and disbursement matters. The PCU will open and manage
two new Special Accounts specifically for this project, one for the IDA Credit and one for the GEF Grant,
in a Georgian commercial bank acceptable to the Bank. For the IDA SA, the total authorized allocation
will be US $750,000. At project start, the initial allocation to the SA will be limited to US $300,000.
When total disbursements from the Credit, plus outstanding commitments, equal or exceed SDR 1,500,000
equivalent, the total authorized allocation will be made available. For the GEF SA, the total authorized
allocation will be US $250,000. At project start, the initial allocation to the SA will be limited to US
$125,000. When total disbursements from the Grant, plus outstanding commitments, equals or exceeds
SDR 500,000 equivalent, the total authorized allocation will be made available. Withdrawal applications
- 53 -



for the replenishments of both SAs will be sent to the Bank on a monthly basis, or when the balance of the
SA is equal to about half of the initial deposit or the authorized allocation, whichever comes first. The SAs
will be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
Financial management:
Financial Management Assessment: The overall responsibility for financial management of the project
will rest with the PCU. The PCU already includes a full complement of accountants to support the needs
of the other projects being implemented by the PCU, and this complement will be increased as required
during project implementation. The Bank conducted a financial management assessment of the PCU and
concluded that the PCU's financial management arrangements did satisfy the Bank's minimum
requirements and is capable of producing the Bank's Project Management Reports (see below). However,
the PCU is going to implement a new accounting software system with better functionality than its existing
software system that should result in increased efficiency. An action plan to implement the new accounting
software system is included within the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). The PIP contains a fuller
description of the project's financial management arrangements.
Project Management Reports: The agreed formats of the Project Management Reports (PMRs) are
included within the PIP and the PCU will produce these PMRs for every calendar quarter throughout the
life of the project.
AuditArrangements: External audits by independent private auditors acceptable to the Bank and on terms
of reference acceptable to the Bank are already being satisfactorily performed in respect of the other
Bank-financed projects for whose financial management the PCU is currently responsible. The audit
arrangements of these other projects will therefore be extended to include the ARET project beginning with
the year ending December 31, 2000 and annually thereafter for the life of the project. The results of the
audits of the ARET project will be available within six months of the end of the relevant fiscal year and the
cost of the audit will be financed by the project. The combined terms of reference for the audit of the
ARET project together with the other projects being coordinated by the PCU is included within the Project
Implementation Plan (PIP).
- 54 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
GEORGIA: AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH, EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
'Project Schedule                                  Planned                      At:tual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       8                            8
First Bank mission (identification)             05/25/98                      09/25/98
Appraisal mission departure                      09/01/99                     09/26/99
Negotiations                                    03/01/2000                    01/24/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   07/15/2000
Prepared by:
Ministry of Agriculture / Ministry of Environment / PIU
Preparation assistance:
PPF, PHRD funds
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
lain Shuker                       Program TL - Financial and Economic Analysis
Jitendra Srivastava               Project TTL - Competitive Grant Scheme/Agricultural Research and
Extension
Snezana Mitrovic                  Procurement
David Bontempo                    Project Costs
Meeta Sehgal                      Project Analyst
Ranjan Ganguli                    Financial Management Specialist
Darejan Kapanadze                 Project Operations
John Hayward                      Quality Assurance
Sharifa Kalala                    Team Assistant
Peer Reviewers:--
Mahesh Sharma                     Environment
Derek Byerlee                     Agricultural Research
- 55 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
GEORGIA: AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH, EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
1. Operating Manual for the CGS - main text plus annexes - prepared by Project Preparation Unit (PPU)
2. Organization and Operating Costs of CGS Secretariat - PPU
3. Implementation Plan for CGS - PPU
4. Operational Plan for Reform of Agricultural Research, Education and Extension System - PPU/M.
Boyd, ISNAR
5. Draft Project Implementation Plan - PPU
6. Report on the Implementation Plan for Pilot Study on Agricultural Practices that Reduce Environmental
Pollution
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Financial Management Assessment - prepared by Financial Management Specialist; April 10, 2000
C. Other
1. Background Data on the Agriculture Sector -prepared by PPU
2. Coumtry Profile - prepared by ISNAR
3. Farming Structure and Development Constraints (Conclusion of Farm Surveys) - PPU
4. Impact of Land Reform on Farm Structure - PPU
5. Environmental Impact Assessment of Agricultural Practices - Ramesh Kanwar, Consultant
6. Environmental Study - PPU/Local Consultants
7. Improved Agricultural Practices to Reduce Pollution; The Biogas Initiative - Keith Openshaw,
Consultant
8. Reform: Agricultural Research, Extension and Training - prepared by Ministry of Agriculture and Food
9. "Conceptual Framework for a National Strategy for Reform of the Agricultural Research, Education and
Extension System" - prepared by Ministry of Agriculture and Food, Georgian Academy of Agricultural
Sciences and Georgian State Agrarian University
*Including electronic files
- 56 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
GEORGIA: AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH, EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions             disbursements'
Project ID     FY   Borrower                         Purpose                                 IBRD        IDA          Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig   Frm Rev'd
P006415         1997 Georgia                       AGRICULTURE OEVELOP.                         0.00        15.00        0.00         4.48      -2.48       0.00
P055573         1998 Georgia                        CULTURAL HERITAGE                           0.00        4.49         0.00         3.27       1.39       0.00
P064094         1999 Georgia                       ENERGYSECAC                                  0.00       25.00         0.00        12.17      8.61        0.00
P008416         1999 Georgia                       ENTERPRISE REHABIL.                          0.00        15.00        0.00        12.87       2.88       0.00
P008414         1996 Georgia                       HEALTH                                       0.00        14.00        0.00         7.40       7.87       0.00
P050911         1999 Georgia                       INTEG COASTAL MGT                            0.00        4.40         0.00         3.92      0.47        0.00
P057813         1999 Georgia                       JUDICIAL REFORM                              0.00       13.40         0.00        12.65      -0.68       0.00
P050910         1998 Georgia                       MUNICIPAL DEV.                               0.00       20.90         0.00        16.79     10.48        0.00
P008417         1995 Georgia                       MUNICIPAL INFRA. REH                         0.00       18.00         0.00         0.46       2.08       0.00
P035784         1997 Georgia                       POWER REHAB.                                 0.00       52.30         0.00         2.43       2.52       0.00
P052153         1999 Georgia                       SAC III                                      0.00       60.00         0.00        39.67     52.07        0.00
P039929         1998 Georgia                       SOCIAL INVEST. FUND                          0.00       20.00         0.00        1424        6.72       0.00
P052154         1999 Georgia                       STRUCT. REF. SUPPORT                         0.00        16.50        0.00        15.53       0.82       0.00
P056514         1999 Georgia                       TRNSPT MIN RESTRUCT.                         0.00        2.30         0.00         2.22       2.03       0.00
Total:        0.00      281.29         0.00       148.10      94.78       0.00
- 57 -



GEORGIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1 -Jul- 1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1997               Georgia G&MW Co.                0.00    2.80     0.00    0.00    0.00    2.80     0.00    0.00
1999               Georgia M-F Bank                0.00    0.48    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.48     0.00    0.00
1998               Ksani                           6.32    2.50    0.00     0.00    0.00    2.50     0.00    0.00
1998               TBC Bank                        3.00    0.00    0.00     0.00     1.20    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               TbilComBank                     3.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.68    0.00     0.00    0.00
1999               ninotsminda                     0.00    0.00    6.00     0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        12.32    5.78    6.00     0.00     1.88    5.78     0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi    Paric
1997               GGMW                              0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
2000               GGMW RI                           0.00      0.00    181.70       0.00
1998               TBC Bank                          0.00      0.00   1000.00      0.00
2000               TCW LA Fund                       0.00      0.00  70000.00       0.00
2000               Telasi                        30000.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
1998               Titan Vinyl                   18500.00   3500.00      0.00  34020.00
Total Pending Commitment:     48500.00   3500.00  71181.70  34020.00
-58 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
GEORGIA: AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH, EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Europe &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Central   middle-- 
Georgia       Asia  income        Development diamond'
19ts
Population. mid-year (millions)                         5A4       473        908                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (AItis method, USS)                      930      2,90      1.710
GNP (Atlas methoct. USS billions)                       5,1      1,039     1,557
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population (%)                                          -04.1      0.1       1.1
Labor force (i/t)                                      -01         0.6       1 5      GNP                              Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1992-98)                                 per                             primary
capita           4/,         enrollment
Poverty (% of popula tion below neftonal poverty line)   11          ,         .. 1I
Urban population (% of total population)                 60         68        58
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         73         69        68
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                 17         23        38
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                ..                                    Access to safe water
Access to sate water (% of populatliot)                   .                   75
Illiteracy (I% of population age f5+)                    ..          4        14
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)    88        100       103             Georgia
Male                                                   89       101        105        -- Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                 88        99        100
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENOS
1977     1987       1997      1998
GDP (USS billions)                                                 5.2       5.1
Gross domestic investment/GDP                          28.6        7.2       7.8                      T
Exports of goods ari services/GOP                      41.6       12.6      13.8                       rade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                             29.7       -6 3       -6.4
Gross national savings/GDP                       .,      ..        1 5       1.S
Current account balance/GDP                               .        -7 2      -7.9      o     cv
Interest payments/GDP                           ,,       ,,        0.4       0.2      Domestic                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                                            ..      29.4      32.8      Savings
Total debt servicelexports                               ,.        5.4      19.0
Present value of debt/GDP                        .
Present value of debt/exports                   ..
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98     1997       1998   1999-93
(average annual growfh)
GDP                                  35      -15.4     11.0        2.9       4.1             Georgia
GNP per capita                       2.7    -14.3      16.7        2,7       4.0                Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services          ..       ..    29.6         2.9       9,2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997      1998      Growth rates of output and investment (h)
(% of GDP)                                                                            n00
Agriculture                                     ..    24.2        29.2      26.0      450
Industry                                               38.0       15.8      15.8      30-
Manufacturing                                         28.0      15.9       15.6     3tt
Services                                               37.8       55.0      58.2
Private consumption                                    56.9       97.2      97.5    -150      93   94   95   96   97   98
General government consumption                  ..    13.4         9.1       8.9                -GD0  GDP
Imports of goods and services                   ..    40.4        26.1      28.0
1977-87  1988-98       1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                               ..       3.0       -8.0    60
Industry                                                 ..       16.0       3.0    40
Manufacturing                                           ..        5.0       1.0 
Se rvices   i.n .. 5.20 1.
Private consumption                                       ..      24.6      10.0      o      __,    ,  __    ,   _
General government consumption                            ..      19.3       7.2        .    93   94    ,      n
Gross domestic investment                                 ..      41.4      10.3    20
Imports of goods and services                   ..       ..       52.9      14.7              -Exports    Olmponsn
Gross national product                         3.5    -14.4       16.0       2.7
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 59 -



Georgia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                                  1977      1987        1997       1998       Inflation ()
(% change)                                                                                  20000
Consumer prices                                     ..        ..         7.1       3.6      10.000
Implicit GDP deflator                              1.4       2.3         7.0       3.4      10.00
Government finance                                                                          5.000
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                             0                                .
Current revenue                                     ..        ..         9.8      10.9                 93    94 9s    96    97   99
Current budget balance                              ..        ..         0.0       0.0                -     G`GDP defator   eCPI
Overall surplus/deficit                             ..        ..        -4.6      -4.3
TRADE
1977     1987       1997       1998       Export and import levels (USS millions)
(US$ millions)I
Total exports (fob)                                  ..       ..        494        473      1.200
Black metal                                       ..         ..        115       1111
Tea                                                                     41        38        900
Manufactures                            ..                    ..      219        223
Total imports (cif)                                                    1,052     1,164       6
Food                                               .         .        286        332        300.
Fuel and energy19                                                                18
Capital goods19                                                                  23
92   93   94   95   9S   97   9;
Export price index (1995=100)                       ..        ..         90         93
Import price index (1995=100)                                 ..        101         93                  wExports       EIeporns
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                     ..         89        100
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1977      1987       1997       1998       Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                                 ..        661        705       0   -
Imports of goods and services                                 ..       1,368     1,437            92
Resource balance                                              --        707       -732       -3
Net income                                                     ..       134        115
Net current transfers                                                    196       211        s|
Current account balance                                       ..       -376       -406
Financing items (net)                                         ..        315        315
Changes in net reserves                                        ..        61         91      .12
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)              ..
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)                     ..       ..         1.3        1.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977      1987       1997       1998
(US$ millions)                                                                               Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                 ..       ..       1,542     1,682
IBRD                                               ..       ..          0                                 F 
IDA                                               ..        ..        227        300                                   B300
Total debt service                                   ..       ..          46       171
IBRD                                                                    0          0     |
IDA                                               1.         .                     I
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                               C: 302
Official grants                          .-                 ..         55
Official creditors                                ..        ..         78        -73
Private creditors                                                       0         -1            E: 999
Foreign direct investment                         .         ..         50                                                 .3
Portfolio equity                                                        0
World Bank program                                                                          A - IBRD                         E - Bilateral
Commitments                                       ..        ..        174         26      B - IDA    0 - Other multilateral   F - Private
Disbursements                                     ..        ..         64         73     IC-IMF                           G - Short-termn
Principal repayments                              ..        ..          0          0
Net flows                                         ..        ..         64        73
Interest payments                                           ..          1          1
Net transfers                                               ..         63         72
Development Economics                                                                                                           10/14/99
- 60 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
GEORGIA: AGR. RESTRUCTURING EXTENSION & TRAINING PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA SHEET FOR PROJECTS
in the IBRD/IDA Lendin Program - DRAFT
Country:              Georgia                Project ID No.:        GE-PE-55068
Project Name:         Agricultural Research,   Total Project Cost:  12 Million
Extension and Education
Project
Appraisal Date:       September 1999
Board Date:           May-June 2000          Team Leader:           Mr. Jitendra P.
Srivastava
Managing Unit:        ECSSD                  Sector:                Environmentally and
Socially Sustainable
Development
Est. date for receipt of
EA by Bank:
EA Category (A/B/C):  C                      Date Assigned:         March 4, 1999
Date Sheet Prepared/Updated:  02/11/1999
(Please do not leave any items blank: use "N/A" or "To be developed" when appropriate)
Major Project Components: ( present description of project components)
The objective of this project is to increase sustainable agricultural production while reducing the pollution
of natural resources. The proposed project would work towards this goal by developing efficient,
cost-effective, sustainable and responsive (to the needs of farmers and agro-processors) agricultural
knowledge and information systems with the full participation of all stakeholders. The consequent
redirection in the technology-generation-and-transfer system would lead to the adoption of agricultural
practices that are both economically and environmentally sustainable. The project would have three
components as follows:
(i) Adaptive Research and Extension
(ii) Support for the reform of the agricultural research, extension and education system
(iii) Reducing Pollution from Agricultural Practices to the Black Sea.
Major Environmental Issues: (describes major environmental issues identified or suspected in project)
N/A
-61 -



Other Environmental Issues: (describes environmental issues of lesser scope associated with project)
It is anticipated that since the project would contribute to a more sustainable and environmentally
responsible use of agricultural resources, the overall impacts of the project will be positive. Competitive
Grant Scheme-funded (CGS) activities under the environment component will be screened for their impact
on the environment to ensure that there are no negative impacts or that the proposal has incorporated
mitigating measures.
Efficient use of farm inputs has been identified as one of the priority areas of research and extension needs
of farmers and agro-processors. Some of the CGS funds would be directed to research and extension
conitracts to address this concern of farmers and agro-processors and would over time contribute to a
reduction of nutrient runoff from the crop sector. In the livestock sector, the project is expected to support
interesting and innovative research and extension proposals relating to the use of organic wastes and
biodigesters.
Demand-driven productivity-oriented farming is expected to promote the efficient and effective use of
agriculture inputs. Research proposals which imply any adverse environmental effects will not be funded.
In fact, because of the nature of the work likely to be funded, there should be long term environmental,
welfare and health and safety benefits. The project will support environmentally-friendly and socially
sensitive agricultural practices.
Most of the CGS-funded extension contracts would address environmental issues in a positive manner and
would, in many instances, include improved agricultural practices, and more efficient use of organic farm
wastes. This would reduce the impact that agriculture is having on the environment and could help
address other problems such as soil erosion.
Proposed Actions: (describes actions proposed to mitigate environmental issues described in project)
None necessary
Justification/Rationale for Environmental Category: (reasons for env. category selected & explation of
any changes from initial classification)
The project is primarily designed to provide Technical Assistance. There is no anticipated negative
environmental impact resulting from project activities. However, all physical investments will be screened
in accordance with Georgia's environmental regulations to address any impacts that might arise.
Status of Category A Environmental Assessment: (presents EA start-up date, EA first draft, and current
status)
N/A
Remarks: (gives status of any other environmental studies, lists local groups and local NGOs consulted,
tells whether borrower has given permission to release EA, etc.
Signed by:                                               Signed by:
Jitendra P. Srivastava, Team Leader                      Karin Shepardson
for Michele de Nevers, Sector Leader
-           December 15, 1998
- 62 -



Additional
Annex No.: 12
Approval of Environmental component by GEF Council
Type    Proponent    Country               Title            Response Date        Remarks
FP      WB            Georgia     Agricultural Research,   5/7/99             Approved by and
Extension and Training                     subject to
additional
Council
comments
-63 -



Additional
Annex No.: 13
GEF Incremental Cost Analysis
GEORGIA
Agricultural Research Extension and Training (ARET) Project
Overview
1.    The general objectives of the GEF Altemative are to protect the quality of water of the Black Sea
by reducing point and non-point sources of pollution and promote biogas as an alternative source of energy.
The project development objectives for the GEF component are to: (i) take steps to protect the quality of
water of the Black Sea from non-point sources of pollution by promoting improved agricultural practices,
such as the use of reduced tillage, crop diversification and rotation, terracing, contour farming and buffer
strips; (ii) improved manure handling, storage and application and better nutrient management systems; and
(iii) promote the use of bio-digesters as an altemate source of energy, thus reducing dependence on wood
for fuel and controlling carbon emissions into the atmosphere. GEF funding will help remove institutional,
financial and knowledge barriers, which currently act as disincentive to the adoption of environmentally
sustainable agricultural practices and clean energy sources by farmers and rural populations, respectively.
The GEF Altemative intends to achieve this at a total incremental cost of about US$2.5 million which will
be financed by GEF.
Context and Development Goals
2.     Georgia is a mountainous country, with a diversity in climate, soils, crop and livestock production
systems. According to 1997 statistics, the total land area of Georgia is 6.97 million hectares of which
about 3 million ha is agricultural land including 0.5 million ha under arable agriculture. In addition, a little
more than 3 million ha is under forest and woodland. Georgia is divided into two main watersheds --
westem and eastern -- with almost all major rivers originating in the central mountain ridge, an area
marked by glaciers and numerous small mountain lakes. The average annual rainfall varies from 2000 to
4000 mm in the westem watershed and 400 to 500 mm in the eastern watershed. The westem watershed,
covering an area of nearly 3.27 million hectares results in average runoff of about 41 billion cubic meters
which drains into Black Sea. The eastem watershed covering an area of nearly 3.73 million ha. This
generates an average runoff of about 12.7 billion cubic meters which drains into Azerbaijan and then
eventually into the Caspian Sea.
3.     Agriculture is the main sector of Georgian economy, accounting for 28% of GDP and as much as
55% of employment in 1997. During Soviet times, agriculture and livestock production systems were
highly intensified in Georgia to meet the food and fiber needs of the Soviet republics. Agricultural
production systems were unsustainable - absence of conservation tillage and crop rotation and
diversification, excessive use of and improper storage of mineral fertilizers and pesticides, etc. Such
farming practices caused soil erosion and the movement of fertilizers and pesticides to rivers, which
resulted in Black Sea pollution. Also, animal production systems, especially swine and poultry, were
highly industrialized (i.e. too many pigs and poultry at one concentrated location) resulting in large
amounts of manure draining into major water bodies that fed into the Black Sea. All these pollutants
affected the bio-diversity and attractiveness of the area. Tourism declined. Dissolved oxygen levels
-64 -



diminished, adversely affecting fishing stocks and predatory jellyfish became dominant. Thus, the
environment and the economy of littoral nations have suffered and will continue to do so, unless urgent
measures are taken.
4.    Since independence in 1991, the broad development goals of Georgia focus on public sector
restructuring; private sector development; social protection and poverty reduction and environmental
protection. The Government's overall development agenda attempts to focus on these issues consolidating
the stabilization recently achieved, strengthening the current economic recovery while protecting the
environment. The Government of Georgia has taken important steps toward improved environmental
management in recent years, including the "Environment Protection Law", the "Law on Environmental
Permits", and the "Law on State Ecological Expertise". A National Environment Action Plan (NEAP) is
under consideration for formal adoption by the Govemment. Recognizing the importance of protecting the
waters of the Black Sea, Georgia signed and ratified the Bucharest Convention for the Protection of the
Black Sea Against Pollution (1992) and signed the Odessa Ministerial Declaration (1993). Further, the
govemment cf Georgia collaborated with other Black Sea coastal countries, and developed the Black Sea
Strategic Action Plan. Under this plan, Georgia agrees to reduce nutrient loads into the Black Sea by
adopting environmentally friendly agricultural practices and thus preserve the country's rich biological
diversity and natural resource base for future generations.
5.    In addition, Georgia ratified the Framework Convention on Climate Change in July 1994. Its
National Communication under the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change is currently being
prepared. The document will analyze the potential measures to reduce GHG emissions and to adapt to
climate change. Georgia is currently preparing an inventory of GHG emissions and is making vulnerability
assessments for the Black Sea coastal zone. Preliminary investigations into the agriculture sector reveal the
use of fertilizer as an activity of serious concem, and recommends improved land cultivation technologies,
including irrigation.
Baseline Scenario
6. The baseline scenario includes the activities under this project but without GEF support. This may
encourage non-point source pollution from increased agricultural productivity in Georgia, contributing
significant and excessive loads of nutrients into the Black Sea that may lead to widespread eutrophication
and the ecological damage and economic losses associated with this process. The long-tenm implication
will be continued degradation of a globally significant intemational waterbody and its associated
bio-diversity in the shared coastal and marine environment of the Black Sea.
7.    Since transition, unsustainable timber harvesting has accelerated to meet fuel needs for farming
operations, heating, cooking and other domestic use. This has led to the accompanying consequences of
excessive carbon emissions into the atmosphere, deforestation, and loss of natural habitat, to name a few.
The Baseline Scenario does not include an effective mechanism to address this issue. Biogas could be a
cost-effective and environmentally friendly altemative to the current fuel mix. However, its widespread use
is hampered by a number of barriers, including behavioral adjustments (inadequate manure handling),
technological risks (performance of digesters in cold climates), lack of familiarity and lack of capacity for
service and maintenance.
8.    Costs. Total expenditures under the Baseline Scenario are estimated at US$9.93 million, including
US$1.72 from the Government of Georgia.
- 65 -



Global Environmental Objective
9.     The global environmental objective of the project is to demonstrate the application of
environment-friendly on-farm agricultural practices to reduce nutrient loads entering the Black Sea and
help decrease GHG emissions over time. The dissemination and outreach features of the project will
contribute to its replicability. The role of the GEF in this project is to reduce farmers' perceived risks in
adopting environmentally friendly on-farm agricultural practices and remove barriers for their adoption. It
would demonstrate that farmers who adopt these measures are able to get the most beneficial use out of
their lands and miniimize negative impacts on the environment while improving the health of the Black Sea
ecosystem. In tum, this should lead to a sustainable increase in economic activities such as fishing and
tourism and to a healthier and wealthier population. Finally, activities promoted under the GEF Altemative
will facilitate the sharing of experiences on the search for feasible and affordable solutions to deal with
non-point source pollution from agriculture to intemational water bodies.
10.    Scope. The GEF Altemative would provide the means (above and beyond the Baseline Scenario)
for meeting the proposed project's goals. Specifically, it will: (i) install and promote manure storage and
handling tanks in villages for efficient manure management; (ii) provide manure spreaders/applicators for
efficient and cost-effective use of manure on croplands, together with judicious use of mineral fertilizers;
(iii) conduct on-farm trials and demonstrations to promote the use of improved sustainable agricultural
practices, including reduced tillage, better chemical management systems, terracing, contour farming and
buffer strips for water quality benefits; (iv) establish a water quality monitoring program; and (v) promote
use of bio-digesters in the villages to reduce carbon emissions into the atmosphere and to provide biogas for
cooking and other domestic use.
11.    Costs. The total cost of the GEF Alternative is estimated at US$ 12.41 million detailed as follows:
(i) Component 1: Competitive Grant Schemes for adaptive research and improved agricultural practices --
US$5.60 million (GEF financing - US$1.19); (ii) Component 2: Support for Reform of Agricultural
Research, Extension and Training; - US$4.14 million (same as baseline); (iii) Component 3: Pilot
Environmental Pollution Control Program - US$1.82 million (GEF financing -- US$1.29); and (iv) Project
Implementation Unit - US$0.85 million.
Benefits
12.   Domestic and International Benefits. The GEF Altemative would go beyond the Baseline
Scenario by allowing the project to promote environmentally friendly agricultural and rural practices that
will reduce non-point sources of pollution to the Black Sea as well as carbon emissions into the atmosphere
which has strong implications for global climate and human health. Given the country's precarious
budgetary situation, the government can ill-afford to spend scarce funds as financial incentives to farmers
to reduce nutrient loads into the Black Sea for regional and global gains, nor invest in promoting biogas as
an alternative source of clean energy source for global benefits. GEF funds will allow additional
investments in sustainable farm management practices and manure storage etc. in the selected project area
of Khobi, Chkhorotku and Tsalenjikha regions that have an impact on the Black Sea and provide willing
farmers with an alternate source of clean energy. Under the GEF Altemative, the promotion of improved
sustainable agricultural practices and a decrease of manure flushing into water systems will provide greater
environmental benefits and augment the demonstration potential of the exercise. It should also improve
farm profitability. It will promote a public awareness program to effectively explain the benefits of
improved environmental practices at farm level. It will also allow the development of a strategy for project
replication within Georgia and intemationally.
-66 -



13.   The proposed project is a pilot activity in the western part of Georgia comprising the three districts
of Khobi, Chkhorotku and Tsalenjikha. Table I gives an estimate of global benefits on the project area of
64,100 hectares assuming that, by the end of the project, all farmers in the area are taking advantage of the
benefits the project is demonstrating. This assumes that all arable land of 20,100 ha is included in
improved farming practices, that the 37,000 t. of dry manure from the equivalent of 75,600 cattle are
handled and stored efficiently and 200 biogas units are in operation.
Table 1: Estimated Global Benefits from the Project Initiatives.
Units: Tonnes per year
Project initiative                             Saving of pollution
N              P             C02           Organic matter
Improved farming practices      500            50
Appropriate manure handling etc.   500         200           -              17,500
Biogas digesters and slurry use      (including above)       2,300         2,300
Total                            1,000        | 250           2,300         17,500
Note: Through improved fanming practices, there is an annual saving of dissolved nutrients flowing into the
Black Sea of 25 kg/ha N and 2.5 kg/ha P.
The animals on the project produce an estimated 37,000 dry tonnes of manure each year. This is
made up of 1,100 t. N, 400 t. P, 400 t. K and 200 t. of other minerals. The remaining 35,000 t. are
of biodegradable material. It is assumed that through improved handling, half of the manure is
prevented from being flushed into the river systems and hence into the Black Sea.
Source: Agricultural statistics collected by the Project Team. Romania Agricultural Pollution Control
project (PCD).
14.   Over a 20 year time period, the estimated saving of pollution flowing into the Black Sea from the
project area is the equivalent of 20,000 t. of N, 5,000 t. of P and 350,000 t. of biodegradable matter. In
addition, the equivalent of 46,000 t of C02 will not be vented into the atmosphere.
15.    This is a demonstration project that will provide training to farmers in the whole of Georgia and
surrounding countries. If after 10 years, all the farmers in Westem Georgia adopted similar practices, then
the estimated annual saving of pollutants flowing into the Black Sea are: N 10,750 t.; P 2,575 t.; and
biodegradable materials 175,000 t. There should be a saving of 11,600 t. C02 equivalent, for every 1,000
digesters installed. The possible global benefits from this GEF initiative are considerable. In addition, the
fanner will benefit from reduced input costs and increased productivity.
Incremental Costs
16.    The difference between the cost of the Baseline Scenario US$9.93 million and the cost of the GEF
- 67 -



Alternative US$12.41 million is US$2.48 million, which will be financed by GEF. This amount represents
the incremental cost of achieving the global environmental benefits of reduced degradation of intemational
waters and carbon emissions into the atmosphere detailed above.
Incremental Cost Matrix
Component                Cost         US$   Domestic Benefit    Global Benefits
Category    Mill.
International      Climate
Water               Change
1. Competitive Grant     Baseline     4.41   Improved local      Reduced nutrient
Scheme                                       capacity and        loads into the Black
knowledge to        Sea by making
Adaptive research and                        respond to the      available
Technology dissemination                     demands of          environmentally
(IDA funding)                                emerging private    sustainable
farners for        agricultural
Improve Agricultural                         technology          technologies.
Practices to Reduce                          innovation.
Pollution - On-farm Trials
and Demonstration of
sustainable practices, such
as reduced tillage, manure
handling systems, etc
(GEF funding)                                 _
With GEF    5.60   Improved land-use    Reduction of        Increased
practices and water   nutrient loads into    carbon
quality.           the Black Sea to    sequestration
Reduced soil        guard against
erosion.           eutrophication and
Increased          protect natural
profitability of    habitat.
agriculture        Enhanced
production.        technology transfer
Increased rural    opportunities
incomes.           between riparian
countries.
Incremental  1.19
2. Reform of the         Baseline     4.14   Strengthened policy   Reduced nutrient
Agricultural Research,                       and structural      loads by improving
Education and Extension                      framework for       extension and
System                                       agricultural        research services.
research, education
and extension.
With GEF    4.14   Same as above.       Same as above.
Incremental  0.00
3a. Pilot Environmental    Baseline b    0.53   Energy provided by   Increased nutrient    Increased
Pollution Control Program                    wood and imported   loads into the Black   GHG
-- Biogas Units                              kerosene            Sea                 emissions
-68 -



With GEF        1.47    Improved                 Reduction of            Reduced
(CC)c                   environmental            nutrient loads in the    GHG
protection &            Black Sea.              emissions.
nutrient                Reduce BOD
management              discharges.
Reduced pressure        Enhanced
on forest &             possibilities for
imported kerosene       technology transfer
Reduced health          between riparian
hazards                 countries.
Incremental   0.94
3b. Water Quality              Baseline       0.00
Monitoring
With GEF       0.35     Improved national        Enhanced credibility
(IW)d                   and regional             of riparian countries
monitoring              on environmental
capabilities            benefits of
agricultural
practices to reduce
nutrient loads.
Incremental   0.35
4. PIU - Project               Baseline        0.85     Increased capacity
Implementation Unit                                     for project
management:
project successfully
imnplemented
With GEF       0.85      Same as above           (IW)                    (CC)
Incremental   0.00
Total                          Baseline       9.93    No project; very
slow in nutrient
control and GHG
reductions.
With GEF        12.4    With project; rapid      Above benefits          Above
1       improvement in                                   benefits
nutrient control and
GHG reductions.
Incremental   2.48
Notes:
a. Participant farmers in trial demonstration schemes will contribute about 15 percent of the investment cost (in kind
contribution) in the on-farn sustainable agricultural practice trials.
b. The option to be adopted without the project continues with the over cutting of trees.
c.  Participant farmers will contribute about 10 % of the investment cost of the biogas plants
d.  The project will cover 100 % of the investment cost in establishing a water quality monitoring system.
-69 -



Additional
Annex No.: 14
GEORGIA
Agricultural Research Extension and Training (ARET) Project
Comments of STAP Reviewers
1.    Overall Impressions:
This is an ambitious proposal. The objectives of the proposal address significant barriers to
improved productivity, environmental sustainability and economic viability of the Georgian agricultural
sector. The topics addressed in the proposal range from agricultural technology research and extension to
the development of an efficient and responsive agricultural knowledge and information system for Georgia.
An important goal of the project is to reduce non-point source pollution of the Black Sea.
2.    Relevance & Priority
The objectives of the project are relevant to the goals of GEF. The project should be accorded a
high priority.
3.    Background and Justification
The project document provides adequate background and justification for the proposed work.
4.    Scientific and Technical Soundness
Except for the case made for biogas digesters, the project presentation is scientifically and
technically sound.
For the case of biogas digesters, the project documents do not present some important relevant
infolmation: the main inputs to the biogas digesters are farm animal dung. The amount of dung collected is
strongly dependent on whether the farm animals are stall-fed or more-or-less free ranging. In the latter
case, much of the dung is deposited in the fields, and is labor-intensive to collect. It is not clear from the
project documents what (if any) is the present collection method and the efficiency of cattle and pig dung on
Georgian farms. Also, the present disposal methods for cattle and pig dung is not described. This is
relevant for understanding how the current methods (or lack thereof) contribute to the pollution of water
resources, and how biogas digesters may reduce such pollution.
While biogas digesters can be possibly justified as a development of a renewable energy source, its
link to reduced pollution of the water resource requires stronger justification. One would want data on
indicators (e.g., E. Coli counts per deciliter) or other research pointing to water contamination from
improper disposal of farm animal dung to support the argument that biogas digesters will reduce water
pollution. The project documents do explain that the availability of data on water pollution and pollution
characterization by source is poor. Nevertheless, data are required to support the claim that improper
methods of disposal of farm animal dung are a significant contributory cause of water pollution in Georgia
rivers and the Black Sea.
- 70 -



There are two other problems related to the sections on biogas digesters:
(1) In the incremental cost analysis, credit is taken for preventing venting of methane when biogas
digesters are used to produce biogas as fuel for cooking and heating. This pre-supposes that the
present dung disposal method leads to anaerobic decomposition of dung and atmospheric release of
methane. This supposition need to be supported with data. In the common scenario of dung
deposited in the fields, it decomposes aerobically on land surface. In that case, the common product
of aerobic decomposition is C02. If the present (presumably inadequate) disposal methods for
animal dung lead to aerobic decomposition of the dung as is commonly the case, then the
calculations of avoided green house gas impacts are flawed, and need to be revised.
(2) The cookstove efficiencies cited in Appendix 2 of the Incremental cost Analysis appear to be a
bit high for wood (should use 15% rather than 20%), LPG (55% rather than 75%), and electric
stoves (65% rather than 75%), and too low for Kerosene (use 45% for Kerosene wick, and 55% for
Kerosene pressure stoves, as against the assumed 35%).
5.     Objectives
The project objectives are well thought out, valid and acceptable.
6.     Activities
The project proposes several specific activities towards its objectives. (1) A Competitive Grants
Scheme to support agricultural technology validation and dissemination, (2) support for reform of
agricultural research, education and extension systems, (3) support for improved agricultural practices to
reduce environmental pollution, and (4) fornation of a project implementation unit to execute and manage
the project.
7.     Participatory Aspects
The proposal is well thought out, and provides a solid basis for participation from the private
sector, relevant government agencies, and NGOs in program activities.
8.     Global Benefits
Global environmnental benefits are adequately identified. However, their quantification may need
revision as described in Section 4 above.
9.     GEF Strategies and Plans
Project is consistent with GEF strategies and plans.
10.    Replicability
The project will be certainly replicable in other countries if successful.
11.    Capacity Building
The project will build substantial capacity in a range of institutions in Georgia.
12.   Project Funding
The proposed level of funding is appropriate for activities proposed.
- 71 -



13.   Time Frame
Time frame for the project is achievable.
14.   Secondary Issues
Some editorial effort may improve the readability of the text.
15.   Additional Comments
The project document demonstrates familiarity with the various barriers to agricultural reforms
both in terms of technology adaptation and information and knowledge systems to support it. Agricultural
reform, even technical one, is never simple. However, the proposal offers a comprehensive approach to
support such reform institutionally, with strengthened knowledge systems, and appropriate information
dissemination and technology demonstration.
TECHNICAL REVIEW
GEORGIA ADP2 (OP 8)
PROJECT PROPOSAL TO GEF
The project is scientifically sound. It is based on the application of principles which have been
well developed in other and comparable environments and should now be developed to apply to the
agricultural practices in Georgia catchments draining into the Black Sea.
The project brings together the benefits of increased agricultural productivity and links these to
methods which reduce the pollution burdens to the atmosphere and to water courses. The project is
technically sound but in its development and implementation it will be important to link the economic and
environmental benefits and issues as part of a combined double package. If this is not done there is a risk
that the projects submitted under the Competitive Grant Scheme will be overwhelmingly focused on the
aspects of increased productivity and will attach much less importance to the environmental aspects.
There are clear global and environmental benefits in the project if it is completed successfully. It
relates to managing and reducing land based sources of marine pollution and this is particularly important
in the context of the Black Sea. There would however be drawbacks if the increased agricultural
productivity components are funded without an equal or greater take-up of the broader environmental and
pollution reduction elements of the project.
The project fits in with the broad range of goals of the global environment facility. In particular,
the water quality elements related to intemational waters through the drainage from the catchments of
Georgia into the Black Sea. It relates to the global programs on land-based sources of marine pollution. It
has clear linkages to programs relation to biological diversity and broader conservation issues.
The regional context is particularly significant, since the project relates to catchments draining into
the Black Sea which is surrounded by countries in critical stages of economic development and with
consequent risks of high and increasing levels of pollution to the vulnerable inland sea.
The project has a high potential for replicability. It is itself, a form of replication of earlier
- 72 -



projects relating to similar situations in Poland and Macedonia. The issues of introduction of low tillage,
low sediment loss, agriculture and consequent significant reductions of pollution of water courses and
receiving marine waters have a general applicability to the agricultural coastlines of much of the developing
world.
The project concems the introduction of practices and technologies which should provide economic
and ecological benefits which will thus be valued and sustained by the communities which adopt them.
There is consequently, a high likelihood of sustainability.
The research elements of the project are important in the context of improving global knowledge
and understanding of concepts of holistic management of catchments and water quality. The linked
elements which will be needed for the success of this project related to the means of translating the research
information about the science and the technologies of cleaner agricultural practice into extension and
education programs which speak directly and easily to the farmers who will be the front line in the
application of these technologies.
I do not have sufficient knowledge of the range of programs and action plans in the relevant
regional and sub-regional areas.
The issue of beneficial or damaging environmental effects has been covered in my comments on the
scientific and technical aspects of the project.
The degree of involvement of stakeholders in the project is a core element of the project designed
and the basic design appears to me to make solid provision for stakeholders involvement.
In a similar way, the development of capacity and expertise for the practitioners or stakeholders is
a core element of the project.
The project is innovative in the context of Georgia and the development of Georgia agriculture but
as mentioned above, it represents the intelligent application of lessons leamed from precedents in Poland
and Macedonia.
In relation to the risks of the project, the table on page 22 provides a reasonable coverage. The
risk of farmers being less willing to accept improved environmental friendly agricultural practices has not
been rated in the table. I would assign S for substantial to this risk. My experience suggests that the
natural conservatism of farmers who are struggling economically is likely to make them willing to accept
practices which improve their productivity and economic issue and to be less inclined to apply effort to
adopt economy neutral practices which are nevertheless highly beneficial in environmental terms. I believe
the project has the capacity to address this risk. I think it needs to be expressed very directly and the
development of the design needs to develop clear practices to ensure that the extension to the agricultural
community is well designed and well resourced.
An element which the designers may care to consider is to build in a sub-regional award scheme so
that the farmers who do take up the measures can gain a degree of social or community recognition for
good performance in activities which improve the qualities of land and water.
- 73 -



SUNMARY
I consider that the project is valuable and addresses a particularly important combination of
economic and ecological matters, which have to be addressed together if the issues of land based marine
pollution originating from agriculture are to be addressed effectively.
In finalizing the design and implementation, I would advocate to the team that there be a more
obvious linkage of the ecological to the economic and productivity elements of the research and technology
development, so that the intended combination of good economic and good ecological practices is
emphasized and forms a basis of continuing practice. It is particularly important that a culturally
appropriate extension and fanner education scheme is very specifically incorporated into the design and
operation of this project.
Subject to those concems, I reiterate that the project is important in addressing an important
combination of issues for a global region which is particularly vulnerable to the effects of land sourced
marine pollution and I would advocate its support.
RESPONSE TO STAP REVIEWERS COMMENTS
Comments on the International Waters Component
According to the STAP reviewer "the project is valuable and addresses a particularly important
combination of economic and ecologically matters, which have to be addressed together if the issues of land
based marine pollution originating from agriculture are be addressed." The STAP also has endorsed the
project subject to the following:
(a) Development of the design needs to develop clear practices to ensure that the extension to the
agricultural community is well designed and well resourced.
Response: The project is designed to foster broad-based stakeholder participation, which will ensure that
schemes developed are demand-driven and fully responsive to the needs of the end-users, namely the
smaller and commercial farmers. The project, as presently designed, also allows sufficient flexibility in the
allocation of resources. The needs of each component would be reassessed during the mid-term review and
resources reallocated, if justified.
(b) Team develop the more obvious linkage of the ecological to the economic and productivity elements of
the research and technology development, so that the intended combination of good economic and good
ecological practices is emphasized and forms the basis of continuing practice.
Response: The components aimed at reducing non-point sources of pollution from agriculture and
promoting the use of biogas were added to the project with the specific intent of underscoring the need for
an inter-sectoral approach to natural resource and environmental management. This together with the
broad-based stakeholder participation is expected to lead to economic and ecological concems being
addressed in a holistic fashion.
- 74 -



Comments of the biogas component:
While acknowledging that the project proposal "offers a comprehensive approach to support such
reform institutionally, with strengthened knowledge systems, and appropriate information dissemination
and technology demonstration, the STAP reviewer has raised the following issues:
(a) It is not clear from the project documents what (if any) is the present collection method and the
efficiency of cattle and pig dung on Georgian farms.
Response: A study carried out under the auspices of GTZ has estimated that the potential market for
biodigesters in Georgia is in the neighborhood of about 100,000, implying that the collection method and
efficiency is generally satisfactory for biogas use. However, during preparation, the findings of the study
would be further validated through visits to selected sites.
(b) The present disposal method for cattle and pig dung is not described --- relevant for understanding how
the current methods contribute to pollution of water resources.
Response: According to the Black Sea Strategic Action Plan, non-point sources of pollution from
agriculture, particularly the discharge of nutrients, is the key issue facing the Black Sea.
(c) While biogas digesters can be justified as a development of a renewable energy source, its link to
reduced pollution of the water resources requires stronger justification.
Response: The link between promoting biodigesters and reducing pollution of water resources is indirect.
In order to reduce pollution of water resources, manure would need to be better stored and applied. Stored
manure, unless used, releases methane - a greenhouse gas. The use of biodigester is being promoted to
reduce the emissions of this gas.
(d) Credit is taken for preventing venting of methane when biogas digesters are used to produce biogas as
fuel for cooking and heating.
Response: See response immediately above.
(e) The cook stove efficiencies appear to be a bit high for wood.
Response: The efficiency estimates are based on a study prepared for the Bank "Woodfuel in Georgian
Households." Also, if wood stoves in Georgia are similar to those in Albania, where rural households use
cast iron stoves with chimney, the efficiency is likely to higher than the presently estimated 20%. The
estimates will be validated during preparation. In addition, the estimates used in the Incremental Cost
Analysis are conservative; using other estimates would only improve the results.
- 75 -



- 76 -



40                                41 '                              42'                                43                                44'                                 45                                46'
GEORGIA
SaaiT.O'. BUILT-UP URBAN AREA
",*O 02 ;orar_+.RUSSIAN  FEDERATION                                                                                                                                                    SELECTED CITIES
.RUSSIAN              FEDERATION (-                                                                                      AUTONOMOUS REPUBLIC CENTERS
*       NATIONAL CAPITAL
RIVERS
GLACIER AREAS
____ uu.MAIN ROADS
0Most,' -                                           '                                        -.-'---   RAILROADS
K-emo-Psop i                                                                                                                                                    - - - -   AUTONOMOUS REPUBLIC BOUNDARIES
T. Vlqdikook-z                  _   -    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
~~~~~~~~~~~Oct Ozal.                                   .        ............ Ln1ehi  GeliO 0           *>    ~
och-oAi,o                 %     D-,o
GngGali   j                   Cageri0                 0 Urovi                         ....      Kazbk 0  ' -
1 >                                  Cesb              aislO      2                    /                           eSk,,,6 i   :-is,
-R  7Z0gdidi                               A.b,volooo                  0
D-                                                            ~~~~~~~~RUSSIAN
*^8 t Sena.ki                           Tslaubc DavaO                                                                                                         FEDERATION
(   ~~~g~~ > -  K esta            1                 ChinvaliV ~~~~~~~~~Akh.1g.,i,               0~        
-42'                                                                                                                                                                                        Akh-ta
0     15    30    45    60    75 KILOMETERS              Kobut /"                                                                                                            Mt% Bkotjomnr
40                                   41]            KhelsA ,spini       0R Ttovi-
UKRAINE                                kAASTN.  
RUS.lkAN                                                     l|ki
FEDERATIONAktf
A Jt   M  o p ,% s L JA N o  "H '-;            ,o5 4  T  s e op  "'o opro U xdor db y  tko M op  odes a   U nisof   The    W o ,4d   ol k .   _' tf   aA sho lsk  To  To /o  To o on o  i )W -
-41N41
T       A                                  s        The hooodork,, olorf, deoo,nahoo, and any aIher oformatoo                                              A R .   E N I A_                                                                    -    -
or                                                      -        d,'o ooTURKEY  V  Ii, vlop do oot iroply, -oo # pot of Tho Wold Bok                                                                                             AZERBAIJAN
I  >                   ~~~~~~~Grop, 00y jod9o-eo to 1keg-~l cltst, of ocy tritoy, or -cx               g'                                                                                AZ R        AIA
o_dor-e,ootor ocroptooro of sock boondorios.                                                                                                         /I
-  IRAQ ' ISLAMIC REP OF IRAN                         42'                                 43'                                  44                                   45'                                  46'                                0



