Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3347 GE
RELATED TO GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF023752
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Research, Extension and Training Project)
between
GEORGIA 
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 22, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3347 GE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 22, 2000, between GEORGIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of 
the Project; and
(B)
by the agreement of even date herewith (the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Agreement) between the Borrower and the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), acting in its capacity as the 
implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF), the Bank 
has agreed to make a grant (the GEF Trust Fund Grant) to the Borrower in 
the amount of one million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing rights 
(SDR 1,800,000), to assist in financing the Project on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement;
Page  2
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of 
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997), with the modifications set forth below (the 
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
(a)
A new paragraph (c) is added to Section 3.04 to read:
“If the Association shall at any time receive less than the 
full amount then due and 
payable to it under the Development Credit 
Agreement, the Association shall have the right 
to allocate and 
apply the amount so received in any manner and for such purposes under 
the 
Development Credit Agreement as the Association shall in its sole 
discretion determine.”; 
and
(b)
Section 11.01 is modified by replacing, in the second 
sentence, the word “radiogram” with the word “facsimile” and adding a new 
sentence at the end of the said Section to read:
“Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be 
confirmed by mail.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“CGB” means the Competitive Grant Board, established within 
MAF (as defined hereunder) referred to in Section 2 (a) of Schedule 4;
(b)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1) through (6) set 
forth in Part A (1) of the Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(c)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(d)
“Grant” means a grant approved by the CGB for purposes of 
Part A of the Project;
(e)
“HVWI” means Horticulture Viticulture and Wine Making 
Institute;
(f)
“IMC” means the Inter-Ministerial Commission established by 
the Borrower to oversee the reform of the agricultural research, 
extension and training system;
(g)
“Operational Manual” means the manual defining the 
eligibility criteria for activities and terms of grants as defined above, 
to be supported by Grants under Part A of the Project;
Page  3
(h)
“MAF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture and Food;
(i)
“PCU” means the Project Coordinating Unit established 
pursuant to the Order of the Minister of Finance, No. 29, dated February 
7, 1996, and maintained according to the provisions of Section 1 (b) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(j)
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit, to be maintained 
according to the provisions of Section 1 (a) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; 
(k)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(l)
“Sub-project” means projects approved by the CGB financed by 
a Grant (as here above defined) under Part A of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development 
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to five 
million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 5,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a)  The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and 
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of the Annex to Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005 or such 
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty 
(60) days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 
30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as 
Page  4
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of 
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, 
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each June 15 and December 15, commencing June 15, 
2010 and ending December 15, 2034. Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on December 15, 2019 shall be one and one-fourth 
percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal 
amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national 
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for 
three (3) consecutive years the level established annually by the 
Association for determining eligibility to access the Association’s 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval 
thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, 
modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment 
not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after 
the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events 
set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that 
there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five (5) years on such 
repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu 
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision 
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, 
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions.
Page  5
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate agricultural, financial, 
administrative and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of goods, works and consultants’ services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall, acting through the PCU, 
establish and maintain a financial management system, including records 
and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures for and in connection with the carrying out of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall, acting through the PCU:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements 
referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the 
records and accounts for the Special Account for 
each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to 
the Association consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but 
in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end 
of each such year; (A) certified copies of 
the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such financial 
statements, records 
and accounts and the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and 
in such 
Page  6
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records and 
accounts and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association 
has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account 
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine 
such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements 
of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures 
and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02 (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action 
plan acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of the financial 
management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in 
order to enable the Borrower, not later than December 31, 2000 or such 
later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected sources 
and 
applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said report; and (B) shows 
separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the 
credit during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in the Project 
implementation, both cumulative 
and for the period covered 
by said report, and (B) explains variances between 
the 
actual and previously forecast implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the 
project and the expenditures 
under the contracts 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end 
of the period covered by said report.      
Page  7
(b)
Upon completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association 
not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar 
quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
 that, subject to paragraph (b) of this Section, the right 
of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part 
pursuant to the terms of the GEF Trust fund Grant Agreement; and
(b)
paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the 
Borrower established to the satisfaction of the Association that: (i) 
such suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by the failure 
of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that the 
event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall 
occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Credit Agreement within the 
meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement or the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawal thereunder, except only the effectiveness of the Development 
Credit Agreement, have been fulfilled; and
(b)
MAF has completed the staffing of the PMU and the 
Secretariat of CGB in accordance with the provisions of Section 1 (a) of 
Schedule 4.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated 
Page  8
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
70, Irakli Abashidze Str.
380062 Tbilisi
Georgia
Telex:
212 348 MOFIN
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
GEORGIA
By /s/ Tedo Japaridze 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Judy O’Connor
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
 General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so 
Page  9
to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be 
Financed
(1)
Grants under
   2,003,000
80% of total 
sub- 
Part A of the
project cost
Project
(2)
Consultants’
100%
Services and Training:
(a) Parts A, C and D
     780,000
of the Project
(b) for the detailed
     102,000
design of Part B of 
of the Project
(3)
Goods under Parts
      26,000
100% of 
foreign
A, C and D of the
expenditures,
Project
100% of local
expenditures 
(ex-factory
cost) and 80 
% of local 
expenditures for other
items 
procured locally
(4)
Incremental operating costs
           881,000
80%
of PMU, PCU and Secretariat
of CGB for Parts A, C and D
(5)
Activities under Part B 
  1,460,000
of the Project
(a) Goods
-
100% of 
foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures 
(ex-factory
cost) and 80% 
of local 
expenditures for other
items 
procured locally
(b) Consultants’ Services
-
100%
(c) Works
-
100% of 
foreign 
expenditures 
and 
80% of local 
expenditures
(d) Incremental operating
-
80%
cost of HVWI for Part B
Page  10
(6)
Unallocated
    248,000
TOTAL
5,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means expenditures, 
as approved by the Association on the basis of budgets acceptable to the 
Association, with respect to the implementation of the Project incurred 
regarding office supplies, utilities, minor office equipment, salaries of 
staff, transport and vehicle maintenance and repair costs, and audit cost 
of the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to 
the date of this Agreement; and (b) expenditures to be financed under 
Category (5) unless the Borrower has presented the Association a detailed 
investment, work and implementation plan, acceptable to the Association, 
for the carrying out of the horticultural and viticultural research 
within the HVWI, consistent with the conceptual framework approved on 
June 17, 1999 by the Interministerial Commission set up by the President 
of Georgia.  
4.
The Association may require, under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower, withdrawals from the 
Credit Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for 
expenditures for: (i) Grants under Part A of the Project; (ii) individual 
consultants, under contracts costing less than $20,000 equivalent each; 
(iii) consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent each; (iv) goods under contracts costing less than $200,000 
equivalent each; (v) works under contracts costing less than $500,000 
each; (vi) incremental operating costs; and (vii) training.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit 
account, in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that 
the Special Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account 
of amounts to be deposited into the Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first 
Project Management Report referred to in Section 4.02(b) of this 
Agreement; and (ii) a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the 
basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management 
Page  11
Report pursuant to Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement satisfactory to the 
Association, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on 
the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the 
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association 
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and 
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project 
Management Report does not adequately provide the information required 
pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit 
Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the 
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) 
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to 
the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of (A) 
the records and accounts for the Special Account, or (B) the records and 
accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were 
made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this 
Schedule if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the 
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Association 
shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into 
the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed 
for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its 
determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an 
Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to 
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, provide such additional evidence as the Association may 
request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover payments 
for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following such 
determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to 
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Page  12
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph 
(a), (b) or (c) of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit 
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with 
the provisions of this Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” 
means an amount equivalent to $750,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
this Annex, provided, however, that, unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $300,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions, shall equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR 
1,500,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals 
to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into 
the Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not 
exceed the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Association shall specify. Prior to or at the 
time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association 
the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible 
Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of 
the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into 
the Special Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit, 
minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of 
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such 
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining 
on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
Page  13
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the 
Borrower, all withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by 
the Association into the Special Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit into the 
Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit 
Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit 
into the Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management 
Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Credit, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal 
to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which 
the Association has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to 
finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report, provided, however, that the amount so deposited, 
when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to 
be remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of 
$1,500,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the project is to assist in developing an 
efficient and cost-effective agricultural knowledge and information 
system to promote the acquisition, demonstration, dissemination and 
adoption of appropriate technologies that will increase agricultural 
production in an environmentally sustainable manner. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon 
from time to time to achieve such objective.
Part A:
Competitive Grant Scheme 
The provision of Grants in accordance with the requirements and 
procedures set forth in the Operational Manual in support of the 
implementation of:
(1)
Sub-project for the provision of agricultural advisory services and 
for facilitating the acquisition, adoption and dissemination of 
technologies to improve on-farm productivity, profitability and long-term 
environmental sustainability;
(2)
Sub-project for reducing point and non-point source pollution from 
agricultural practices, including among others, promotion of efficient 
manure management practices, on-farm demonstrations on improved farming 
Page  14
practices, establishment of a water quality monitoring program.
Part B.
Support for Reform of the Agricultural Research System
The formulation of a strategy, together with a related 
implementation plan, to reform the agricultural knowledge system, 
including the provision of necessary technical assistance, training and 
upgrading of facilities to implement this plan in at least one 
agricultural research institute.
Part C: Pilot Environment Pollution Control Program
Establishment of manure storage and handling facilities, including 
the installation of manure storage tanks and pits; bio-gas digesters; and 
soil and water quality monitoring programs. 
Part D:  Project Management Unit
Provision of assistance to coordinate project implementation as 
well as monitoring and evaluation of project activities.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Services
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995, revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997 and in January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and 
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 
thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in 
bid packages estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
Page  15
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of 
the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of  national  shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
3.
Grants
Goods and works to be financed from the proceeds of Grants provided 
under Part A of the Project shall be procured by the beneficiaries of 
such Grants, under the general supervision of the Secretariat of DGB, 
through local shopping procedures as described in the Manual. For this 
purpose, the PMU shall ensure, in cooperation with the Secretariat of 
CGB: (a) the inclusion in each contract for the provision of a Grant of 
description of goods and works to be financed from the proceeds of the 
Grant, an estimate of their cost and the procedures to be followed in the 
procurement thereof, and (b) the preparation of a summary of procurement 
undertaken under Grants.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $20,000 or more; (ii) the first two contracts for works 
procured under the provision of Part C.1 of this Schedule; and (iii) the 
first contract for goods under the provisions of Part C.2 of this 
Schedule.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Page  16
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the Guidelines: 
“Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Bank in January 1997, revised in September 1997 and in 
January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph. The short list of consultants for services estimated 
to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely 
of national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for biogas digester performance and manure management and 
environmental pollution control may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.01 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Least-cost Selection
Services for audit estimated to cost less than $15,000 equivalent 
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
Page  17
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for 
its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after 
the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
Project Coordination
The Borrower shall: (a) maintain the PMU under the overall 
supervision of the Ministry of Finance to be headed by the Project 
Manager whose qualifications and experiences shall be acceptable to the 
Association and comprising of an environmental engineer, a coordinator of 
the research reform component, an administrative officer, and support 
staff in adequate numbers responsible for the overall implementation of 
the Project, including technical monitoring; (b) the PCU, under the 
overall supervision of MAF, to be headed by a director whose 
qualifications and experience shall be acceptable to the Association, 
responsible for financial management, procurement and disbursement 
matters with respect to the Project; and  (c) the secretariat of the CGB 
comprising a head of the secretariat, adoptive research specialist, and 
extension specialist responsible for technical evaluation and monitoring 
of sub-projects.
2.
Part A of the Project
(a)
The CGB shall be responsible for the evaluation and award of 
Grants under Part A of the Project.  The CGB shall: (i) ensure that all 
proposals for Grants shall be evaluated in accordance with the procedures 
and criteria set forth in the Operational Manual, and (ii) furnish to the 
Association for its prior review and concurrence, all Grant proposals 
recommended for approval.
(b)
The PMU shall take all measures necessary for the 
supervision of the implementation of Part A of the Project, as shall be 
consistent with the Operational Manual.
(c)
The Borrower shall ensure that the Operational Manual shall 
not, without the Association’s prior concurrence, be repealed, revoke or 
Page  18
materially amended.
3.
Monitoring, Evaluation, Mid-Term Review
The Borrower, acting through the MAF, shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
acceptable to the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Association, on or about January 15, 2002, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding 
the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by May 15, 2002, or such later 
date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
