Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF 023752
RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 3347 GE
Global Environment Facility
Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Agricultural Research, Extension and Training Project)
between
GEORGIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility
Dated August 22, 2000
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF 023752
RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 3347 GE
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 22, 2000, between GEORGIA (the Recipient) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an 
implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant 
funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank as 
participants of the GEF.
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991, 
of the Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the 
protection of the global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound 
and sustainable economic development;
(B)
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements are 
continued in place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 
Page  2
1994, of the Executive Directors of the Bank establishing the GEF Trust Fund;
(C)
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested 
assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund in the financing of the 
Project, and the Bank has determined that such assistance would be in accordance 
with the provisions of Resolution No. 94-2 referred to above; and
(D)
by the agreement of even date herewith (the Development Credit 
Agreement), the International Development Association (the Association) has 
agreed to make a credit (the Credit) to the Recipient in the amount of five 
million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 5,500,000) to assist 
in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in 
the Development Credit Agreement;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions 
Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, 
as amended through December 2, 1997 with the modifications set forth in 
paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions), constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), 
(15), (18) and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 
6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii) Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 
9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.03 and 12.04.
Page  3
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to 
read as follows: “the term “Special Drawing Rights” and the 
symbol “SDR” mean special drawing rights as valued by the 
International Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles 
of Agreement”;
(ii)
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
other than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the 
last use of such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the 
Bank acting as an implementing agency of the GEF, except 
that in Section 6.02, the term “Bank” shall also include the 
Bank acting in its own capacity;
(iii)
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Recipient;
(iv)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1) through (4) set 
forth in Part A (1) of the Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(v)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(vi)
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(vii)
the term “Loan” and “loan”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant;
(viii) the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account;
(ix)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise 
agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of 
expenditures in the territories of any country which is not 
a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services 
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of 
goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the 
Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the United Nations.”;
(x)
a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph (j) in 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions, as follows: “an 
extraordinary situation shall have arisen in which any 
further disbursement under the GEF Trust Fund Grant would 
exceed the resources available for disbursement from the 
GEF.”; and
(xi)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right 
of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Account shall have been suspended with respect to any 
amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant for a continuous period 
of thirty (30) days, or (b) at any time, the Bank 
determines, after consultation with the Recipient, that an 
Page  4
amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant will not be required to 
finance the Project’s costs to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, or (c) at any time, 
the Bank determines, with respect to any contract to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, 
that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Recipient or of a beneficiary of the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant during the procurement or the execution 
of such contract, without the Recipient having taken timely 
and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy 
the situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in 
respect of such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines that the 
procurement of any contract to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant is inconsistent with 
the procedures set forth or referred to in the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Agreement and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would 
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, or (e) after the 
Closing Date, an amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall 
remain unwithdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, 
the Bank may, by notice to the Recipient, terminate the 
right of the Recipient to make withdrawals with respect to 
such amount.  Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be canceled.”
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context 
otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions, in the 
Recitals to this Agreement and in the Development Credit Agreement have the 
respective meanings therein set forth and the term “GEF Special Account” means 
the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The GEF Trust Fund Grant
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant in an amount in various currencies equivalent to one million eight 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,800,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for 
carrying out the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005, or such later 
date as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient 
of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, 
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under 
this Agreement, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency, 
in conformity with appropriate environmental, engineering, financial and 
Page  5
administrative practices, and in accordance with the arrangements set forth or 
referred to in the Development Credit Agreement.  
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions 
of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Conditions
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to maintain 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and that the report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
Page  6
withdrawals.
Section 4.02 (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of 
this Agreement, the Recipient shall carry out a time-bound action plan 
acceptable to the Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system 
referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the 
Recipient, not later than December 31, 2000 or such later date as the Bank shall 
agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Bank, 
each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for 
the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period 
covered by said report; and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant during the 
period 
covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in the Project 
implementation, both cumulative 
and for the period covered by said 
report, and (B) explains variances between 
the actual and 
previously forecast implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the project and 
the expenditures 
under the contracts financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, 
as at the end of the period 
covered by said report.      
(b)
Upon completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Recipient shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) 
days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such 
period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that:
(a)
subject to paragraph (b) of this Section, the right of the 
Recipient to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit has been suspended, canceled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the Development Credit 
Agreement.
(b)
paragraph (a) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Recipient 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension, 
cancellation, or termination is not caused by the failure of the Recipient to 
perform any of its obligations under such Agreement; and (B) adequate funds for 
the Project are available to the Recipient from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Recipient under this 
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in 
paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the 
Page  7
proviso of paragraph (b) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as an additional 
condition to the effectiveness of the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement within the 
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely that the 
Development Credit Agreement has been executed and delivered and all conditions 
precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of this GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement 
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have 
fulfilled their obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Finance
70, Irakli Abashidze Str.
380062 Tbilisi
Georgia
Telex:
212 348 MOFIN
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of 
the day and year first above written.
Page  8
GEORGIA
By /s/ Tedo Japaridze
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT acting
  as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment 
Facility
By /s/ Judy O’Connor
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for 
items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
GEF Trust Fund Grant Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Grants under
   648,000
80% 
Part A of
the Project
(2)
Works under Parts A
   575,000
100% of 
foreign 
and C of the Project
expenditures and 
80% of local
expenditures
(3)
Consultants’ Services
and Training under Parts
   460,000
100%
A and C of the Project
(4)
Incremental operating costs
    58,000
80%
of the PMU, PCU and the
Secretariat of CGB, under
Parts A, C and D of the 
Project
(5)
Unallocated
   59,000
TOTAL
1,800,000
Page  9
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency 
of any country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of any country other than that of the Recipient; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
the Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the 
Recipient; and
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means expenditures, as 
approved by the Association on the basis of budgets acceptable to the Bank, with 
respect to the implementation of the Project incurred regarding office supplies, 
utilities, minor office equipment, salaries of staff, and audit cost of the 
Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall 
be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower, withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures 
for: (i) Grants under Part A of the Project; (ii) individual consultants, under 
contracts costing less than $20,000 equivalent each; (iii) consulting firms 
under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (iv) goods under 
contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent each; (v) works under contracts 
costing less than $500,000 each; (vi) incremental operating costs; and (vii) 
training. 
5.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent 
with the provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, refund to the Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account, an amount equal to the amount so used or the portion thereof as 
specified by the Bank.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Recipient shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit 
account, in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of 
amounts to be deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a 
request from the Recipient for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management 
Reports, withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A 
to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement satisfactory to the Bank, accompanied by a 
request from the Recipient for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management 
Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
Page  10
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, 
the Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish 
to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 
4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; 
or
(c)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of 
the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account, 
or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which 
withdrawals were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at 
any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend 
in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. 
Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole discretion, 
whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what 
procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the 
Recipient of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible 
Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide such additional 
evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if 
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of 
such payment. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following such determination, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of 
this Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
Page  11
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means an 
amount equivalent to $250,000 to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this 
Annex, provided, however, that, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $125,000 until 
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, plus 
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal or exceed the 
equivalent of SDR 500,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account 
of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Bank shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such 
request, the Recipient shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account 
for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under one or more of 
the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, minus 
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and 
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will 
be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Recipient, all 
withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account shall be deposited by the Bank 
into the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under one or more of the Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for 
deposit into the Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management 
Page  12
Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount 
equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which 
the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report accompanying 
said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report, 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount 
indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $500,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the project is to assist in developing an efficient and 
cost-effective agricultural knowledge and information system to promote the 
acquisition, demonstration, dissemination and adoption of appropriate 
technologies that will increase agricultural production in an environmentally 
sustainable manner.  The Project consists of the following parts, subject to 
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon 
from time to time to achieve such objective: 
Part A:
Competitive Grant Scheme 
The provision of Grants in accordance with the requirements and procedures 
set forth in the Operational Manual in support of the implementation of:
(1)
Activities for the provision of agricultural advisory services and for 
facilitating the acquisition, adoption and dissemination of technologies to 
improve on-farm productivity, profitability and long-term environmental 
sustainability;
(2)
Activities for reducing point and non-point source pollution from 
agricultural practices, including among others, promotion of efficient manure 
management practices, on-farm demonstrations on improved farming practices, 
establishment of a water quality monitoring program.
Part B:
Support for Reform of the Agricultural Research System
The formulation of a strategy, together with a related implementation 
plan, to reform the agricultural knowledge system, including the provision of 
necessary technical assistance, training and upgrading of facilities to 
implement this plan in at least one agricultural research institute.
Part C: Pilot Environment Pollution Control Program
Establishment of manure storage and handling facilities, including the 
installation of manure storage tanks and pits; bio-gas digesters; and soil and 
water quality monitoring programs. 
Part D:  Project Management Unit
Provision of assistance to coordinate project implementation as well as 
monitoring and evaluation of project activities.
Page  13
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2005.
