                                      Documentof
                                  The World Bank




                                                     ReportNo.: 29516




                PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                               REPUBLICOF LATVIA

                   AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                                     (LOAN 3695)

                        RURAL DEVELOPMENTPROJECT
                                     (LOAN 4380)


                                      July 8,2004




Sector, Thematic and Global Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department

Currency Equivalents(annual averages)
Currency Unit = Lat

1993                      US$l.OO               0.6753 Lats
1994                      US$l.OO               0.5598 Lats
1995                      US$l.OO               0.5276 Lats
1996                      U S $ l.oo            0.5508 Lats
1997                      US$1.oo               0.5809 Lats
1998                      US$1   .oo            0.5898 Lats
1999                      US$l.OO               0.5852 Lats
2000                      US$l.oo               0.6065 Lats
2001                      US$l.oo               0.6279 Lats
2002                      U S $ l.oo            0.6182 Lats

Abbreviations and Acronyms

ADP               Agricultural Development Project
AFC               Agricultural Finance Company
EU                European Union
FSU               Former Soviet Union
ICR               ImplementationCompletion Report
IDA               International Development Association
M O A             Minister ofAgriculture
MOF               MinisterofFinance
MLB               Mortgage and LandBank
OED               Operations EvaluationDepartment
PFIs              ParticipatingFinancialInstitutions
PHARE             Pologne, Hongrie assistance, reconstruction, economique
P M U             Project Management Unit
PPAR              Project Performance Assessment Report
RDP               Rural Development Project
SAPARD            Special Action Program for Agriculture and Rural Development
TU                Technical Unit

FiscalYear

Government:               January 1-December 31




Director-General, Operations Evaluation                :  Mr. Gregory K.Ingram
Director,OperationsEvaluationDepartment                : Mr. Ajay Chhibber
Manager, OEDSG                                         : Mr. Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                           : Mr. ChristopherD.Gerrard

                                                                1



       OED Mission: Enhancingdevelopment effectivenessthrough excellence and independence in evaluation.


 About this Report
        The Operations Evaluation Departmentassessesthe programsand activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
 first, to ensurethe integrityof the Bank's self-evaluationprocess and to verify that the Bank'swork is producingthe
 expected results,and second,to help develop improveddirections,policies,and proceduresthrough the disseminationof
 lessonsdrawn from experience.As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percent of the Bank's lending
 operations. In selectingoperations for assessment,preferenceis given to those that are innovative,large, or complex;
 those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or country evaluations;those for which ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank
 management have requestedassessments:and those that are likely to generate important lessons.The projects,topics,
 and analyticalapproaches selectedfor assessment support larger evaluation studies.
       A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion Report
 (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare PPARs, OED staff
 examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit the borrowing country for
 onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to validate and augment the
 information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader OED studies.
        Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally, the
 PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then sent
 to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of
 Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


About the OED Rating System
       The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work. The
 methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or sectoral
 approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is the definition
 and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
 http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
       Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's current
development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals
(expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational
 Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
       Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
       Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
       Sustainability: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
       lnstitutional Development Impact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region to
make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a) better
definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b) better
alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these institutional
arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a project. Possible
ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
      Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and supported
implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements for regular
operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
      Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the achievement of
development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory,


                                                                           ...
                                                                           111



Contents

PrincipalRatings             ...............................................................................................................       v

Key Staff Responsible               ........................................................................................................       v

Preface    ..............................................................................................................................          ..
                                                                                                                                                  v11

Summary       ...........................................................................................................................         ix

1 Backgroundand OverallOutcomes
 .                                                                  ...........................................................................    1

        Background..............................................................................................................                   1
         Overall Outcomes....................................................................................................                      2
2.   Project Objectivesand Components                                ..........................................................................    3

3 ProjectImplementation
 .                                             ..............................................................................................      5

4.   Ratings: Overall Outcome                      ..........................................................................................      6

        Relevance: Were theprojects' objectives right in the light of currentpriorities?..6
        EfJicacy: Did theprojects achieve their stated objectives?.....................................                                            7
        EfJiciency: Weretheprojects cost-effective? .........................................................                                     10
5 Ratings: InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact and Sustainability
 .                                                                                                                   ............................ 11

        Institutional Development Impact .........................................................................                                11
        Sustainability.........................................................................................................                   13
6 Ratings: Bank and BorrowerPerformance
 .                                                                               ............................................................     15

        Bank Performance .................................................................................................                        15
        Borrower Performance ..........................................................................................                           16
7 Lessons
 .             ........................................................................................................................           17

Annex A BasicData Sheets
           .                                  ............................................................................................        19

        Latvia: Agricultural Development Project (Loan 3695).......................................                                               19
        Latvia: Rural Development Project (Loan 4380) ..................................................                                          21




This report was prepared by HartleyFurtanand Terry Scott (consultants) underthe supervisiono f Christopher
D. Gerrard(Task Manager). who assessedthe project in September2003.The reportwas edited by William
Hurlbut.and Rose Gachinaprovidedadministrative support                           .


                                                       V



 PrincipalRatings

 AgriculturalDevelopmentProject(Loan 3695)

                                     ICR*                    ICR Review*                     PPAR
~
 Outcome                      Highly Satisfactory         Highly Satisfactory         Highly Satisfactory
 Sustainability                     Likely                       Likely                      Likely
 Institutional
 Development Impact              Substantial                  Substantial                 Substantial

 Bank Performance             Highly Satisfactory         Highly Satisfactory         Highly Satisfactory
 Borrower Performance         Highly Satisfactory         Highly Satisfactory         Highly Satisfactory

 RuralDevelopmentProject (Loan 4380)

                                     ICR*                    ICR Review*                     PPAR
 Outcome                      Highly Satisfactory             Satisfactory               Satisfactory
 Sustainability                     Likely                       Likely                      Likely
 Institutional                       High                     Substantial                 Substantial
 Development Impact
 Bank Performance                Satisfactory                Satisfactory                Satisfactory
 Borrower Performance            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                Satisfactory

 * The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of the
 Bank. The Evaluation Summary (ES) is an intermediate OED product that seeks to independently verify the
 findings of the ICR.


 Key Staff Responsible

 AgriculturalDevelopmentProject(Loan3695)

 Project                  Task Manager/Leader             Division Chief/            Country Director
                                                          Sector Director
  Appraisal                     Hoonae Kim                  Geoffrey Fox             Basil G. Kavalsky
  Completion                    Hoonae Kim                   Laura Tuck               Basil G. Kavalsky

 RuralDevelopmentProject (Loan 4380)                                                                        -
 Project                 Task ManagerILeader              Division Chief/            Country Director
                                                          Sector Director
  Appraisal                    Hoonae Kim                    Laura Tuck              Basil G. Kavalsky
  Completion                   Hoonae Kim                   Laura Tuck               Michael F. Carter


                                               vii


Preface

         This is aProject Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) ontwo projects financed
by the World Bank inthe Republic ofLatvia, The two projects were the Agricultural
Development Project (ADP; Loan 3695) and the Rural Development Project (RDP; Loan
4380).

         The Board ofthe World Bank approved the ADP on January 11,1994, for an amount
of US$25 million. This was a time when the Latvian economy was intransition from a
centrally planned economy to a market economy and lacked the institutional and human
resourcesto support the transition. The loan became effective on April 14, 1994, and was
closed December 31, 1997. Itwas fully disbursedwith the last disbursement taking place on
November 11, 1997. EU-PHARE and Swedenprovided parallel co-financing for the project.

         The Boardofthe World Bank approved the RDP on July 30, 1998, for an amount of
US$ 10.5 million. The loan became effective December8, 1998 and closed December 31,
2001, Only US$9.1 million was disbursedbecause the Government o f Latvia (GOL) was
able to access funds through the European Union's Special Action Program for Agriculture
and Rural Development (SAPARD) at a lower cost for some of the components o f the RDP.

         OED decidedto assess these two projects inLatvia because previous reviews
indicated a high level o f success. Giventhe historicalproblems with many Bank loans that
have provided credit to agricultural producers, the success of these two projects stands out in
comparison. Thus the PPAR sought to answer what it was about these two projects that made
them so successful.

         This report was prepared by Hartley Furtan and Terry Scott (consultants) underthe
supervision o f Chris Gerrard (OED task manager). It is based, among other things, uponthe
ImplementationCompletion Report (ICR), project appraisal documents, loan agreements,
documents, project files, discussions with the World Bank staff inWashington, D.C., and a
missionto Latvia in September 2003.

        InLatviathe OED missionmetwithtwo Latvian Cabinet Ministers-Mr.Martins
Roze, Minister o f Agriculture, and Mr.Roberts Zile, Minister o f Transport and
Communications - other government officials, implementing agencies, both private sector
and public sector bank officials, and project beneficiaries. They interviewedthe staff who
had set up and managed the Agricultural Finance Company (AFC) and visited a new rural
branch o f the Mortgage and Land Bank. They met with farmers and rural entrepreneurswho
were recipients of credit provided by the two projects. They interviewedthe government
officials who had set up the cadastre and LandBook as well current users o f the Land Book.

        OED gratefully acknowledges the f d l cooperation o f all government officials visited
and consulted during the mission. Following standard OED procedures, the draft PPAR was
sent to the Borrower for comments before it was finalized. The Borrower had no comments
on the report.


                                                  ix


  Summary

         This is aProject Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) on two projects financed
  by the World Bank inthe Republic of Latvia: the Agricultural Development Project (ADP;
  Loan 3695) and the Rural Development Project (RDP; Loan4380).

         The principal objective ofthe Latvia Agricultural Development Project (ADP),
  approved in 1994,was to provide investment credit and operating loans to private farmers
  and to small and medium-scale agricultural and forest enterprises through a state-owned
  financial institution -the Agricultural Finance Company (AFC) - which was established for
 thispurpose. After the country regained independencein 1991,there hadbeenacomplete
 absence o f suchcredit available to Latvian farmers to help facilitate the purchase of land,
 machines, and other farm inputs such as fertilizer. The ADP also providedtechnical
 assistance to related activities, such as the creation o f a cadastre and Land Book, and training
 for managers and credit officers, inorder to enhance the viability o f the project. Underthe
 Soviet system, there had beenno needfor a cadastre and LandBook because there was no
 land market and land was not usedas collateral for mortgages.

         The RuralDevelopment Project (RDP), approved in 1998,was a follow-on project
 which built upon the success of the ADP. This broadened the provision o f credit from
 commercial farmers and agricultural enterprises to small-scale rural entrepreneursnot
 necessarily associatedwith agricultural production. The project provided credit throughtwo
 separate but related credit lines - a commercial credit line at prevailingmarket interest rates
 and commercial terms, and a special credit line at subsidized rates to first-timeborrowers.
 The RDP provided for the merger ofthe AFC, established underthe ADP, with the Mortgage
 and Land Bank (MLB) and the eventual privatizationof the MLB.It also included incentives
for private banks to make loans to farmers and rural enterprises, since the private banks had
not previously done so.

         The overall outcome ofthe ADP was highly satisfactory. Its objectives were highly
appropriate at the time the loan was made to the Government o f Latvia, since the farmers and
rural businesses had no access to an organized credit market. By the end o f the ADP, the
AFC had made 3,866 sub-loans for a total amount o f $49.9 million with a repayment rate o f
almost 95 percent, which allowed the AFC to re-lendthe returnedcapital to expand the
number ofbeneficiaries. The creation ofthe cadastre and LandBook was also started, but not
completed under the ADP.

         The overall outcome ofthe RDP is satisfactory. The LandBook was completed and
i s now fully operational, and housed inthe Department o f Justice. The speed at which a title
can be searched and a mortgage registered inthe LatvianLandBook compares favorably
with other developing and transitioncountries. The RDP oversaw the successful merger o f
the AFC andthe Mortgage and Land Bank (MLB),although the MLBwas not subsequently
privatizedas was originally intended. Private banks, such as PAREX Bank, have become
involved inlending money to agricultural and rural entrepreneursas a result o f the RDP. The
growth and development o f the private banking sector has removed the needfor a
government-owned bank. Mucho f the success o f the RDP lies with the design o f the special
credit line, whichprovided incentives both for banks to lendto rural enterprises and for small

                                               X



ruralenterprisesto borrowmoney. The strong incentiveto smallrural enterprises was an
interestrate subsidy paidby the governmentto borrowers only whenthe loanwas fully
repaidonthe agreedschedule. It appears that this subsidy hadno unintendedconsequences.

   Experiencewith these two projects confirms a number of OED lessons:

     (1) Thesuccess of a line of creditproject is dependentnot only upon its design but
         also on the institutional environment and human resource capacity of the country.
         Credit markets are intertemporalmarkets andthereforeinstitutionally intensive.
         They requirewell-definedproperty rights, enforceable rules (such as foreclosure
         rules), and adequatehumanresource capacity to function well. A governmentmust
         allow these institutionalrulesto operateunhinderedfor a credit marketto operate in
         an efficientmanner and for borrowersto understandthat the loans must be repaid.
         The designof line of credit projectsneeds to take into accountthe institutional
         environmentandthe humanresourcecapacity that exist ineach country, andwhere
         these are not adequate, to investresourcesintheir improvement.

     (2) It is important topay close attention to the incentive structuresthat are built into
        financial instruments like lines of credit, since these can represent the major
         difference between success andfailure. Boththe ADP andRDP took great care in
         buildingthe appropriateincentivestructures into the sub-loans. Careful and
        thoughtfulprogramdesignminimizedmoralhazardproblemsandresultedinvery
        highrates of repayment.The special credit line only paida subsidyto borrowers
         (small-scalerural entrepreneurs) once the loan was fully repaid.This high-powered
         incentivehadthe desired effect onthe behaviorofthe borrowers.

     (3) When a government creates a newfinancial instrument such aspublicly provided
        credit to enhance the efficient functioning ofprivate markets, it is important to
        have an exit strategy to move this instrument to theprivate sector. Inthe case o f
        Latvia, the governmentcreated the publicly ownedAFC underthe ADP andmerged
        this with the publicly ownedMLB underthe RDP. While privatizingthe MLB was
        an objective of the RDP, this did not occur inpart because there was not a detailed
        planfor doing so. The governmentdecidednot to privatizethe MLB because it was
        performingwell under its current ownership structure, because the governmenthad
        higher priorities,andbecausethe government mightwant to use the MLB to
        subsidizecredit inother credit markets (suchas housing)inthe future.




                                                                    GregoryK.Ingram
                                                                    Director-General
                                                                    Operations Evaluation

                                                     1


 1.      Backgroundand Overall Outcomes

BACKGROUND

 1.1     The Republic of Latviahas 2.7 millionpeople ofwhom one millionlive inthe capital
city o f Riga. When Latvia was part o f the Soviet Union, it had an average per capita income
that was more than 30% higher than the rest o f the Soviet Republics. This was basedon a
relatively skilled labor force and some sophisticated industries including machine building,
chemicals, electronics, wood, paper, and food processing.

 1.2     WhenLatvia regained independence inAugust 1991, a large number of economic
problems became apparent as the Government o f Latvia wanted to make the transition from a
centrally plannedeconomy to a market-driven economy. Three issues involved inthe
economic transition were o fparticular importance to the agricultural and rural sectors:
(1) land reform, (2) liberalizing agricultural commodity prices, and (3) privatizing food and
agro-processing firms. Under aNovember 1990 law, all holders of agricultural land as of
July 21, 1940, or their heirs, were eligible to reclaim land that had beennationalizedafter
that date. The law also includedprovisions for those with current use rights (Le., those who
were usingthe land in 1991). A total ofmore than 210,000 claims for land were made.] Then,
inDecember 1991,the government liberalizedall agricultural commodity prices. The
privatizationof food and agro-processing firms, particularly that o f large-scale state owned
entities, proceeded more slowly. However, by the time o f the OED mission in2003, the
privatization o f the milk industry, meat sector, grain sector, and other agro-processing plants
hadbeencompleted.

1.3      One of the outcomes o fthe land restitution program has beenthe creation o fmany
new small private farms, which hadbeenpart of larger collective farms. Many ofthese new
small farms werejust parcels of land while the requiredfarming infrastructure, including
machineryto actually farm them, was absent. At the same time, farmers inLatvia had no
access to credit. Under the Soviet Unionagricultural credit markets had not existed.
Therefore, after 1991 farmers inLatvia had no access to organized credit as a means to
purchase land, farm machinery, or other farm inputs.The lack of a credit market made it
nearly impossibleto farm ina profitablemanner.

1.4      The World Bank and the Government of Latvia designedthe Agricultural
DevelopmentProject (ADP) to fill this agricultural credit void through the creation o f a hlly
state-owned Agricultural Finance Company (AFC). Then, as the ADP was closing, the two
parties designed the Rural DevelopmentProject (RDP) as a similar project with an expanded
focus to follow up the ADP. The RDP aimed to provide credit both to small rural
entrepreneurs as well as agricultural enterprises, among other things, through the merger of
the AFC with a state-owned bank -the Mortgage and LandBank (MLB).




1, LatviaAgricultural DevelopmentProject, StuffApppruisal Report, December 10, 1993, p. 2.

                                                  2


 OVERALLOUTCOMES

 ADP

 1.5     The overall outcome ofthe ADP is rated highly satisfactory. The objectives ofthe
 ADP were highly appropriate at the time the loan was made to the Government of Latvia,
 since the farmers and rural businesses had no access to an organized credit market. Also,
 there was no functioning landmarket.For the Latvian agricultural and rural economy to
 make the transition from a centrally planned to a market economy, these constraints needed
to be removedas quickly as possible. The ADP provided a line o f credit to be on-lent to
 farmers and to small and medium-scale agricultural and forest processing companies,
 technical assistance for the creation o f a cadastre and Land Book, and training for AFC
 managers and credit officers.

 1.6     The AFC was a fully owned state corporation, which on-lent World Bank funds to
 individual farmers. The AFC undertook a high level o f due diligence on the loans made to
 farmers. Few loans ever went into default.

 1.7     Duringits first two years ofoperation, the AFC experienced financial losses for at
least two reasons. First, the AFC charged farmers an interest rate lower than the going market
rate as a result of the high rate of inflation inLatvia at the time. Second, the initial start-up
costs were fully booked inthe years inwhich they occurred, instead o f being amortized over
a longer period of time. Becausethese start-up costs were concentrated inthe first two-to-
three years o f operation, the revenues o f the AFC were less than the costs to runthe business.
However, by the thirdyear and for all subsequentyears, the AFC was profitable.

1.8     Funds from the ADP were also made available for the cadastre andthe creation ofthe
LandBook, both necessary for the functioning o f a private land market. By 2003 the
mortgage market was operating smoothly as a result o f the investment inthe cadastre and
Land Book. Muchof the ADP success was a result o f the humanresource capacity that
existed inLatvia when it regained its independence.

RDP

1.9     The overall outcome ofthe RDP is ratedsatisfactory. The RDP built on the success
o f the ADP. The government wanted to create a rural economy basednot only on agriculture,
which could provide employment opportunities for rural people who were under employed.
The RDPprovideda line of creditto be on-lent to rural as well as agriculturalenterprises,
technical assistanceto complete the cadastre and Land Book, continued training for bank
managers and staff, and technical assistanceto help develop a comprehensive rural strategy.

1.10    The LandBook was completed and i s now fully operational, and housed inthe
DepartmentofJustice. The RDP oversaw the successful merger ofthe AFC andthe
Mortgage and Land Bank (MLB).The RDP line o f credit was on-lent to commercially viable
agricultural and rural enterprisesthrough a commercial credit line and to small-scale first-
time borrowers through a special credit line. Private banks, such as PAREXBank, have
become involved inlending money to agricultural and rural entrepreneursas a result o f the
RDP. The financial losses incurredby the MLB and PAREXBank associated with the line o f

                                                  3


credit suppliedthrough the RDP have beenless than 5 percent, which represents outstanding
financial management.

 1.11    Muchofthe success ofthe RDPlies withthe design ofthespecial credit line, which
provided incentives both for small rural enterprises to borrow money and for banks to lendto
rural enterprises. The strong incentive for small rural enterprises was an interest rate subsidy
paid by the government to borrowers only when the loanwas fully repaid on the agreed
schedule. It appears that this subsidy had no unintendedconsequences.

2.       Project Objectives and Components

ADP

2.1     The objectives ofthe ADP were to helpnewly emerging private farmers inLatvia
enhance their agriculturalproductivity, to enhance the ongoing privatizationo f food and
agro-processing enterprises, and to assist inthe development o f a private land market. After
regaining independencein 1991,there was a complete absence o f credit available to Latvian
farmers to help facilitate the purchase of land, machines, and other farm inputs suchas
fertilizer. Under the Soviet system, there was no needfor an institutional framework that
includeda cadastre and LandBook becausethere was no land market and landwas not used
as collateral for mortgages. Ina market economy, however, a cadastre and LandBook
became essential for the operation o f the land market. The three components o f the ADP
were the following:

    0   Credit to farmers: To provide investment creditand operating loans to private
        farmers through the Agricultural Finance Company (AFC), a state-owned financial
        institutionestablished for this purpose.

    0   Credit for agro- and forest industries:To provide investmentcredit and operating
        loans for small and medium-scale private enterprises inagro- and forest industries.

    0   Technicalassistance:To support priority technical assistancethat would directly
        enhance the viability o f the project, including the creation o f a cadastre and Land
        Book, and training for managers and credit officers o f the AFC to conduct the due
        diligence requiredto make sound financial loans.

2.2     The total cost of the project was US$45.1 million at appraisal and $55.0 million at
completion. The farm credit component represented42 percent at appraisal and 52 percent at
completion; the agro- and forest industriescomponent 45 percent at appraisal and 22 percent
at completion; and the technical assistance component 13 percent at appraisal and 26 percent
at completion.

RDP

2.3     The objective ofthe RDP was to "lay the groundwork for increasing income levels
and improve living standards o f the rural population by promoting diversification and growth

                                                             4


 of economic activities inrural areas."2The RDP was a follow-up to the completed ADP. It
 broadened the ADP objectives to include providing credit to rural non-agricultural
 enterprises and to encourage private banks to enter the rural lending market. The three RDP
 components were as follows:

      0   Ruraldevelopmentpolicy:To strengthenthe institutional support neededto
          formulate a rural strategy and policy. The RDP provided funds to aid inthe
          development o f a national rural development strategy and the preparation o f
          accompanying policies.

      0   Ruralfinance: To provide creditthrough two separate credit lines designed for
          distinctly different borrowers and to encourageprivate banks to lendto rural
          enterprises -the commercial credit line to provide investment loans and working
          capital at prevailing market interest rates and commercial terms to commercially
          viable rural enterprises, and the special credit line to provide small-scale loans at
          subsidized rates to first-time borrowers. The RDP providedfor the merger o fthe
          Agricultural Finance Company, established under the ADP, with the Mortgage and
          Land Bank (MLB) and the eventual privatization of the MLB.The RDP also included
          incentive provisionsto encourage private banks to make loans to farmers and rural
          enterprises, since the private banking sector had not previously done so (Box 1).

          Technicalassistancesupport for institutionaldevelopment:To complete the
          cadastre and Land Book (an official government land registry for use inmortgage
          markets) and continued training for management and staff o f the MLB and private
          banks.

2.4       The total cost of the projectwas US$19.0 million at appraisal and $22.2 million at
completion. O fthis total the rural development policy component represented5 percent at

 Box 1. The Special Credit Line
The RDP created a special credit line, parallelto the commercial credit line, which includedspecific
 incentivesbothfor smallruralenterprises to borrowmoney and for banksto lendto ruralenterprises.
Onthe borrowerside, the money couldbe usedto start small-scalebusinesses and create employment
in rural areas. The maximum size of these loans was initially set at 2000 Lats. If the borrower paid
the loan in full and on schedule, approximately 30 percent of the loan was refundedto the borrower
after the loan was paid back. The Government of Latvia and not the World Bank provided this
subsidy.
Onthe lender side, boththe MLB and privatebanks hadto make a number of loans usingthe special
credit line in order to obtain access to project funds for the commercial credit line, which could be
usedto make loans to any farmers or rural enterprises. Initially, the banks hadto make $1 of special
credit line loans to get access to $3 for the commercial credit line. Later,this was increasedto a ratio
of 1:4.


2. Rural DevelopmentProject, Project Appraisal Document, June 30, 1998, p. 6. The RDP was originally conceivedas a
two-phaseadjustableprogram loan (APL); this was the developmentobjective of the first of these two phases. The
government informed the Bank in early 2001 that it did not intendto implementthe secondphase of the RDP because it was
able to generate sufficient resources from its own budgetand because it was able to gain access to the EuropeanUnion's
SpecialAction Programfor Agriculture and Rural Development (SAPARD).

                                                 5


 appraisaland 17percent at completion; the commercial credit line 53 percentat appraisaland
 37 percent at completion; the special credit line 28 percent at appraisaland 27 percent at
completion; andthe technical assistance component 13 percentat appraisaland 19percent at
completion. However, only $9.1millionof the Bank's commitment of $10.5 millionwas
disbursed,becausethe governmentwas able to access funds for the first andthird
components at a lower cost from the EuropeanUnion's SAPARDprogram.

3.      ProjectImplementation

ADP

3.1     Implementationofthe ADP was the responsibility ofthe Minister of Agriculture
(MOA) througha ProjectManagementUnit(PMU). A ProjectCommissionchairedby the
MOA andwith representativesfrom the Ministry ofFinance (MOF), the Ministry of
Environment and RegionalDevelopment,the Ministry of Economy, andthe Bank of Latvia
providedpolicy guidelines and supervisedthe activities ofthe PMU.

3.2     The Bank line of credit, whichwas the largestcomponentofthe ADP, providedfunds
for the AFC to make sub-loans to farmers.The MOA would on-lendthe World Bank funds
to the AFC, which inturn extendedsub-loansto the ultimatebeneficiaries.

RDP

3.3     Implementationofthe RDP was the responsibility of an Inter-MinisterialWorking
Groupon ruralpolicy. This group was chairedby a DeputyPrimeMinisterandconsistedof
representativesfrom the MOA, the Ministry ofEnvironmentandRegionalDevelopment, the
Ministry of Economy,the Ministry ofFinance, the Ministry of Justice, the State Treasury, the
State Land Service, the MLB, andthe State Employment Service.A PMUinthe MOF
coordinatedthe overallprojectandreporteddirectly to the Inter-MinisterialWorking Group.

3.4     The PMUcreateda Technical Unit (TU) which aidedinthe coordinationo fthe large
number of interestedparties. The MOF would on-lendthe credit line funds to Participating
FinancialInstitutions(PFIs) whichwouldthen make sub-loans to farmers andrural
entrepreneurs.The PMUhadthe responsibilityfor the monitoringandevaluationofthe
performanceofthe PFIsto be certain that the intendedbeneficiarieswere receivingsupport.

3.5    As the RDP was beingimplemented, the government foundit couldaccess funds
from the EUfor some ofthe components ofthe RDP at a lower cost. Hence, the Rural
DevelopmentStrategy and some ofthe technical assistancewere supportedunder SAPARD.
With the agreement ofthe World Bank, loan funds were reallocatedfrom those components
for whichEUfunds were receivedto the two credit lines, whichresultedinlarger credit lines
availableto the MLB andprivate banks.

                                                      6


 4.        Ratings: Overall Outcome

 RELEVANCE:        WERE THE PROJECTS' OBJECTIVESRIGHT INTHE LIGHT OF CURRENT
 PRIORITIES?


 ADP

 4.1       The relevance o fthe ADP is ratedhighinrelationto the Government o f Latvia's
 transition objectives at the time the loanwas prepared and approved. The ADP was fully
 consistent with the objectives o f the World Bank for transition economies.

 4.2       In1993, the WorldBank produced a country study, Latvia: TheTransition to a
 Market Economy, which spelled out the needs o f the agricultural and rural economy as
 follows:

           The central task of the post-communist reform period i s to permit the re-
           establishment o f both the incentives and institutions necessary for rational economic
           decision making decentralized to the level o f the producer and the market
           intermediary enterprise. These include secure, transparent, and tradable property
           rights, and competitive marketing and trading systems for inputs, outputs, and factors
           o fproduction, particularly land, shares, and other instruments o f enterprise or asset
           ownership. Reestablishing the competitiveness o f markets i s a particular priority for
           policymakers so that credible commodity and factor prices can emerge that reflect
           both trade opportunity costs and a consensus o f the various agents inthe domestic
           market as to actual and anticipated scarcities and ~a1ue.s.~

The ADP was aimed precisely at these objectives, namely, the re-establishment o f a
competitive market and the creation o f the necessary institutions to facilitate the workings o f
a competitive market.

RDP

4.3       The relevance o fthe RDP is rated as high inrelationto the Government o f Latvia's
desire to see a broadening o f the income base inrural Latvia. The RDP was relevant interms
o f the needto encourage private Latvian banks to start making credit available to agricultural
and rural entrepreneurs.

4.4       In1998, the government hadthe objective ofincreasing income andreducingpoverty
inthe rural sector by diversifying the rural economy. This meant the creation ofjobs inthe
rural sector that were not only based on agricultural production. Also, there was the need to
create employment opportunities inthe rural areas to help absorb the labor being released
from the agricultural sector. The RDP was aimed at providing credit to rural entrepreneurs
who wanted to start or expand a small business and were not engaged inagricultural
production.



3 . Latvia: The Transition to a Market Economy, World Bank Country Study, March 3 I,1993, p. 88

                                                      7


EFFICACY:DIDTHE PROJECTSACHIEVE THEIRSTATEDOBJECTIVES?

ADP

4.5      The objectives of the ADP were fully achieved.The principalobjectivewas to aid
the newlyemergingprivatefarmers byprovidingaccess to credit,whichwas neededto make
the sector moreproductive.

4.6      The ADP line of credit was on-lent to the AFC. The success ofthe AFC interms of
makingloans to farmers is illustratedinTable 1.By the end ofthe ADP, there were 3,866
sub-loansapprovedwith a repaymentrate of almost 95 percent.The highlevelof repayment
allowedthe AFC to re-lendthe returnedcapital andthus expandthe number offarmers
which receivedbenefitsfrom the ADP. (No performance dataexists onthe AFC after 1998,
since the AFC was mergedwith the MLB as part o f the RDP.) Although on-lending in
Latvianlats was introducedinlate 1996-which gave end-borrowersthe choice ofborrowing
inU.S.dollars at a lower interestrate or borrowinginlats at slightlyhigherrates-only 4
percent ofthe portfolio was denominatedinlats becausemost ofthe sub-borrowerspreferred
dollar-denominatedsub-loans.

4.7      Since the MLB absorbedthe AFC, it has beenable to raise funds for its lending
programfrom the Europeanmarketat competitivemarketrates. The OED missionqueried
the managementofthe MLBifthey hadrequestedany special or additionaltreatment from
the Latviangovernmentafter the takeover, since it was possiblethat the marketmighthave
regardedthe takeover o fthe AFC as negativefor the MLB.They respondedthat they hadnot
requestedany specialtreatment from the government, since the market for loanable funds
saw the takeover as positive.

4.8     A secondobjectiveofthe ADP was to supportthe institutional developmentofthe
agriculturalandrural sectors. The actions taken to achievethis objectiveincludedthe

Table 1.Credit Operation: AFC Lending Operations under ADP (US$ 000).

 Indicator                    As of September 30,        As of December 31,
                                     1997                       1997              As of March 31,1998

 Number of sub-
 borrowers                           2,003                      2,301                     2,754

 Number of sub-loans
 approved                            2,859                      3,250                     3,866

 Total amount of sub-
 loans approved                     34,053                      37,130                   49,880

 Total sub-loan
 disbursement                       29.450                      32.185                   40.567

     Of which for                   14,104                      15,915                   23,813
     investment                     (48%)                       (49%)                     (59%)
     Of which for working           15,346                      16,270                   16,454
     capital                        (52%)                       (51%)                     (41%)

 ReDavment rates                    95.2%                       92.0%                     94.7%
 ~~




Source: Latvia Agricultural Development Project, lmplementafion Completion Report,June 10, 1998,
Appendix C.

                                                    8


  privatization of agri-food industries, the training o f managers for the public and private
  sectors, and the creation of a cadastre and LandBook to facilitate the operation o f a private
  land market. Giventhat many o f the small food and agro-processing firms had never
  operated ina market economy, there was a large needand demand for management support
  and training tools.

  4.9      The objective of helping to privatize a numberof food and agro-processing firms was
  completed. The ADP supported the development o f training handbooks and provided training
  to the government and private firms. And the project aided inthe development o f the land
  registration system and cartographic material. A total of 113,001 land titles were regi~tered.~

  RDP

  4.10     The objectives of the RDPwere achieved satisfactorily, but one component
  experienceda shortcoming. While the merger of the AFC with the MLB was completed, the
  MLBwas notprivatized, as hadbeenoriginally intended.

 4.1 1     A major objective ofthe RDP was to encourage private banks inLatvia to make loans
 to both farmers and small rural-based enterpiises. Prior to the RDP, private banks played
 virtually no role inproviding credit to the rural entrepreneurs.This objective was achieved
 through the special incentive program built into the RDP line o f credit called the special
 credit line (Box 1). The data on the number o f loans made by boththe MLB and the private
 banks underthe special credit line are shown inTable 2. As of 2003, the MLB had
 approximately a 20 percent share o f lending to the primary agriculture productionmarket,
 down from the 40 percent which it had in 1999. This decline has resultedfrom the entry o f
 other banks inthis market and from the needfor MLBto diversify its lending portfolio.

 4.12     The RDP helpedcreate the institutional foundation for the government to produce a
 long-term rural strategy and a set o f policies to support the strategy. The strategy documents
titled the National Rural DevelopmentPlan were completed andpublished.The OED
missionwas satisfied with the thoroughness and completeness o fthe National Rural
Development Plan. This appropriately focused on, among other objectives, enhancing the
productivity of the rural sector, the creation o fjobs, and the delivery o f services inthe rural
sector. Beyond this, the outcome of this component i s difficult to assess, because the
implementationo f the rural strategy will take a number o f years. Only after the strategy has
beenimplementedcan the outcomes and impacts o f this component be fully evaluated.

4.13      The one objective, which was not achieved, was the privatization ofthe MLB.At the
time ofthe OED missionto Latvia inSeptember 2003, the AFC hadbeensuccessfully
mergedwith the MLB,the functions ofthe AFC were working well withinthe MLB, andthe
MLBwas a licensedand regulated bank ina manner identicalto privatebanks, except that it
was fully owned by the government. While the MLBcould have beenprivatized interms o f
i t s current structure and performance, the government clearly indicated it had no inclination
to do so at the present time.




4. Agricultural DevelopmentProject, Implementation Completion Report, June 10, 1998, Appendix D.

                                                        9


 Table 2. SpecialCredit Line: Annual Approvals, 1998-2001, LVL.
                              1998-1999               2000                    2001      01101102-04/1/02
 All PFls
  Number of loans                 530                 435                     417               38
  Cumulative number
 of loans                         530                 965                     1,382            1.420

 Amount (Lats)                  914,764             829,188                 867,316           75,470
  Cumulative amount
 of loans (Lats)                914,764             1,743,952              2,611,268        2,686,738


 Individual PFls
 MLB: Number of
 loans                            278                 210                     182               29

 MLB: Amount                    503,698             398,086                 356,456           56,970
 Parex Bank:
 Number of loans                  252                 151                     180                0

 Parex Bank:
 Amount                        411,066              333,769                 426.537              0

 Baltic Transit Bank:
 No of loans                       0                   74                      55                9

 Baltic Transit Bank:
 Amount                            0                 97,333                 84,323            18,500

Source: Rural Development Project, lmplementafion Completion Report, June 25, 2002, Additional Annex 10.
Although the commercial credit line was denominated in German Deutch Marks and later converted into euros in
early 2002, the special credit line sub-loans were made in Latvian lats (LVL).



4.14     There was no apparent concern by the private banksinLatviaover the public
ownership ofthe MLB. As longas the MLBwas under the supervisionofthe Bank of Latvia
andwas not favored inanyway by the government, public ownershipwas not seen as a
problem.Privatebanks did not see themselves as beingcrowded out ofthe market, although
this perceptionwas basedonarelativelyshort experience oftime with apublicbank.
However, giventhe positive experienceofprivate banks inLatviaprovidingloans to small
ruralentrepreneurswithin the RDP, this still leaves openthe questionas to why the
government neededto retaina publicly owned bank.

4.15    Two reasonsthat were givenfor not privatizingthe MLBwere that itwas doingan
excellentjob at achievingits stated objectivesunder its current ownership structure, andthat
the government hadtoo muchon its plateat the presenttime. There hadbeenanumber of
high-profileprivatizationsthat hadoccurred inLatviaduringthe transition, not all ofwhich
hadbeensuccessful. The governmentdidnot view the privatizationofthe MLB as a
sufficientlyhighpriority on which to expendpolitical capitalat the presenttime.

4.16    A third reason, givento the OED mission, for not privatizingthe MLB was that the
government might wish to use subsidizedcredit to intervene inother credit marketsinLatvia
inthe future. The examplethat was sharedwith the OED missionwas the housingmarket.
The government might want to use the MLB to providea subsidy inorder to reduce the
housingshortage inurbanareas such as Riga.Ifthe governmentprovided sucha subsidy

                                                  10


 through both public and private banks, on the same terms to each, and financed from the
 government's budget, ina manner similar to that usedinthe RDP special credit line, then
 this would not bemuchcause for concernas far as the stability ofthe bankingsystemwas
 concerned. But ifthe government ordered the MLB by directfiat to take on risky loans inthe
 housing sector that would otherwise be avoided, this could be a cause for concern by creating
 both an over-investment inthe housing sector and risking the financial sustainability of the
 MLB.This has oftenhappenedwith government-owned banks inother developing and
 industrializedcountries. While this did not appear to be a concern inLatvia today, it might be
 at some time inthe future.

 EFFICIENCY:WERETHE PROJECTSCOST-EFFECTIVE?

ADP

4.17     The overall efficiency of ADP is rated as high.The ADP loanwas fully disbursed.
Two components of the ADP were evaluated interms o f efficiency: first, the efficiency o f the
credit line, and second, the efficiency o f the institutional development activities.

4.18     The line of credit providedto the AFC was fully lent out to sub-borrowers. The loans
were made through a rigorous due diligence processput inplace bythe central staff ofthe
AFC. A mobile credit officer would travel ina given district and visit potentialborrowers.
Once identified, the borrower and credit officer would prepare a loan application. This
arrangement made it possible for the credit officer to visit a large number o f potential
borrowers at a lower cost than working from a stationary office. Another result was spending
a minimum amount o f money on such items as rent for office space, and more on the training
o f credit officers and on the development o f the loan applicationforms. The World Bank has
since usedthe loan application forms and processes developed by the AFC inother transition
economies such as Kazakhstan.

4.19    The institutional development undertaken within the ADP was foundto be efficient.
The cadastre systemwas completed on budget. A cross-country comparison ofthe cost of
creating and operating the Land Book i s shown inTable 3. The speed by which a title can be
searched and a mortgage registered inthe LatvianLand Book compares well with other
developing and transition countries. The cost o f using the LandBook i s competitive with
other countries, but somewhat behindThailand. And, as the last row inTable 3 shows, the
revenue/expenditureratio of 1.6 indicates that the LandBook is coveringits expenses and
that there i s no subsidy to the users o f the Land Book. The creation o f the LandBook was
started, but not completed under the ADP. The cadastre and the Land Book greatly aided the
speedat which Latviawas able to develop a fully functioning landmarket.

4.20    The expenditures made on training were reported to the OEDmissionas having been
done inan efficient manner. N o data was available on the number o f people trained per lat
spent. Therefore no formal cost-benefit analysis couldbe carried out.

                                                     11


 RDP

 4.21      The objectives ofthe RDPwhich were achieved,were done so efficiently.The two
 objectives, whichwere met very efficiently, were the targeting of ruralentrepreneursthrough
 the special credit line andthe involvementofthe private banks inthe ruralcredit market.The
 number of loans made by PFIsusingthe special credit line i s showninTable 2. The
 distributionbetweenthe commercialloans (primarily loans to agriculturalproducersfor land,
 buildings, and equipment) andthe special credit line (rural entrepreneursnot necessarily
 associated with productionagriculture) i s shown inTable 4.

 4.22      The credit line providedby the RDP to the MLB (after merger with AFC) was
 disbursedto the targetedgroups with very little loan loss. Whenthe OED missionenquired,
 boththe MLB andthe privatebanks indicatedthat they were following a conservative
 lendingpolicy inwhich they did not take onhigh-riskloans. The WorldBank line of credit
 was never intendedto be a socialprogramto redistributeincome.Rather, it was intendedto
 facilitate an adjustmentinthe labor market-from the agriculturalproductionsector to the
 ruralnon-agriculturalsector -by providingfunds for an organized credit systemto current
 andnewruralborrowerson commercialterms (i.e. requiringfinancial security and at market
 interestrates). Takingthis approachcontributedto the highlevelof financial efficiency.

Table 4. Summary of RDP Credit Component
  Implementation            1998-1999               2000                 2001                  Total
  Commercial Loans
       Number of
      borrowers               115                   122                  109                    368

      Average loan
      size (DEM)             39,409               48,684                65,390                46,107

  Special Credit Line
      Number of
      borrowers               530                   435                  417                  1,382

      Average loan
      size (Lats)             1,864                2,033                2,037                 1,876

  Non-performing
  loans (% of total           0.08                  0.2                  3.8                    1.4
  credit disbursed)

  Source: Rural Development Project, lmplemenfafion Completion Report, June 25, 2002, Additional Annex 9.


5.        Ratings:InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact and
          Sustainability

INSTITUTIONAL       DEVELOPMENT       IMPACT

ADP

5.1      The ADP supportedtwo general areas of institutionaldevelopment.The first general
area was the development o f a financial market, which could serve newly emergingprivate
farmers andrural entrepreneurs.This requirednot only a line of credit but also technical and

                                                        12


 managerial expertise. The secondarea o f institutional development was the creation of the
 human and institutional capacity essential for a well functioning market economy. The
 institutional development impact of the ADP is rated as substantial.

 5.2     The ADP aided infostering the development ofthe AFC, which was the vehicle used
 to on-lend the World Bank line of credit to Latvian farmers. Prior to the AFC there was no
 financial vehicle to help the newly emerging and generally smaller and resource-poor farmers
 access credit.

 5.3     The AFC hadtwo important institutionalcomponents which aided inits success.
 First, the AFC developed a rigorous loan application and approval process. This processwas
 basedon the collectiono f detailed farm cost and revenuedata. The manner inwhich the AFC
 didbusiness becameinstitutionalizedand has workedvery well. Second, the AFC had
 mobile credit officers, who went to the customers (i.e., the farmers) rather than waiting for
 the farmers to come to them.The mobile credit officers maintained a close relationship with
 the farmers, visiting the farms a number oftimes eachyear whenthe loans were inplace.
 This made it possible to identifyand deal with many ofthe farm financial problems before
 these became a serious problem. The financial problems dealt with such issues as being
 certain to have cash on handto be able to make loanpayments when these came due. The
records neededto monitor the farm business were kept up to date. (This emphasis on record
keeping has also helpedLatvian farmers prepare for joining the EUfarm support system.)
And, when the farm cashflow becametight, the credit officers were able to helpthe farmers
get through such situations while still maintaining sound businessmanagement.

5.4      Inthe past, many World Bankprojects whichhave supported a line of credithave not
beenvery successful inachieving their desiredobjectives. As a result the use of credit lines
has declinedwithin the World Bank.' The ADP i s one example where a line of credit has met
its stated objectives.

5.5      The fact that the ADP was successful raises an important question with regard to the
World Bank's position on the use o f lines of credit. Credit markets are intertemporal markets
that are characterized by high transactions costs, asymmetric information, and intertemporal
risksof default, liquidity, andprices (i.e. inflation). They are institutionallyintensive.They
requirewell-definedproperty rights, enforceable rules (such as foreclosure rules), and
adequate human resource capacity to function well. Not only the design, but also the
institutional environment and the humanresource capacity inLatvia contributed to the
success o f the ADP (and the RDP). One size does not fit all. The design o f line of credit
projects needs to take into account the institutional environment and the humanresource
capacity that exists ineach country and where these are not adequate, to invest resources in
their improvement, Inthe case ofLatvia, the ADP and RDP meta definiteneedduring its
transitionto a market economy. Not to have provided Latvian farmers with the opportunity to
access credit, and by means o f credit to make adjustments to their farm enterprises, would
have slowed the transition to a market economy.



5. For adetaileddiscussiono f credit lines see Jacob Yaron, "Evaluation o f Bank Lines o f Credit (LOC)
operations inthe 1993-2002 period," December2003, backgroundpaper to OED's forthcoming Review of
Lines of Credit.

                                                13


 5.6     The Latvian Agricultural Advisory Servicehelpedto strengthenfarm management
 practicesandto teach farmers about the functioning of a free market.This helpedthe farmers
 makebetter planning andmarketingdecisions.Marketinganddistributionsupport was
 providedthroughthe EnterpriseSupport Centers inLatvia, whichproducedmanuals on how
to finance, to developprocurementstrategies, andto restructurenewlyprivatizedfirms.

 5.7     Landreformwas a major success. At the time the ADP was startedthere were
 approximately 193 cadastre titles and 10 legalownership titles inthe LandBook.By the
 close of the ADP the cadastre hadgrownto 157,000 titles and 104,000 ownershiptitles
registeredinthe LandBook. This has provideda soundbasisfor the growinglandand
mortgagemarketinLatvia.

RDP

5.8      The institutionaldevelopmentofthe RDP i s ratedas substantial.The RDP hadtwo
overarchinginstitutionalobjectives: first, to see the development of a privatelyowned
bankingsector, which was actively providingservicesto farm andruralentrepreneurs, and
second, to support the institutionaldevelopmentof a group inthe governmentthat could
formulate a long-termruraldevelopmentstrategy and a set of companionpolicies for Latvia.

5.9      The AFC was successfully mergedinto the MLB.The managementofthe AFC was
initially absorbedby the MLB, whichhelpedthe merger occur successfully.The MLB
adoptedthe due diligenceprocess developedby the AFC, andthe MLB has expandedthe
numberofruralbranches as a result of the merger.

5.10     Privatebanks were givenaccess to the project credit lines to encouragethemto lend
to ruralcustomers.This strategy was successful as showninTable 4. Representativesof
privatebanksinformedthe OED missionthat they have developeda ruralinvestment
portfolio as a result ofthe RDP andplanfor this portfolio to grow. This is an important
institutional development.

5.1 1    One ofthe institutionalobjectives which was not achievedwas the privatizationof
the MLB.The governmentstatedinvery clear terms they hadno intention ofprivatizingthe
MLB at this time for the reasons discussedearlier (paragraphs4.14 and 4.15). We found no
evidencethat the MLB hadbeenfavoredinany way ingainingaccess to the RDP line of
credit. Privatebankstold the OED missionthat they hadbeenfairly treated interms ofhow
the RDP funds were administeredby the GOL.

5.12    The government has developeda ruralstrategy calledtheNational Rural
Development Plan. This planwas put together by a number of government departments and
agencies and lays out the future rural strategy for the government.

SUSTAINABILITY

ADP

5.13    The sustainability ofthe ADP is ratedas likely.First, the government i s very
committedto sustainingthe resultsofthe project.

                                                    14


 5.14     Second, from working with the mobilecredit officers ofthe AFC andthe MLB, the
 newly emergingprivate farmers havebecome skilledinmaintainingcomplete financial
 statements. Latvianfarmers are nowusingthese management skills to get better access to
 SAPARDgrants. The SpecialAction Programfor Agriculture andRuralDevelopmentis a
ruraldevelopmentprogram sponsoredbythe EUinwhich farmers can apply to recover part
 o f the investmentcosts of a piece o f equipmentor the constructionof a building.

 5.15     Third, the trainingprovidedto managersofthe newlyprivatizedfood and agro-
processingfirms is beingsustained.The training o f staff is nowbeingpaidfor by the
privatizedfirms themselves, andmany ofthe manualsand instructionmaterialdeveloped
with support from the ADP are still beingused.

5.16      The reformsto the landmarketare permanent.Latviais actively developingits
agriculturallandmarket. This is beingaidedbythe developmentofthe mortgagemarket,
which is a direct result ofthe LandBook and cadastre.As showninTable 5, the use of land
mortgagescontinuesto grow afterthe closureofthe ADP. (Thetotal value ofthe mortgages
was not providedto the OEDmission).

RDP

5.17      The sustainability ofthe benefits createdfrom the RDP is ratedas likely. The
governmentis committedto all but one ofthe componentsofthe RDP, which is the
privatizationofthe MLB.

5.18      The privatebanks have startedto develop an agriculturalandruralloanportfolio.
This is a strong indicationthat the privatebankswill stay inthe rural lendingmarket.Having
becomeaccustomedto lendingto smaller businesses, they statedthat they intendfor this
portfolioto grow.

5.19      Boththe private banksandthe MLB statedthey intendto keep makingloansto small
start-upruralbusinesses.This was one ofthe major benefits conferredfrom the special credit
line, and it appearsto be sustainable.

5.20      The RDPprovidedsupport for the completionofthe LandBook.The LandBook is
locatedinthe Department of Justice and is usedby those individualswho seek to placea
mortgageon the land. The number of mortgagesplacedon farmlandincreaseddramatically
between 1998and2002 (Table 5).


Table 5. Number of Mortgages taken on Land, 1995-2002
 Year             1995        1996      1997        1998       1999    2000    2001    2002
 Number of
 mortgages         861        1,740     3,906      8,864       11,257  18,361  26,549  36,903

 Source: Data provided to the OED mission by the Land Book registry.

                                              15


 6.      Ratings: Bank and Borrower Performance

 BANKPERFORMANCE

 ADP

 6.1     The World Bankperformanceon the ADP is ratedas highly satisfactory.

 6.2     The World Bank startedthe ADP at a time whenthe borrower neededassistanceto
 helpnewly emergingprivatefarmers andhelpprivatizea number of small food and agro-
 processingfirms. Eventhoughthe use of creditlines was declininginthe WorldBank at the
 time ofthe loan, this projectwas approvedbecause ofthe obvious needfor agriculturalcredit
 inLatvia.

 6.3    The projectwas identified, developed, prepared,appraisedandbecameeffective in
 less than 12 months.This took place inthe context of a newtransitioneconomy that was
 lackingmany of the institutions requiredfor a free market.

 6.4    The objectives ofthe ADP were focusedandtotally consistentwith the needs and
wishes ofthe government so that all partieshadthe same desiredoutcome.

 6.5    The Bank provedto be flexible inprovidingtechnical assistance to the government.
Whenthere was a problemwith the technical assistance being givento the AFC, the Bank
was able to locate another source for technical assistancewhichmet the needsofthe
borrower.

6.6     The staff of the Bank was highly valuedandtheir continuous efforts on behalfof the
ADP were greatly appreciated.All participantsinthe ADP repeatedlytold the OEDmission
that the performanceofthe Bank staff was exemplary.


RDP

6.7     The World Bankperformanceon the RDP is ratedas satisfactory. Workingwith its
Latviancounterparts, the Bank was able to preparethe RDP andget it approvedby the
Bank's Boardrelatively quickly (from May 1997to July 30, 1998).

6.8     The strategyto encourageprivatebanksto lendmoneyto small rural entrepreneurs
andfarmers was simple to understandandmanage. This was a majorpart ofthe success of
the special credit line.

6.9     The Bank staff who preparedthe projectremainedinplacethroughoutits
implementation,whichcontributedto its efficient and successful implementation.

                                               16


 BORROWERPERFORMANCE

ADP

 6.10   The performanceofthe government andthe implementingagencies with respectto
the ADP is ratedas highly satisfactory.

6.11    The government demonstratedstrong and continuous support for the ADP. Even
thoughthe government changedseveraltimes, their commitmentto the objectives ofthe
project didnot waiver. This enabledthe specific programsdevelopedunder the ADP, such as
the AFC, to receivethe continuous attention and support neededto makethem successful.

6.12    The quality ofthe PMUstaffwas very high.They hadthe necessary access to the
political leadersto enablethem to resolveany problemsas these arose.

6.13    The staff andmanagementofthe AFC were excellent, They worked closely with the
Bank staff and consultants, andwere able to develop solutionsto many ofthe institutional
andmanagementproblemsof developing sustainablerural bankingsystems ina transition
economy.

6.14    There i s no evidencethe governmentinterferedwith the AFC interms ofwho
receivedor didnot receivea loan. Inaddition,the government allowedthe AFC to runa fully
commercialoperationand didnot try to manipulatethe program.

RDP

6.15    The borrower's performancewith respectto the RDP is ratedas satisfactory.

6.16    The governmentwas committedto the objectives ofthe RDP.It met its financial
commitmentsto the RDP, includingprovidingthe governmentfunds requiredto carry out its
share o fthe project,particularlythe subsidies associatedwith the special credit line.

6.17   The government supportedthe merger ofthe AFC andthe MLB.However, the
government didnot support the privatizationofthe MLB,this beingthe one area where the
governmentdid not meet its commitment at the time the RDP was signed.

6.18   The government placedsustainable ruraldevelopment on its priority agenda. This
requiredthe input of some major government departments, such as the Ministries of
Agriculture, EnvironmentandRegionalDevelopment, Economy andFinanceto puttogether
a meaningfulruraldevelopment strategy.

                                               17


7.       Lessons
7.1     Experience with these two projects confirms a number o f OED lessons:

(1) Thesuccess of a line of creditproject is dependentnot only upon its design but also on
    the institutional environment and human resource capacity of the country. Credit
    markets are intertemporal markets and therefore institutionally intensive. They require
    well-defined property rights, enforceable rules (such as foreclosure rules), and adequate
    humanresource capacity to function well. A government must allow these institutional
    rules to operate unhindered for a credit market to operate inan efficient manner and for
    borrowers to understand that the loans must be repaid. The design o f line o f credit
    projects needs to take into account the institutional environment and the humanresource
    capacity that exists ineach country, and where these are not adequate, to invest resources
    intheir improvement.

(2) It is important topay close attention to the incentivestructuresthat are built into
   financial instruments like lines of credit, since these can represent the major difference
    between success andfailure. Boththe ADP andRDP took great care inbuildingthe
    appropriate incentive structures into the sub-loans. Careful and thoughtful program
    design minimizedmoral hazard problems andresulted invery highrates o f repayment.
    The special credit line only paid a subsidy to borrowers (small-scale rural entrepreneurs)
   once the loanwas fully repaid. This high-powered incentive had the desired effect on the
   behavior o f the borrowers.

(3) When a government creates a newfinancial instrument such aspublicly provided
   credit to enhance the efficient functioning ofprivate markets, it is important to have an
   exit strategy to move this instrument to theprivatesector. Inthe case o f Latvia, the
   government createdthe publicly owned Agricultural Finance Corporation under the ADP
   and mergedthis with the publicly owned Mortgage and Land Bank under the RDP. While
   privatizing the MLB was an objective o f the RDP, this did not occur inpart because there
   was not a detailed plan for doing so. The government decided not to privatize the MLB
   because the MLBwas performingwell under its current ownership structure, because the
   government hadhigher priorities, and because the government might want to use the
   MLBto subsidize credit inother credit markets (such as housing) inthe future.


                                                                19                                               Annex A


Annex A. Basic Data Sheets

LATVIA: AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN3695)

Key Project Data (amounts in US$million)
                                                           Appraisal             Actual or                Actual as % of
                                                            estimate         current estimate           appraisal estimate
Loan amount                                                  25.0                   25.0                        100
Cofinancing                                                   4:9                   11.8                        241
Financial intermediaries                                      4.5                    8.0                        178
Sub-borrowers                                                 10.7                  10.2                        95
Total Project Costs                                          45.1                   55.0                        122


Cumulative Estimated and ActualDisbursements(amounts in US$million)
                                                FY94            FY95             FY96              FY97             FY98
Appraisal estimate                               2.0             10.0             20.0             25.0             25.0
Revised estimate June 1995/ I                    2.0             6.5              14.0             25.0             25.0
Actual                                           2.0             6.6              11.9             22.7             25.0
Actual as % of estimate                          100             102              85               91               100
Date of final disbursement:                                                                                    11/11/1997

/IRevisedestimatewasnecessitatedbyInvestmentBankofLatvia's(IBL)terminationofparticipation.TheIBL,which
was expected to utilize 50 percent of the credit line, generated only six sub-loans totaling $1.43 million through July 1995
and requested to terminate its participation in the project.


ProjectDates
--                                                                 Original                               Actual
Identification                                                  April 21, 1993                       April 21, 1993
Preparation                                                     April 25, 1993                       April 26, 1993
Appraisal                                                       June 15, 1993                        June 30, 1993
Negotiations                                                  October 15, 1993                     December 6, 1993
Board Presentation                                           November 25, 1993                     January 11, 1994
Approval                                                       January 5, 1994                     February 16, 1994
Effectiveness                                                   March 31, 1994                       April 14, 1994
Mid-term review                                                  May 1996                               May 1996
Loan closing                                                 December 31, 1997                    December 31, 1997

                                                             20                                         Annex A



                                                            Actual weeks                      Actual US$OOO
 Preparation to Appraisal                                          34.3                           98.7
 Negotiation to Board                                              42.9                           127.6
Appraisal/Negotiation                                              15.0                           45.6
 Supervision                                                      101.6                           352.2
 ICR                                                               5.5                            25.0
Total                                                             201.3                           622.9


 Mission Data
                     Date       No. of     Staff days          Specializations             Performance rating
                    (month/    persons       in field             represenfed
                     Year)                                                            lmplementatio   Development
                                                                                        n status       objectives
Through          May 1993          6            14       Economist, Forestry-
Appraisal                                                Indus., Rural Credit,
                                                         Privatization, Ag. Policy,
                                                         TechnicaI
Appraisal        July 1993         7           20        Economist, Forestry-
through Board                                            Indus., Privatization, Rural
                                                         Credit, Technical, Agro-
                                                         Industrial, Enterprise Mgt
Supervision 1    May 1994          3           12        Agro-Industrial,                  HS             HS
                                                         Economist, Ag. Credit
Supervision 2    August 1994      2             a        Economist, Ag. Credit             HS             HS
Supervision 3    May 1995          3           12        Economist, Rural Banking,         S              HS
                                                         Technical
Mid Term         May 1996         7            35       Agro-Industrial, Rural             HS             HS
Review                                                   Banking, Economist,
                                                        Technical, Ag. Policy,
                                                         Institutional Dev.,
                                                        Ag. Finance
Supervision 5    November         5            15       Agro-Industrial, Rural            HS              HS
                 1996                                    Banking, Economist,
                                                         Invest. Analyst, Banking
Supervision 6   May 1997          6            14       Agro-Industrial, Rural            HS              HS
                                                        Banking, Economist,
                                                        Extension, Technical,
                                                        Invest. Analyst
ICR             November          6            10       Technical, Rural Banking,         HS              HS
                1996                                    Economist, Proj. Asst.

Key to Performance Ratings: HS = Highly Satisfactory, S = Satisfactory

                                                                 21                                               Annex A


 LATVIA: RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 4380)

 Key ProjectData (amounts in US$million)
                                                            Appraisal                Actual or             Actual as % of
                                                             estimate            current estimate        appraisal estimate
 Loan amount                                                   10.50                   9.10                      87
 Cofinancing / I                                               6.55                    10.30                     157
 Government                                                    1.95                    3.00                      154
 Total Project Costs                                           19.00                   22.40                     118

 / I Cofinancing figures include contributions from private financial institutions and beneficiaries.


 Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (amounts in US$million)
                                                             FY99                FYOO              FYOI             FYOZ
 Appraisal estimate                                           1.5                 6.5               10.5            10.5
Actual                                                        1.o                 4.2               6.7              9.0
Actual as % of estimate                                       67                  65                 64              86
 Date of final disbursement:



ProjectDates
__                                                                   Original                              Actual
Identification/Preparation                                                                             June 28, 1996
Appraisal                                                                                              March 17, 1998
Approval                                                                                                July 30, 1998
Effectiveness                                                   October 30, 1998                      December 8,1998
Mid-term review                                                  June 30,2000                           May 29,2000
Credit closing                                                   June 30,2001                        December 31, 2001



Staff Inputs(staff weeks)
                                                                Actual weeks                           Actual fJS$OOO
Through appraisal                                                      nla                                 201.7
Negotiations to Board                                                  n/a                                 112.0
Supervision                                                            n/a                                 178.0
Completion                                                             n/a                                  65.0
Total                                                                  nla                                 556.7

                                                              22                                            Annex A


Mission Data
                          Date           No. of           Specializations                  Performance rating
                     (monthlyear)      persons             represented             lmplementation       Development
                                                                                        status           objectives
Identification/   May 1997
Preparation                                5        E,ATS, ES, BS, APS

                  September 1997            1       BS

                  November 1997                     E, ATS, OA, BS, RDPS,
                                                    CDS
Appraisal/        March-April 1998
Negotiation                                         E,ATS, OA, BS, RDPS

Supervision 1     December 1998            2        E,BS                                  S                   S
Supervision 2     June 1999                4        E,ATS, OA, RDPS                       S                   S
Supervision 3     December 1999            3        E, FS, OA                             S                  HS
Supervision 4     March 2000               2        E,RBS                                 S             .    HS
Supervision 5     June 2000                4        E, SM, OA, BS                        HS                  HS
Supervision 6     December 2000            1        BS                                   HS                  HS
Supervision 7     September 2001           1        BS                                   HS                  HS
ICR               May 2002                 5        E, OA, FA, BS, RDPS                  HS                  HS

Specializations represented: ATS: Agro-technical Specialist; BS: Banking Specialist; CDS: Community Development
Specialist; E: Economist; ES: Extension Specialist; FS: Financial Specialist; OA: Operations Analyst; RDPS: Rural
Development Policy Specialist: SM: Sector Manager.
Performance ratings: HS: Highly satisfactory; S: Satisfactory.

