Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Report No.: 18025
LATVIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ln. 3695-LV
June 10, 1998
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = LAT
1 LAT = US$1.72
US$1 = LAT 0.58
1997 1US$ = LAT 0.587
1996 1US$ = LAT 0.556
1995 1US$ = LAT 0.537
1994 IUS$ = LAT 0.548
1993 IUS$ = LAT 0.595
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
A'BBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP -   Agricultural Development Project
AFC -   Agricultural Finance Company
APL -   Adaptable Program Loan
BOL -   Bank of Latvia
CAS -   Country Assistance Strategy
ECU  -   European Currency Unit
EU  -   European Union
FSU  -   Former. Soviet Union
GOL -   Government of Latvia
Ha -   Hectare
IBL -   Investment Bank of Latvia
IBRD  -   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR  -   Implementation Completion Report
LAAS -   Latvian Agricultural Advisory Services
LAG  -   Local Action Group
MCO  -   Mobile Credit Officer
MLB -   Mortgage and Land Bank
NGO  -   Non-Governmental Organization
PAD  -   Project Appraisal Document
PFI -   Participating Financial Institution
PHARE -   Pologne, Hongrie assistance, reconstruction, economique
PMU  -   Project Management Unit
PPU  -   Project Preparation Unit
RDP -   Rural Development Project
SME -   Small and Medium Enterprises
SOE -   Statement of Expenditures
TA  -   Technical Assistance
Vice President    Johannes Linn
Country Director    Basil G. Kavalsky
Sector Director    Kevin M. Cleaver
Sector Leader    Laura Tuck
Task Team Leader      Hoonae Kim



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ln. 3695-LV
CONTENTS
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment
PREFACE ......................................                                                         III
EVALUATION SUMMARY ......................................                                              IV
BACKGROUND ......................................I
A. STATEMENT / EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES ......................................1
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES ......................................                                      3
C. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT .....................................                                   5
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ..................................... .8
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY .....................................8
F. BANK PERFORMANCE .....................................                                                9
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE .....................................                                           10
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ......................................11
I. FUTURE OPERATION .....................................14: 
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED .....................................                                            12
Part II. Statistical Tables
Table 1:    Summaly of Assessments
Table 2:    Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:    Project Timetable
Table 4:    Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:    Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:    Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:   Project Costs
Table SB:   Project Financing
Table 9:    Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:   Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be
disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Part HI. Appendices
Appendix A:    ICR Mission Aide Memoire
Appendix BI:   Borrower's Comments to the ICR
Appendix B2:   Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
Appendix B3:   Progress of Disbursement
Appendix B4:   Disbursement Schedule
Appendix C:    AFCjending under ADP
Appendix C1:   Summary of Technical Assistance
Map



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
LATVIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN 3695-LV
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT in Latvia, for which loan 3695-LV in the amount of US$ 25 million
equivalent was approved on January 11, 1994 and made effective on April 14, 1994.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1997 as expected at appraisal, following completion of the
Project around September 30, 1997. It was fully disbursed, and the last disbursement took place on
November 11, 1997. Parallel co-financing for the project was provided by EU-PHARE and Sweden.
The ICR was prepared by Hoonae Kim, Team Leader, Rural Development and Environment Unit
of the Europe and Central Asia Region with assistance of the ICR mission team (J. Intrator and M.
Nelson) and reviewed by Laura Tuck, Sector Leader. The borrower--the Govermment of Latvia (GOL)--
provided a written contribution, a summary of which is included as an appendix to the ICR.
Preparation of the ICR began during the Bank's final supervision mission in September 1997.
The ICR is based on the findings of an ICR mission, which visited Latvia in November 1997, and on
information in the project files and from discussions with relevant officials of the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA), Ministry of Finance (MOF), State Treasury, Bank of Latvia, and participating financial
institutions. During an appraisal mission of a follow-up Rural Development Project in April 1998, certain
data was updated. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by furnishing its own
assessment of the project performance. The draft ICR was sent to the Borrower and its comments have
been incorporated.
iii






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
LATVIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN 3695-LV
Evaluation Summary
Introduction.
1.    The Agricultural Development Project (ADP) was approved in January 1994 during a time when
Latvia was experiencing major economic and political changes but lacked institutional or human
resources to support the transition. Following independence from the Former Soviet Union (FSU), a
large number of private farmers and agro-processing enterprises had emerged but they lacked access to
credit for equipment, production facilities and necessary inputs. Commercial banks were engaged mostly
in short-term trade financing; they were not interested nor understood lending to the agricultural sector
despite the fact that it was the second largest sector in the Latvian economy accounting for nearly a
quarter of the GDP and employing 18% of the labor force.
Project Objectives.
2.    The main objectives of the ADP were to help newly-emerged private farmers and to enhance on-
going privatization of agriculture, the agro-processing, and forest industries through fnancial and
technical assistance. The project aimed to achieve this through: (a) financing credit to private farmers for
on-farm investment and incremental working capital in order to create viable private farming units and
increase production; (b) financing credit for the development, modernization, or rehabilitation of private
and privatized agro- and forest industries; and (c) supporting an institutional development technical
assistance program including support for rural banking, land reforms, agricultural extension, marketing
and distribution and project management.
Implementation Experience and Results.
3.    Overall, the ADP has achieved its development objectives to revitalize and commercialize the
Latvian agricultural sector through providing credit with its parallel support to strengthen a rural fnancial
intermediary system and re-establishing private ownership of land and collateral systems. Creating and
strengthening business support systems such as agricultural extension with broader scope of services
beyond technical inputs, and marketing and distribution support helped create "bankable" projects that
were financed under the credit line operation. Timely implementation and completion of the project was
a major achievement considering that the project was the first Bank financed investment project in Latvia
with a new financial institution that was set up by and for the project.
v



4.    The project has been consistently rated as highly successful for implementation and for achieving
the development objectives. It developed the specialized expertise in the Agricultural Finance Company
(AFC), a non-bank fnancial institution, to serve many physically dispersed small-scale private farmers.
Because of the small size of the country and the need to reduce fixed costs, the AFC was created based on
mobile credit officers (MCOs) serving all corners of Latvia. The MCO concept allowed frequent and
regular visits by loan officers to keep close contact with clients for continuous monitoring and support.
Such frequent interactions helped increase both lending volume and repayment performances. The
concept of "a bank coming to the clients" also helped overcome the lack of transportation problems
frequently faced by farmers. In May 1997, the Government has merged AFC with the Mortgage and
Land Bank (MLB). The eventual merger of the AFC with one or more commercial banks was predicted at
appraisal and documented in the Staff Appraisal Report. Since the merger, the MLB was approved by the
Bank as an eligible PFI for the project and successfully completed the Credit Component of the project.
5.    Physical implementation was completed around September 1997. The final withdrawal from the
Loan account was made on November 11, 1997 and the Loan was formally closed on December 31,
1997. Disbursement of the credit line was mostly in line with the appraisal estimates and the aggregate
Technical Assistance (TA) support at completion increased to US$11.8 million versus US$6.08 million at
appraisal mainly due to continuous interest by donors to extend and widen the scope of various TA that
was already started under the ADP. At completion, the total amount of the sub-loans approved by AFC
was US$34.9 million equivalent for a total of 2,859 sub-loans averaging US$11,200. Interest rates were
highly positive in real terms (15% versus price inflation, currently at about 7%). The project achieved
over 95% on-time repayment performance and no loans have been written off to date. The Investment
Bank of Latvia (IBL) made 6 sub-loans and disbursed a total of US$1.43 million under ADP. Of the six
sub-loans, four are still active. IBL terminated its participation in the ADP credit line in mid-1996 as the
ADP's objectives of making small loans were not compatible with its corporate strategies.
Impact of the Project.
6.    The credit received by farmers and processing industries financed critical investments which
would not have been made without the project. The project has also established a rural financial system
based on commercial lending terms and conditions that are now being adopted by other commercial
banks; demonstrated to commercial banks that rural lending can be viable; established discipline among
end-borrowers and an understanding of terms and conditions of commercial lending; established land
titling, collateral, and a functioning land market; strengthened extension services for agricultural
production and business development; created a cadre of lending staff, trained in rural lending, including
loan appraisal, risk assessment, loan servicing and information services; and finally established a model
for rural finance projects elsewhere.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned.
7.    The ADP is a good example of Bank's prompt response to a Borrower's urgent needs. The
project was identified, prepared, appraised and implementation was begun in less than 12 months, despite
the fact that it was the first investment project in the country and involved substantial institution building.
The ADP outcome and impact at completion were mainly due to the focused objectives, a simple design
and a number of innovative features. Last but not least, the successful outcome was also due to the
Government's strong commitment to the project. Creating a non-bank financial institution, AFC, was
controversial during project processing, but proved--at the end--to be the right choice for an institutional
arrangement in a transitional economy. The AFC has became a house-hold name in rural Latvia and
vi



MCOs of AFC have become valued farm advisors with their ability to visit farms frequently and maintain
close contact with clients.
8.    The project achievements to date are likely to be sustainable. The Government is fmnly
committed to its economic and sectoral reform program including banking sector reforms. Reflows of the
credit lines are being actively on-lent while maintaining the high quality of loan portfolio and repayment
performance. Since the official closing of the Loan account in December 1997, the number of sub-loans
approved increased from 3,250 to 3,866 (19% increase) at the end of March 1998 while the total amount
approved increased to $49.9 million. Repayment performance continues to be high while maintaining the
interest rates at substantially positive levels.
Future operations.
9.    The Government of Latvia has requested the Bank to approve a follow-up project which would
be broader in scope and objectives of supporting the rural population at large. The proposed rural
development project (LV-PE-44804) is scheduled for Board consideration in July 1998.
Key lessons learned.
10.   The main lessons from the project, which may also have more general relevance for other
projects are the following:
* Ownership of a project by the borrower is an essential element for successful outcome. Additionally,
frequent changes of Government (5 times in Latvia over the project period) makes building local
ownership difficult and requires increased efforts in public relations.
*  It is important to have effective project management and supervision capacity in the client country.
* Intensive supervision of the project by the Bank and the Government is very important, particularly in
a new client country with limited project management experience.
* A relatively high degree of continuity during project implementation, both on the Bank task team and
the Latvia PMU, has largely compensated for frequent changes in the Govermment and was able to
provide a degree of stability to the project.
* Lending to agriculture can be profitable with due-diligence work by banks and by borrowers.
* Project start-up normally takes longer than anticipated especially when creating a new institution is
involved.
*  A credit line operating in a transitional economy must be accompanied by complementary reforms, in
land titling and development of collateral, and in farm investment, production and marketing
information.
* It is possible to create an effective development finance institution that can fill an existing void in a
country's financial system; such institution is particularly useful over the near term in transitional
economies that have underdeveloped financial systems; and such institution needs to be "custom-
vii



tailored" for the unique conditions in the country;
*  A single participating financial institution (PFI) is not desirable; a project should have multiple PFIs
to create competition among banks, and provide a wider access to credit by clients;
*  Having a single source of loanable funds (i.e. World Bank Credit line) limits PFI's ability to reduce
cost of funding and lending rates, which reduces competitiveness;
*  When a project involves co-financing of a Bank loan with grant funds, the project design
should ensure that the Borrower will utilize both funds in a complementary, not competing
manner.
vii(



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
LATVIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN 3695-LV
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment
Background
1.    Macroeconomic Background: Since Latvia regained independence in 1991, it successfully
implemented a vigorous program of stabilization policies which were complemented by structural
measures aimed at a fast transformation of the economy. From the outset, most price and trade regimes
were liberalized, the banking system started restructuring, and large state-owned enterprises were
demonopolized. These policies, which were supported by the IME and the World Bank, allowed Latvia
to reduce macroeconomic imbalances and to accumulate a significant amount of foreign exchange
reserves. Tight fiscal and monetary policies led to a sharp decline in the annual rate of inflation--from
nearly 1000 percent in 1992 to 13 percent in 1996 and even lower at 9 percent in 1997. After years of
stagnation, the economy has started to grow again with GDP recording rises of 2.8 percent in 1996 and
nearly 6 percent in 1997.
2.    Agricultural Background: Around the time of independence in 1991, agriculture was the
second largest sector in the Latvian economy, accounting for nearly a quarter of the GDP and employing
18% of the labor force. Since then, Latvian agriculture has undergone significant restructuring in both
the relative size to the economy and the types of production. By 1996, the share of the agriculture and
forestry sectors had fallen to around 9% of GDP. Although its relative share in the economy has
declined, the agricultural sector continues to be the main source of income and employment and also
provides valuable supplementary income to a large number of the rural population. Despite falling
production over this period, the agricultural and food sectors had also become increasingly important
exporters, accounting for over 11% of the total value of exports--third only to the forest and textile
sectors. The value of the agricultural and food exports was 66% higher in 1995 than in 1994; and despite
the decline in livestock production, meat exports increased.
A. Statement / Evaluation of Objectives
3.    The Project. The Agricultural Development Project (ADP) was designed in 1993 during a time
of major economic and political changes with limited institutional or human resources to support the
transition. Following the collapse of communism in 1990-91, agricultural cooperatives and state farm
land were rapidly privatized, creating over 400,000 small-scale private properties. This large number of
newly emerged private farmers and agro-processing enterprises lacked equipment, production facilities
1



and necessary inputs; and they did not have access to credit. Commercial banks were engaged mostly in
short-term trade financing; they possessed neither an interest in or an understanding of lending to the
agricultural sector. Against this background, the ADP(US$25 million loan) was designed to provide a
"stop-gap" measure to substitute for the "temporary" lack of a fnancial intermediary to serve the newly
emerging private farms and entrepreneurs.
4.    The main objectives of the ADP were to help newly-emerged private farmers and to enhance on-
going privatization of agriculture, the agro-processing, and forest industries through provision of
investment credit that was virtually lacking at the time. The project aimed to achieve this through: (a)
fnancing credit to private farmers for on-farm investment and incremental working capital in order to
create viable private farming units and increase production; (b) financing credit for the development,
modernization, or rehabilitation of private and privatized agro- and forest industries; and (c) supporting
an institutional development technical assistance program including support for rural banking, land
reforms, agricultural extension, marketing and distribution and project management.
5.    These project objectives stemmed from the main findings of the Agricultural Sector Review' and
broadly-held policy discussions with Latvian counterparts which determined that the agricultural sector
was experiencing a rapid decline in output, trade, and employment with an associated decline in income
and living standards. The Review also found that along with the large-scale dismantling of state and
collective farms, a large number of emerging private farms were facing a virtually complete absence of
credit for working capital or investment as a result of the sudden lack of capacity to serve the sector after
the closing of state banks that used to serve the sector. Altiough the launching of the project preceded
the first Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of August 1994, the ADP's objectives were consistent with
the CAS in promoting private-sector driven economic development and in strengthening the banking
sector.
6.    The focus of the project to support newly created private farmers following a massive
privatization of state and collective farms and large scale Soviet style agro-processing industries was well
justified particularly with its parallel support to strengthen a rural financial intermediary system and re-
establishing private ownership of land and collateral systems. Creating and strengthening business
support systems such as agricultural extension with broader scope of services beyond technical inputs,
and marketing and distribution support helped create "bankable" projects that were financed under the
credit line operation.
7.    Because the ADP was the first investment operation supported by the World Bank in Latvia
following The Rehabilitation Loan2, the project objectives and design were kept simple and pragmatic,
but included a number of innovative features, such as mobile banking, necessary for timely and cost
effective implementation. The Borrower lacked experience in project implementation that involved
financial and technical assistance management, and was unfamiliar with Bank rules and requirements
including project monitoring, evaluation and information management and reporting requirements for
increased accountability. Accordingly, substantial TA was provided to strengthen project management
capacity including procurement, disbursement and all other project implementation related matters.
1 Latvia Agricultural Sector Review, December 19, 1994 (Report No. 12401-LV).
2 The Rehabilitation Loan (Ln 3525-LV) approved by the Board on October 22, 1992 was the first loan to Latvia, which
financed importation of critical imports including fuel, chemicals, medicines, and some equipment
2



B. Achievement of Objectives
8.     Overall, the ADP has achieved its development objectives to revitalize and commercialize the
Latvian agricultural sector through: (a) providing agricultural and rural credit to the emerging private
producers on commercial lending terms and conditions, with timely loan repayment; (b) restoring private
property ownership rights, including registration of land ownership and collateral; (c) strengthening of
extension for agricultural production, and of business development services for farmers and rural
enterprises; and (d) creating a cadre of lending staff, trained in rural lending, including loan appraisal,
risk assessment, loan servicing and information services.
9.     The project has been consistently rated as "highly successful" for implementation and for
achieving the development objectives. The project was also considered to have been effective, having
assisted in Latvia's successful land reform program, and having established a system of rural credit. The
credit received by farmers and processing industries financed critical investments which would not have
been made without this system. It also financed non-farm rural investments of a small scale nature. It
developed the specialized expertise in the public sector that the Agricultural Finance Company (AFC), a
non-bank financial institution, needed to serve many physically dispersed small-scale private farmers.
Because of the small size of the country and the need to reduce fixed costs, the AFC was created based on
mobile credit officers (MCOs) serving all corners of Latvia. The MCO concept allowed frequent and
regular visits by loan officers to keep close contact with clients for continuous monitoring and support.
Such frequent interactions increased both lending volume and repayment performance. The concept of "a
bank coming to the clients" also helped overcome the lack of transportation problems frequently faced by
farmers.
10.   AFC was successful because it was designed to understand and serve the agricultural sector. It
was able to serve the fanning clients which other commercial banks were reluctant to lend to because of
this understanding and because the mobile credit approach gave it a technological advantage in lowering
cost and assuring repayment. AFC staff received intensive training, and the credit line was implemented
using credit delivery methodologies tailored to different clientele. The project, through prudent lending
for badly needed investments and working capital needs, contributed to slowing down the sharp declines
in the agricultural production from 1994 onwards while facilitating the required restructuring of the
sector. The loan, now fully disbursed, has been evaluated by external reviewers and is considered to be
one of a few successful rural finance projects that the Bank has ever financed. 3
11.    Creating a non-bank financial institution, AFC, was controversial during project processing, but
proved--at the end--to be the right choice for an institutional arrangement in a transitional economy. AFC
loan officers initially collaborated closely, and often shared offices, with the newly created farm advisory
services supported by EU-PHARE. After overcoming initial difficulties, the AFC was highly appreciated
by the Government as well as by the rural population, and has became a house-hold name in rural Latvia.
Mobile loan officers of AFC have become valued farm advisors with their ability to visit farms frequently
and maintain close contact with clients. .
12.    Agricultural Sector Development Objectives. The project assisted in the turn-around of the
agricultural sector by: (a) facilitating and enhancing land reform; (b) demonstrating the viability of
farming in a market economy; (c) demonstrating the value of commercial agricultural credit; (iv)
3In 1996, OED with FSD, carried out a Bank-wide review of Financial Intermediary Loans (FlLs). Among the 15 projects
reviewed in detail, Latvia ADP was considered to be one of the few successful FILs with valuable lessons for other similar
projects.
3



demonstrating the value of farm advice, especially of farm planning and budgeting; and (v) providing
credit-led restructuring and assisting in the recapitalization of farms, forestry and agro-processing
companies. The impact of these interventions is illustrated by a sample of randomly selected AFC clients
(see Table 9). The project has been effective in stimulating development of private agricultural and agro-
and forestry industries as witnessed by reversal of output declines and increased shares of exports. The
project contributed to recapitalization of agriculture, and helped to modernize farms and processing
companies in a period of great economic volatility. In addition, incremental income and employment
opportunities have helped improve the living standards while promoting development of a viable rural
financial intermediary system.
13.   The project also served as a window for continuous policy dialogues for the sector. Latvia has
adopted early on and has maintained reform-oriented polices. In 1996, OECD estimated that Latvia
achieved a Producer Subsidy Equivalent (PSE) which was one of the lowest among the Central and
Eastern European and FSU countries. The project clearly demonstrated the viability of the provision of
credit based on commercial terms and real positive interest rates, thereby reducing or eliminating the
justification for subsidized credits. In addition to the first Agricultural Sector Review issued in 1994, an
Agricultural Policy Update note was issued on July 15, 1996 as a part of the continued policy dialogue with
the Government on agricultural reforms.
14.   Financial Objectives. The project established a rural finance system where none existed in
Latvia and played an important demonstrative role in establishing commercial credit for the agricultural
sector. The project proved that during the transition period, a stop-gap model of a temporary
intermediation, if well designed and closely monitored, could be effective. Targeting credit to private
farmers and enterprises had an important role to play when a banking system was unable to provide
critically lacking foreign exchange to support private initiatives, particularly those of small-scale
entrepreneurs.
15.   The ADP Credit component demonstrated to other commercial banks that lending to the
agricultural sector could be profitable, as reflected by no-default and over 95% on-time repayment
performance. AFC introduced lending procedures that were replicated by other commercial banks and,
having demonstrated that lending to the agricultural sector is not more risky and can be profitable, led to
other commercial banks to enter the agricultural sector. The project also had a positive externality; a
limited number of AFC staff were offered higher salaries and hired by commercial banks, which in turn
adopted AFC lending guidelines and initiated lending to agricultural clients.
16.   In May 1997, following the Governments decision to incorporate AFC's lending skills and
established lending infrastructure into the mainstream commercial banking system, AFC was merged
with the Mortgage and Land Bank (MLB) and AFC ceased to exist as a separate legal entity. The
eventual merger of the AFC with one or more commercial banks was predicted at appraisal and
documented in the Staff Appraisal Report. Since the merger, the MLB was approved by the Bank as an
eligible PFI for the project in June 1997and successfully completed the Credit Component under the
ADP. The MLB has maintained and will continue to maintain separate accounts for all lending
operations carried out under the project including the utilization of the reflow from sub-loans. The MLB
continues to lend the "reflows" from the ADP while maintaining a sound quality loan portfolio. NLB,
with more diversified and larger lending activities, continues to monitor the repayment performance
carefully in order to maintain the high repayment rates. A small number of legal actions for recovery of
bad loans had been taken in part to demonstrate the seriousness of loan defaults to borrowers. Recovery
efforts through court action, auctioning or sale of collateral, etc. are continuing by the MLB. To-date,
there has been no write-off of loans.
4



17.   Institutional Objectives. Through Institutional Development TA support, the ADP has
contributed towards developing human and institutional capacity which is essential in a market-based
economy. Twelve high-priority TA activities were supported in the areas of land reform, extension
services support, marketing and distribution, management training and business development, and
creating a rural finance system. The project achieved one of its main objectives of bolstering private
sector development by addressing both upstream as well as downstream activities of a private market
economy including production, processing, marketing and distribution, and business development support
to individual farmers and entrepreneurs through strengthening institutional capacity to function in a
market based economy.
C. Implementation of the Project
18.   Timely implementation and completion of the project was a major achievement considering that:
(a) the project was the first Bank financed investment project in Latvia; (b) it was carried out with a new
fnancial institution that was set up by and for the project; and (c) experience with credit on commercial
terms did not exist in the sector prior to that time.
The ADP outcome and impact at completion,     Project Disbursement at Completion
considered to be highly successful by the Borrower,
donors and the Bank management, were mainly due    Credit Line    US$ 22.54 million
to the focused objectives, a simple design and a  Land Reform     US$ 2.46 million
number of innovative features. Last but not least, the  Total Bank Financing US$ 25.00 million
successful outcome was also due to the                     plus
Government's strong commitment for the project.  Donor-financed TA    US$ 11.80
(parallel co-financing)
19.   Physical implementation was completed
successfully around September 1997. The final  TOTAL              US$ 36.80 million
withdrawal from the Loan account was made on       (not including PFIs and end borrowers' contribution)
November 11, 1997 and the Loan was formally
closed on December 31, 1997. Disbursement of the
credit line was mostly in line with the appraisal estimates after the initial 'teething period' and the
aggregate TA support at completion increased to US$11.8 million versus US$6.08 million at appraisal
mainly due to continuous interest by donors to extend and widen the scope of various TA that was
already started under the ADP. This project is a good example of well-coordinated parallel co-fnancing.
The Bank's funds were on-lent for investment credit while donor grants were used for TA designed to
specifically complement the credit line.
Credit Component
20.   The project started out with two PFIs: the AFC and the Investment Bank of Latvia (IBL). At
appraisal, AFC was to lend only to farmers while IBL was to be the main channel of credit to industrial
clients in the agriculture and forestry sectors. However, IBL's participation was limited and it withdrew
its participation at an early stage of project implementation. Despite its initial interest in the ADP, IBL
found ADP's emphasis on making smaller loans and focus on assisting agriculture-related enterprises
inconsistent with its corporate strategy. One major commercial bank sought approval as a participating
financial institution (PFI) when implementation was in its final stages. When this bank was finally cleared
5



as PFI, loan funds were already fully committed. After IBL dropped out, its intended lending activities
were taken over by AFC which played the dominant role in implementation of the project utilizing over
85 percent of the Loan funds (See Appendix A for more details.). After IBL's withdrawal, AFC became
the sole PFI serving the ADP credit line; and although AFC continued to perform well, a project should
ideally have multiple PFIs for increased competition and access to credit by a broader clientele.
21.    Implementation of the Credit Component was much influenced by the establishment and start-up
of operations of the AFC. The first step to establish the AFC began around mid-1993 and by late 1993,
the AFC was registered as a Joint-Stock company with 100% Government ownership. By March 1994,
the AFC had 36 staff and started actual lending operations. During the first year of operation, the AFC
made about 200 sub-loans for about US$1.5 million. The EU provided the initial capital required to
register the AFC (LAT 400,000) from its counterpart fund and also provided vehicles for MCOs, MIS
software, and other associated TA support. Until completion AFC approved over 2,800 sub-loans for a
variety of investments and working capital for a total of US$34.9 million with an average of about
US$12,000 per sub-loan. The IBL made 6 sub-loans during its one and half year of participation under
the ADP for a total of about US$1.43 million. Four sub-loans are still outstanding and the IBL has
already prepaid its Subsidiary Loan to the Ministry of Finance. These funds were transferred by MOF to
MLB in early 1998 and were fully utilized and on-lent by MLB.
Main Highlights of the Credit Component
* At of end September 1997 (at completion), the total amount of the sub-loans approved by AFC was $34.9 million US$
equivalent, which increased to US$49.9 million at the end of March 1998 indicating continuously active credit operations
from "reflows".
* At completion, the relative share of working capital loans was 52 percent and investments was 48percent, and the share of
the investment loans has been increasing. At the end of March, 1998, the share increased to 59 percent.
*   Interest rates are highly positive in real terms (15% versus price inflation at about 7%).
* The average sub-loan size was US$11,200.
* At completion, a total of 2,859 sub-loans was made, which increased to 3,866 by March 31, 1998.
* Lending in LAT was introduced in late 1996 that gave end-borrowers the choices of borrowing in US$ at lower interest
rates, or borrowing in LAT at slightly higher rates. At completion, US$ denominated loans accounted for 96 percent of the
loan portfolio.
* The current loan recovery rate is 95%. Since inception, no loans have been written off and the ICR team did not find, any
sub-loans that were potentially bad and might have to be written off.
* AFC has accomplished the Credit line operations with 42 staff (including 15 MOCs, 5 Regional MCO coordinators, 4 other
field and 18 headquarters staff). In addition to its Riga headquarters, AFC also had 7 seven satellite offices.
*   The Investment Bank of Latvia (IBL) made 6 sub-loans and disbursed a total of US$1.43 million under ADP. Of the six
sub-loans, four are still active. IBL terminated its participation in the ADP credit line in mid-1996.
6



Institutional Development (Technical Assistance) Component
22.   The project supported twelve technical assistance activities through co-financing with the EU-
PHARE and the Swedish Government, in the areas of project management, land reform, farm extension
services, marketing and distribution, management training,
business development and rural fnance (see Appendix D).  Latvia: Progress of Land Reform
Each TA activity was carefully selected to complement the           L
Credit Component while enhancing the sector reforms.
The Loan provided $2.46 million of TA for land reform to   14I
the State Land Services and the Ministry of Justice. This
Bank-financed TA was a part of a large TA for land reform
which was supported by PHARE and other bilateral donors.                              LffWEb*
23.   Overall, TA implementation was satisfactory. Two
out of the twelve individual TA sub-components, namely
those allocated for the Latvian Agricultural Advisory                        -
Services (LAAS) and for Rural Finance, had faced initial
problems. A twinning TA arrangement for the AFC with a
foreign bank performed below expectations and the
arrangements had to be terminated before completion of the
contract. Task forces were formed to identify issues and design remedial actions to improve the
situation, and additional TA was provided for both the LAAS and AFC.
24.   Through support of LAAS, the project strengthened farm advisory services in farm management
and accounting to enable farmers to make independent decisions with respect to production and
marketing. The LAAS also helped farm-ers in farm planning and budgeting. Surveys of farmers indicate
that LAAS has been their main source of information and advice. Marketing and distribution support was
provided through management training to the advisors of the Enterprise Support Centers in Latvia, the
production of manuals on procurement and financial planning, and the direct provision of assistance,
advice and counseling on restructuring to selected privatized companies.
25.   Support for land reform under the project, through financial and technical assistance by the
project, PHARE and bilateral donors, has resulted in impressive progress. At the inception of the ADP in
early 1994, only about 193 cadastre titles, and 10 legal ownership titles were registered in the Landbook.
By the end of 1997, the numbers had increased to over 157,000 cadastre titles by the State Land Service,
and over 104,000 ownership titles had been registered in the Landbook in the Ministry of Justice.
Through the TA, a sound basis was created for an emerging land market; a total of 7,635 private
properties were traded in 1996, which increased significantly to 12,041 transactions in 1997. In Latvia,
land is presently the single most important collateral for obtaining rural finance.
26.   Other important TA provided by the project was for strengthening of the Project Management
Unit (PMU). PMU was the only continuous linkage of the project to frequent changes in government
which enabled re-establishing ownership and commitment to the project by each new government. The
efficient PMU has been one of the main factors behind the satisfactory project implementation. Staff of
PMU, PFIs, and MOA received training on a variety of Bank procurement and disbursement procedures and
requirements and in other general project management related areas. EU-PHARE provided substantial
technical and financial assistance to the PMU including a resident advisor.
7



D. Major Factors Affecting the Project
27.   Several factors affected the outcome of the project. On the positive front: first, there was a large
pent-up demand for investment and working capital by newly created private farmers and the rural
entrepreneurs, and the project succeeded in transforming such demand into effective and bankable
projects through well coordinated TA for small- and medium-scale business support. Second, AFC, with
dedicated staff, effectively filled the near complete void in the supply of credit to the sector by delivering
the credit to clients through a well designed and pragmatic financial intermediation option. Third, the TA
components were focused specifically to support the credit component, including advancing land reform
and improving collateral system, disseminating market information, and strengthening of loan officer
capacities as well as final-borrowers themselves in business and financial planning and management
skills. Last, the PMU had dedicated and efficient staff who have been with the project from the inception
stage and, therefore, served as a source of information as well as an anchor of management support.
28.   During the project preparation and implementation, several unexpected factors emerged and
required both the Government and the Bank Task team to take appropriate actions. Some factors were
beyond Government control; like other FSU countries, Latvia faced sudden loss of its traditional markets
in the FSU countries, which led to massive reduction in output and closing-down of farms. Farmers,
normally with strong political lobbying power, were demanding special protection and government
support. The public in general, and farmers in particular, were used to the central-command system
riddled with ad-hoc govermnent support schemes. Some farmers who borrowed from the AFC had
negative initial reaction to the information requirements, the level of (positive) interest rates, and even to
the fact that sub-loans had to be repaid. The project's goals to introduce principles of commercial credit
operations while promoting private competitive business ran into public uproars of discontent and
frequently changing governments with political agendas made the situations even worse. The project
overcame the challenges through continuous and often persistent public relations campaigns through
active media and direct communications with interest groups including farmers' unions, federations, etc.
29.   Since 1993, there have been numerous and frequent changes of the Government and in senior
management of the Ministry of Agriculture. However, political changes did not change nor hinder the
preparation and implementation of the project although such frequent changes of the counterparts made
building Latvian ownership extremely difficult. The project overcame the difficulties through more
intense communication with the Borrower and frequent supervision by the Bank. AFC had endured
numerous attempt to politicize its lending but its management's strong will and commitment to the
founding objectives of the AFC and the project succeeded to overcome these problems.
E. Project Sustainability
30.   The project achievements to date are likely to be sustainable. The Govemment is firmly
committed to its economic and sectoral reform program including banking sector reforms. Reflows of the
credit lines are being actively on-lent while maintaining the high quality of loan portfolio and repayment
performance. Since the official closing of the Loan account in December 1997, the number of sub-loans
approved increased from 3,250 to 3,866 (19% increase) at the end of March 1998 while the total amount
approved increased to $49.9 million. Repayment performance continues to be high at around 95% while
maintaining the interest rates at substantial positive levels.
8



31.   The MLB is committed to continue to finance viable projects for private farmers and enterprises.
The demonstrated positive results of the ADP has encouraged commercial banks to start extending credit
to the agricultural sector. Two major private commercial banks have expressed interest in participating in
a follow up project - Rural Development Project (FY99). Through the Rural Development Project, the
Bank will continue its dialogue with the Government on agricultural policy reforms and will develop a
comprehensive rural development strategy. The RDP will continue to support private initiatives through
financial and technical assistance and will expand much of the institutional development TA support that
has already started in the first project. The ADP Institutional Development Component has started to
show concrete results, particularly in creating land markets and consolidation of farm sizes. Ultimately,
sustainability of the project, including the continued credit operations, will depend critically upon the
Government's decision on the future of the Mortgage and Land Bank including its privatization through
open and transparent processes, and future sector policy direction which would create the environment
that would be conducive to continuously emerging private activities in the agricultural and rural sectors.
Even after the project completion, the Bank should maintain a continuous policy dialogue with the
Government as there is strong and continuous lobbying by politically strong farmers' groups who
pressure the Government to return to the subsidization of interest and/or other ad-hoc measures to help in
the recapitalization of agriculture. Lastly, future development of the sector and the sustainability of the
project will also depend on the Government's ability to coordinate multilateral and bilateral technical
assistance to ensure that such resources are well focused and directed to the country's priority needs with
significant transfer of know-how to Latvia.
F. Bank Performance
32.    The ADP is a good example of Bank's prompt response to a Borrower's urgent request. The
project was identified, prepared, appraised and implementation was begun in less than 12 months, despite
the fact that it was the first investment project in the country that involved substantial institution building.
The Bank was responsive to continuous changes that affected the project and was able to provide timely
actions to minimize delay in project implementation. For example, when TA for AFC by consultants was
less than satisfactory, and remedial actions were delayed due to complex contracting rules of co-
financiers, the Bank Team stepped in and provided immediately needed TA. Several amendments to the
Loan Agreement including revision to procurement rules and legal definitions of terms were executed
with minimum delay. Over 47 disbursement applications were processed efficiently with an average of
one week turn around time, with very few exceptions. Bank mounted two to three official supervision
missions per year. However, the actual field supervision by the Bank was more frequent as the same task
team was working on another project in a neighboring country and was able to make brief but frequent
visits to Latvia at minimum cost.
33.   In spite of the positive outcome at completion, certain mistakes were made during project
preparation which, through hindsight, provide valuable lessons. During project processing, there were
numerous and often heated debates on the merits and justification for supporting a "directed credit line,"
the proposal of creating a non-bank financial institution, i.e. AFC, and on the interpretation of O.D. 8.30.
Certain compromises were made; and in retrospect, the Bank's decision to impose specific restrictions
on the AFC was not proven to be fully justified. AFC was restricted to on-lend only the Bank's ADP
fund (at IBRD terms plus the margin set by the Ministry of Finance), and was prohibited from raising
resources from any other sources. AFC was not allowed to take deposits or take share subscriptions from
farmers despite strong local interests. Such decision was based on the concern that AFC must be
9



temporary and its liquidation should not be complicated by allowing diversified ownership. That decision
restricted AFC's ability to raise funds competitively from diversified sources including domestic resource
mobilization or equity, hence severely limited the AFC's ability to reduce the cost of funding and its
ability to reduce the margin and pass the savings on to the final borrowers. Such decision has delayed
AFC's reaching the break even point for a considerable time and resulted in consequent criticism during
the initial years of the ADP implementation, including proposals of closing the AFC.
G. Borrower Performance
34.   Despite the frequent changes of the Government, the Borrower's commitment has been strong
which contributed to the project's success. Strong Borrower commitment was a direct result of a high
caliber PMU staff and their understanding of and commitment to the project. PMU staff had sufficient
and ready access to government officials and were able to mobilize relevant people to solicit views and
recommendations. The same PMU staff worked with Bank staff during preparation, appraisal and
implementation, and are currently working on the follow up project preparation. A similar level of
dedication and continuity of service also applies to AFC, now MLB staff. Most of the MIB senior
managers and staff of the MLB Credit Department came from the AFC, and they are familiar with the
project and have undergone intensive training in commercial banking. A very low turn-over of AFC and
MLB staff indicates the strong commitment to the project. The Latvian PMU was considered to be
highly successful and was visited by representatives of several countries which were considering
implementing other Bank financed projects.
35.   Performance of the Borrower during implementation was affected by several factors: (a) first, the
public's unfamiliarity with terms and conditions of commercial borrowing which led some politicians to
influence AFC's on-lending rates; (b) MOF was pressured to impose restrictions on interest rates to be
charged by AFC on sub-loans despite the Bank's objection, although these were later canceled; (c) the
government, as the sole share-holder of the AFC, charged interest on its own capital holding in the AFC
despite the Bank's objection. It took over two years to resolve the issue and caused unnecessary cost and
had negative impact on the AFC's financial position; (d) the frequent changes of government led to a
misguided expectation that the AFC, a newly created institution, could become financially profitable in a
short period of time. When such expectation was not met, there was criticism by the government and by
the State Controller which led to much publicized discussions of closing of the AFC. This event
adversely affected AFC staff morale and caused severe difficulties for AFC management. Public
discussion of closing of the AFC also led in part to complacent attitude among end-borrowers regarding
repayment and AFC staff had to devote substantial effort to minimize the damage; and (e) despite the
agreement reached with the Bank, the government (again because of the frequent changes) had delayed
the final approval of lending in LAT although such LAT lending was already permitted and was under
implementation in another Bank financed credit line serving mainly large-scale industrial clients. It took
more than two years for the government to make the final decision to allow AFC to make loans to project
beneficiaries in LAT. Despite these challenges, with PMU interventions, the AFC was able to proceed
with minimum consequences and complete the project ahead of the appraisal projections.
10



H. Assessment of Outcome
36.    The overall project outcome is assessed as satisfactory considering that the ADP provided a
credit line operation at a time of a relatively underdeveloped banking system that was not able and not
interested to serve the agricultural sector.
37.    Without this project, there would not have been significant lending to the farmers. There was no
prior knowledge about lending to private farmers in the Baltic countries and no interest by the emerging
private commercial banks. The project introduced loan appraisal techniques, trained credit agents, set up
a system based on the mobility of these agents (they visit farms and know their clients). The project also
had significant impact on institutional development by creating a sustainable rural financial system,
advancing land reform, training of technicians, extension advisors, managers, farmers and rural credit
officers.
38.    In addition to the volume of credit that was delivered to private farmers and entrepreneurs, the
project also had substantial impact on development of the sector with emerging land markets. Average
size of farms is increasing, indicating consolidation and enlargement of farm land based on profitability
and economies of scale. A sample analysis shows substantial increases in incremental value added from
primary agriculture production and agro-processing resulting from the project. (see Appendix B for more
details). Sample farm models indicate substantial increases in incomes and financial and economic rates
of returns which are by and large consistent with the appraisal estimates (see Table 9 for a summary).
A Summary of Major Impact of the Project:
*   Establishment of rural financial system based on commercial lending principles at substantially positive real interest rates.
* Established commercial banking practice for serving rural clients - loan appraisal, financial and operational management,
MIS, etc. that are now being adopted by other commercial banks.
*   Demonstrated to commercial banks that rural lending can be viable.
*   Installed discipline among end-borrowers about terms and conditions of commercial lending and that loans must be repaid.
*   Substantial achievements also made in land reform by establishing land titling, collateral basis, and functioning land
markets.
*   Established a model for rural finance for other Bank projects
I. Future Operation
39.    During the mid-term review of the ADP in May 1996, the Government of Latvia officially
requested the Bank to have a follow-up project to support the Latvian agricultural and rural sectors. The
GOL has specifically requested that the second project be broader in scope and have objectives of
supporting the rural population, particularly those who need special assistance. As the first step of project
preparation, a rural survey was carried out. The survey results, which have been published by the
Government and widely disseminated, have confirmed very difficult economic and living conditions in
rural areas and, in cases, desperate situations faced by rural youth who see very limited opportunities to
find jobs or create income. The proposed Rural Development Project (LV-PA-44804) is under
preparation to address these issues. The RDP is scheduled for Board consideration in July 1998. The
11



MLB continues to on-lend "reflows" from the credit line while maintaining the satisfactory repayment
performance.
J. Key Lessons Learned
40.   The main lessons from the project, which may also have more general relevance for other
projects are the following:
*  Ownership of a project by the borrower is an essential element for successful outcome. Additionally,
frequent changes of Government makes building local ownership difficult and requires increased
efforts in public relations.
*  It is important to have effective project management and supervision capacity in the client country.
* Intensive supervision of the project by the Bank and the Governrment is very important, particularly in
a new client country with limited project management experience.
*  A relatively high degree of continuity during project implementation, both on the Bank task team and
the Latvia PMU, has largely compensated for frequent changes in the Government and was able to
provide a degree of stability to the project.
*  Lending to agriculture can be profitable with due-diligence work by banks and by borrowers.
*  Project start-up normally takes longer than anticipated especially when creating a new institution is
involved.
  A credit line operating in a transitional economy must be accompanied by complementary reforms, in
land titling and development of collateral, and in farm investment, production and marketing
information.
* It is possible to create an effective development finance institution that can fill an existing void in a
country's financial system; such institution is particularly useful over the near term in transitional
economies that have underdeveloped financial systems; and such institution need to be "custom-
tailored" for the unique conditions in the country;
* A single participating financial institution (PFI) is not desirable; a project should have multiple PFIs
to create competition among banks, and provide a wider access to credit by clients;
*  Having a single source of loanable funds (i.e. World Bank Credit line) limits PFI's ability to reduce
cost of funding and lending rates, which reduces competitiveness;
* When a project involves co-financing of a Bank loan with grant funds, the project design should
ensure that the Borrower will utilize both funds in a complementary, not competing manner.
12



Part II. Statistical Tables
Table 1:   Summary of Assessment
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B:  Project Financing
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions
Part m. Appendices
Appendix A:  ICR Mission Aide Memoire
Appendix B 1: Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
Appendix B2: Borrower's Comments to the ICR
Appendix B3: Progress of Disbursement
Appendix B4: Disbursement Schedule
Appendix C:  AFC Lending under ADP
Appendix C 1: Summary of Technical Assistance
Map



Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial      Partial        Negliible       Not applicable
Macro Policies                      5                                5                5
Sector Policies                                                                      El I  I  I
Financial Objectives                0              E                I                 E
Institutional Development          E                                 5               I]
Physical Objectives                                                                   El =  1=1
Poverty Reduction                                  El               E l
Gender Issues                        l             []               El 
Other Social Objectives                            El                                0E
Environmental Objectives             ]              0               El                I
Public Sector Management           I]                           1- 1
Private Sector Development          0              El                S                E
Other innovative approach to
rural finance(specify)                                                                El
Likely                   Unlikely                 Uncertain
(/)                      (./)                      (/)
B. Project Sustainability 
Highly
C. Bank Performance                 satisfactory             Satisfactory              Deficient
(/)                     (/)                       (1)
Identification                      o                       E                         E
Preparation Assistance                                       0
Appraisal                           o                       E                         E
Supervision                         0                       s l



Higl
D. Borrower Performance               satisfactory              Satisfactory                 Deficient
(V)                       (v')                      (V)
Preparation                          I]
Implementation                                                                            El
Covenant Compliance                                             C                         I]
Operation (if applicable)                                      Ia
satisfactory    Satisfactor      Unsatisfactory     unsatisfactory
(eA)            (ie)              (io) (Ot)
E. Assessment of Outcome                  C3                                Cl                 C



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Preceding operations
1. Enterprise/Financial  To support reforms in   FY1995            In implementation:
Restructuring         the enterprise and                           $21.9M of $35M
financial sectors.                          disbursed as of 6/10/98.
Planned closing date:
12/31/98
2. Welfare Reform     To support the        FY1997                 In implementation:
development of a more                        $0.4M of $19.1M
efficient and effective                     disbursed as of 6/10/98
social welfare system.
3. Structural         To support the        FY1997                 Fully disbursed and
Adjustment Loan       government's efforts to                      closed
improve fiscal
performance and to
return to a sustainable
growth path
Following operations
1. Rural Development   To assist the        FY1999                 Appraised in April
Government in the                            1998. The Board
development of a viable                     presentation is
private agriculture                          scheduled for July
sector, to foster                            1998.
economic growth, and
generate employment in
rural areas.



Table 3: Project Timetable
Identification (Executive Project Summary)            4/21/93                 4/21/93
Preparation                                           4/25/93                 4/26/93
Appraisal                                             6/15/93                 6/30/93
Negotiations                                         10/15/93                12/06/93
Letter of Development Policy (if applicable)              n/a                     n/a
Board Presentation                                   11/25/93                 1/11/94
Signing                                               1/05/94                 2/16/94
Effectiveness                                         3/31/94                 4/14/94
First Tranche Release (if applicable)                     n/a                     n/a
Midterm review (if applicable)                           5/96                    5/96
Second (and Third) Tranche Release (if applicable)        n/a                     n/a
Project Completion                                    8/31/97                 9/15/97
Loan Closing                                         12/31/97                12/31/97



Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
Appraisal estimnate             2,000   10,000    20,000    25,000
Revised estimate 6/951          2,000    6,500    14,000    25,000
Actual                           2,000    6,600    11,960    22,765         25,000
Actual as % of estimate          100%      102%        85%       91%
Date of final disbursement                                               11/11/97
Revised estimate was necessitated by Investment Bank of Latvia's (IBL) termination of participation. The ELB, which was
expected to utilize 50% of the credit line, generated only six sub-loans totaling $1.43 million through July 1995 and
requested to terminate its participation in the project.



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
currencies are expressed in US$'000
1994          1995         1996           1997            Total
Total Value oi Agricultural   8,500        16,600       46,704         62,532                   134,336
Production (in Client
companies)
Total Credit to Agriculture   1,923         5,695       12,155         19,974                    39,747
Total Number of Borrowers      196           485          668           1,024                     2,373
Implementation
Characteristics of Project
Borrowers
Average Farm Age             2.5           3.7           4.5            4.8                      3.9
Farm Size (Ha)                20            53         100.8           113                        72
Total Number of Borrowers      196           485           668          1,024                     2,373
Total Number of Loans          217           581           940          1,447                     3,185
Total Amount of Credit        1,446         4,045        9,312         17,203                    32,006
Disbursed
Average Loan Size               8.9           10          12.9           13.8                      12.5
Average Interest rate           14            14          14.6           16.1                      15.4
Number of Non-Performing        12            29            23              -                       64
Loans
Total Value                   86           230         200.6              -                    516.6
Total Disbursement % of        75.2          70.4         74.9           86.1                      80.6
Credit Approved
Impact
Total Credit to Basic         1,923         4,814        7,192         15,386                    29,315
Agriculture
Investment                   227         2,724         3,006          8,624                   14,581
Working Capital            1,696         2,090         4,186          6,762                   14,734
Value of Borrowers Basic      2,100        10,500       12,100         30,687                    55,387
,gr^ iculture Production
2,700        15,300       17,340         46,700                    82,040
Loan
Net Income                     284          ,1500        1,740          3,697                     7,221
Total Credit to Agro-Industry                881          4963           4588                    10432
Investment                                 819         1970           3429                      6218
Working Capital                             62         2993           1159                      4214
Value of Borrowers Agro-Industrial          6,100       34,604         31,845                    72,549
Production Before Loan
Value of Borrowers Agro-                   10,900       56,107         56,116                   123,123
Industrial After Loan
Net Income                                  1,190        6,055          3,816                    11,061



Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
No specific indicators were established for project operation.
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
NX#'emSubject                      te
Credit Demand          To estimate the                 1993           PMU/Ag Institute
Assessment             magnitude of credit
demand
Agro-processing        To prescreen investrnent        1993           Swedish Consultants
Feasibility Studies    proposals and to assist                        and Ministry of
potential investors in                        Agriculture
business plan
preparations
Forestry Industry      To prescreen investment       1993/1994        Finnish Consultants and
Feasibility Studies    proposals and to assist                        Ministry of Forestry
potential investors in
business plan
preparations
AFC-Credit Manual      To provide guidelines     1993/ and revised in    Bank consultants, Peace
on lending operations           1994          Corp. volunteers, AFC
and to train loan officers                    staff
AFC Forms and MIS      To introduce                  1993/1994        PHARE consultants,
standardized forms; and                       Bank team, and AFC
to establish an effective                     management
MIS system
Management Support    To assess effectiveness          1995           A special task team,
Studies                of technical assistance                        MOA, MOF, PMU
and to modify as
necessary to improve the
TA quality
Land Reforms           To assess the overall         1993-1997        PHARE, Danish,
needs to create land         On-going         Swedish, and Dutch
titles, land markets and                      bilateral TA; State Land
collateral                                    Services, PMU
Agro-industry          To strengthen agro-             1996           PHARE consultants,
Modernization,         enterprises marketing                          MOA, PMU
marketing and          and distribution capacity
distribution



Table 8A: Project Costs
I MM4.4
1. FarmrCredit                        7.6   11.3        18.9        11.5    17.3       28.8
2. Agro-andForestryIndustries         6.0   14.1        20.1         3.5      8.3      11.8
3 .Technical Assistance                1.2    4.9       6.1'         2.9    lloS       14.4
Total                                14.8   30.3        45.1        17.9    37.1       55.0
* Includes US$ 4.9 million equivalent parallel TA by EU-PHARE and Swedish BITS
Table 8B: Project Financing
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MO    n  i-l                                       I 111. IX S  i N.  r
1. IBRD                                            25.0                            25.0
2. Donors                                            4.9                            11.8
3. Financial Intermediaries                          4.5                             8.0
4. Sub-borrowers                                    10.7                            10.2
Total                                               45.1                            55.0



Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Given the nature of a line of credit operation, an overall project rate of return was not estimated
during appraisal. Rather, the final decision was left to participating financial institutions (PFIs) to
estimate rates of returns and do a sensitivity analysis for each sub-loan. Each sub-project approved was
required to demonstrate adequate financial rates of return, repayment capacity based on cash-flow
analysis. Mobile credit officers (MCOs) of the Agricultural Finance Company (AFC) received intensive
training in loan risk assessment, including training in COSTBEN, IRR and cash flow analysis. Loan
officers today maintain in each sub-loan file, a complete set of cash flow, IRR, and sensitivity analyses.
At appraisal, in order to demonstrate and ascertain financial and economic viability of
investrnents in agriculture and processing, randomly selected sample farm models of integrated farms of
various sizes were prepared, and financial analyses of farming, agro- processing, and small-scale rural
enterprises were carried out. Similar exercises were carried out during ICR preparation and the analyses
results of selected samples are summarized below.
Project Analysis Summary
Financial Analysis                      Economic Analysis
At Appraisal   At Completion             At Appraisal   At Completion
50 Ha livestock farm
NPV (Ls.'000)                   4,716           4,233                    6,591           6,584
IRR                              24%             23%                      28%             27%
ROE                              25%             24%                      34%             33%
100 Ha Integrated Farm
NPV (Ls.'000)                  48,078          46,848                    6,591
IRR                              26%             21%                      28%
ROE                              25%             22%                      26%
450 Ha Grain farm
NPV (Ls.'000)                  45,922          66,353                   49,543
IRR                              22%             26%                      24%             28%
ROE                              16%             19%                      18%             20%
Wood Processing (new)
NPV (Ls.'000)                   5,395           6,786                    5,588           5,621
IRR                              20%             22%                      21%             22%
ROE                              19%             22%                      18%             19%
Meat Processing (rehab)
NPV (Ls.'000)                  40,229          74,010                   42,870          78,449
IRR                              21%             28%                      23%             30%
ROE                              23%             36%                      25%             45%
Flour Mill (rehab)
NPV (Ls.'000)                  21,044          27,581                   26,507          34,607
IRR                              190%            21%                      21%             24%A
ROE                              20%             23%                      26%             28% 
Details of the assumptions made and calculations for these models and others are available in the Project file.
The above comparative analysis of NPV, financial and economic analysis and returns to
investor's own equity shows that the actual results at completion are in general consistent with the
appraisal estimates. Completion results seemed to be better than the appraisal results indicating prudent



and often conservative estimates at appraisal, and generally higher than expected price levels of major
products, particularly grain. Differences in financial and economic analyses are mainly due to relatively
lower Latvia farm-gate prices than international market prices of the same goods and similar quality.
Whenever possible, actual export/import prices adjusted for transportation were used in the economic
analysis.
The actual economic benefit of the project could be considerably higher than what can be
quantified if the benefits of the economic transformation, sectoral restructuring, and institutional capacity
building to which the project has contributed were included. Moreover, one of the most noteworthy
benefits of the project could be the behavioral changes that it has induced for banks, policy makers, and
end-borrowers and that are necessary to compete in a market based economy.
In addition to the built-in safeguards of the satisfactory financial viability which each sub-project
must demonstrate, TA on established demonstration farms and margin analysis confirmed that Latvia is a
relatively cost-efficient producer of agricultural and forestry goods, and there are good export potentials.
By 1997, exports of agricultural and processed food stuff was the third largest export item accounting for
more than 11 % of total exports. The last semi-annual Progress Report prepared by the Borrower
estimated the aggregate impact of the project as follows:
Latvia - ADP Impact Assessment
1994     1997   Aggregate % Change
(94-97)   per year
Total Value of Ag production                      8,500    62,532   134,336    211W
(of ADP clients) (US$000)
Total Number of Clients                            196     1,024     2,373     1410/
Total Credit extended to primary agriculture      1,923    15,386    29,315    233%/
Total Credit extended to processing                881     4,588    10,432     1400/
Net income generated in primary agriculture (US$000)  284  3,697     7,221     4000/
Net income generated in processing (US$000)       1,190    3,816    11,061      74/
Source: Progress Report, December 31, 1997, PMU, Latvia



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Latvia
Agricultural Development Project
Text        4.01(a)     01        c                              The Borrower shall maintain  Satisfactory
Reference                                                        records and accounts      compliance
adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound
accounting practices, the
operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the
Project of the departments
are agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out
the Project or any part
thereof.
Text        4.01 (b)(i)  01       c                              The Borrower shall have   Satisfactory
Reference                                                        records and accounts referred compliance
to in Section 4.01(a)
including those for the
Special account for each FY
audited, or cause such
records and accounts to be
audited, all in accordance
with appropriate auditing
principles consistently
applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the
Bank.
Text        4.01(b)(ii)  01       c       7/31/95                The Borrower shall furnish   Satisfactory
Reference                                                        to the Bank as soon as    compliance
available, but in any case not
later than 6 months after the
end of each year, the report
or reports of such audits by
said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably
requested.
Text        4.01(c)(ii)  01       c                              For all expenditures paid  Satisfactory
Reference                                                        with SOEs from Special    compliance
Account, Borrower shall
retain until at least one year
after Bank has received audit
reports for the fiscal year in
which last withdrawal for
Loan A/C was made, all
records evidencing such
expenditures.



Text         4.01(c)(iii)  01       c                                For all expenditures paid    Satisfactory
Reference                                                            with SOEs from Special      compliance
Account, Borrower shall
enable Bank's representative
to examine such records
Text         3.01(a)     04, 10     c                                Borrower shall carry out    Satisfactory
Reference                                                            Project with due diligence    compliance
and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate
agricultural, banking,
financing, and managerial
practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services,
and other resources required
for the Project..
Text         3.03         05        c                                The Borrower shall maintain  Satisfactory staffing
Reference                                                            the PMU in accordance with  and organizational
a staffing plan and terms of   structure maintained.
reference satisfactory to the
Bank
Text         II,B5        02        c                                 Sub-loans shall be made to    Satisfactory
Reference                                                            Beneficiaries who each shall  compliance.
Schedule 6                                                           have established to the
satisfactory of the PFI, on the
basis of guidelines
acceptable to the Bank, that
it is creditworthy, and has a
satisfactory fmancial
structure and the
organization, management,
staff and financial and other
resources, including carrying
l_______            _________    _________    our the  sub-project.
Covenant types:                                                                               Present Status:
1. = Accounts/audits                          8. = Indigenous people                          C = covenant complied with
2. = Financial performance/revenue generation    9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting       CD = complied with after delay
from beneficiaries                    10. = Project implementation not covered by      CP = complied with partially
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds       categories 1-9                               NC = not complied with
4. = Counterpart funding                      11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other
5. = Management aspects of the project or        resource allocation                     - -
executing agency                          12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6. = Environmental covenants                     regulatory/institutional action
7. = Involuntary resettlement                 13. = Other



Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
There was general compliance with all applicable Operational Policies.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Preparation to appraisal    n/a    n/a         n/a     n/a                   34.3       98.7
Appraisal               n/         n/a         n/a     n/a                   42.9       127.6
Negotiations through Board n/a     n/a         n/a     n/a                   15.0       45.6
approval
Supervision             48.0*      185.4*      74.4*   218.8*               101.6      325.2
Complettion             9.5        62.6        8.4     50.3                  5.5        25.0
Total           n/a        n/a         n/a      n/a                  201.3      622.9
*Due to system changes, not all figures are available.



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
., <s, ....... .. ,, ,  .  ,,,. , f . ............. ..  ,     ,
-te Qfp     t cy.le    Moh   No. of f i   Scit -e                          D    ---t-
Through appraisal         5/93      6      14   Economist
Forestry-Indus.
Rural Credit
Privatization
Ag. Policy
Technical
Appraisal through Board   7/93      7      20   Economist
approval                                         Forestry-Indus.
Privatization
Rural Credit
Technical
Agro-Industrial
Enterprise Mgt.
Supervision 1             5/94      3      12   Agro-Industrial       HS          HS
Economist
Ag. Credit
Supervision 2             8/94      2       8   Economist             HS          HS
Ag. Credit
Supervision 3             5/95      3       12   Economist            S           HS
Rural Banking
Technical
Mid Term Review            5/96     7      35   Agro-Industrial       HS           HS
Rural Banking
Economist
Technical
Ag. Policy
Institutional Dev.
Ag. Finance
Supervision 5             11/96     5      15   Agro-Industrial       HS          HS
Rural Banking
Economist
Invest. Analyst
Banking
Supervision 6             5/97      6      14   Agro-Industrial       HS          HS
Rural Banking
Economist
Extension
Technical
Invest. Analyst
Completion                11/96     6      10   Technical             HS          HS
Rural Banking
Economist
Proj. Asst.
Key to Performance Ratings:
HS - Highly Satisfactory
S - Satisfactory



Appendix A
LATVIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Completion Mission Aide-Memoire
(November 15-27, 1997)
1. A World Bank mission consisting of Hoonae Kim, Jacob Intrator, and Michael Nelson visited Latvia
to carry out the Implementation Completion Mission for the Agricultural Development Project (Ln. 3695-
LV). The loan of US$25 million was fully disbursed in October 1997, and the loan will close on
December 31, 1997, as projected at appraisal. The mission reviewed project files and held discussions
with participating financial institutions; the Ministries of Agriculture, Finance, and Environment and
Regional Development; and project beneficiaries. This Aide-Memoire briefly summarizes the findings of
the Completion mission. The Borrower's contribution to the Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
has been submitted and a draft ICR is currently under preparation. The mission would like to express its
sincere appreciation for the cooperation extended to the present and the past missions by the Govermment
of Latvia, various concemed Ministries and agencies, the Bank of Latvia, and participating financial
institutions. The mission would like to thank, in particular, the Project Management Unit for the excellent
support that it has provided throughout project preparation and implementation periods.
Main Objectives of the Agricultural Development Project (ADP) - Ln. 3695-LV
2. The ADP was designed in 1993 at a time of major economic and political changes in Latvia as the
country started towards becoming a market-based economy. The ADP was the first investment operation
supported by the World Bank in the Baltic countries. It provided critically needed investment funds and
priority technical assistance for institutional and human resource development in the agricultural sector
while supporting Government's policy reforms. During the project period, the Government of Latvia also
obtained substantial support from the EU-PHARE, Sweden, and other bilateral donors, who provided
parallel co-financing in the Project, especially for the provision of technical assistance.
3. The ADP has achieved its development objectives of revitalizing and commercializing the Latvian
agricultural sector through:
* providing agricultural credit and rural finance based on commercial lending terms and conditions;
*  ascertaining private property ownership including land tenure and collateral creation;
*  strengthening of extension and business development support services for farmers and rural
enterprises;
*  training of loan officers in rural lending and risk assessment;
*  triggering behavior changes among borrowers regarding commercial borrowing and repayment
responsibility
Review of Project Implementation
4. Project implementation has been successfully completed in August 1997, about five months before
the official loan closing date of December 31, 1997, as stipulated in the Loan Agreement. The final
withdrawal from the Loan account was on October 23, 1997. The timely implementation of the ADP
with sound results should be considered a major achievement, especially considering that this was the



first World Bank financed development project in Latvia and that it was implemented through a new
financial institution that was created by and for the project.
The total disbursement under the project are as follows (see Annex 1 for details):
1. Agricultural Finance Company (AFC) 1. US$ 29.45 million
2. Investment Bank of Latvia (IBL)  2. US$   1.44 million
3. State Land Services (SLS)        3. US$   2.20 million
4. Ministry of Justice (MOJ)         4. US$   0.16 million
Main highlights of the Credit Component
*  At of end September 1997 the total amount of the sub-loans approved by AFC was $34.9 million
USD equivalent, of which lending for working capital was 45 percent and for investments was 55
percent; with an average sub-loan size of US$11,200.
*  In total 2,865 sub-loans were made to 2,009 borrowers.
*  Lending in LATs was introduced in late 1996.
*  The current portfolio recovery rate is 94%. Since inception, no loans have been written off and the
mission has not identified any potentially bad loans that may have to be written off in the future.
*  AFC has achieved the above results with 42 staff (including 15 mobile credit officers (MCOs), 5
Regional MCO coordinators, 4 other field and 18 headquarters staff). In addition to its Riga
headquarters, AFC also had 7 seven satellite offices.
*  The Investment Bank of Latvia (IBL) made 6 sub-loans and disbursed a total of US$1.4 million under
ADP. Of the six sub-loans, four are still active. IBL terminated its participation in the ADP credit
line in mid-1996.
Technical Assistance (TA) Program.
5. Under the ADP, twelve TA support programs (for total of US$11.8 million equivalent) were provided
over the four year period through co-financing by the EU-PHARE and Swedish SIDA. The main
objectives of the TA were to strengthen project management, the AFC (rural banking), the IBL
(investment lending), and the agricultural advisory service; to advance land reform; and to restructure and
modernize agro-industries. Most of the TA was reasonably successful with the exception of TA support
in banking for AFC and for the Advisory Service. Proper actions were, however, taken; and the TA
results were improved. Support for land reform through financial and technical assistance by the Bank
and PHARE resulted in over 140,000 private properties being registered in the Land Book. Through the
TA, a sound basis was created for an emerging land market. In late 1997, about 1,000 land transactions
were taking place each month.
Key Lessons Learned
6. The main lessons from the project are:
* Ownership of a project by the borrower is an essential element for a successful outcome and frequent
changes of Government (5 times in Latvia over the project period) made building local ownership
difficult.



*  It is important to have effective local management and supervision of a project - this was effectively
carried out by the Project Management Unit.
  Effective and frequent supervision by the Bank and the Government of a loan is very important,
particularly in a new client country with limited project management experiences.
*  A relatively high degree of continuity through the project implementation period both on the Bank
task team and the Latvia PMU has largely compensated for frequent changes in the Government and
was able to provide a degree of stability to the project.
*  Lending to agriculture can be profitable with due-diligence work by banks and by borrowers
*  Project start-up normally takes longer than anticipated, especially when creation of a new institution
is involved.
*  A credit line operating in a transition economy must be accompanied by complementary reforms, in
land titling, development of collateral, farm investment, production and marketing information.
* It is possible to create an effective development finance institution that can fill an existing void in a
nation's financial system; such an institution is likely to be particularly useful in the short term in
transitional economies that have very underdeveloped financial systems; and such an institution needs
to be 'custom-tailored" for the unique conditions in the country at the time that the institution was
created.
e  A single participating financial institution (PFI) is not desirable; a project should have multiple PFIs
to create competition among banks, and provide a wider access to credit by clients.
*  Having a single source of loanable funds (i.e. World Bank Credit line) limits PFI's ability to reduce
cost of funds resulting in higher lending rates, which reduces competitiveness:.
Next Step
7. The Borrower's contribution to the ICR has been submitted to the Bank and a summary is under
preparation to be included in the final Implementation Completion Report. The Bank mission will
prepare a draft ICR and send it to the Borrower for comments.
November 27, 1997
Riga, Latvia



Appendix B1
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
LATVIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3695- LV)
APPENDIX B
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
Prepared by the Govermment of Latvia



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Agricultural Development Project (Ln. 3695-LV)
Project Background
The Agricultural Development Project (ADP) to support development of economically viable farming,
agro-processing and forestry, was started in December 1993. It was presented to the IBRD Board on 11
January 1994, and signed on 16 February 1994. It became effective on 14 April 1994. The whole amount
of 25 million USD has been disbursed before the expected closing date of the Loan, 31 December 1997.
Project Objectives and Design
The objective of the project was to help newly-emerged private farmers and to enhance on-going
privatization of agriculture, the agro-processing, and forest industries through provision of investment
credit that was virtually lacking at that time. Specifically, the project aimed to provide: (a) financing
credit to private farmers for on-farm investment and incremental working capital in order to create viable
private farming units and increase production; (b) credit for development, modernization, or rehabilitation
of private/privatized agro- and forest industries; and (c) an institutional development technical assistance
program to be financed in part by various donors and in part from the proceeds of the World Bank (WB)
loan.
Project Implementation
1     Project Coordination and Management
The Project Management Unit (PMU) was set up by the MOA in November 1993 to monitor the
implementation of both the WB Agricultural Development Project (25 million USD) and the related
technical assistance projects, totaling to ECU 10.25 million. The PMU also shared responsibility with the
MOF regarding withdrawals of the WB loan proceeds from the Special Account in Washington. As a
result of tighter budgetary control, as of beginning of 1997, the State Treasury has assumed full
responsibility over withdrawals from the Special Account.
As of 1 March 1997, the PMU has been split into two units - the World Bank Rural Development Project
Preparation Unit (WBRDPPU), and an EU Phare Assistance Unit. All local staff (5 persons) formerly
employed by the WB/EU PMU, remained with the WBRDPPU, while the Phare resident Advisor set up a
separate unit to monitor implementation of EU Phare projects.
In its three years of existence, the PMU has assured successful implementation of projects, as well as
coordination of work for institutions involved in the project, achieving irreversible reforms in the
agricultural sector.



2     Partipating Financial Institutions
Agricultural Finance Company (AFC)
In 1993, in the absence of well-functioning banking system, and in lack of suitable fnancial
intermediaries which have the necessary skills and which would be prepared to provide credits to the
agricultural sector, it was decided that Agricultural Finance Company (AFC) should be established as a
temporary institution to meet the urgent need for a financial institution which would support the
production and development of the emerging private agriculture sector. The activities to establish AFC
began in mid-1993. The AFC was set up by a Decree of 28 December 1993 of the Cabinet of Ministers.
The company had a central office in Riga and 7 offices outside Riga covering the whole territory of
Latvia, employing 36 staff. The main objective of the AFC operations was to service a part of the World
Bank credit line of 25 million USD under the ADP in order to promote development of private
agricultural production and processing, and forestry companies within the overall framework of reform
program carried out in the agrarian sector.
Initially, from the start up until 1 July 1994, the AFC provided only working capital loans, followed by
provision of investment loans, percentage of which in the total loan portfolio increased, and currently
investment loans constitute 58% of the total credit resources disbursed. AFC provides credits both in
USD and Lats.
Originally the AFC was set up as ajoint stock company, 100% owned by the government. The initial
capitalization the company received through the World Bank loan, which as of 1 May 1996 was USD
11.3 million. During implementation, the AFC received additional capitalization of USD 9.87 million,
funds transferred from the Latvian Investment Bank (LIB). During the course of implementation, due to
the LIB's objective to diversify its credit portfolio, the number of credits provided to the agriculture was
very limited. The bank lost interest after provision of first six credits, and the contract was cancelled.
Since the AFC was achieving the objectives and loans to private farmers were being made, it was decided
that the best option was to increase the capitalization of AFC.
The progress of the AFC in extending credit has been excellent. Lending operations began in April 1994.
As of 30 September 1997, approximately USD 29.7 million have been disbursed in loans. Including
reflows (giving the total funds available for disbursement USD 33.5 million), the AFC has delivered 13.5
million to private farmers as working capital loans and USD 11.2 million for investment. Agro-industry
has received approximately USD 3.8 million in working capital loans and USD 5 in investment loans.
Repayment has been excellent. A total of 94% of the credit extended has been repaid in a timely fashion,
and delayed payments have accounted for only 6% of total credit extended. The total number of loans
given is 2,992, while total clients are 2,111. Average loan size has been USD 11,200 USD.
Term structure of the active credit portfolio (in thousands USD):
up to 1 year                       9,259
1 - 3 years                        1,416
3 - 5 years                        7,261
more than 5 years                    235
Total                             18,171
As of today, no loans have been written off. Economic viability of investment loans granted is justified by
the IRR of relevant projects as demonstrated in Appendix 6.



As a result of the merger, assets of the MLB increased by Ls 12,3 million (262%), and amount of credits
provided - by Ls 8,6 million (777%). Consequently, at the moment MLB occupies the 15th place at the
rating of commercial banks prepared by the Association of Commercial banks, according to the amount
of assets, and 10th place in terms of capital and reserves, and amount of credits provided.
MLB, as it has been created, can meet the full needs of the client. In addition to giving loans, the merged
companies can offer both savings and checking accounts. Therefore, the clients can consolidate all their
financial transactions into one location.
Latvian Investment Bank (LIB)
To date, it has disbursed USD 1.43 million from the credit line, for loans in support of agro-processing,
against approvals of USD 2.76 million. Because of LIB's poor disbursement record, unutilized funds
amounting to around USD 10 million have been authorized by the MOF and the World Bank for use by
Laukkredits.
LIB and PMU continues to monitor utilization and repayment of the disbursed loans.
3     Disbursement
All 25 million USD have been disbursed from the WB account in Washington according to the
Disbursement Schedule. USD 22 602 170.00 have been replenished to the Latvian PFI's by 20 October
1997.
Several changes have been made in the disbursement process during the project duration:
(1)   The first year with the 100% financing of expenditures was extended until 31 December 1995 by
making amendments to the Loan Agreement on 28 June 1995. This amendment was done as a result to
the slow building up of the loan portfolio due to extra prudence, and the fact that AFC was a newly
created entity solely to channel the WB funds, and it would face difficulty to match with counterpart
funds to meet the declining disbursement ratio during the second and third year (85% and 70%
respectively).
(2)   Changes in the initial allocation of funds. The State Land Service (SLS), initially entitled to
receive USD 1 million, requested additional funds, therefore Categories 1 and 2 were reduced from USD
11.9 million to USD 11.3 million (amendments to the LA of 28 June 1995). The released funds were
allocated between the SLS (USD 1 million) and the Ministry of Justice (USD 0.2 million) for purchase of
equipment. The MOJ was able to repay the loan of 0.2 million USD using the income from the land
registration in February 1996. The proceeds were paid into the Special Account, and afterwards as
reflows transferred to the SLS. Therefore, the amount received by the SLS totaled to USD 2.2 million.
(3)   At a quite early stage in the project the Estimated Disbursement schedules were changed (in June
1995).
(4)   A final Reallocation of Categories was done on 9 September 1997, with the following changes
made:
1.    Undisbursed balance of Category 3 of USD 102.27 allocates to Category 1;
2.    Undisbursed balance of Category 4 of USD 200,000 allocates to Category 1;
3.    Undisbursed balance of Category 2 of USD 6,968,318.51 allocates to Category 1;
4.    Undisbursed balance of Category SA-A of USD 108,593.44 allocates to Category 1.



Annual audits of the credit line have been submitted regularly for years 1994, 1995 and 1996.
4     Procurement
Procurement procedures for Categories 1 and 2 of the loan have been done and monitored by the PFI's
according to the Guidelines for procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits. Supporting documents
for the procurement have been retained at the PFI.
Procurement of goods for Category 3 (goods for speeding up land reform process purchased by State
Land Service and Ministry of Justice of Republic of Latvia) have been arranged by the Project
Management Unit according to the same Guidelines. Procurement is fully completed for Cat. 3, covering
USD 2.4 million.
International Shopping method of procurement was used for purchases of goods (Category 3). Tender for
submitting of bids including technical and financial proposals was announced in the local newspaper. 34
bids were submitted, they were evaluated by a specially formed valuation commission consisting of
representatives from Ministry of Finance, State Land Service and Project Management Unit, MOA.
Finally several Companies were chosen to supply different kind of equipment.
State Land Service of Latvia contract Companies won the Tender.
Supply of goods by companies was done according to the terms and conditions of the contracts.
Supporting documents for Procurement procedures for Category 1&2 have been retained at AFC and LIB
offices in Riga, Latvia, for Category 3 (including copies of concluded contracts) - at PMU, Riga, Latvia.
-     TechnicalAssistance
During the project implementation, TA was provided in the following fields:
(1)   strengthening of project management capacity;
(2)   TA to the Agricultural Finance Company Laukkredits (AFC) and Investment Bank of Latvia
(IBL) to strengthen their capacity and capabilities of becoming efficient credit providing
institutions;
(3)   establishment of procurement procedures under the WB credit lines;
(4)   promotion of increase of incomes of farm families and the agricultural enterprises through the
development of the Latvian Agricultural Advisory Service (LAAS);
(5)   development of a real property registration system at national level and facilitation of land market
development;
(6)   strengthening of agro-industry marketing and distribution channels, assistance in privatization
and facilitation of debt or equity financing.
TA in support of ADP has been primarily provided by the European Union (EU). Total funds allocated
under the EU Phare Program for the relevant technical assistance amounted to USD 15.8 millions, of
which 11.85 million USD have been utilized by 30 September 1997. In some cases TA was provided by
the World Bank or bilateral donors, such as Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA). Each
TA project, where appropriate, took into account:



(1)   the need to support development in Latvia of an efficient and internationally competitive private
sector;
(2)   Latvia's stated intention to accede to the EU, and the consequent need for the country's
agriculture   sector to fall into line with EU standards;
(3)   the requirement to facilitate the rapid build up of a professionally competent local consulting
capacity in Latvia; and
(4)   the need for key agricultural institutions in Latvia to be operated on an independent basis,
meeting pre-determined financial and managerial targets.
A significant component of all TA provided has been transfer of knowledge to the local specialists, and
building on the existing Latvian expertise, using Latvians as senior project team members.
(1)    Project Management Support
Project Management Support was focused on supporting the Project Management Unit (PMU) which was
set up in November, 1993 to monitor implementation of the World Bank Agricultural Development
Project, as well as the related technical assistance. The TA, amounting to 1144 foreign consultant man-
days, or, in money terms, to ECU 1.6 million, to assist and train the PMU in its operations was mainly
provided by the EU Phare program through a Resident Representative who assisted to the PMU on
permanent basis and provided on-the-job training, mentoring, seminars and workshops.
An important indicator for the assessment of the TA is the result that in its three years of existence, the
PMU has assured successful implementation and further sustainability of 14 projects, the WB ADP, and
EU PHARE and SIDA supported projects among them. The PMU was also involved in coordination of
work of institutions involved in the project, achieving irreversible reforms in the agricultural sector.
(2)    Agricultural Finance Company and the Investment Bank of Latvia
Within the overall objective of support for sector reform program including development of human and
institutional skills, TA was provided to both the AFC and IBL in order to strengthen their capacity and
capabilities of becoming an efficient credit providing organization. The total amount allocated by Phare
for this purpose was ECU 590,000 which was used for the AFC, as well as there was an input from a
SIDA-sponsored Consultant who provided support to the Credit Department of the IBL.
The IBL overall involvement in the project was very limited. The Bank made 6 credit, totaling USD 1.44
million, of which one has been successfully repaid, one had to be written-off, and currently the IBL plans
to refinance the remaining 4 credits using their own resources. This limited involvement was not due to
any failures in the TA provided, but the basis of it was the IBL's decision that these projects did not
comply with its scope of activities.
Quality of the TA to the AFC can be measured by the AFC performance indicators, one of main being the
current 94% recovery rate of the credits disbursed. It, together with other achievements (see the enclosed
table on AFC results), demonstrates not only the AFC staff analytical skills, but also their ability to carry
out appropriate monitoring and supervision activities.
In this case the EU Phare sponsored TA was not very effective, in particular the transfer of knowledge
was limited and inappropriate. To a large extent the high quality of AFC performance is due to training,
on-the-job training and mentoring of the WB. Nevertheless, the EU has provided funding in several cases



critical for successful start-up phase of the AFC operations. Thus, Phare Program financed purchase of
computers and vehicles in the amount of ECU 307,000, and the EU Counterpart Fund resources were
used in the following way: Ls 150,000 for purchase of computer system Bankmaster, Ls 74,500 for
starting AFC operations, and Ls 400,000 constituted the AFC's statutory capital.
(3)   Procurement
A World Bank funded three-day Procurement Workshop was held in Riga in Summer 1994, covering
procurement procedures.
(4)    Latvian Agricultural Advisory Service
Technical assistance to the Latvian Agricultural Advisory Service has amounted to ECU 2.245 million.
The initial TA project to the Agricultural Advisory and Statistical Services was started in April, 1994.
Development objective for this TA was to raise the incomes of farm families and the profitability of
agricultural enterprises through the development of the Latvian Agricultural Advisory Service (LAAS)
and the MOA's statistical work in the Department for Forecasting and Finance. An addendum to the
project covered such specific fields as extension and forage pilot projects. A major project in the field of
on-farm development was started in January 1997, providing support to LAAS through TA for private
business development. The wider objectives envisaged support to the development of private agriculture,
helping farmers to respond profitably to market requirements, by assisting LAAS to provide services for
which farmers are prepared to pay. Several specific project objectives have been set out to make LAAS
financially and managerially independent, whilst improving its linkages with farmers, research and rural
credit institutions.
Mainly TA was provided under the Phare-funded program, and there was also an input from a bilateral
donor. As a result of the TA provided, today LAAS, which as of June 1997 has become a Limited
Liability Company, is maturing organizationally, with respect to advisory capability and capacity. LAAS
is better managed, due to training and introduction of different management tools. The organizational
structure of LAAS has been improved; the projects' provision of equipment, supplies and staffmg of a
Documentation Unit and an Information Technology Unit has proven to be a great benefit. A survey
carried out among the farmers, showed that 65% of farmers in their decision making process rely on
LAAS advice and information.
Agricultural statistics are, due to support from the project, today much more reliable, more informative,
and presented with a much improved lay-out compared to the situation in early 1994.
(5)    Land Reform
TA to Land privatization and Registration consisted of two phases, totaling to ECU 3.3 million. Duration
of Phase 1 was September 1995 - February 1996. Phase 2 was started in October, 1996, taking over from
Phase 1, and continuing to implement the overall objective of the TA project which is to create a land
market, in order to support the privatization process and promote sectoral development in agriculture,
forestry, banking and small and medium scale enterprises. Specific objectives for the-Phase 2 of the
project envisage: development of a real property registration system at national level; formation and
maintenance of cartographic material for land reform through the establishment of photogrammetry in
Latvia; assistance in producing orthophotomaps and digital maps for rural and urban areas, and setting up
of a Forest GIS on a pilot basis.



(6)   Agro-Industry: Restructuring, Marketing and Distribution
This Technical Assistance project was started in February 1995, with a follow-up Addendum from
January, 1997 until August 1997, amounting to ECU 1.15 million, all of this amount was funded by the
EU Phare Program. The overall objective of the TA was to strengthen agro-enterprises marketing and
distribution capabilities so that they can survive in an open and highly competitive domestic market place,
and so that they can exploit export opportunities when they arise. Nevertheless, marketing and
distribution efficiency in Latvia cannot be raised without also addressing the issue of restructuring and
the absence of basic business and marketing techniques.
The project focused directly on the larger, privatized agro-enterprises and on assisting the small and
medium sized businesses through training given to the Enterprise Support Centres (UACs) coupled with
making extension material generally available.
The project has assisted the larger privatized agro-enterprises by training workshops and counseling on
their business strategy and improvement of their business operations. Companies participated in training
workshops, and were helped to develop and implement business plans and to access the funds available
from the ADP or other investor or business partners. As a result of TA project, four companies have
received credits from the Investment Bank of Latvia, and one company has received a credit from the
AFC, which is a proof that business planning in these companies has improved.
Under the Addendum, the project worked with 2 meat processors, 1 grain and feed mill, and 1 dairy.
Strategy, marketing, financial and financing, and quality assessment was done in each company, and
recommendations given with a view to their long-term restructuring. A seminar "Developing and
Financing Food Businesses in Latvia" was organized (approx. 50 participants) which concentrated on two
main issues: Company's Strategy, Marketing and sales, and Financial Management Imperatives and
Obtaining Finance for Planned Capital Investment.
Two manuals have been prepared by project specialists: "Guidelines for Capital Equipment and
Procurement", and "Obtaining Finance for Planned Capital Investments".
(7)    Agro-Industry: Privatization
The overall aim of this EU Phare-funded project was to assist the MOA to review selected agro-
enterprises and identify how best to (a) complete privatization of residual state holding, and (b) facilitate
debt and/or equity financing for enterprises. In January, 1996 work on the project was commenced by
Coopers & Lybrand and Cargill Technical Services (C&L). Project was terminated in October, 1996 due
to apparent misunderstanding and administrative problems in Brussels.
When the contracted company ceased work in October 1996, project outputs were in the final stages of
completion, therefore benefit of much of the work undertaken was significantly reduced, and support
received by the client companies was very limited.
Nevertheless, currently, out of several hundreds of state-owned companies very few have remained un-
privatized, mainly research stations.
Financial Impact of the Project
The original target of 15% IRR in the sub-project has been maintained during the whole duration of the
project.



Borrower's Performance
The project benefited from very competent staff, most of them involved from the beginning of
preparation and during the whole implementation period. Also, the cooperation between the responsible
monitoring institutions, i.e., Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Agriculture and the WB Project
Management Unit has been very good. Their coordinated efforts provided that all obstacles arising during
the project implementation were successfully eliminated.
Also, performance of the Agricultural Finance Company, their management team and staff who achieved
the excellent results, deserve special mentioning.
Regarding factors that hindered implementation of the project, a major factor that influenced the whole
project was lack of suitable financial intermediaries at the beginning of the project. It was required to set
up a brand new credit providing company. Due to this fact, the project had a slow start, because the AFC
was created only in late 1993, and a time lag existed between the beginning of operations and when
potential clients were aware that AFC had funds available for lending. Also, the fact that the LIB was
reluctant to provide credits to the agricultural sector, hindered the project implementation. Time was
required to transfer the funds between the financial institutions, and in the meantime the credit provision
capacity was not used to the full extent, leaving the project beneficiaries' requirements not sufficiently
satisfied.
The fact that during the implementation of the project five ministers of agriculture have been appointed
and dismissed, and there were several changes in the government, resulted in the situation when decision
taking on several issues were delayed. For instance, the AFC unjustifiably was required to pay interest on
their statutory capital for three years, and also the GOL decision regarding the possibility to grant loans in
Lats was delayed.
Key Lessons Learned
This project, although it was the very first investment project supported by the WB for Latvia, is
considered to be one of the most successful WB projects in the Eastern and Central Europe. Several
lessons can be learned from this success:
(a)    Project should be of a relatively simple design and objectives to facilitate its implementation.
(b)    One of the main reasons of the WB credit's fast disbursement, and of the 94% recovery rate, is
that loans have been extended only for economically viable projects.
(c)   In order to make a project successful, very important is good management and people, and strong
commitment among the people directly responsible for the project matters.
(d)   It is also obvious that cooperation with other donors who sponsored the project related TA, has
contributed to the success of the project.
(e)    The project also demonstrated three factors related to the project beneficiaries, which are very
important for further support to the agricultural sector:
* private rural businessmen can borrow at market interest rates and repay their loans;
* long term investments in the agricultural sector can be viable; and
* the agricultural sector can serve as an important source of income and employment.



The Bank's Performance
The Bank's performance was highly satisfactory in all phases of the project cycle. Through identification
and preparation the Bank actively supported and coordinated a number of initiatives to increase the
likelihood of a successful project.
The project was kept simple and straightforward. The supervision missions were able to regularly
reassess the project's impact on agriculture, agro-industry and forestry, and to apply the required changes
in the project implementation process.
In the absence of eligible PFIs, the Bank has succeeded with setting up and providing training and
guidance to the AFC, which is being considered a sustainable rural finance intermediary; now integrated
as a part of the MLB.
The Bank also worked closely with the MOA, MOF and the PMU to ensure success of the project. The - -
Bank designed the required project-related technical assistance which became an integrated part of the
project and one of factors of its success.
Regarding withdrawals from the Special Account in Washington, the Bank ensured processing of the
SOE and timely disbursement of funds.



Appendix B2
LATVIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LN 3695-LV)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BORROWER'S COMMENTS
June 8, 1998



LATVIIAS REPUBLIKAS
VIDES AIZSARDZIBAS UN RE9IONALAS ATTISTIBAS MINISTRIJA
Peldu iela 25, LV-1494 Riga, talr. 7026470, 7026590, fakss 7820442
8 June 1998
Mr Basil Kavalsky
Country Director
Poland and the Baltic States
Europe and Central Asia Region
1818 H Street NW
Washington DC 20433
Dear Mr Kavalsky
Ref. Implementation Completion Report of the Latvia Agricultural Development Loan
3695-LV
The Government of Latvia has reviewed the draft Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) which was jointly prepared by the World Bank and the Government. The ICR
results were discussed in the Government meeting on 26 May 1998, and we fully concur
with the main findings that the Agricultural Development Project (ADP) was highly
successful and made significant contribution towards developing Latvia's agricultural
sector and strengthening a rural financial system. ADP's contribution in land reforms was
particularly noteworthy along with maintaining a good working partnership between the
World Bank and Latvia.
We look forward to continuos successful co-operation during the follow up Rural
Development Project.
Sincerely yours
Anatolij  rbunovs
Minister



Appenadix B3
PROGRESS OF DISBURSEMENT
LOAN 3695-LV
Table 1: Disbursement by 20 October 1997 (USD):
Direct payment   Trough S/A
(replenishment)
AFC             1.+2.           14 605 438.34    6 564 322.60   21 169 760.94
(MLB)
IBL             2.               496 454.00      935 956.00     1 432 410.00
SLS             3.              1 013 056.90    1 296 927.80    2 236 585.46
(36 585.46
withdrawn from
.________  WB - paid SA)
Min. of Justice   3. (has been                   161 243.60       161 243.60
repaid)
S/A balance                                        00.00
Total           25 000 000
Ministry of Justice has repaid full amount of loan allocated to this institution on 02.02.96.
Table 2: The Initial Allocation of Funds According to Categories
1 On-farm Development                  11,900,000
2 Agro-and Forest Industries Development    11,900,000
3 Institutional Development            1,000,000
4 Unallocated                          200,000
Table 3: Reallocated Amounts, as of September 1997
1 On-farm Development                  18,468,420.00
2 Agro-and Forest Industries Development    4,331,682.00
3 Institutional Development            2,199,898.00
4 Unallocated                          0



Appendix B3
Table 4: Estimated Disbursement Schedule
FY  1994
3rd Quarter              1.0                      1.0                      4
4th Quarter              1.0                      2.0                      8
FY 1995
1st Quarter              1.5                     3.5                       14
2nd Quarter              2.0                      5.5                      22
3rd Quarter             2.0                       7.5                      30
4th Quarter              2.5                      10.0                     40
FY 1996
1st Quarter             2.5                       12.5                     50
2nd Quarter              3.0                      15.5                     62
3rd Quarter              2.5                      18.0                     72
4th Quarter              2.0                      20.0                     80
FY 1997
1st Quarter             2.0                      22.0                      88
2nd Quarter              1.5                      23.5                     94
3rd Quarter              1.5                      25.0                     100
Table 5: Estimated Disbursement Schedule, Revised on 8 June, 1995
FY 1994
3rd Quarter              1.0                      1.0                      4
4th Quarter              1.0                      2.0                      8
FY 1995
1st Quarter             0.6                       2.6                      10
2nd Quarter              0.6                      3.2                      13
3rd Quarter              2.5                      5.7                      23
4th Quarter a/           0.8                      6.5                      26
FY 1996
1 st Quarter             1.5                     8.0                      32
2nd Quarter              2.0                      10.0                     40
3rd Quarter              2.0                      12.0                     48
4th Quarter              2.5                      14.5                     58
FY 1997
1st Quarter             3.0                       17.5                     70
2nd Quarter              3.0                      20.5                     82
3rd Quarter              2.5                      23.0                     92
4th Quarter              2.0                      25.0                     100
a/Up to FY 1995 4th Quarter is actual disbursement.



Appendix C
Credit Operation
AFC Lending Operations under ADP
Principal Indicators
Indicator                                   A\IoIntl iI t.SS>)(m)
S    |  i |    S       ~~~2,003                   2,301                     2,754
E    |  | |    E   2,859  3,250                     3,866
:    l  t   34,053        37,130                   49,880
x   | 2 ffi   29,450      32,185                   40,567
14,104       (48%)        15,915       (49%)       23,813       (59%)
15,346       (52%)        16,270       (5 1%)      16,454      *(41%)
95.2%                     92.0%                    94.7%



AFC Lending Operations under ADP (continued)
Agriculture &     2,460        1,686        $21,618       2,767                   S22,858     3,276      2,344       $29,543
Livestock                                 (73.41%)                              (71.02%)                           (72.83%)
Production
Forestry & wood     133         120           $3,724        332          251        $4,961      379        287        $6,098
processing                                (12.64%)                               (I 5.4 1%)                        (15.03%)
Agro-processing &   266          197          84,108         151          79         $4,366     211         123        $4,925
services                                 (13.95%)                               (13.56%)   _     _      _         (12.15%
Total          2,859       2,003         $29,450       3,250        2,301       32,185     3,866      2,754       S40,567
Currency of sub-loans disbursed
a) Denominated in USD                     $28,160                             95.6%
b) Denominated in LVL                      Ls.735                             4.4%
a) Denominated in USD                     $29,998                             93.2%
b) Denominated in LVL                     Ls.1,301                            6.8%
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ g,
a) Denominated in USD                     $37,104                             91.5%
b) Denominated in LVL                     Ls.2,061                            8.5%
Investment Bank of Latvia
Loans Processed under ADP
(in: $US)
Wood processing                               1,699,739                          496,454
Packing of foodstuff                           561,289                           270,000
Casein processing2                            520,000                            227,000
Wood furniture                                 586,987                           176,500
Dairy processing                               176,338                            82,456
Sausage production3                           283,000                            180,000
Total                           3,827,353                          1,432,410
2 Prepaid before maturity
3 Written off. Repayment on all other sub-loans according to repayment schedule.



Appendix D
Summary of Institutional Development
Technical Assistance
Al. Project Management Unit   Strengthen the PMU to  Phare funding, Resident Extension of  Support activities  Sustainable  Improved project More than 40 mil   1,230,000
Operational Support:    become more efficient in Advisor         activities to cover finished    Project           manag. in      $ program under
the project preparation,                rural development                Management       agriculture sector implem
monitoring, assessment                                                   capacity
Finished December 1996
A2. Agricultural Finance     Improve expertise in    Training, on-the-job   Credit Agricole   Support activities  Rural finance  More efficient   2111 clients  590,000
Corporation Technical and  rural banking     mentoring support    completed TA   finished        system established  work         served
Operational Support:                         activities          activities
Finished April
1997
A3  Latvian Investment Bank:   Improve expertise in    Training, support  Completed   No action taken   Lending skills and' Limited     6 clients        50,000 USD -
Technical and Operational  rural banking     activities                                          procedures- for    irivestments in   served     *         SIDA
Support                                                                                          processing and    processing and
forestry        forestry
A4  Procurement              Improve procurement   Training, support  Completed       No action taken   Procurement     Necessary skills  33.31 mil $           0
effectiveness       activities                                           practices established acquired in  disbursed folio
PMU and PFI    wing
procurement
rules
BI.  Latvian Agricultural    Strengthen the       Training, study tours, On-farm      Development    Increased          Farmers adopting 117.5 mil USD    1,220,000 of
Advisory Service        professional and     development of      development     strategy and act.  agriculture   improved        total production       total
technical capabilities   advisory tools and  project started in  plan designed  production  agriculture   volume in AFC      1,845,000
advisory packages    January, 97                                     practices       client companies
To be finished January 1999
B2. Land Reform              Develop land registration TA, training, study    Countrywide  Support activities  Fuly functioning   Investment  113,001 land    2,433,300 of
system. Develop     tours               program started in continued     land market      security       titles                 total
cartographic material.                   October, 96                                                      registered        3,300,000
Set up Forest GIS
Finished March 1998
Cl. Agro-Industry:           Strengthen agro-      TA, training,      Addendum finished Support activities  Increased   Diversified goods 9.3 mil         1,100,000
Modernization, Marketing   enterprises marketing   counseling in  1-Jul-97       continued       production and    and improved    production
and Distribution        and distribution     companies                                           profitability in the  quality    increase in assist.
capabilities                                                             sector                           comp
C2. Agro-ilndustry: Support for  Assist in completion of TA, training,  Non-privatized    No action taken   Sound private  Improved     241 % gross        700,000
Privatization           privatization; facilitate  development of  enterprises passed            investments in agro- efficiency in the  prod. per empl.
debt and/or equity  handbooks, counseling onto PrivAgency                processing       sector          in assist comp.
financing
Terminated July 1996
Dl. Agricultural Research and   Strengthen the extension TA, trauiing,  Countrywide   Support activities  Sustainabiity of   Farmers adopting 69% of farmers  400,000
Extension               management capacity of demonstratons     demonstraton    continued under  advisory services  improved     use LAAS advise
LAAS                mthod               activities continued SAC project                  agriculture     and information
practices for
transition period



S  FINIAND  ./  0'  i0; f\ 00 00 gi  5Cvi  $f ;Jz $ itt tt 0; 0 t, 27 IBRD29693~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRD 969
|        Rig                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5 80ttt            tD.1
J                                                                                                                      VALMIERA , 8       'i02.   z, ) \f79           
21          61t                             44        rb                          .8c>        ,       30   IMAZ                  4103        9<>32
-  \                 -?                          8810w^iL  7t*}-                t                  4982            t                                                         t { l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4SS 
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .o LAVI                                                                                                                                       I                   RUSSIAN9 .J
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~50 V,                                                                                                 2811k                        :                  87 
0:   \   ,   562   TITLES RESrERED IN HE LAND BOK  13   DlSTRCT CAPITAL                                                                                  \          X  i    .   ,,. 0   , rq-Krc,l,vc     .
0                ~~~~~~~~0                                                                                                                                           3279 CDSTETTE36GTRDWTH 6  AKNA  AtA    AIu6-pls-'
-  <  ror!- RIVER~~~~~~~~~~~~~TASU                                                                                                                                                     42618 , 
f r *V rdorse/el or   ',                                                                            O   5   10  1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~635 20Mies1
_W;=. 21- \ 0 I 24 ' 27 JLIoNE 199E~~~RIGA



