Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
Report No.: AB4933 
Operation Name 
First Development Policy Operation 
Region 
Europe and Central Asia 
Sector 
Central government administration (40%), General Education (15%), 
Health (15%), Mining (15%), General Energy (15%) 
Project ID 
P115626 
Borrower(s) 
Government of Armenia 
Ministry of Finance 
1
Melik-Adamyan Str. 
Armenia 
375010 
Tel: (37410) 595 300 Fax: (37410) 526 338 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
1
Melik-Adamyan, Yerevan 
Armenia 
Tel: (374-10) 595-304 Fax: (374-10) 528-742 
info@ffpmc.am 
Date PID Prepared 
May 31, 2009 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
May 12, 2009 
Date of Board Approval 
July 2, 2009 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Armenia’s economic vulnerabilities have been accentuated by the financial crisis and global 
recession, and the overall economic situation rapidly deteriorated in late 2008 and early 2009. 
The crisis affects Armenia through several channels: decreased remittances, slowing trade, and 
declining foreign direct investment and commercial bank borrowing. Armenia needs external 
support to facilitate its adjustments to the new economic realities in a manner that does not 
undermine its development agenda and considerable gains in poverty reduction. 
At the same time, the crisis has exposed weaknesses in the policy and institutional spheres. As 
diverse firms—from the IT to mining sectors—close their doors or idle their capacity in response 
to the crisis, existing weaknesses, whether in infrastructure provision, the regulatory 
environment, or basic business management procedures, become more costly in terms of lost 
opportunities. With the steep decline in revenue over the past few months, the already low level 
of revenue to GDP has become even lower. The Government’s efforts to rapidly reorient 
expenditure and plan new investment projects exposes the weaknesses in the public financial 
management system, including the ability to appraise capital projects. The global crisis has made 
clear that Armenia needs to redouble its efforts to improve revenue mobilization, to create a level 
playing field for all economic agents, and to deliver the public goods vital for development. 
The crisis thus reinforces Armenia’s objective of moving decisively to implement a robust 
second generation reform program. The Government’s 2008 
Sustainable Development Program
 
Page  2
(SDP) provides an overarching framework and promises a catalogue of measures that will 
revitalize growth and accelerate poverty reduction. The SDP has a longer-term focus than did the 
original PRSP, and has four key goals for 2009
–2021
(with specific medium term targets for 
2009–2015): reducing poverty, including the elimination of extreme poverty; ensuring human 
development; decreasing corruption and improving public management; and deepening 
economic growth and accelerating development of lagging regions. The Government’s program 
aims to bring together and prioritize these reforms into a coherent package that will provide the 
cornerstone for the second generation of policy and institutional reforms needed to diversify, 
broaden, and sustain growth and poverty reduction over the medium term. 
 
2. Operation Objectives 
 
The principal purpose of the proposed Development Policy Operation (DPO) program (2009-
2011) is to provide support to the Government of the Republic of Armenia to address 
vulnerabilities, particularly in the context of the global economic crisis, while strengthening 
competitiveness for more rapid growth in the post-crisis period. This is the first in a proposed 
series of three annual operations. The proposed First Development Policy Operation (DPO-1), an 
IDA credit of US$ 60 million equivalent, is anchored in Armenia’s SDP.
1
In addressing vulnerability, the DPO program will support the Government to protect the poor 
and support greater human capital development. Reducing vulnerability depends on safeguarding 
spending for social safety nets while also improving targeting so that program coverage of the 
poor and vulnerable can be broadened more efficiently and effectively. Further developing 
human capital depends on intensifying reform of the tertiary and the preschool sectors, and 
deepening health financing and service delivery reforms. 
 
In improving competitiveness, the DPO program will assist the Government to alleviate private 
sector and governance constraints. Fostering private sector development depends on further 
liberalizing the telecommunications sector, and facilitating public-private partnerships, as well as 
fortifying corporate governance and easing administrative and legal barriers for firms. 
Reductions in costly tax and customs administration barriers are needed to make Armenian firms 
more competitive globally. More broadly, a more citizen- and business-friendly public sector 
depends on making incentives for performance more robust and upgrading management systems 
in public finance and the civil service. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The DPO, as an important component of the new Country Partnership Strategy (CPS), is 
necessary to undergird the reform agenda by focusing the policy dialogue on results, prioritizing 
measures within and across sectors, and reinforcing political momentum to tackle difficult issues. 
The DPO series provides an opportunity to deepen and accelerate the reform agenda, particularly 
as it pertains to the challenges of competition and governance in Armenia. As concessional ODA 
declines and Armenia takes its place among middle income countries, and as the external 
environment is likely to continue to be challenging for some time, the rate of reform will need to 
1
The SDP is now being reformulated given the much-changed international environment. 
Page  3
be accelerated to compete in a much more demanding global arena. The DPO, as a high level 
policy dialogue instrument, will also support implementation of the project portfolio. 
4. Financing 
 
The Bank will provide USD 60 million equivalent for the operation. 
 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
DPO-1 is a single tranche IDA credit will be disbursed upon effectiveness. It is envisaged that 
there will be two further single-tranche DPOs on roughly an annual cycle. The Ministry of 
Finance will be responsible for the overall implementation of the DPO program. The Deputy 
Minister of Finance in charge of macroeconomic policies, together with the representatives of 
other relevant agencies, will be responsible for policy implementation and coordination. Regular 
monitoring and evaluation of results of reforms planned under the DPOs will be based on the 
expected outcomes and performance indicators that have been already defined and agreed in the 
context of the SDP monitoring and evaluation framework. 
 
6.  Benefits and Risks 
 
In view of the global economic crisis, the DPO supports the Government’s two strategic 
objectives of (i) mitigating Armenia’s vulnerability to the current shocks and (ii) strengthening 
competitiveness for post-crisis recovery and growth over the medium term. To mitigate 
vulnerability the operation will support the Government in managing the impact of the global 
crisis by maintaining a sound macroeconomic and fiscal framework while protecting the poor; 
and strengthening the management of education, health, and social protection programs. To 
strengthen competitiveness for recovery and growth, the operation will assist the Government in 
improving economic competition and the business climate; strengthening the regulatory 
environment in infrastructure; improving competitiveness through the sustainable use of energy 
and natural resources; and improving public sector efficiency and effectiveness. 
 
The proposed operation is subject to several risks of domestic and external origin. In the current 
crisis context, the main risk is a deeper and protracted global recession that would seriously 
damage Armenia’s economy and erode its growth prospects. There are a number of risks that 
could emanate from a more severe crisis. First, a more severe crisis could compromise 
Armenia’s fiscal position in the short and medium terms, leading to a more likely risk of debt 
distress and limiting implementation of the SDP. Second, the economic crisis could lead to 
deterioration in the political environment. Third, the crisis may pressure the Government to 
resort to suboptimal measures in the form of protectionism and subsidies. 
 
7.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
The policies and the programs supported by the DPO series are expected to have direct and 
indirect positive poverty impacts on the poor and vulnerable. One of the overarching policy 
objectives of the proposed DPO is to directly address the impact of the global economic crisis on 
poverty. The DPO supports actions to protect the most vulnerable from sudden external shocks, 
which have already become manifest in higher unemployment and lower remittances, and will 
Page  4
lead to imminently higher poverty rates. Building on the sound social protection programs 
already in place, the DPO envisages additional temporary measures to augment existing social 
safety nets in order to protect the most vulnerable segments of society. The proposed operation 
also supports the protection of the poor and key pro-poor programs in human development 
spheres. Spending in 2009 for the poor and vulnerable, which had been reduced
—such as for 
hospital services for the poor, maternal child health, TB programs, and agricultural extension 
programs—were restored as part of DPO-1. 
 
More specifically, DPO-1 supports prior actions on increasing the allocation of funding for the 
Family Benefit (FB) and unemployment insurance programs, key vehicles to mitigate the 
poverty impact of the financial crisis, and improving targeting of the FB and public works 
programs. While the FB program is fairly well targeted at the household level, additional 
resources for the program would need to be combined with further improvements in targeting.  
 
Armenia also faces many other binding constraints to growth and poverty reduction that the DPO 
aims to help overcome, though their effects on poverty are more indirect. These include: (a) the 
weak conditions for fair competition; (b) high administrative and regulatory costs to firms; (c) 
insufficient and low quality infrastructure; and (d) inefficiencies in public sector service delivery. 
Addressing these deficiencies will put Armenia back on a stronger growth path during the post-
crisis period. These actions will have positive consequences for poor and vulnerable groups 
through efficiency gains and more rapid resumption of growth. For example, the measures in 
private sector development—improving the business environment, strengthening competition, 
expanding access to credit, reducing infrastructure costs, and improving public service delivery 
through a strengthened PFM system and stronger performance in the civil service—could 
generate more and better jobs and means of livelihood for all Armenians, including the currently 
unemployed and poor. 
 
It is expected that the DPO will result in significant positive effects on the environment. Key 
direct positive effects include improved environmental impact assessment (EIA) legislation and 
improved monitoring of atmospheric air quality. The focus on EIA is expected to contribute to 
promoting transparency and accountability in decision making, and improve public participation, 
hence resulting in more environmentally sound projects. The focus on monitoring of atmospheric 
air quality is expected to reduce the level and risk of environmental degradation, including 
improvements in environmental health. Another set of key positive direct environmental effects 
is expected through an improved fiscal regime for mining, which would help promote better 
management practices in mines and improve accountability of private sector involvement. The 
focus on the promotion of energy efficiency would economize on energy costs in the short term, 
with corresponding benefits for the environment, and also address cross-cutting issues, such as 
climate change, by setting forth a long term agenda for low-carbon growth. The team does not 
assess that the operation will cause any likely or significant negative effects on the environment. 
Other policy actions supported by the DPO are not likely to result in significant environmental 
effects. These include, 
inter alia, 
education, health, and telecommunications measures. However, 
the strengthening of public financial management and the civil service should enhance public 
sector capacity in environmental management. 
 
Page  5
8. Contact point 
Contact: Robert R. Taliercio 
Title: Senior Country Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-9659 
Fax: (202) 614-1099 
Email: rtaliercio@worldbank.org 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
