 IEG
                                                                                             Report Number: ICRR14834

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group


1. Project Data:                                             Date Posted: 11/09/2015

               Country: Armenia
                        Is this Review for a Programmatic Series ?                                      Yes    No
                            How many operations were planned for the                                3
                           series?
                            How many were approved ?                                                3
              Series ID: S122195
        First Project ID : P122195                                               Appraisal                Actual
         Project Name: Third Development           Project Costs (US$M):                     80.0                  80.0
                           Policy Operation
 L/C Number:                                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                      80.0                  80.0
      Sector Board:       Economic Policy           Cofinancing (US$M):                        00                   0.0

          Cofinanciers:                              Board Approval Date :                                 02/16/2012
                                                              Closing Date:             12/31/2012         12/31/2012
          Sector(s):     Central government   administration (37%); General industry and  trade sector (24%); Other
                         Mining and Extractive Industries (13%); Tertiary education (13%); Health (13%)
         Theme(s):       Regulation and competition policy (50%); Education for the knowledge economy (13%);
                         Social safety nets (13%); Tax policy and administration (12%); Health system performance
                         (12%)
    Second Project ID :P116451                                                    Appraisal               Actual
        Project Name:    Second   Development       Project Costs (US$M):                     25.0                25.0
                         Policy Operation
 L/C Number:                                          Loan/Credit (US$M):                     25.0                25.0
     Sector Board:       Economic Policy             Cofinancing (US$M):                        0.0                 0.0
                                                     Board Approval Date :                                 01/11/2011
           Cofinancers:                                       Closing Date:             06/30/2011         06/30/2011
          Sector(s):     Central government administration (30%), Other Mining and Extractive Industries (25%),
                         Health (20%), General education sector (15%), General information and communications
                         sector (10%)
         Theme(s):       Regulation and competition policy (30%), Social safety nets (30%), Tax policy and
                         administration (20%), Environmental policies and institutions (10%), Injuries and
                         non-communicable diseases (10%)
       Third Project ID :P115626                                                  Appraisal               Actual
        Project Name: Armenia First                 Project Costs (US$M):                     60.0                60.0
                         Development Policy
                         Operation
 L/C Number:                                          Loan/Credit (US$M):                     60.0                60.0
     Sector Board:       Economic Policy             Cofinancing (US$M):                        0.0                 0.0
                                                     Board Approval Date :                                 07/02/2009
           Cofinancers:                                       Closing Date:             12/01/2009         12/01/2009
          Sector(s):     Central government administration (40%), General energy sector (15%), Other Mining and
                         Extractive Industries (15%), General education sector (15%), Health (15%)
         Theme(s):       Regulation and competition policy (29%), Tax policy and administration (29%), Social safety
                         nets (14%), Corporate governance (14%), Environmental policies and institutions (14%)
Evaluator:                Panel Reviewer:         ICR Review                Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Mauricio Carrizosa       Robert Mark Lacey       Lourdes N. Pagaran         IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    The program document for the first DPO (DPO1) articulated the overall development objective of the program as
    follows (p. iii): “The principal purpose of the proposed Development Policy operation (DPO) program (2009-2011)
    is to provide support to the Government of the Republic of Armenia to address vulnerabilities, particularly in the
    context of the global economic crisis, while strengthening competitiveness for more rapid growth in the post-crisis
    period.” The program documents for the second and third DPOs (DPO2 and DPO3) articulated the principal
    objective differently (respectively p. vi and p. v): “The program development objective (PDO) for the series is to
    address vulnerability by protecting the poor and supporting greater human capital development, while improving
    competitiveness by alleviating a selected set of private sector and governance constraints.” This evaluation
    therefore comprises two separate objectives:

    1.   Address vulnerability
    2.   Improve competitiveness

    Although the objectives remained unchanged, there were a number of changes in prior actions, triggers,
    indicators and targets throughout the series. The ICR and the task team indicated that these responded to
    changing priorities (e,g, a focus on a more specific component of pre-school education) and circumstances (a
    slow and fragile recovery, fiscal pressures), as well as the emergence of new data and the need to provide more
    clarity to the triggers and consolidate the operation, which was originally thinly spread out in several areas.


 b. If this is a single DPL operation (not part of a series), were the project objectives/ key
associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Policy Areas:

    The program supported five policy areas:

    1.   Pro- Poor and Social Protection Programs

    Under this area, the program sought to strengthen the effectiveness and efficiency of social safety nets and
    protect sectoral programs for the poor and vulnerable.

    2.   Management of the Education Sector

    Under this area, the program sought to strengthen the overall quality and management of higher education and
    improve the preschool system, especially in rural areas.

    3.   Management of the Health Sector

    Under this area, the program sought to provide more affordable services for the poor and other beneficiaries by
    reforming health financing and expand service delivery by strengthening non-communicable disease
    interventions.


    4.   Private Sector Environment

    Under this area, the program sought to (i) strengthen economic competition through fortified financial sector, a
    better business environment, a strengthened pro-competition institution, improved corporate governance, and
    facilitation of public-private partnerships; (ii) Address critical infrastructure needs and improve regulatory
    environment in Informational and Communication Technology (ICT); and (iii) improve competitiveness through
    sustainable use of energy and natural resources.

    5.   Governance

    Under this area, the program sought to start the process of adopting international management standards to
   improve public sector efficiency and effectiveness in tax, customs, and public expenditure management.


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   The loans were approved by the Bank on July 2, 2009 (DPO1), January 11, 2011 (DPO2), and February 14, 2012
   (DPL3) and declared effective on October 5, 2009 (DPO1), May 5, 2011 (DPO2), and April 26, 2012 (DPO3).
   The loans closed, as anticipated, on December 1, 2009 (DPO1), June 30, 2011 (DPO2) and December 31, 2012
   (DPO2).


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:


   High. The objectives of the Development Policy Operations series (DPO1, DPO2, and DPO3) addressed
   Armenia’s poverty and growth issues. These included the need to offset the impact of the 2009 global crisis on
   the poor while tackling the chief constraints to growth, including weak conditions for fair competition, high
   administrative and regulatory costs to firms, poor infrastructure, and under-investment in human capital. IDA
   anchored the objectives of the DPO series to the four objectives of the Government’s 2008 Sustainable
   Development Program: growth, civil service performance, human development, and infrastructure services. The
   two pillars (vulnerability and competitiveness) of the World Bank Group's Armenia Country Partnership Strategy
   (CPS) for FY09-FY12, approved at the same time as the DPO1, matched those of the DPO series. DPO
   objectives remain relevant in the light of current development priorities, as articulated in the Armenia
   Development Strategy 2025, which includes employment expansion, enhancement of human capital,
   improvement of social protection, and modernization of public administration and governance. Two objectives in
   the FY2014-2017 CPS (support competitiveness and job creation and improve the efficiency and targeting of
   social services) reflect these priorities. Furthermore, objectives were consistent with the 2011-13 Medium-Term
   Expenditure Framework (MTEF), which the Government shared with the Bank early on, following the suspension
   of the previous MTEF as a result of the 2009 crisis.


b. Relevance of Design:

   Modest. The policies supported by the DPO series were relevant to the objectives, although poor definition of
   outcomes (e.g., “improve the preschool system”) preempts an assessment of the relevance of some policies and
   makes outcomes and their attribution hard to establish.

   The quality of the results framework varied. Quality was better under the first objective (vulnerability) than under
   the second (competitiveness), For example, the results chain on strengthening safety nets specified a welfare
   outcome (increased coverage of the poor) that was convincing. Similarly, on providing affordable health services
   for the poor, the results chain also specified a convincing connection of policies to the welfare outcome (utilization
   of services by the poor). However, on the education dimension, the results chain for quality and management of
   higher education covered outputs (an innovation fund, quality assurance arrangements), but lacked outcomes
   (e.g., increased accreditation).

   Relevance of design suffered from weak results chains related to the second objective (competitiveness). On
   public expenditure management, DPO1 envisaged a Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability (PEFA)
   assessment followed by budget reform, leading to improvements in some PEFA indicators. The results chain of
   DPO3 was, however, virtually void of real outcomes, and featured only the production of a possible input (a PEFA
   report) to future reforms. Similarly, the results chain on sustainable use of energy and natural resources initially
   aimed at enforcement of environmental impact assessments, air quality, and development of energy efficiency
   targets. In DPO3, the aim was to issue exploration licenses, a target hardly reflecting sustainable use of
   resources. Similarly, on preventing conflict of interest in public service, the “outcome” in the results chain was
   submission of a declaration of income and assets form, not actual prevention of conflict of interest. On
   competition, expected outcomes (e.g. increased banking sector resilience) were more akin to intermediate
   outcomes, rather than the desired results of stronger competition, although increased banking sector resilience
   might, ceteris paribus, increase competitiveness (not competition). Furthermore, the program documents (e.g.,
   DPO1, para. 78) suggest that this sub-objective was not fully articulated to include intended improvements in
   competitiveness, in addition to increases in competition. On improving wage policy, the results chain lacked
   outcomes. On Information and Telecommunications Technology (ICT), the results chain is not entirely
   convincing, with outcomes loosely defined (e.g., address critical infrastructure needs) and targets (internet
   penetration and access costs) linked only remotely to the actions IDA supported (assessment of spectrum
   management).

   The key risk the PD identified was that recession (resulting in reduced government revenues) could limit
   implementation of the Government's Sustainable Development Program, which underpinned the DPO series. As
   mitigation measures, the Bank was to hold continuous policy dialogue, intensify macroeconomic monitoring and
   update projections as bases for discussions with the Ministry of Finance, and closely collaborated with the IMF.
   To some extent, the risk materialized, for fiscal pressures led the Government to reduce the scope of its focus on
   education in the DPO2. Instead of dealing with the preschool education system as a whole, the government
   decided to focus only on a specific component of it (a one-year pre-school preparation program for children of
   4.5-5.5 ages) because of fiscal pressures.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):


   1.   Address Vulnerability . Substantial

   Achievement of this objective is assessed as follows:

   Strengthen the effectiveness and efficiency of social safety nets and protect sectoral programs for the poor and
   vulnerable.

   The Government met two of the three targets related to this outcome. The share of social protection and
   pensions in total spending declined from 26.2% in 2008 to 26.0% in 2011 but, according to subsequent
   information provided by the task team, increased to 28.2% in 2014; the target was to increase it to 27.2%. The
   coverage of the poor by the Family Benefits (FB) Program increased from 34% in 2007 to 37% in 2011, below the
   target of 40%, which the DPL 2 reduced from 50% due to government budget constraints. The task team reported
   that coverage declined to 22.7% in 2013. Leakage of the Family Benefits program to the three upper quintiles
   declined from 28.8% in 2007 to 25.6 percent in 2011 and (the task team reports) to 18.9% in 2013; the target was
   to reduce it to 20%.

   Strengthen the overall quality and management of higher education and improve the preschool system,
   especially in rural areas.

   The ICR indicated the emerging accreditation process had been completed in 5 of the 62 universities, which
   suggests an improvement in the management of higher education. Accreditation may also indicate improvements
   in overall quality, although the ICR did not provide evidence of this, nor on the Competitive Innovation Fund (CIF)
   that had been planned to encourage improvements in quality. The project team indicated that the CIF was piloted
   with ten projects in ten different universities and would expand under the new Education Improvement Project.
   On the pre-school system, the outcome (improve the pre-school system) was not well-defined, although the
   program documents (para 73, DPO1) suggest “improve” was meant to signify increased enrolment. The ICR
   indicated that spending on pre-school education, a limited indicator of “improvement” or “enrollment”, increased
   by close to the target of 10.9 billion Armenian Drams in 2011 (10.7 billion), with a further increase to 14.4 billion in
   2014 reported by the task team, a significant gain in real terms; and that the enrolment rate increased to 45% in
   2011. Although there was no baseline or target for the latter, the Program Document for DPL1 (para. 73) cites
   enrolment of 28% “in recent years” and the ICR refers to a government target of 80% in 2015 (reduced from the
   90% target DPL1 (para. 73 cites). The task team clarified that the enrolment rate was 22% for 2006 and indicated
   that most local governments (in charge of pre-school funding and management) would be unable to meet the
   90% target. Altogether, although there is no reliable time-series data indicating the extent of improvement or
   deterioration of enrollment since 2008, the available numbers suggest that some increase in enrollment took
   place.

   Provide more affordable services for the poor and other beneficiaries by reforming health financing and expand
   service delivery by strengthening non-communicable disease interventions.

   According to information subsequently provided by the task team, utilization of health services by the poor
   increased from the 2008 baseline of 16% in 2008 to 22.2% in 2013, above the target of 20%, suggesting greater
   affordability of services. Furthermore, the ICR notes that the target DPO2 introduced (“Health spending as a
   share of GDP increases from 1.4% in 2008 to 1.7% in 2011/12”) was achieved (1.7%). However, this target does
   not necessarily indicate changes in affordability. The ICR did not state whether a target introduced in the program
   document for DPO 3 (“Health spending on poor and vulnerable is extended to cover beneficiaries of the Family
Poverty Benefit with score between 34 and 36”), which would have also pointed to an increase in affordability for
the poor, was achieved or not.

The ICR did not provide an indicator of a strengthening of non-communicable disease interventions (“Increase of
NCD service volume at primary care level” an indicator introduced by the DPO1, was dropped from DPO2 and
DPO3).

2.   Improve Competitiveness . Modest

Many outcome targets were met, but a number of indicators were poor reflections of the intended outcomes:

Strengthen economic competition through fortified financial sector, a better business environment, a
strengthened pro-competition institution, improved corporate governance, and facilitation of public-private
partnerships.

The ICR measured a decline in financial sector strength, as indicated by the Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR). The
target of a stable CAR (at 27.5 percent) was not met, as it declined with expanded credit as the economy
recovered. The other three targets were met, including introduction and use of a one-stop shop for business
registry, a reduction in the number of days required and the cost to start a business, and an improvement in
disclosure and investor protection indices. Furthermore, the ICR notes an increase in the autonomy and
enforcement capacity of the State Commission for Protection of Economic Competition. But the ICR did not
provide an indication of whether actual competition, the focus of the intended outcome, increased or not. The
task team reported an improvement in competitiveness (not competition) to which the three achievements
described above may have contributed.

There were no indicators for, nor an analysis of, facilitation of public-private partnerships, a dimension of this
sub-objective.

Address critical infrastructure needs and improve regulatory environment in Informational and Communication
Technology (ICT).

Both targets were surpassed. The Monthly cost of broadband Internet access for 1 Mbps was reduced from
US$98 in 2008 to US$10 in 2012, well below the target of US$49; and broadband Internet penetration increased
from 0.16 subscriptions per 100 inhabitants to 13.39 during the same period, well above the target of 0.32.
However, the ICR did not discuss the extent to which these achievements were due to the policies the DPOs
supported (an assessment on spectrum management and monitoring), rather than to the telecom sector
liberalization that occurred in 2007.

Improve competitiveness through sustainable use of energy and natural resources.

The target of increasing the number of new general exploration licenses for metallic minerals issued from 1 in
2008 to at least 6 in 2011/12 was met (6 licenses were issued). This target was introduced in DPO2 and replaced
the original four DPO1 targets covering environmental impact assessments, atmospheric air quality, and energy
efficiency. The new indicator does not adequately reflect competitiveness or sustainable use of energy and
natural resources, the intended outcome that remained unchanged through the three DPOs. The ICR indicates
the increase in licenses was due to the simplification and clarification of processes under the new Mining Code
supported by the DPO series. The ICR reported that the environmental impact assessment (EIA) law that was
passed was considerably watered down. The original targets included enforcement of environmental impact
assessments for all projects, including mines; monitoring and enforcement of atmospheric air quality, and
progress on energy efficiency action plan targets.

Start the process of adopting international management standards to improve public sector efficiency and
effectiveness in tax, customs, and public expenditure management).

Three of the five tax management targets were surpassed (declined or increased more than expected): the
number of tax payments per year was reduced from 50 in 2008 to 13 in 2012 and to 10 in 2013, well below the
target of 34; the time required reduced from 958 hours per year to 380 hours per year in 2012 and 321 in 2013,
well below the target of 500; and the number of electronically filed returns increased from zero in 2008 to 531007
in 2012, well above the target of 3000. The profit tax rate, which was to increase from 36.6 percent of profit to
40.9 percent, increased only to 38.8 percent in 2012 and then declined to 20.4% in 2013. The ICR did not report
on the target for the cost of tax compliance because the information was not yet available.

One of the three customs management indicators was surpassed: the share of “green channel by default” custom
   clearances increased from zero percent of all declarations in 2008 to 68.7 percent in 2011, well above the target
   of 30 percent. Three of the other four customs management related indicators (overall logistics performance
   index, customs score, and “trading across borders” rank) were not met at the time of the ICR (2012) but were
   according to the task team, subsequently met (2014). The achieved timeliness index.(3.00) was below target
   (3.40).

   There were no indicators for, nor analysis of, public expenditure management, a dimension of this sub-objective.

   Prevent conflict of interest in public service and improve wage policy.

   Progress on conflict of interest prevention was to be indicated by the number of individuals submitting an income
   and asset declaration form, as a share of those required to do so. This indicator, taken alone, does not
   adequately reflect conflict of interest. It was 99.7 percent in 2012, marginally below the 100 percent target for
   2013. The declaration requirement was adopted when DPO3 was being prepared. The task team indicated that
   the data from the declarations is made public and thus increases the role of civil society in monitoring
   implementation of conflict of interest provisions. But the ICR does not discuss the possible impact of the new
   requirement on actual conflict of interest.
   There were no indicators for, nor analysis of, wage policy improvements, a dimension of this sub-objective.


5. Efficiency (not applicable to DPLs):


6. Outcome:

   The DPL series addressed clear short term challenges Armenia was facing as a result of the 2009 crisis as well
   as medium term growth and development needs. These challenges were reflected in Armenia’s development
   plans and in their amendment to take account of the impact of the 2008 crisis. Objectives remain relevant in the
   light of the current development priorities outlined in the Armenia Development Strategy 2025 and IDA’s
   FY2014-2017 CPS objectives. However, design suffered from a less than robust results chain. The series
   substantially achieved its objective of reducing vulnerability. However, while some results were achieved under
   the second objective (improve competitiveness), including improvements in the business environment, ICT
   infrastructure (although attribution to the DPO series is unclear), and on tax and customs management, there is
   little concrete evidence of attainment of the objective, and its efficacy is rated modest. Overall outcome is
   assessed as moderately satisfactory .

a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   The ICR covered past risks and risk mitigation, not future risks to development outcomes. The task team
   underscored the main risk, which stems from external shocks, including, most importantly, developments in
   Russia, on which Armenia depends for the bulk of its remittances income and for most of its trade. The task team
   also indicated Armenia's policy response to crises, which includes safeguarding of social expenditures. The
   likelihood of adverse external shocks from current developments in the global economy is high, as growth
   expectations in advanced and emerging countries, and particularly in Russia have declined. Given Armenia’s
   dependence on remittances from and trade with Russia and other countries, the possible adverse impacts of
   such shocks on Armenia’s economic performance and its available public resources are significant. A decline in
   public resources may compromise the sustainability of DPO outcomes, particularly those covering social
   protection, pre-school services, and health services to the poor, although Armenia's fiscal policies provide
   mitigation through some safeguarding of social expenditures. Furthermore, lower growth could reduce the
   financial sector's strength. On balance, IEG rates risks to development outcomes as significant.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

    Quality at entry benefited from several good elements of design. Relevance of development objectives was
    strong, substantiated by solid analytical work covering Armenia’s growth constraints, poverty issues, and
    public expenditures in various areas. The medium term horizon of the DPO series (from 2009 to 2012),
    allowed time to develop the program and achieve objectives. Support was provided for a disciplined
    macroeconomic policy environment in collaboration with the IMF and initial low public debt levels (15% of
    GDP in 2008) provided some space for counter-cyclical measures to the 2009 economic crisis. The poverty
    focus of the program was an appropriate response to increased poverty levels due to the crisis. Attention to
    environmental factors in mining, a key growth source, and to public financial management reforms, in view of
    fiduciary risks, was strong. Implementation arrangements centered at the Ministry of Finance, with
    representation from other agencies involved in the program. Finally, risks and mitigation measures were
    adequately identified.

    However, the variable quality of the results chain, which in some cases envisaged actions that hardly sufficed
    to achieve their intended outcomes and with some outcomes that were poorly defined, constitutes a
    significant weakness. This was reflected in M&E indicators that did not adequately depict the intended
    outcomes.


   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                     Moderately Unsatisfactory


b. Quality of supervision:


    Supervision was implemented through dialogue with the Government in the context of the evolving DPO
    series. The program documents and the ICR indicate good monitoring of results and continuous dialogue with
    the Government and follow-up on triggers, including dialogue in the context of complementary technical
    assistance activities. However, the ICR provides little or no discussion of dialogue on policies needed to
    improve progress where it was faltering ( (e.g., coverage of social safety nets, public expenditure, energy and
    natural resources). IDA filed only two ISRs, one each on DPL2 and DPL3, with limited discussions of program
    implementation.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :            Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   The Government’s Sustainable Development Plan, to which the DPO program was linked, suggested the
Government was strongly committed to the program, particularly as it was underpinned by consultations with
various stakeholders. Macroeconomic management was strong, benefiting from initially low public debt levels that
allowed counter-cyclical policies in response to the 2009 global crisis. Prior actions under the three DPOs
provided primarily enabling, albeit not sufficient, steps towards program implementation. However, implementation
readiness was compromised by some gaps in enabling legislation (e.g., a watered down environmental impact
assessment law) and other factors (e.g., inadequate budget space to increase the coverage of the poor by social
assistance programs), and the ICR provides little evidence of efforts aimed at resolving implementation issues,
including areas where progress was faltering (e.g., coverage of social safety nets, public expenditure, energy and
natural resources). The Ministry of Finance led the implementation of the program, with significant roles for the
Ministries of Education and Health, and with M&E coordinated by the Ministry of Economy in cooperation with
relevant Government agencies and civil society institutions. There were weaknesses in implementation
performance, for example (as indicated by the task team), on M&E by the Ministry of Education. Coordination with
other donors was strong, covering the macro framework (IMF and EDB), trade (EU), planning (UNDP), the overall
policy framework and infrastructure (Asian Development Bank), public financial management (German GTZ), and
tax administration (USAID).
   Government Performance Rating :                            Moderately Satisfactory


 b. Implementing Agency Performance:


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Not Applicable

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   M&E design was embedded in the policy matrix. As discussed under relevance of design, the results framework
often defined policies and outcomes that did not suffice to achieve the objectives as articulated and articulated some
of the objectives poorly. Accordingly, a number of results indicators inadequately measured the intended outcomes
and some objectives cannot be adequately assessed due to their poor definition. Furthermore, some dimensions of
the sub-objectives (“strengthening non-communicable disease interventions”, “public expenditure management”,
“improve wage policy”, “facilitation of public-private partnerships”) lacked expected outcomes and performance
indicators. M&E was coordinated by the Ministry of Economy in cooperation with relevant Government agencies and
civil society institutions.

b. M&E Implementation:

    With some exceptions (extension of health spending to certain beneficiaries of the family poverty benefit, cost of
    tax compliance), the designed M&E indicators were made available. There is, however, almost no discussion in
    the ICR of M&E implementation, although it suggests (para. 67) that expected outcomes were revised as their
    achievability became doubtful. The program documents for DPO2 and DPO3 include data on progress in the
    outcome indicators and provide some discussion of progress towards objectives.


c. M&E Utilization:

   There is little discussion in the ICR concerning the use of data to improve results or guide policy. For example,
   the program document for DPO2 (para. 64) discusses the decline in the poverty coverage of social protection (an
   outcome indicator) but does not indicate if or how this adverse trend triggered actions to improve results.
   Similarly, it refers to slow progress in the logistics performance index (para. 85), which benchmarks the
   performance of trade logistics, but no indication of what the slow progress triggered in terms of trade policies and
   management. The task team stated that the indicators used in the series are the same the Government uses in
   its five-year and the yearly development plans.
  M&E Quality Rating: Modest


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:


     No safeguards policies were triggered by the series.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

    The ICR did not report on fiduciary compliance.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

    None reported.
d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                Reason for
                                                                                    Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Satisfactory                 Moderately        Objectives remain relevant though the
                                                            Satisfactory      results chain was less than fully robust.
                                                                              The series substantially achieved its
                                                                              first objective of reducing vulnerability,
                                                                              although there is little concrete
                                                                              evidence of attainment of the second
                                                                              objective (improving competitiveness),
                                                                              and its efficacy is rated modest.
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Significant       The likelihood of external shocks from
                     Outcome:                                                 developments in the Russian economy
                                                                              is high and the possible adverse impact
                                                                              of such shocks on Armenia’s economic
                                                                              performance and on available
                                                                              resources for social programs
                                                                              supported by the DPO remain
                                                                              significant.
            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Moderately        Bank performance suffered from
                                                            Satisfactory      significant shortcomings in Quality at
                                                                              Entry, including a weak results chain,
                                                                              and moderate shortcomings in Quality
                                                                              of Supervision, where more attention
                                                                              could have been paid to strengthening
                                                                              the program during implementation."
       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Moderately        There were moderate shortfalls in
                                                            Satisfactory      implementation.
                Quality of ICR:                             Unsatisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    This review draws two lessons from this operation.

     First, a DPL series needs to provide adequate sequencing and time for reforms to be enacted and
    implemented and for development outcomes to occur. Although the operation did not achieve its objectives, it
    enabled some progress, such as improving the business environment. On the other hand, some objectives
    may need even more time than expected to come to fruition, given the complexity involved in enacting and
    implementing policies, such as the mining policies with their twin dimensions of private sector development
    and environmental sustainability.

    Second, indicators may poorly reflect articulated outcomes and thus undermine their use for monitoring and
    evaluation. Thus an objective such as stronger competition may not be adequately captured by indicators that
    only depict inputs or outputs towards that objective, such as increased ease of business registration.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No
15. Comments on Quality of ICR:



    While the ICR provides evidence on most outcome indicators, this evidence is compromised by the weaknesses
    in M&E design and the ICR could have made a stronger effort to indicate the achievement of objectives as
    articulated. Its analysis largely relies on the indicators alone. This compromises its results-orientation, with much
    of the narrative being implementation driven. The ICR primarily covered past risks, not future risks to
    development outcomes. Its assessment of Bank, Government, and implementing agency performance is not well
    argued. Two of its three lessons learned are not based on the evidence presented in the text.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Unsatisfactory
