                                                                                            34300

 FROM: The President


            GHANA-TRADE GATEWAYAND INVESTMENTPROJECT
                                     (CREDIT 3114-GH)

  PROPOSEDAMENDMENTSTO THE DEVELOPMENTCREDIT AGREEMENT



 1.     The Government of Ghana has requested that the Development Credit Agreement
 (DCA) for the Trade Gateway and Investment Project be amended. This memorandum
 sets out the justification for the proposed amendments, and seeks the Executive
 Directors' approval o f the amendments.

                                         I.Background

 2.     The Trade Gateway and Investment Project (the Project) was approved by the
 Board on July 9, 1998 and became effective on January 13, 1999. The project i s due to
 close on December 31, 2005. As o f September 27, 2005, 60.21 percent o f the Credit
 (SDR 22,641,275.570       equivalent) has been disbursed, and 39.79 percent (SDR
 14,958,724.430 equivalent) i s undisbursed. See Table 1inAnnex I.

3.      Project Objectives. The original objectives of the project as stated in the DCA
were to implement measures designed to attract a critical mass o f export-oriented firms
and facilitate trade in the territory o f the Borrower to accelerate growth through: (a) the
development o f off-site infrastructure for a privately financed Export Processing Zone;
and (b) the improvement of the quality and standards of services delivered to investors
and to exporters by the Borrower's institutions and agencies responsible for trade and
investment. The project consists o f two components described in Schedule 2 to the DCA:
Part A, Trade Facilitation, and Part B, Development o f Export Processing Zone. The
description o f the development objectives o f the project are proposed to be amended to
read as follows: "The obiectives o f the proiect are: (a) the development o f a multi-purpose
industrial park (MPIP); and (b) the improvement o f the quality and standards o f services
deliveredto investors and to exporters bv the Borrower's institutions and agencies responsible for
trade and investment aiming to attract a critical mass o f export-oriented firms and facilitate trade
inthe territory of the Borrower for accelerated mowth.''. As explained inparagraph 6 below,
this is a paradigm change which will lead to the amendment of the Free Zone Act
governing the settlement o f enterprises in the enclave, as well as the fiscal regime o f
MPIP enterprises. This philosophical shift equally qualifies the government and the
private sector for site development. It also qualifies "on-site" infrastructure for funding
through the Credit, which was excluded in the original project design. This paradigm
change entails changes in terms o f implementation methodology; it will create the
conditions to leverage the investment already effected in off-site infrastructure and
financed under the credit as well as enable the design and implementation o f new
investment promotion products which will attract more enterprises in the multi-purpose

industrial park. The creation o f the MPIP along with its minimuminfrastructure platform
and direct services to enterprises will also support the pursuit of the development
objectives o f the forthcoming IDNIFC MSME project. The "Market Access, Trade
Facilitation and Entrepreneurship Development" component o f the proposed MSME
project will pilot an ICT park as well as comrnon service centers (CSS) in several areas
such as furniture and textiles inthe MPIP. This will help the World Bank Group deliver
an integrated package o f services in response to the Government o f Ghana's private
sector and trade development agenda as envisaged in the Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) under its "Growth and Employment" pillar.

                          11.ProjectImplementationExperience

4.      ImplementationProgress. Overall, the project is being implementedwith mixed
results. Part A, o f the Project (Trade Facilitation component) i s being relatively
satisfactorily implemented, with the exception o f Subcomponent A(3) (Ghana Port and
Harbor Authority activities), which has encountered delays in disbursement, and
Subcomponent A(4) (Ghana Civil Aviation Authority activities), which has not been
implementedat all. Also, activities under Subcomponent A(2) (Investment promotion and
implementation o f a well targeted plan for investment promotion by the Ghana
Investment Promotion Council (GIPC) and Free Zones Board (FZB)) have not been
coordinated and are not achieving their development objectives. Part B o f the Project
(Development o f Export Processing Zone) has been implementedas follows:

    0   Subcomponent B(1) (Construction and equipment for container devanning area).
        Most o f the Credit funds originally allocated for this component have beenunused
        to date.   The Credit financed consultancy services to develop the detailed
        structural and functional designs for the devanning terminal and the design o f a
       roadway which provides access to the new container value park. However, the
        actual construction and related equipment for the container devanning area have
       been financed with private capital under the terms o f two public-private
       partnerships. Thus, the Credit funds allocated for civil works for the container
       devanning area were not and will not be utilized.          However, it has become
       necessary to finance the reconstruction o f a bridge and approximately 4 km o f
       arterial roads to provide improved access to the privately developed devanning
       areas and other cargo marshalling facilities outside the inner security perimeter o f
       the port o fTema.
   0   Subcomponent B(2) (Construction o f off-site infrastructure facilities for the
       Export Processing Zone). Implementation o f the physical components, Le. civil
       works at the export processing zone, i s now progressing relatively satisfactorily,
       though delayed. Roads andwater service contracts have beencompleted.
   0   The implementation o f Subcomponent B(3) (Environmental assessment, and
       preparation and implementation o f an environmental management plan i s
       satisfactorily implemented. The government and IDA agreed to suspend
       (provisionally) the installationo f a cleaner productionuntilassurancei s given that
       firms will settle inthe Tema site.




                                              2

The International Development Association (IDA) and the Government o f Ghana have
 agreed that, within the original structure and design o f the project, even completing all
activities under Subcomponent B(2) to be financed through the Credit will not guarantee
the attainment of the project's development objectives. In effect, the creation of the
conditions for populating the Export Processing Zone should have progressed at the same
pace as the construction o f the off-site infrastructure. Originally two private developers
were involved: ILDC Ghana and Business Focus Group o f Malaysia who controlled 60
percent o f the site. However, a dispute arose betweenthe Government o f Ghana and the
Malaysian developer about contract performance which i s still unresolved. The
govemment has informed IDA o f the decision o f Ghana Free Zones Board to re-enter the
portion o f the Tema Free Zone originally assigned to the developer inits assets base. The
Ghanaian private developer i s progressing at a slow pace inbuildingthe required on-site
infrastructure in a limited portion o f the site, as well as inbuildingits factory shells. The
high cost o f on-site infrastructure to new tenants, in the absence of the advanced
provision o f basic infrastructure either by the Malaysian developer and current
concession holder or by the government, may contribute to making operations within the
site unattractive to prospective settlers. Moreover, Ghana's 1995 Export Processing Zone
regime itself has become outdated in light o f changes which have taken place within the
international and regional trading environment, and which require a corresponding
evolution in the free zone concept (which are now typically multi-use and emphasize
linkages with the domestic economy, as well as inboundoutbound trade logistics and
warehousing, and do not have onerous export requirements such as the 70 percent
requirement found inGhana's current regime) As a result, the Tema zone's development
and investment promotion strategies should be updated with regard to the needs to
rationalize activities   under Subcomponent A (2) (Investment                promotion and
implementation o f a well targeted plan for investment promotion o f the Ghana
Investment Promotion Council (GIPC) and Free Zones Board (FZB)). As o f now, only
one company has settled inthe enclave thanks to the private developer. This i s not a new
investment; the company has moved from Accra to the site. Government proactive
catalytic interventions have, through the Presidential Special Initiatives (PSIS) helped
five textile companies to settle inthe site.

These shortcomings delayed disbursements for activities related to the export processing
zone, During supervision the approach was revisited and solutions were discussed and
agreedbetween IDA andthe Government o f Ghana.

             111.RationaleandPotentialBenefitsofProposedAmendments

5.      The first major amendment to the DCA relates to the need to change the nature
o f the Tema enclave from an Export Processing Zone (EPZ) to a Multi-Purpose Industrial
Park (MPIP)   - which  may still retain certain free zone characteristics - and to include the
provision o f Credit funds for the construction o f "on-site"           infrastructure under
Subcomponent B (2) in addition to the original "off-site" infrastructure as a means o f
attracting new developers and enterprises to facilitate and accelerate the commercial
development o f the zone. It should be noted that at the time the project was designed,
IDA was not very keen to finance EPZs; the final decisionto finance the Tema EPZ was



                                               3

made on the grounds that the zone development would be privately financed. Within the
 original design o f the project, developers contracted by the government were supposed to
 invest in on-site infrastructure, and rent out premises/facilities to end-users. The
 experience has revealed that the cost o f infrastructure development may be too highto be
borne by foreign private developers who are not fully informed o f Ghana's economic
prospects. Inthis particular context, the change which occurred during the last 10 years in
 Ghana's trading environment, including with respect to the peculiar interpretation and
enforcement o f "rules o f origin" on EPZ goods within the Economic Community o f West
African States (ECOWAS), has quickly outmoded the Ghana's "traditional"                EPZ
concept, whose remaining incentives interms o f tax holidays and other fiscal exemptions
became an ineffective strategy to attract zone users. This partly explains why only one
enterprise relocated in the enclave thanks to the private developer. As a result, not only
did the Tema EPZ not promote growth in the country but, paradoxically, its successful
implementation would have shifted considerable financial resources away from the
government's budget.

6.      However, certified free zone companies in Ghana have been successful in other
sites. Ghana's free zone regime offers a flexible labor regime, a "constructive export"
regime under which sales o f domestic suppliers and vendors to certified free zone
enterprises are deemed to be exports (a policy feature which encourageslinkages between
the domestic economy and Ghana's EPZs and single factory free zones), a visa waiver
program for investors from numerous countries, and other "investment climate
incentives" going well beyond the fiscal incentives on offer. Ghanaian free zone
certifications have drawn investment inapparel, textiles, printing, agro-processing, wood
manufacturing, metal works, petroleum, pharmaceutical manufacturing, packing, IT &
telecom, fiberglass manufacturing, energy, offshore financial services, health services,
transportation services, from countries including France, Malaysia, USA, Lebanon, South
Africa, China, UAE,UK, Austria, Italy, and Germany. As a result, 21 percent o f Ghana's
exports and 47 percent o f its FDIin 2003 were linked to firms operating under these free
zone regimes. Significantly, certified free zone enterprises have also created 14,000 jobs.'
Ghana's free zone program is, on the whole, one o f the more successful ones in Africa,
along with Kenya, Madagascar, andMauritius.

7.      Therefore, the Government o f Ghana and IDA have agreed to shift to the concept
o f a MPIP, amending the Free Zone Act No. 504 (1995) and the traditional EPZ concept
as regards the Tema zone, which would not only preserve (and possibly enhance) the
"investment climate" free zone policies for free zone enterprises andcreate incentives for
prospective settlers through sustainable provision o f infrastructure and "value added"
park support services to enterprises (including physical common service centers), but also
will create resources for the government through regular tax collection. To pilot the
concept, the government considers it prudent to develop a portion o f the zone land (179
acres out o f the total o f 1,200 acres) by providing full on-site infrastructure to be
managed by the Ghana Free Zones Board (GFZB) for renting enterprises.               This i s
consistent with the shift from the EPZ concept to the MPIP concept. This shift has been
'BEARINGPOINT, FREE  ZONES: PERFORMANCE, LESSONSLEARNED IMPLICATIONS
                                                         AND           FORZONE
DEVELOPMENT, DISCUSSION  PAPERPREPAREDFORFIAS (OCTOBER 2004)



                                              4

discussed and agreed with government during the last implementation support missions
andsubsequent consultations on the project retrofitting exercise.

 8.       There is a substantial difference between the EPZ concept and the MPIP one. In
the case o fthe current EPZ framework, only enterprises planningon exporting70 percent
o f their output qualify for settling inthe enclave. Such examples o f the "traditional" EPZ
concept have not worked well in the majority o f cases in Africa and tend now to be
abandoned (as is, for instance, the case inSenegal). The Tema EPZwill become an MPIP
at completion o f the project restructuring. In the case o f the MPIP, government creates
the conditions to attract enterprises to the site (the use of the term "enclave" not being
applicable to the concept beingproposed) through investment promotion schemes based
on the sustainable provision o f services, which manufacturing enterprises need but cannot
provide on their own, as well as on certain business-enabling investment climate policies,
butwithout tax relatedincentives. This is the case for the creation, within the Tema MPIP
o f common service centers (CSCs) and for the development o f business support clusters
through the forthcoming IDNIFC Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME)
project as described below. It should be noted that the aforesaid activities had initially
been expected to be funded by a supplemental credit to the Trade Gateway and
Investment Project before the Government o f Ghana and IDA agreed to fund these
activities under the collateralMSME project.

9.       In effect, the small-scale nature of MSMEs prohibits individual firms from
investinginhigh-cost facilities such as equipment and machinery and, storage and inthe
acquisition and development o f new technologies etc. It i s envisioned that in line with
sector development strategies, common service centers (CSCs) would be established for
industry clusters and vertical enterprise linkages attuned to the needs o f specific sectors.
These may be developed using Public Private Partnership (PPP) schemes with a clearly
defined investment exit mechanism for the government. Thus far, a need has been
assessed for the following CSC provided activities to be co-located in the future Tema
MPIP: development o f a Furniture City, an ICT Park and textiles development center.
Other CSC's will be developed to support additional selected priority sectors based on
valuehpply chains analyses.

10.      Example o f Common Service Facilities and Infrastructure Support to Furniture
City inthe MPIP. The Government o f Ghana andIDA have agreed to utilize the proposed
MSME project to contribute to finance the establishment of a Furniture City Common
Service Center in the future MPIP in Tema, on a pilot and demonstration basis. The
objective i s to develop a wood furniture city to resettle small scale furniture producers
and provide them with common facilities.2 Activities to be financed include the
following: development o f the relevant infrastructure for wood /hrniture city;
construction o f 300 workshop units for small scale carpenters, furniture makers, wood
workers and joiners; construction o f a common show room; construction o f an
administrative building; installation o f common facilities/equipment, Le., wood kiln


 Forestry and wood products account for 6 percent o f GDP and are the 3rd largest export, representing 11
percent o ftotals.



                                                   5

 dryers, laminators, mould fabricationplant etc.; relevant capacity building; establishment
 o f a Wood Technology and Design Centre; creation o f a Website for E-Commerce;
 integration to the overall market access and trade facilitation infrastructure o f the
 proposed MSME project. Tailored wood sector investment climate and policy elements
 could also be utilized to augment the impact of the project. IDA would however need to
 make sure that the project is developed so as to be synergistic with the planned "Wood
 EstatesComplex" inKumasi and the Wood IndustriesTraining Centre.

 11.     Example o f Common Service Facilities and Infrastructure Support - ICT Park. In
 order to stimulate the start-up and growth of technology intensive, knowledge-based
 businesses in Ghana, the proposed MSME project will support the government's
 initiative to establish a technology park within the future MPIP, in the site portion to
 benefit from on-site infrastructure. The ICT parkwill provide infrastructureandbusiness
 support services designed to assist export-oriented small and mediumICT businesses and
 to maximize their potential for growth.       It is expected that the ICT park will be
 established as a public-private partnership, in which the implementation would be
private-sector driven, enabled by government support. World Bank Group assistance in
 establishing the ICT Park would include a comprehensive feasibility study to identify
required infrastructure and ancillary services, targeted industries and companies,
legislative and regulatory issues, financial projections, and proposed financing structure.
Based on the results o f this study, World Bank funding would support site planning, a
marketing strategy, purchase and installation o f telecommunications equipment,
construction o f a business center and administrative center, and administrative costs. The
ICT park could be accompanied by the development o f a targeted set o f regulatory
policies and incentives to enhance its impact, as inan increasing number o f ICT Park and
Technopark free zones around the world.3

12.       Inorder to support the above described approach, the government intends to re-
parcel the site's land repossessedfrom the Malaysian private developers and to tender it
to internationally renowned developers to acquire and develop a part o f the MPIP.
Technical assistance funds under the restructured project could be utilized to support this
critical objective.    These funds would further leverage recent World Bank Group
experience gained through the organization of developer tendering processes, as
evidenced by the current Panama Pacific0 Special Economic Area privatization which
IFC's Advisory Services team led, with assistance provided by FIAS and MIGA. To get
to a point where such transactions are viable to developers, however, it would be
necessary first to make extensions o f "on-site" infrastructure to the existing primary
infrastructure grid and in some cases, put in additional common user facilities such as
sewage pumping stations in low lying areas that would be allocated to prospective park
developers. Also, funding the construction o f a security fence wall will be necessary, as
well as of an administrationblock.

13.      By bearing the cost of "on-site" infrastructure development (with Credit funds)
and by developing CSCs in the MPP, the government will create the conditions for


 Suchas the DubaiMediaCity andDubaiInternet City FreeZones.



                                             6

makingthe site more attractive to private enterprises through a more holistic approach to
 investment promotion. This i s why, in order to leverage the "on-site" infrastructure, the
proposed project restructuring will be complemented by the proposed MSME project,
which will provide assistancefor the development o f CSCs to support the development o f
 enterprises in the zone and targeted capacity building for developers. The objective i s to
build local capacity (know-how and physical structures) for the provision to enterprises
located inthe proposed park (and elsewhere) with the functions they needto perform, but
cannot access by themselves, because o f their limitation in size and resources. This
touches upon product development, active sales and marketing, common infrastructure
 for production (packaging, kiln drying, labeling etc.), company restructuring, etc. These
functions will be delivered by privately owned and operated CSCs or public-private
consortiums. As mentioned above, this will be supported by the "Access to Markets,
Trade Facilitation and Entrepreneurship Development" component o f the proposed
MSMEproject.

 14.     By amending the EPZ Act regulating the settlement of enterprises in the Tema
zone, the government will allow all categories of enterprises to locate in the zone,
including certified free zone companies and non exporters. All settlers could thus access
all o f the "enabling investment climate" aspects o f the MPIP. This new situation will
limit tax evasion and create revenues for the government and make the proposed MPIP
self-sustainable.

15.      Summary o f findings o f the economic analvsis relative to the transformation o f
the EPZ into a MPIP. Estimates (based on FIAS, ILO, and Bearing Point cross-country
data ) are that:

    0    The zone can, by world standards for its size, adjusted based on Ghanaian
         experience, be expected to create anywhere between 1 (worst case) and 13 (best
         case) investments over the 2-year project timeframe;
    0   By worldwide zone standards, each zone enterprise should generate US$241,569
        per year inprivate end-userinvestment revenue for the zone (based on 2003 data).
        Thus, the zone should generate anywhere from US$241,569 to US$6,280,784 in
        private end-user investmentsby the end o f the project; and
    0   By Ghanaian standards, 120.26 jobs should be created per zone enterprise. It is
        thus fair to assume that the zone should generate anywhere between 120 and
         1,564 jobs over the project.

The long-tern prospects should, o f course, be much more impressive, multiplying
investment and job results by a factor of 3-5. The reason is that worldwide experience
shows that investmentinzones typically doesn't pick up untilafter the fifth year.




                                             7

The implications ofthis are as follows:

                              Worst Case          MedianCase             Best Case
  2-year Horizon,
  179 acres
 Direct End-User private         US$241,569         US$2,65 1,000          US$6,280,784
  Investment
 Direct Employment                       120                 840                    1,564
 Indirect Employment                      60                 840                   3,128
  Total Employment                       180                1,680                  4,692
  2-year Horizon,
  1,200 acres
 Direct End-User private      US$1,618,512         US$17,761,700         US$42,081,253
  Investment
 Direct Employment                       804               3,216                   10,479
 Indirect Employment                    402                3,2 16                 20,958
 Total Employment                      1,206               6,432                  31,437
  10-year Horizon,
  179 acres
 Direct End-User private        US$362,3 54        US$5,302,000          US$14,701,710
 Investment (inYear 10)
 Direct Employment                      360                3,360                  52,395
 Indirect Employment                     180               3,360                  104,790
 Total Employment                       540                6,720                  157,185
 10-year Horizon,
 1,200 acres
 Direct End-User private       US$2,427,772        US$35,523,400         US$98,501,457
 Investment(inYear 10)
 Direct Employment                     2,410              22,512                351,047"
 Indirect Employment                    1,205             22312                 702,093"
 Total Employment                       3,615             45,024              1,053,140"


    0  These do not take into account what the upper limit i s on the local labor market
       andpotential for growth o fTema as amunicipality.
    0  the numberswere with respect to the 179 acres. Ifthe fbll 1,200 acres were used,
       the total impact (over the lifeofthe Park) wouldbemultipliedby a factor o f6.7
       The numbers given for investmentwere for a 2-year time series.
    0  The employment figures do not take into account "indirect effects" o f the zone
       through linkages to the outside economy, which can add anywhere from 50
       percentto 200 percent morejobs to the totals.

16.    The second major amendment to the DCA relates to the reconstruction of a
bridge and approximately 4 km o f access roads outside the port o f Tema under
Subcomponent B (l),  as mentioned inparagraph 4 above. It i s proposedto use the Credit
proceeds allocated for civil works under Subcomponent B(1) (the original allocation o f



                                            8

 US$3.25 million equivalent plus an additional allocation o f US$2.75 million equivalent)
 for this additional activity.

 17.      The third major amendment will regularize funding of the Ghana Investment
 Advisory Council (GIAC) under a new Subcomponent A(6). The activities o f the GIAC
 are core private sector development and investmentclimatehrade reforms. The GIAC i s a
 consultative group composed o f private sector CEOs that act as a watch dog "custodians"
 and providers o f feedback on implementation o f government trade facilitation and
 investment climate reforms, as well as best practices in institutional reforms from a
 private sector perspective. The task team had already approved the hnding o f GIAC
 activities, which however the recent audit report by IAD considers ineligible without an
 amendment o f the DCA. At the time o f approval, the team felt that this was consistent
 with and in support of the project development objectives. Based on the
 recommendations o f the audit, the Government o f Ghana has requested IDA to make
 GIAC eligible for support under the restructured project, and this i s to be reflected inthe
 amended DCA.

 18.     The fourth major amendment relates to the proposed transition to the new
World Bank Procurement and Consultant Guidelines adopted inMay 2004. The revised
 guidelines aim at streamlining the procurement function.       In addition, the Gateway
 Secretariat will have also oversight responsibility for procurement under the proposed
MSMEproject, which will use the new guidelines. An 18-monthProcurement Planhas
beenprepared by the Borrower as required under the May 2004 guidelines (attachment
2).

 19.     In addition, Limited International Bidding (LIB) and Selection under Fixed
Budget (FBS) are proposed to be added as additional procurement methods to enhance
options open to the Borrower for efficient procurement. Lastly, certain procurement
method and prior review thresholds for works and goods are proposed to be increased
(see paragraph 27(d)) in order to overcome the constraints encountered during project
implementation andto speed up the procurement process. The proposed revisions are also
based on a re-assessment o f the procurement capacity o f the Borrower's implementing
agency.

20.      The fifth major amendment relates to the revision o f the key performance
indicators for the restructured project, to be specified in a new Schedule to the DCA.
Success ina project o f this magnitude can only be evaluated over the medium-term. Over
time, the success o f the restructured project must bejudged on the following criteria: (i)
whether the Tema MPIP project vision, concept, basic investments, and regulatory
framework were compelling enough to attract a quality developer (or developers) to
complete development o f the site after IDA-hnded basic infrastructure (also considering
other economic andpolitical factors' impact); (ii) the degree to which, intwo years' time,
investment andjob creation projections for the project are met (following worst, median
and best case scenarios); and (iii) degree to which, in the two years, MPIP linkages
                                    the
with the rest of the economy are sufficiently robust to be able to describe the Zone as
"integrated into the national economy" as opposed to as an "enclave."



                                             9

                       IV. PotentialRisksof ProposedAmendments

 21.      Risksrelatedto complexity andpotentiallack of governmentcapacity.This is
 a complex project that will entail work on eminent domain expropriation, development
 concession(s), infrastructure development, FDI policy, FDIpromotion, and (potentially)
 environmental and social issues. Itwill also require interactionwith several governmental
bodies. Due to its multi-disciplinary nature, unexpected difficulties and concerns may
 arise. One o f the risks will be working closely to keep the government on track on all
these various issues.

22.       Risk relatedto non-diversificationof activities. It should be noted that the on-
 site infrastructure will, inthe first place, only be concentrated on a limited portion o f the
 site where the MPIP will bepiloted (less than 200 out o f the total 1,200 acres). Therefore,
to minimize the risk o f non-responsiveness by the private sector and/or change in the
competitiveness position o f the country in a given sectoribranch (for instance, textile
within the global value chain), it would be important to diversifythe type o f activities to
be hosted in that land portion. It is worth noting that even though it took time, the
Ghanaian developer has fundedlimitedon-site infrastructure. But a risk may reside inthe
government's inability to respond to the needo f fbnding on-site infrastructure inall other
parts o f the site, especially as it has been decided to locate an ICT park at the site.

23.      Risk related to the non dispute resolution. A risk is posed by a potential non-
resolution o fthe disputebetween the Government of Ghana and the Malaysian developer
over a significant portion o f the land. Even though the Credit hnds as proposed to be
utilized inthis amendment are not intendedto be invested inthe disputed landportion, it
would be important for the attainment o f the overall developmental objectives to extend
the MPIP approach to the entire site in order to increase the critical mass o f export
oriented enterprises as stipulated inthe project's development objectives.

24.      Risk related to private sector non-responsiveness. Another risk relates to
private sector non-responsiveness to the above-described incentives.            The proposed
amendments should preserve flexibility for adjusting the type o f activities to be hosted in
landportions where "on site" infrastructure is developed, since the logic o f extending the
infrastructure base o fthe country i s not inquestion.

25.      Risk related to non complementarity with other projects. There is a risk of
non-complementarity with the planned "Wood Estates Complex" in Kumasi and the
Wood Industries Training Centre, which must be fblly considered, so as to develop the
concept synergistically.

26.      Risks related to the mismanagement of the public-private partnerships
(PPPs). There is also a risk that the public-private partnerships proposed as part o f the
implementation framework be structured in a manner which over-plays the role o f the
public sector and, unintentionally, distorts the level playing field for private sector
development. Careful negotiation with government stakeholders will be required to



                                               10

ensure that "infant industry" and "cluster gap-closing" strategies are properly calibrated
inthisrespect.

27.    Risks related to GFZB capacity. On the policy front, there is a risk that the
"foreign" technical precepts o f the proposed restructuring o f the free zone regime exceed
Ghana Free Zone Board (GFZB) regulatory and technical capacity -a risk which can only
beproperly mitigatedby capacity-buildingefforts.

28.    Risks related to the delayed amendment of the Free Zone Act. Though
government has defacto enabled the settlement o f non free zone certified companies in
the Tema site, there i s a needto amendthe Free Zone Act inorder to change the nature o f
the Tema site. Delays in amending the Free Zone Act may create confusion and
perception o f distortions and discrimination within the investment promotion regime,
thus reducing the private sector response. This risk can be mitigated by maintaining a
close dialogue with the government to ensure that it follows through on its commitment
to amend the Free Zone Act.

SUMMARY OFPROPOSEDAMENDMENTS

29.    The proposed amendments to the D C A are summarized below:

a)     Section 2.03, Closing Date

           0   Extension o f the Closing Date for the first time from December 31, 2005
               to June 30, 2007, to allow for the completion o f the ongoing and
               additional project activities and the achievement o f the development
               objectives o fthe restructured project.

b)     Schedule 1,Withdrawal o f the Proceeds o f the Credit

           0   Reallocation o f funds to category l(a) to finance works related to
               Subcomponent B(l) (The funds currently allocated to category l(b) are
               sufficient to finance the proposed on-site infrastructure building activities
               for the MPIP under component B(2)).
           0   Reallocationo f funds to category 2 to acquire limited number o fvehicles
               for the Gateway Secretariat and implementingagencies.

c) Schedule 2, Project Description(See Attachment 1, Annex 11:Project Description I)

       0  Modification o f the description o f development objectives o f the project
          which, afier amendment, should read as follows (with the changes highlighted
          inbold): "The objectives of the Project are: (a) the development of a multi-
          purpose industrial park; and (b) the improvement of the quality and standards
          o f services delivered to investors and to exporters by the Borrower's
          institutions and agencies responsible for trade and investment aiming to attract
          a critical mass o f export-oriented firms and facilitate trade in the territory o f



                                            11

           the Borrower for accelerated growth.".    As explained in paragraph 6 above,
           this i s a paradigm change which will lead to the amendment o f the Free Zone
           Act governing the settlement in the enclave, as well as the fiscal regime of
           MPIP enterprises. This philosophical shift equally qualifies the government
           and the private sector for site development.       It also qualifies "on-site"
           infrastructure for hnding through the Credit, which was excluded in the
           original project design.
           Modification o f the title o f Part A, which becomes "Trade Facilitation and
           InvestmentPromotion".
           Creation o f a new Subcomponent A(6) to support the Ghana Investment
          Advisory Council (GIAC) in the carrying out o f investment promotion and
          policy advocacy activities, as explained inparagraph 16 above.
          Modification o f the title o f Part B, which becomes "Development o f Multi-
          Purpose IndustrialPark".
          Modification o f Subcomponent B(l) (currently related to construction o f a
          container devanning area and acquisition o f related equipment) by (i)  limiting
          the activity to the provision o f technical advisory services rather than actual
          construction; and (ii)  adding as a new activity the reconstruction o f a bridge
          andaround 4 kmo f access roads at the port ofTema.
          Revision o f Subcomponent B(2) to replace the EPZ with MPIP and provide
          for financing o f "on-site" infrastructure.

d) Section 3.02 and Schedule 3, Procurement

       0  Revision of Section 3.02 and inclusion of a new Schedule 3 related to the
          transition to the new May 2004 procurement and consultant guidelines,
          including the preparation by the Borrower o f a formal procurement plan, and a
          revision o f procurement method and prior review thresholds for works and
          goods as follows:
       0  Procurement method thresholds: Works - N C B for contracts less than
          US$2,000,000 and Shopping for contracts less than 50,000; Goods - NCB
          currently from contracts less than US$lOO,OOO to contracts less than
          US$250,000 per contract.
       0  Prior review thresholds: Works - from contracts more than US$lOO,OOO to
          contracts more than US$500,000; Goods - &om contracts more than
          US$lOO,OOO to contracts more than US$250,000.

e) Schedule 4, ImplementationProgram


      0   The only change in Schedule 4 concerns the addition o f the Ghana Investors
          Advisory Council as an implementing agency for the new Subcomponent
          4 6 ) .




                                            12

f) RevisedProject PerformanceIndicators

         0 a revised schedule of performance indicators has been developed in a new
           Schedule to the DCA to reflect the restructuring of project activities and
           development objectives.   Table 2 (Annex 11) presents the revised key
           performanceindicators.

                                V. Recommendation

30.       Iam satisfiedthat theproposedamendmentsto theDevelopmentCredit
Agreement for Credit 3114-GH comply with the Articles of Agreement of the
International Development Association, and recommend that the Executive Directors
approve amendingthe Development Credit Agreement in accordance with paragraph 29
o f this memorandum. The amendments to the Development Credit Agreement will then
be forwardedto the Governmentofthe Republico f Ghanafor signing.




                                 PaulD.Wolfowitz
                                      President



                                by ShengmanZhang



WashingtonD.C.

                          Vice President:    GobindNankani, AFR
                        CountryDirector:     Mats Karlsson, AFC10
                         Sector Manager:     Demba BayAFTPS
                       Task Team Leader:     Papa Demba Thiam, AFTPS




                                         13


                                                              Annex I




                Table 1: Summary of New DisbursementProfile


     DESCRIPTION                   DISBURSED
                    roundedto the             ALLOCATION         ALLOCATION




I     TOTAL               29,181 I                  37,600I           37,600




                                     14

                                                                                                   Annex 2

                   TRADE GATEWAYAND INVESTMENTPROJECT
                                      RevisedResultsFramework

                                                     OutcomeIndicators                 Use of OutcomeInformation

  CAS Objective

  A market-responsive private sector is    Improved industrialperformance and       Show how the retrofitted project is
  identified as the single most important  sustainable growth                       alignedwith a key CAS pillar
  source o f growth and productive new
 jobs. The strategic support by the Bank
  Group is therefore aimed at assisting
  the Government o f Ghana to continue
  remove the constraints to private sector
  investment,    and   harness   potential
  sources o f growth.
IPDo                                                                                Show how the creation o f a
 To accelerate growth, trade and           Improved industrial output, exports and  platformo f "hardware"
 sustainable job creation through the      sustainable job creation inthe long      externalities inthe MPIPs along
 development o f off-site and on-site      term.                                    with integrated investment
 infrastructure for a multipurpose                                                  promotion and trade facilitation
 industrial park (MPIP) and provision o f                                           initiatives can trigger
 services to investors and exporters.                                               entrepreneurship, increased
                                                                                    industrialperformance, enhanced
                                                                                    exports andjob creation.

 Outcome:

 Fully functional multipurpose             Creation o f new economic                Demonstrate that MPIP is a viable
 industrial Park (MPIP) contributing to    opportunities for entrepreneurship.      alternative to the free zone concept
 increasedindustrial and trade activities
 andjob creation

                                                                                    Demonstrate that provision o f
 Improved and integrated investment        % o fcompanies benefitingfrom            targeted services inthe area o f
 promotion and trade facilitation          improved trade corridor and market       trade facilitation and market access
 resulting inbetter access to markets by   access services.                         can significantly improve business
 Ghanaian firms.                                                                    performance

   Key                                     ResultdOutcomeIndicators for


 Development o f off-site and on-site                                               Demonstrate how key companies
 infrastructure for a multipurpose         completed and the MPIP is filly          could take advantage o f the MPIP
 industrialpark (MPIP)                     finctional inthe intervention area

 Create a platformo f "hardware"           % o f prospective MPIP settlers that are Show how the target industries can
 externalities inthe MPIP which will       notivated by the new MPIP regime         make use o f the services at the
 trigger entrepreneurship.                                                          MPIP




                                                        15

J     OverallObjective/Outcome                   utc           ators              Use of OutcomeInformation


 Draft amendments to the EPZ Act    Free zone Act amended and adoptedby        Monitor how the specific MPIP
                                    Parliament                                 enclaves (s) are contributing to
                                                                               improved industrial performance
                                    Implementing regulations implemented       andjob creation.


                                    % o f companieslinvestorsthat express
                                    satisfaction with the revamped EPZ
                                    Act


 StrengthenPublic Policy Dialogue   Improved capacity o f the Ghana            Provide information on how
                                    InvestmentCouncil (GIAC) to provide        support to the GIAC has made it
                                    strategic advice to the GOGon              strategically relevant to the GOG
                                    investment opportunities and policy        private sector agenda
                                    initiatives




                                    % o f actual and/or prospective MPIP       Monitor the extent to which the
                                    settlers expressing satisfaction withthe   creation o f common service centers
                                    quality o f services available to them     for industry clusters and
                                                                               development o f business support
                                                                               services have resulted inimproved
                                                                               industrial performance andjob
                                                                               creation
                                    Improved trade and investment              Show how simplification o f
                                    activities that are directly linked to the customs and immigration
                                    quality o f services provided to           procedures have resulted in
                                    investors through the project.             improved performance o f
                                                                               companies

                                    Evidence that simplification o f           Post project interventiondata
                                    customs and immigration procedures         shows a marked improvement in
                                    has resultedinimproved trade and           exports and imports at the Tema
                                    investment flows generally                 port and the KIA as a result o f
                                                                               improvement inphysical
I                                                                              infrastructure.
                                    % o fcompanies satisfied with the
                                    simplification o f customs and
                                    immigrationprocedures
                                    Evidence o f improvedbusiness              Monitor how simplification o f
                                    activity, increased volume o f exports     procedures and provision o fkey
                                    and improved export revenue as a           infrastructure have led to increased
                                    result o f the construction o f physical   xonomic activity at the Tema port
                                    infrastructure to ease container storage   andat the KIA
                                    and transit




                                                  16

roj    ResultdOutcomeIndicators for Each
                        Activity


       % of companies satisfied with
       simplification and streamlining of
       customs procedures


       % of companies satisfied with
       liberalize stevedoring policy


       Evidence of improved exports that can
       be directly attributed to improved
       destination inspection capacity




                    17

