Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17736 - GH
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 37.6 MILLION
(US$ 50.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FOR
GHANA TRADE AND INVESTMENT GATEWAY
PROJECT (GHATIG)
June 5, 1998
Private Sector and Finance
AFRICA REGION



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March, 1998)
Currency Unit = Cedis
2260.0 LC = US$1
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
CEPS               Customs, Excise and Preventive Services
DDI                Direct Developer Identification
EIA                Environmental Impact Assessment
EMP                Environmental Management Plan
EPA                Environmental Protection Agency
EPZ                Export Processing Zone
ERSO               Economic Reform Support Operation
ESAF               Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FIAS               Foreign Investment Advisory Services
FTZ                Free Trade Zone
GCAA               Ghana Civil Aviation Authority
GEPC               Ghana Export Promotion Council
GFZB               Ghana Free Zones Board
GIPC               Ghana Investment Promotion Center
GIS                Ghana Immigration Services
GOG                Government of Ghana
GPHA               Ghana Ports & Harbor Authority
GPN                General Procurement Notice
ICB                International Competitive Bidding
ICR                Implementation Completion Report
ISO                International Standards Organization
LRMC               Long-run marginal Cost
NCB                National Competitive Bidding
NIRP               National Institutional Renewal Program
PIU                Project Implementation Unit
PPI                Private Participation in Infrastructure
PSAC               Private Sector Adjustment Credit
PSAG               Private Sector Advisory Group
PSD                Private Sector Development
PSR                Private Sector Roundtable
QCBS               Quality and Cost-based Selection
SOE                Statement of Expenditures
TA                 Technical Assistance
TIP                Trade and Investment Project
Vice President                        Jean Louis Sarbib
Country Director                      Peter Harrold
Sector Manager                        Thomas W. Allen
Task Manager                          Demba Ba



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRADE AND INVESTMENT GATEWAY PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE                                                2
(i) Background, Project Development Objectives and Key Performance Indicators   2
B. STRATEGIC CONTEXT                                                            3
(i)  CAS Objectives Supported by the Project:                               3
(ii) Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy                             3
(iii) Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices    4
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY                                                  8
(i)  Project Components (see Annexes II and III for detailed description and cost
breakdowns)                                                           8
(ii) Key Policy and Institutional Reforms Supported by the Project         11
(iii) Benefits and Target Population                                       11
(iv) Institutional and Implementation Arrangements                         11
D. PROJECT RATIONALE                                                           14
(i)  Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection             14
(ii) Other Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or
Other Development Agencies                                           15
(iii) Lessons Learned and Reflected in Proposed Project Design             16
(iv) Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership                      17
(v) Value Added of Bank Support: Rationale for Bank-Group Involvement      17
E. SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSES                                                    18
(i) Economic Assessment                                                    18
(ii) Financial Assessment                                                  18
(iii) Technical Assessment                                                 19
(iv) Institutional Assessment                                              19
(v) Social Assessment                                                      19
(vi) Environmental Assessment                                              20
(vii) Participatory Approach                                               20
F. SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS                                                    20
(i) Sustainability                                                         20
(ii) Critical Risks (see fourth column of Annex I)                         22
(iii) Possible Controversial Aspects                                       23
G. MAIN LOAN CONDITIONS                                                        23
(i) Conditions of Negotiations                                             23
(ii) Conditions of Board                                                   23
(iii) Conditions of Effectiveness                                          23
(iv) Other Conditions: During Project Implementation                       23
H. READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION                                                24
I. COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES                                               24



ANNEXES
Annex 1.     Project Design Summary
Annex 2.     Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.     Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.     Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
Annex 5.     Financial Summary
Annex 6.     Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.    Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table Al.    Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B.    Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.    Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.     Documents in Project File
Annex 9.     Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.    Country at a Glance
Annex 11.    Letter of Sector Development Policy
Annex 12.    Environmental Assessment, Social and Environmental
Analyses
MAP: IBRD 23606



Republic of Ghana
Ghana Trade and Investment Gateway Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Region
Private Sector and Finance
Date: June 3, 1998                                                        Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Demba Ba
Country Director: Peter Harrold                                            Sector Manager: Thomas W. Allen
Project ID: GH-PA-970                 Sector: Multi Sector                Program  Objective Category: Private Sector Development
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan                              Program  of Targeted Intervention:                              [ Yes]
Project Financing Data                                          D    Loan         X  Credit        D       Guarantee               a         Other
[Specify]
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount]: US$ 50.5m/SDR 37.6m
Proposed Terms:                                                    D      Multi-currency          Q    Single currency
Grace period [years]:                    10                        Q      Standard Variable       []   Fixed                        a          LIBOR-based
Years to maturity:                      40
Commitment fee:                         0.50 %
Service charge:                         0.75 %
Financing plan [US$m]
Source                                                                              Local                  Foreign                  Total
Govemment:                                                                          2.3                         .9                   3.2
Cofinanciers
IDA :                                                                                                        50.5                  50.5
Local Private Telecom                                                                                          2.1                   2.1
Other (unallocated)                                                                                             .2                    .2
Other (specify)
Other (specify)
(specify)                                                                           2.3                       53.5                  56.0
Borrower:
Guarantor
Responsible agencyries]: Oversight Committee with individual beneficiary agencies responsible for implementation
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m)                                     1999   2000          2001            2002         2003       2004    2005
Annual                                                                    4.9    4.1            13.3            12.3          10.8       4.4        .7
Cumulative                                                                4.9     9.0           22.3            34.6         45.4       49.8     50.5
For Guarantees: N.A.                                                      Q       Partial               Q   Partial risk
Credit
Proposed coverage:
Project sponsor.
Nature of underlying financing:
Terms of financing:      N.A.
Principal amount [US$m]
Final maturity
Amortization profile
Financing available without guarantee: N.A.                                 j     Yes                          C          No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:



-2-
A.    Project Development Objective
(i) Background, Project Development Objectives and Key Performance Indicators
(See Annex I for Performance Indicators)
1.    The Project development objective is to attract a critical mass of export-oriented
investors to Ghana to accelerate export-led growth as well as facilitate trade.
2.    After almost fifteen years of sustained economic reform, Ghana's business
environment today is one of the best in Africa for private sector development.
Benchmark studies commissioned for the Gateway Project (see para. 9 below) confirmed
that Ghana compares favorably to Togo and Kenya (potential competitors) -- and has
advantages which make it attractive even in relation to Mauritius and Dubai (considered
best practice). Yet foreign investors in Asia, Europe and the Americas are largely
unaware of the country's business potential -- both as a platform for production for world
markets, and more broadly, as a gateway to the West African sub-region.
3.    International experience suggests that a well-functioning, privately-developed and
managed Export Processing Zone (EPZ) can be a powerful way to break through the wall
of ignorance of a country's potential -- and "kickstart" a country's visibility in the global
business arena. Ghana already has taken some initial steps towards establishing an
EPZ. It has provided the appropriate enabling legal and regulatory environment by
enacting the Investment Promotion Center Act of 1994 and the Free Zone Act of 1995
(para. 8 below). And it has acquired industrial sites in a high potential business area (in
the environs of the capital, and near to port and other transport facilities) to make
available to a private EPZ developer. But three further measures are needed to translate
these promising initial moves into a successful, privately-developed and managed EPZ,
which the Gateway Project aims to support.
4.    First, the prospects for success will be greatly enhanced if the EPZ is developed
and operated by a private operator with the reputation -- and networks -- in the
international marketplace capable of attracting export-oriented manufacturing tenants
into (what for them is) a new and uncertain environment. Preliminary indications are
that such an EPZ operator can indeed be attracted into Ghana -- but only if the operator
is provided with a credible assurance that some key off-site infrastructure and
institutional issues are addressed first (see paras. 11-12). Support by IDA for the
Gateway Project would provide the requisite assurance.
5.    Second, although the private operator would have full responsibility for all on-site
infrastructure investments, a series of complementary physical investments are needed
immediately off-site -- power, water, waste-treatment and telecommunications hook-ups;
and a short road from the EPZ to Ghana's existing transport infrastructure. In the
ordinary course of events, it could take many years (even with Ghana's recent
commitment to move rapidly towards the private delivery of infrastructure services)
before these services would be made available by Ghana's infrastructure providers. The
Gateway Project accelerates this process by providing targeted resources to cover the
costs of investment in the off-site infrastructure needed for the success of the EPZ.



- 3 -
6.    Third, in order for an EPZ to be a successful platform for attracting export-
oriented manufacturing investors, a variety of complementary trade facilitation services
need to work effectively (e.g. port and transport, customs and immigration). Wfhile
institutional reforms are underway in public agencies, it will take many years before
their service standards, country-wide, meet international standards. In the interim, to
ensure that trade facilitation for the EPZ works smoothly, the Ghanaian authorities have
developed very precise performance benchmarks which the Gateway Secretariat will
require from the country's customs, immigration and investment promotion agencies --
and have established clear mechanisms for holding these agencies accountable for
performance. Meeting the benchmarks will require substantial efforts on the part of each
of these agencies and thus, the Project will provide the financial support needed to
underpin these efforts.
B.   Strategic Context
(i) CAS Objectives Supported by the Project:  CAS document number: Report No. 17002-GH
Date of latest discussion: August 13, 1997
"Accelerated economic growth for a sustainable attack on poverty"
7.    The proposed Project is fully consistent with IDA's Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) for Ghana, which defines poverty reduction as its central goal. The CAS recognizes
that one of the key requirements for sustainable poverty reduction is higher rates of
economic growth by restoring sustainable fiscal balance and promoting private
investment for exports. Moreover, given a population growth rate of about 3 percent per
annum, an average annual GDP growth rate of less than 5 percent during the last decade
has not been sufficient to significantly reduce poverty levels. It is estimated that an
annual GDP growth rate of 8-10 percent would be required for significant poverty
reduction. In order to achieve the level of investment required to obtain the targeted
growth rate, Ghana must consciously develop and consolidate its "competitive
advantages" and cater to export markets. The proposed Project is designed to help
remove the constraints to the development of trade and exports, and to attract direct
investments for industrial and infrastructure development. The Project is an integral
part of the Ghana Gateway Program, designed to make Ghana a middle-income country
by the year-2020, i.e., Ghana's "Vision 2020".
(ii) Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy
8.    The enactment of the Ghana Investment Promotion Center Act of 1994 and the
Free Zone Act of 1995 were the first crucial actions taken under the strategy. The Acts
constitute an adequate framework, providing favorable investment and export incentives
to enterprises, especially free zone companies, while setting out the rules and regulations
governing private sector participation in the development of free zones. The incentives
include extensive tax holidays, accelerated depreciation, and sales of up to 30 percent of
the value of free zone products in the domestic market.
9.    The Government has acquired sites in Tema, Takoradi, and Kumasi which have
been reserved for private development as free zones. To further assess the viability of
the concept, the Government of Ghana (GOG) commissioned a survey of foreign investors



- 4 -
to compare Ghana's investment climate to those of Mauritius and Dubai (considered best
practices) and Togo and Kenya (potential competitors). The survey evaluated Ghana's
competitiveness and positioning as a candidate for increased foreign direct investment
relative to the comparators in several areas that influence site-location decisions. These
include: political risk, international trade agreements, investment regime, export
promotion incentives, foreign exchange regime, labor regime, transport, infrastructure
and the financial sector. The main finding of the survey was that Ghana has favorable
investment and export incentives. Its foreign exchange regime is at par with that of the
comparators. Its labor regime is satisfactory, and an available supply of adequately
skilled and trainable labor represents a major competitive advantage. In general, the
transportation system is at par with that of its comparators and the costs of air and sea
freight are competitive. However, Ghana's basic infrastructure, particularly its
electricity, is slightly below that of the comparators. While both telephone and electricity
rates are competitive, this advantage is undermined by the quality of the lines and
frequent power outages. Potential investors could be deterred by these deficiencies, as
they not only interrupt production, but also could damage both the machinery and its
output. In summary, by drawing upon the experiences of its competitors and the best
practices in this area, Ghana was shown to have the required environment which,
combined with an EPZ to address the infrastructure shortcomings, can enable it to
attract a critical mass of exporters and accelerate the growth of exports. In the final
analysis, it is the quality of infrastructure and business services which will attract
investors and not the incentive code and thus great attention has been paid to assessing
needed upgrades to infrastructure.
10.   A thorough assessment of the infrastructure requirements for the EPZ and a
demand forecast for space in the Tema zone suggests that in the base-case, over forty
thousand square meters of under-roof space will be required over the first four years of
operation primarily from industries (e.g. agro-processing, wood processing, textiles,
garments, horticulture, fish processing, apparel manufacturing, etc.) and services (e.g.
teleport and tourism).
(iii) Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic
Choices
11.   The Project will address two critical constraints to the increased inflows of foreign
direct investment for the acceleration of exports: (a) the provision of limited off-site
infrastructure around the Tema EPZ, to attract a private developer who would provide
potential investors with required on-site infrastructure in the Tema EPZ; and (b) the
removal of important, but narrow, institutional capacity constraints to increased foreign
investment.
12.   The GOG recognizes that, over the medium-term, the success of institutional
development or efficiency improvements at the level of individual agencies or enterprises
is predicated by a well-functioning public administration/civil service system. Hence, its
commitment, under the National Institutional Renewal Program (NIRP), is to tackle
public sector efficiency issues. A key feature of public sector reform is the importance of
ensuring that the agencies and enterprises are held accountable for service delivery. This
Project deviates from traditional technical assistance projects in that it establishes
accountability relationships between the service delivery agencies (who are beneficiaries



- 5 -
under the Project) and the policy making/executive bodies, with feedback provided on a
regular basis from recipients of the services.
Provision of Off-site Infrastructure for the Tema EPZ
13.   The investment component of the Project will facilitate the development of a
privately-financed and owned EPZ with physical on-site infrastructure of international
standards. To achieve this, GOG has allotted 1,200 acres of land near Tema for
development as the first EPZ in Ghana. The goal of this Project is to lease a first lot of
this land to a suitable private investor/developer using a combination of international
competitive bidding and direct marketing. The GOG has developed a two-pronged
strategy for identifying and securing a qualified developer to begin development of the
area. Although the GOG has already identified a potential developer, until that deal is
confirmed, it intends to aggressively market free zone development opportunities to other
qualified developers. This approach underscores the need by the GOG to secure itself
against withdrawals of proposals by current prospects.
14.   Under this component, the Project will finance: (a) a well-targeted international
marketing plan for attracting experienced developers/investors of international repute to
develop and manage the Tema EPZ; and (b) off-site infrastructure links with the
proposed EPZ including: (i) water connection; (ii) sewage and solid waste treatment for
the EPZ; (iii) electricity link; (iv) access roads to the site; and (v) an environmental
assessment and mitigation plan. The off-site communication links to the EPZ will be built
and operated by one of the local private telephone companies on the basis of terms
defined under their licensing agreement. For the railways link between the EPZ and the
Tema Port, the Project will finance a detailed feasibility and economic analysis to
determine the viability of such an investment. An OECF study (February 1998)
identified a number of bottlenecks in the existing port operations and some of these
activities are being addressed by the Ghana Ports and Harbor Authority (GPHA). The
proposed Project will complement these internal efforts of GPHA with support for minor,
but high impact, physical improvements which will enhance operations such as break
bulk and cargo handling. Support will also be provided to relocate the devanning area
outside of the port area.
15.   GOG  and IDA  agreed during negotiations to prepare a Memorandum  of
Understanding defining performance indicators to ensure that infrastructure provided
under the Project is efficiently managed and operated after it is handed over to the
utilities. The GOG and IDA have also agreed that the disbursement of the first tranche
for off-site development will be contingent upon the effectiveness of the lease agreement
between the developer and the Ghana Free Zone Board (GFZB). At such time, tender for
pre-qualification and contractual arrangements for civil work design will commence.
GOG and IDA have agreed in a side letter to a time-bound process for finding a suitable
developer.
Trade Facilitation
16.   The reform of customs and port administrative processes is essential to Ghana's
objective of becoming an important trade and investment center. The Project will define
and implement reforms in quality control and the methods, processes and procedures
used by Customs Service, Ports and Harbors, Civil Aviation and Immigration in their



-6
dealings with investors, exporters and others, eg., tourists. The Project would aim to
lower the cost of doing business in Ghana, inter alia, by reducing the time between cargo
arrival and release to levels reflecting "world class best practice" and by reducing, to
"lowest world class" levels, the user costs associated with processing documentation and
complying with mandated procedures. Isolated processes within separate government
agencies would be connected with processes carried out by commercial users of the
system, in order to create additional transparency in rules and regulations, improve
information flows and coordinate document processing. Ghanaian customs and ports
processing standards would conform to those issued by the International Chamber of
Commerce and the International Standards Organization (ISO) and would comply with
ISO 9000. The achievement of the kind of "breakthrough service improvements" implied
by ISO  9000 certification should serve as further  indication to multinational
corporations of Ghana's serious and effective commitment to make its country investor
and commercial trader "friendly." The proposed Project will help tackle (part of) this
agenda with specific and targeted interventions in the following front line agencies.
17.   Ghana Free Zones Board (GFZB): Attracting a developer capable of bringing
anchor-tenants, who will constitute the critical mass of export-oriented firms, is key to
the success of the Gateway Project. This is the raison d'etre of the GFZB. Hence, it is
essential for it to have a focused strategy to clearly define activities which will propel it
into a proactive implementing organ for the Ghana Free Zones Program. GFZB's
strategy is to implement a well-targeted marketing plan for attracting free zone
developers and enterprises as detailed in the recently completed FDI Demand Study.
This marketing plan will be complemented by: (a) the design of information systems
which will provide the GFZB with the appropriate technological support to undertake all
aspects of promotion and facilitation (e.g. investor tracking and investor/enterprises
management functions); and (b) a comprehensive capacity building program aiimed at
improving service delivery within GFZB staff, both in terms of proactive promotion as
well as investor hospitality and related facilitation functions.
18.   Targeted Investment Promotion (GIPC): The improvement in Ghana's investment
climate increases the challenge for the Ghana Investment Promotion Center (GIPC) to
ensure a demonstrable improvement in investment performance, while offering its
services efficiently with value for money. The proposed Project will: (a) support the
development and implementation of a 2nd Five-Year Corporate Plan to enhance GIPC's
ability to undertake aggressive and targeted investment promotion; (b) enable it to train
staff to enhance the institution's strategic perspective in areas such as information
gathering, environmental scanning and industry analysis; and (c) create an enhanced
tracking system to measure the efficiency of incentives offered, as well as the results of
specific investment promotion activities.
19.   Simplification of Immigration Procedures for Investors: The absence of written
procedures impedes the ability of the Ghana Immigration Service (GIS) to respond pro-
actively to new initiatives such as the Gateway Project. The GIS intends to implement
measures to improve the quality of its services, including the reduction of formalities and
procedures and creating a fast track lane for investors at major ports of entry, and the
granting of a temporary visa of 30 days to all foreign visitors upon arrival. The
organizational audit carried out in April 1998, noted also that GIS is committed to
carrying out its mandate, but is hampered by a lack of resources, a strategic vision and a
formal training program. While a comprehensive overhaul of GIS is beyond the scope of



-7-
this Project, the Project will support: (a) selective re-training of staff to help create a
culture of facilitation and service provision, and to help immigration officers project an
appealing image to visitors; and (b) process and technology improvements. The revised
organizational structure of GIS would include internal and external mechanisms to
provide feedback on GIS performance. These mechanisms would include private sector
participation and would be consistent with the GOG's trade and investment promotion
objective.
20.   Ghana Ports and Harbor Authority (GPHA): Under the Gateway Project, the
operations of the ports will be improved by reducing the cost of operations and shortening
the turn-around time for ships and clearance time for cargo. Increased private sector
participation in the management and operation of the ports is the strategic choice made
by the GOG to achieve these objectives. Under the proposed Project, GPHA will be
converted into a Landlord Port Authority, while the operations will be outsourced to the
private sector, i.e., container operations, dockyards, sites maintenance and services, etc.,
before the year-2000.
21.   Customs Excise and Preventive Services (CEPS): Customs does not currently have
the tools, methodology or corporate culture to be an effective institution for delivering
customs services in a manner which is consistent with the Gateway objectives. In
particular, importers and exporters, as well as potential investors, have identified that:
(a) the current regulations are too complex to comply with; (b) valuation procedures are
not consistent with international norms; (c) trade is impeded by long delays in entries
and exits being presented to customs and high error rates on import entries; and (d) the
perception of CEPS as a para-military organization hinders its ability as a trade
facilitator. There is an implicit high cost imposed on Ghana's industry due to these
procedures, in terms of foregone employment and export earnings. These issues were
confirmed and are presented in detail in the CEPS Organizational and Institutional
Audit (March 1998) and Trade Facilitations and Effective Customs Control Report
(March 1998). Under the proposed Project, CEPS will re-engineer customs clearance
processes to: (i) develop cargo clearance procedures and customs/shipper information
interfaces which are simple, which minimize redundant data entry and which comply
with international best practice; and (ii) simplify customs' tariffs and valuation
procedures and reduce the number of commodity descriptions and detailed schedule
applications. This will reduce the need for refined determinations of cargo value and will
minimize, correspondingly, the interpretive latitude left to customs officials.
22.   Ghana Civil Aviation Authority (GCAA): Aviation plays a key role in supporting a
high-growth, outwardly-oriented development strategy. The primary objective is to
develop a strategic framework for the development of Ghana's Civil Aviation Sector
which is supportive of the goals of the Gateway Project. This includes the development of
Ghana's economy into a major regional hub for the physical distribution of goods and the
collateral development of gateway services including transport, transshipment, financial,
insurance, third party logistics, information and other services related to regional
distribution, transshipment and transit. GOG has already enacted a policy of "liberalized
skies" which implies, inter alia, an institutional reform of the GCAA. The reformed
GCAA should have full charge of safety regulations; pilot, carrier and facility licensing;
and air navigation and air traffic control. Airport operations and development should be
under the control of an independent airport authority. Under the proposed Project and in
tandem with the Public Enterprise and Privatization Technical Assistance Project



- 8 -
(PEPTA), the GOG will prepare and implement a coherent, comprehensive and
integrated strategy for the Civil Aviation Sector, which can serve as a guide and road
map for all subsequent reforms, initiatives and privatization activities. This roadmap
would be adopted by end- 1999.
C.      Project Description Summary
(i) Project Components (see Annexes II and III for detailed
description and cost breakdowns)
1.0  Infrastructure Investments
11   Off-site Infrastructure Investment for  *Civilworks          33.40      59.66       29.98       59.37
the Tema EPZ, including:           * Goods
* Services
. Access road, side drainage and                             6.08  -   10.86       5.79        11.47
associated civil works.
* Water supply systems, wastewater                          19.86      35.46       18.93       37.49
disposable systems and off-site
drainage systems.
* Supply and installation of                                 2.36       4.21       2.26        4.48
electricalpower and transformers.
a Telecom Infrastructure (local                              2.10       3.75         0           0
private)
* Feasibility studyfor railway                               1.50       2.68       1.50.       2.97
corridor
* Contracting to Oversee Civil                               1.50       2.68       1.50        2.97
works
1.2   Construction of Container devanning   *Civil works           3.50       6.25       3.15        6.24
area outside of the port, and      * Goods
improvement of port container and  * Services
airport cargo facilities
1.3  Implementation of the Environmental  *Institutional building  2.00       3.57        1.80       3.56
Management Plan (EMP) and support  *Equipment
to the EPA.
Total Investment Component                             38.90      69.46      34.93       69.17



Category   Indicative    % of  ,   DA  11      %  f
Compoenet                                                   Cost       Tot      F            Totaol
2.0  Investment promotion and Removal
of administrative bottlenecks
2.1  CEPS: The Project would finance the   *Institutional building,  2.25    4.02       1.92       3.80
implementation of CEPS strategic  * Physical/Equipment,
business plan covering changes in  * Behavioral change/
operational procedures and human    communication
resources and ISO 9000 compliance.
2.2   GPHA: Expertise, equipment,       *Regulation,              1.75       3.13       1.72       3.41
training, operational support to re-  + Institutional building
engineer GPHA into a Landlord     + Transaction
Authority. Feasibility study for  *Equipment
extension and dredging of quay 2,
development of Electronic Data
Interchange (EDI) at Tema port.
Private Sector Participation in port
activities
2.3   GCAA: The Project would finance    Regulation,              1.00       1.79       .96         1.90
the conversion of GCAA into a     +Institutional building
regulatory agency and the         * Transaction
operationalization of the "liberalized
skies policy" with emphasis on policy
reform and institutional redesign,
increased private participation in
provision of infrastructure and
obtaining private participation in
management and development of
KIA.
2.4   GIS: The Project would finance (i)  *Institutional building  1.18      2.11       1.00        1.98
assistance in preparing operating  * Physical/Equipment
procedures, benchmarking GIS       *Behavioral change
processing of immigration functions
as they relate to trade facilitation; (ii)
technology infrastructure and ; (iii)
retraining of staff in trade facilitation.



- 10 -
2.5   GIPC. Country and Investment         *Investment            2.75       4.91       2.34       4.63 l
Promotion: Preparation and             promotionl
implementation of well targeted      *Capacity building
investment and country promotion     *Increase awareness
activities; staff training and private  * Stakeholders
sector surveys; preparation and       involvement
implementation of a strategy to develop
backward linkages between foreign
investors and local suppliers; and support
for a program to build consensus amongst
domestic stakeholders in favor of
reforms.
2.6   GFZB: The Project will finance       * Marketing            2.40       4.29       2.32        4.59
implementation of the Developer &    * Institutional
Tenants marketing plans, improvement of   building
service delivery of staff in promotion and
facilitation, development of oversight
capabilities.
2.7  Gateway Project Coordination and      *Program & Project     2.87       5.13       2.56       5.07
Project Management: The Project would    Management
help finance recurrent expenditures and
develop the institutional capacity to
manage and coordinate the Gateway
Project and infrastructure unit.
2.8  Setting the Stage for Gateway II The  * Policy               0.50       .89        .50         .99
Project would support work aimed at  * Institutional
developing further policies, instruments  building
and implementation strategies for
example in project finance; vocation
skills development, and tourism
development.
Total: Capacity Building in Trade                           14.70      26.25      13.37      26.38
Facilitation Components
PPF-Telecom                                                 2.00       3.57       2.00        3.96
Unallocated                                                 .40        .71         .25        .50
Total Project Costs                                 56.00      100%       50.50      100%



- 11 -
(ii) Key Policy and Institutional Reforms Supported by the Project
23.   The Project will address some important but narrow  institutional capacity
constraints of front line agencies which deal with investors and exporters. Instruments to
facilitate increased private sector participation such as project finance, franchising and
concessions, will also be supported. The approach used in the Technical Assistance (TA)
component departs from traditional technical assistance projects in that it establishes
accountability relationships between the service-delivering agency (which are
beneficiaries under the Project) and the policy making/executive bodies, who will use
feed-back from recipients to assess compliance.
(iii) Benefits and Target Population
24.  In keeping with Ghana's objective of sustainable poverty reduction through job
creation and increased levels of economic growth, the Gateway Project is designed to
facilitate the higher levels of private foreign and domestic investment necessary to
achieve this growth. The Project would benefit three broad target groups: (a) the local
population; (b) private investors; and (c) the GOG. For the local population, the Project
will lead to a reduction in unemployment through the creation of more job opportunities
and through improvements in the skills and mobility within the labor force. For the
GOG, the Project is expected to attract a flow of foreign direct investment that will have
a positive effect on the balance of payments. It will also help increase the capacity of
government agencies dealing with the private sector. In addition, the fiscal impact has
been estimated at US$ 75 million for the 15-year period, mostly from personal income
taxes of new employees and service businesses operating around the EPZ and estimated
leasing fees from the developer of the EPZ. For private foreign and domestic investors,
benefits will come from reduced uncertainties and transaction costs associated with doing
business in Ghana, as well as the availability of ready sites for export processing
industries and the simplification of trade procedures.
(iv) Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
Implementation period : Seven years, 1999 to 2005
Executing Agencies    : Individual beneficiaries
Project Coordination   : Oversight Committee/Gateway Secretariat
Institutional Arrangements
25.  In view of the multi-sectoral implications of this program, the Cabinet of GOG has
formed an inter-ministerial Oversight Committee to coordinate the design and
implementation of the Gateway Project and inter-agency policy issues. The Oversight
Committee is supported by a Secretariat which will act as a Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) to monitor and coordinate all reporting for the institutional development
components, as well as the on-site and off-site infrastructure component, while each
beneficiary will be fully responsible for implementing the components within the
framework of the Gateway Project. The Gateway Secretariat will be established and
financed under the purview of the Oversight Committee. The Secretariat will be staffed
with a project coordinator, an accountant, procurement specialist and office support staff.



- 12 -
26.   While each implementing agency would have primary responsibility for the
implementation of its own components, the Secretariat will be the vehicle for
coordination, monitoring, contact, follow-up and reporting between IDA, the
implementing agencies and the Oversight Committee. A performance contract will be
signed between the Oversight Committee and each beneficiary agency which will be held
accountable for the delivery of project outputs. This performance contract will include
measurable indicators and the means of verification as defined in the Project's Logical
Framework. The signing of these contracts will be a prior action for credit effectiveness.
27.   During negotiations GOG agreed to include a private sector representative on the
Oversight Committee. In view of the amount of infrastructure work under the Project,
an Infrastructure Coordinator will also be appointed to the Gateway Secretariat with
responsibility for the implementation of the off-site development and infrastructure
reforms.
28.   The Environmental Mitigation Plan, and the Monitoring and Risk contingency
plans must be translated into a concrete environmental action-oriented instrument (i.e.
Environmental Management Plan (EMP)) and its implementation would coincide with
the Project's start.  The EMP shall be updated every two years and quarterly
environmental reports on the implementation of the EMP and other enhancement
measures will be prepared for the Oversight Committee and IDA.
29.   The GOG would open and maintain a Project Account in Ghanaian Cedi in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. It will make an initial
deposit into the account in an amount equivalent to US$1 million to finance its
contribution to the Project. Furthermore, it will deposit into the Project Account by April
15 of each year, until the completion of the Project, any amounts which will be required
to timely replenish the Project Account back to the amount of the initial deposit.
30.   The Gateway Secretariat would require accounting and financial management
services to oversee the Project's financial aspects, which would be provided by an
independent accounting firm or qualified individual. All Project accounts, the Special
Account, the Statement of Expenditures (SOE) and the financial statements of the
Project beneficiaries would be audited at the end of each fiscal year by an independent
auditor acceptable to IDA. In view of the complex and varied procurement content of the
Project, the PIU will employ a full time procurement specialist, who would provide
support to implementing agencies in carrying out their responsibility for procurement
related to their components. The procurement specialist and each implementing agency
would update procurement schedules and provide reports on related activities to ensure
compliance with IDA requirements. Agreement has been reached with the borrower on
the standard processing procedures for procurement of civil works, goods and consultants
services.
31.   Semi-annual Project reviews would be conducted jointly by IDA and GOG, with
each implementing agency to review the implementation of all components, including the
status of procurement and disbursement. A joint IDA-GOG mid-term review would
monitor the overall Project execution, key project activities, project implementation
schedule, and supervision plans. They will also identify implementation issues and
develop solutions. Following Project completion, scheduled for December 2005, an
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) would be prepared jointly by IDA and GOG.



- 13 -
Consultants, contractors and suppliers would be selected in accordance with Bank
guidelines, on the basis of proven experience. In line with the Bank's Africa Regional
guidelines, wherever possible, local consultants will be used. Where foreign consultants
are used for lack of requisite local skills, special efforts will be made to promote and
strengthen local capacity through the transfer of skills to the domestic industry using
local counterpart teams. Consultant and advisor contracts would include provisions for
training and transfer of skills to local counterparts to carry-on with the program
independently. Each beneficiary would, therefore, appoint counterparts who would work
closely with the advisor and would also make adequate preparations before the arrival of
the advisor in order to ensure the effective utilization of his/her services.
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements
32.   A local private accounting firm (or individual accountant), acceptable to IDA, will
be responsible for project financial management using an accounting system and
financial management satisfactory to IDA (an accounting/financial management manual
will be produced which will include the organizational structure, chart of accounts and
accounting and financial procedures which will be followed throughout the duration of
the Project).
33.   The signature of a two-year audit contract with a qualified audit firm acceptable
to IDA will be a condition of credit effectiveness. During negotiation, agreement was
reached on the following points:
* the Project's accounts and supporting documents will be audited by an
independent auditor accepted by IDA, pursuant to international audit principles;
* to provide IDA with an audit report for the fiscal year in question, certified by the
auditor, no later than six months after the end of each fiscal year;
-  to provide IDA with any other information regarding the Project's accounts and
audit it may request from time to time; and
* the accounting records of the Special Account, the Project Account and the SOEs
will be audited : (i) every month during the first eighteen months counting from
the effective date; and (ii) every six months during the remaining periods, and
these audits will be sent to IDA no later than two months following the end of the
audited period.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements
34.   Semi-annual progress  reports, prepared  on  the  basis  of the  Project
implementation plan and the logical framework would be provided by the beneficiaries to
IDA through the Gateway Secretariat. IDA will carry-out regular supervision missions
and a mid-term review. Finally, The GOG will transmit a completion report to IDA
within six (6) months of the Project closing date.
35.  In order to ensure continuous monitoring of project impacts (which are long-term
in nature), it is proposed that funding should be made available to the executing agency
of the EMP, through the provision of a clause in the leasing agreement stating the
commitment to allocate a specific amount of resources to the EPA.



- 14 -
D.   Project Rationale
(i) Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection
(a) Single operation covering priority aspects (Front line agencies and Off-site
infrastructure) of the Gateway Project : It has been decided to process these two
components as one project despite the fact that implementation of the off-site investment
component will be contingent upon the GOG finding a private investor/manager to
finance the on-site investment in the EPZ. This way of structuring the Project provides
for the need to send a positive signal to maximize leveraging of private investment and
meets the pre-requisite of the private developer while ensuring that public investments
are not made. IDA and GOG have nonetheless agreed on an exit clause, should a
developer not be found within a specific time-frame.
(b) Include various components under different ongoing technical assistance
(TA) projects: Another alternative was to include different aspects of the TA
component in various on-going projects. However, this was eliminated because it would
have significantly increased the complexity of the on-going projects and adversely
affected their implementation.
(c) Government-financed Export Processing Zone: Another option was to assist
GOG in financing and developing the EPZ with IDA or other donor resources. This
option was rejected due to the failure of numerous Government-financed EPZs
elsewhere in Africa. We have not rejected the possibility of credit-enhancement
instruments (such as using, for example, the partial risk IDA guarantees instrument if
it is made available at some point) to strengthen the Project finance structure if
considered necessary.
(d) Free-standing large infrastructure project : This option was rejected because
large on-site infrastructure investments are expected to and should come from the
private sector and Government involvement in the provision of on-site infrastructure was
not considered a necessary part of the Project.



- 15 -
(ii) Other Related Projects Financed by the Bank andl/or Other
Development Agencies
Sector Issue                               Project                     Latest Form 590
Ratings
IP        DO
Bank-financed
Vocational training and technical skills development Education/ Vocational Skills Project (FY95)  S  S
Telecommunications Sector                 Telecom Project (FY89                        S          S
Financial Sector                          Non-Bank Financial Institutions (FY96)       U          U
Private Enterprise & Export Development (FY94)  U      U
Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FY92)   S          S
SME/Finance Project (FY89)                  S          U
PSD Project (FY95)                          U          U
Private Sector Development                Mining Sector Development Project (FY96)     S          S
PEPTA Project (FY96)                        S          S
Agriculture Diversification (FY91)          S          S
Public Sector Reform                      Public Financial Management TA (FY97)        S          S
UJtilities                                Water Sector Rehabilitation (FY90)           S          U
National Electrification (FY93)             S          U
Thermal Power Project (FY95)                U          U
Roads sector                              Highway Sector Investment program (FY97)     S          S
Other development agencies - ($80 million pledged)
USAID                                     Trade & Investment Project (1995)
(iii) Lessons Learned and Reflected in Proposed Project Design
36.    Institution and capacity building operations are widely used and remain relevant
to the Bank's commitment to develop local capacities. The record of implementation of
institution and capacity building operations in Ghana has been improving in the recent
years due to a more participatory approach in the preparation of projects derived from
greater commitment and ownership of the borrower. Nevertheless, as shown in the table
above, a significant number of related operations in Ghana are rated unsatisfactory.
Reasons for the unsatisfactory ratings range from long elapsed time between Board and
effectiveness leading to high disbursement lags, unfavorable macroeconomic conditions,
below par public finance management, and uneconomic tariffs. However, conditions are
now more favorable and should contribute to improving the portfolio. For example: (a)
the GOG is now engaged in an IMF-supported program that is expected to lead to
improved macroeconomic conditions including better public finance management and
lower inflation; (b) the setting of utility tariffs have been de-politicized to allow utilities to
charge rates that allow them to meet basic financial requirements; (c) all projects at risk
are being restructured; (d) there is now more flexibility as a result of a better panoply of
instruments available to the Bank; (e) the Country Director is now located in the field;
and (f) there has been concerted efforts to reduce the size of the portfolio, which should
enable us to concentrate our efforts on a more manageable portfolio. Effectiveness delays
would be reduced to the barest minimum as a result of the participation of GOG officials
in detailed project design. Discussions also took place during project preparation with
potential investors and private sector representative groups. Concerns raised by these



- 16 -
groups have been addressed in the design of the Project. During implementation,
periodic assessments would be made of the impact of the program on all stakeholder
groups, and remedial action would be taken to mitigate negative effects. However, there
are still issues that need continued focus and strengthening, including: (i) development of
the borrower's capacity to implement and manage the TA components, including closer
supervision efforts by the GOG; (ii) consultants' abilities to transfer skills to local
counterparts; (iii) development of local consultant capacity; (iv) counterpart staffing; and
(v) greater attention to monitoring indicators.
37.   The Gateway Project incorporates recommendations from Economic Sector Work
(ESW), completed on the sector (3 FIAS reports, MIGA reports), reports prepared by
other donors (USAID, CIDA) and most importantly the work done by GIPC and GFZB.
The preparation of the Project has been participatory. The GOG initiated a self-
assessment of needs by all key agencies contributing to the high cost of doing business in
Ghana which resulted in an action plan for each agency in coordination with the Ministry
of Finance and the Gateway Secretariat. These action plans also identify monitorable
performance indicators. To develop the borrower's implementation capacity, support
would be provided to the PIU, GFZB and other agencies.
38.   The experience with Export Processing Zones (EPZs)/Free Trade Zones (FTZs) in
Africa, while mixed, was also carefully reviewed. Numerous Government financed EPZs,
in countries like Senegal, Liberia, Zaire, Botswana and Cameroon, failed due to problems
such as political instability and an unsafe business environment, cumbersome regulatory
procedures and inefficient institutional structures, high cost of doing business especially
due to poor infrastructure, labor market rigidities, high minimum requirements for
investment, employment or infrastructure services (electricity, etc.), or poor site
selection. However, there are a few African EPZIFPZ success stories and a number of
lessons emerge from their experiences, as well as experiences elsewhere in the world.
The more notable ones are: (a) private sector EPZ development and management must be
encouraged; (b) if industrial estates are to remain in Government hands, it is essential
that they be operated on a commercial basis (leases set out at commercial rates,
managers paid competitive salaries, sound accounting practices, etc.); (c) private sector
provision of infrastructure services should be encouraged; (d) true public/private sector
cooperation should be developed and regulatory processes should be streamlined; and (e)
programs should have more competitive incentive packages without crippling provisions
such as minimum investment requirements, etc.
39.   Bank projects have confirmed the difficulty in identifying, agreeing and
implementing project components which cut horizontally across multiple, "stove pipe"
government agencies and across the "exclusive territorial" domains of specific functional
agencies. The experience requires not only a strong initial commitment from top level
government decision makers but also the creation of a transitional platform -- e.g.,
special committee, task force, etc. -- which is empowered to maintain continuous pressure
for fundamental change and, importantly, which is also empowered to resolve inter-
jurisdictional issues.  With this caveat, experience also confirms that the benefits
resulting from supply chain development projects -- projects which typically transcend
traditional organizational boundaries and which actively engage the private sector, i.e.
beneficial owners of cargoes, shippers and consignees-- are very great. This can lead to a
chain reaction of continuous process improvement in the delivery of logistics services
which improve the competitiveness of  manufacturers, distributors, exporters and



- 17 -
importers with resulting trickle down benefits for the entire economy. Supply chain
development is a relatively new thematic focus within the Bank but offers the most
effective way to lower transaction costs, bring buyers and sellers closer together in time
and cost and provide competitive access for emerging economies to the global market
place.
40.   The Ghana Free Zones Act clearly recognizes the importance of most of the lessons
learned. It lays out an attractive incentive package for private investors in the free zone.
The proposed EPZ at Tema will also be entirely privately-financed, owned and managed,
which will be one of the first in Africa. GOG plans to lease the land to private investors
for a period of 50 years. In terms of provision of infrastructure services to the EPZ site,
except the telecom sector which has been fully liberalized, GOG will have the
responsibility of providing off-site infrastructure services due to lack of private sector
providers. GOG currently requires additional support on investment promotion and
facilitation activities. The institution and capacity building component is addressing this
need at GIPC and at GFZB.
41.  In order to ensure the efficient implementation of the EMP, the GOG is fully
committed to provide and transfer the component cost to the plan's executing agency, the
EPA. The GOG is also committed to the creation of the Gateway Environmental
Management Unit and to ensure that the requisite human and institutional capacities are
put in place.  Strengthening the capacity building component prior to project
implementation is a means of assuring the efficient and effective management of the
environmental management plan.
(iv) Indications of Borrower Conmuitment and Ownership
42.   GOG has expressed strong commitment to the Gateway Project by creating the
Gateway Oversight Committee, which is chaired by the Vice President of Ghana, and the
Gateway Secretariat at an early stage of the Project. GOG' s commitment to improve the
business environment in Ghana is also evident from the passing of the Free Zones Law
(1995), as well as the Ghana Investment Promotion Center Act (1994). It has undertaken
measures to liberalize banking laws, divest companies, including those in the mining,
banking, insurance and telecommunications sectors, to maintain stringent
macroeconomic management. The Bank's challenge would be to build on the positive
steps being taken in Ghana to realize the objectives of the Gateway Project.
(v) Value Added of Bank Support: Rationale for Bank-Group
Involvement
43.   The Bank, IFC (including FIAS) and MIGA have been evaluating various
alternatives for the GOG to improve the business environment in Ghana. The Gateway
Project provides the Bank Group the opportunity to adopt an integrated approach to
Private Sector Development (PSD), involving adjustment lending (to influence policy
reforms and political-will issues), technical assistance initiatives for the associated needs
for institution and capacity building, and investment lending to leverage strategic private
sector financing. Since the scope for larger amounts of external assistance is limited,
Ghana will need to attract considerable new inflows of foreign private investment to
generate a stronger supply response to macroeconomic reforms. In support of this



- 18 -
strategy, the Gateway Project seeks to remove state involvement and intervention in
areas of economic activity that can be handled more efficiently by the private sector. The
Bank Group, through the wide range of lending and investment instruments available to
it, is ideally suited to assist the GOG with the implementation of the strategy.
44.   IFC and MIGA have been closely associated with the appraisal of this Project. IFC
has been approached by the GOG and by one of the potential developers, and has
indicated its readiness to participate in the on-site infrastructure development in the
form of equity and investment. MIGA has also been involved in project preparation and
is willing to provide guarantees at the request of the developer. Moreover, during
appraisal, the IDA Guarantee staff made a presentation of their facilities and the GOG
will call on them as and when needed. These potential contributions relate to the on-site
infrastructure component, rather than to the components of the proposed credit.
E.    Summary Project Analyses
(i) Economic Assessment
45.   The results of the economic analysis (Annex IV) shows that the overall project can
be strongly justified in NPV and ERR terms. The cash flow was developed for the whole
project and not per component. This was mainly because it is difficult to quantify the
indirect benefits deriving from the capacity building component. The project has an ERR
of about 43.4 percent in the base case, with the NPV of US$143.5 million, which
compares favorable with the rates of return for successful EPZs elsewhere'. Sensitivity
analysis was carried out assuming: (a) a reduction of 40 percent per annum of number of
firms entering the EPZ (low case); and (b) an increase of 35 percent of annual number of
firms entering the EPZ (high case). The effects of each of these on the project's ERR is
shown in Table 2 of the Annex IV, and illustrates that the ERR for the EPZ would be 30.8
percent in the low case scenario and 56.2 percent in the high case scenario. An
assumption was made that all firms will sell 30 percent of their production to the
domestic market, the results showed an ERR of 33.6 percent and an NPV of US$ 81.5
million.
46.   The development of the EPZ is projected to create 53,900 jobs within the zone, and
16,200 jobs outside the zone firms. Calculations of net foreign exchange earnings have
been measured by using the firm's value of export sales minus imported inputs. This has
resulted in a value added of exports from the EPZ firms of 10 -15 percent.
(ii) Financial Assessment
47.   Private participation  in the on-site financing is a prerequisite for IDA
participation in financing the off-site infrastructure. The lease rental paid by the investor
could be used to finance the GOG share of the off-site investment, thus reducing the
financial impact of the Project on the GOG budget. In addition, investment in off-site
facilities would generate direct user charges from water, power, telecommunications,
sewage treatment etc. which would provide a return on the investment. The lease rental
lThe [RR on Penang EPZ firms (Malaysia) is 28%, 26% in Indonesia, 23% in Shenzhen (China)15% in
Korea and -3% in the Philippines. The ERR of the Kenya EPZ was 18%. Source: World Bank.



- 19 -
to be paid by the investor/developer to GFZB would be decided during the international
procurement process. On the TA side, customs tariffs and port charges need to be
rationalized to make the ports competitive and the customs procedures more transparent
and simpler.
(iii) Technical Assessment
48.  In the TA component, the specific forms of assistance to each beneficiary have
been defined based on an operational and organization diagnostic carried out for each
agency to clearly articulate its mission in terms of dealing with foreign investors, the
constraints it faces and the action plan being recommended to address those constraints.
More importantly, each beneficiary agency would clearly define an oversight mechanism
which is independent from public sector intervention and which will monitor the quality
of service delivered.
49.   For the off-site infrastructure component, a feasibility study carried out during
project preparation provided the technical and engineering specifications as well as a
reasonable cost estimate. Detailed technical and engineering specifications for the off-site
infrastructure will be defined in collaboration with the private developer of the Export
Processing Zone during project implementation.
(iv) Institutional Assessment
50.   The Project is being developed by the agencies in a very participatory manner
with all stakeholders. Each agency, therefore, is expected to have strong ownership for
its component. To ensure that lack of project management capacities does not hamper
implementation, the Project will address institutional shortcomings through a
decentralized and contractual implementation arrangement and extensive institutional
and capacity building support for the beneficiaries and coordinating agencies.
(v) Social Assessment
51.   There are no maior social issues faced by this Project. The Gateway Project will
instead strengthen community development in the Tema municipality through the
creation of new job opportunities as well as development of the infrastructure which will
benefit the entire population in the Tema area. The cash wages to be paid to temporary
labor during construction, and the cash generated by the free zone during operations, will
also have significant social impact in the surrounding communities. At the same time,
the improvement of the social infrastructure (improved drainage, and improved solid
waste management) will improve the quality of life of the communities and reduce the
incidence of water related diseases. The compensation issues outlined in the
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) study will be adequately addressed and those
herdsmen losing their grazing areas, as well as the vegetable gardeners, will be properly
compensated. There is no involuntary resettlement issue in the area except for some
illegal squatters in an old Ghana Broadcasting Corporation Building. This matter has
been highlighted in the EIA study and will be addressed by the Gateway Authorities.



- 20 -
(vi) Environmental Assessment
52.   The Ghana Gateway Project is classified as Category A due to the fact that it
comprises both off-site and on-site infrastructure development that include: (a) water
connection; (b) sewage and solid waste treatment for the EPZ; (c) electricity link; (d)
telecommunication link; and (e) access roads to the Project site. According to the
environmental study carried out by a team of consultants, and reviewed by the
Environment Group of the Africa Region, there are no major negative environmental
problems. The anticipated environmental problems from construction works (dust, noise
from heavy machinery) and other problems expected during project operation, were
adequately addressed in the study. Project preparation, bidding and implementation
therefore incorporate specific measures to avoid negative impacts, and to improve
currently inadequate environmental conditions in the Project area such as: (i)
environmentally safe construction methods and techniques; (ii) environmental and social
criteria to avoid environmental degradation of the Project site; and (iii) improvement of
solid waste management in the final waste disposal sites in the Tema municipality. The
EIA includes costed mitigation and monitoring plans and an industrial risk contingency
plan, all of which clearly identify the institutional arrangements for the execution of the
respective plans.
(vii) Participatory Approach
53.   The Gateway Project has been prepared in a participatory manner, in that various
sectors of the economy have been closely involved. Private sector views were solicited on
the proposed activities and various government institutions, directly and indirectly
involved in the Project participate in different forms. Line ministries of frontline
agencies and regulatory agencies will be closely consulted throughout the Project to
ensure effective internalization. Financing institutions and other donors supporting the
Gateway will continue to be consulted. In addition, GOG has included private sector
representation in the GFZB.
Participatory Approach           Preparation        Implementation   Operation
Beneficiaries/community groups  IS, CON              IS, CON & COL
Intennediary NGOs              IS, CON, COL         IS, CON
Academic institutions          IS, CON, COL          IS, CON & COL
Local government               IS, CON & COL         IS, CON & COL
Other donors                   IS, CON & COL         IS, CON & COL
Other
Note: information sharing [IS]; consultation [CON]; and collaboration [COLJ.
F.      Sustainability and Risks
(i) Sustainability
54.   The Project is expected to have a lasting impact on Ghana's economic development
by reducing the high cost of doing business and increasing Ghana's competitiveness in
global markets through: (a) the reform of the legislative, regulatory and incentive



- 21 -
systems in "front-line" areas; (b) institutional strengthening and capacity building
including skills development in key areas; (c) development of new instruments to
increase availability of know-how and financing, such as franchising and private sector
participation in infrastructure (PPI); and (d) country promotion and consensus building.
It will address the issue of quality of infrastructure in a limited manner in the immediate
term by supporting the development of geographically-sited EPZ. The EPZ could be built
successfully and the capacity building objectives could be achieved, while a number of
other problems that are beyond the scope of the Project could stymie the EPZ from
attaining commercial success or the port from being privatized. Hence its is important to
view this Project as one that removes constraints and its success should be evaluated on
that basis.
55.   Appropriate guidelines will be developed to facilitate the integration of the
individual Gateway Project components into the overall EMP of the EPZ. Individual
plant contingency plans will be developed to fit into the EMP framework as well. This
will constitute the basis for self monitoring and regular environmental auditing as well
as provide input for quality assurance.
56.   The Project will be sustainable if-
*  The GOG remains committed to reforming the civil service and relying on
external checks and balances as an oversight mechanism for public agencies
delivering services to the private sector;
- There is a clear commitment and strong political will on the part of GOG to
address the ports and customs issues and the issues related to private
participation in infrastructure services;
- For the investment component, a suitably-qualified private investor/developer
commits to make the on-site investment in the development of the EPZ; and
*  The institutionalization of a healthy public-private sector dialogue leads to
mutual cooperation and partnership.



- 22 -
(ii) Critical Risks ( see fourth column of Annex I)
Risk                     Risk Rating            Risk Minimization Measure
*  Any laxity  in  fiscal and  monetary ! Moderate        *  The GOG, has recently tightened its fiscal
policies   on GOG's part could lead to                    and  monetary  policies. Macroeconomic
further  currency  depreciation  and                      performance is being monitored by the
increased inflationary pressure which                     Bank and the Fund.
could   adversely   affect  investor
confidence.                         .     _,
*  The implementation capacity of various  Moderate       *  Provide necessary technical assistance to
ministries and agencies may constrain                     ensure implementation
the quality of implementation.      *_,_l
*  Unavailability of counterpart funds may  Substantial   *  Budget process will include adequate funds
affect implementation.                                    which will be placed, in advance, in the
Project Account. Proactive management of
*._________________ _  .__  this risk during supervision
*  Finding  a  developer;  and  on-site . Moderate            No financing to EPZ will be approved until
investments by developers and off-site                    an on-site developer is found and has
investments by GOG are completed.                         agreed to make infrastructure investments.
Provide expertise in developer search. Use
*__   _of IFC and MIGA to enhance the deal.
*  Supply chain development initiatives  Substantial    . *  Involving agency heads in the gateway
designed to make inter agency interfaces                  secretariat alid making it accountable for
porous and  administrative  processes                     coherent policy implementation. Contract-
transparent to users are resisted by                      like arrangements for delivery of quality
entrenched agencies which resist all                      service between agencies and gateway
pressures for change and which continue                   secretariat.
to protect exclusive "territorial rights"
within stove pipe organizational units   * _.
*  A number of other problems that are  Moderate          *  The effective empowerment of an inter-
beyond the scope of the Project could                     ministerial "gateway task force" to drive
still stymie the EPZ from  attaining                      the change process with the high level
commercial success or the port from                       support and commitment.  Early in the
becoming privatized  (those problems                      process, a high level private sector users
could be related to the state of the world                group will be nominated and engaged to
economy, perceptions of Ghana as a                        serve as an advisory panel and additional
place  that  is  friendly  to  private                    driver for fundamental reform of supply
developers,   particulars   of   the                      chain  support processes like  customs
commercial    arrangements,    the                        clearance and port administration of fees
government's negotiating style, or the                    and cargo release.
legal and regulatory framework).    *                ._l
*  Unavailability   of   human    and  Substantial       *  Budget process will include adequate funds
institutional resources, compliance and                  to be placed in a Special Account managed
enforcement mechanism  for efficient                     by the EPA. GFZB and EPA will agree on a
implementation may impede on quality                     mechanism for full funding of EMP.
performance.
Overall Risk                             Medium



- 23 -
(iii) Possible Controversial Aspects
1. Adverse labor reaction to proposals for private participation in infrastructure,
particularly in ports and customs,
2. The GOG enhancements for the on-site investor and the unbundling of
commercial risks from sovereign risks could be an issue.
3. Transparency in the selection of private participants in the provision of services
and infrastructure.
G.    Main Loan Conditions
( Conditions of Negotiation l
*  Formalize Project institutional and coordination arrangements;
*  Appoint staff of the respective implementing agencies;
*  Appoint an environment specialist from EPA to the GFZB;
*  Launch the selection of a project accountant;
*  Draft a Statement of Gateway Development Policy; and
* Complete Environmental Management Plan (EMP).
(ii) Conditions orBoard
.  Appoint a private sector representative to the Oversight Committee and in the Gateway
Secretariat; and
*  Adopt the Project Implementation Manual; and
*  Adopt the Letter of Sector Development Policy
(iii) Conditions of Effectiveness
*  Appoint an accountant and auditor, and install an accounting and financial management
system, satisfactory to IDA;
.  Appoint a Procurement Specialist in the Gateway Secretariat and an Infrastructure
Coordinator in the PIU;
* Sign the Performance Contracts between the Oversight Committee and Beneficiary
agencies for related components (GIPC, CEPS, GHPA, GCAA, GIS, Infrastructure Unit);
*  The GOG will make available the first tranche of counterpart funds (equivalent to US$
1.0 million); and
* Other standard legal conditions of effectiveness.
(iv) Other Conditions: During Project Implementation
*  Implementation of investments to relocate devanning area and EMP will be executed
immediately following credit effectiveness, but disbursement of EPZ off-site investments
will be subject to effectiveness of Memorandum  of Understanding with a private
developer.



- 24 -
H.   Readiness for Implementation
57.   The procurement documents for the first year's activities are being prepared and
will be ready prior to effectiveness, to facilitate a prompt start to Project implementation.
I.    Compliance with Bank Policies
58. This Project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Country Director: Peter Harrold
Task Manager: Demba BA (AFTP1)
Technical Manager: Thomas W. Allen (AFTP1)



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 4
GHANA
Trade and Investment Gateway Project
Project Design Summary
-NX-;-.~~~ia '                My fisv        47i         .W   m   nt og;s
Narrative Suiq~1CrAssuption
I. CAS Objectives:                                                                                                      _  l
Increased private investment and  * Achieve private investment of   Macro-economic reports.
exports.                             at least 10% of GDP by year-
2000.                         Trade statistics.
* Growth rate of non-traditional
exports to average at least 20%
per year by year-2000.
*  2,000 jobs created in year three;
2,500 in year four; and 3,000 in
the fifth year following
completion of EPZ.
* Manufacturing growth to be at
least 8% per year by year-2000.
II. Project Development
Objectives:
A critical mass of export industries    *  10 firms have been established    GFZB reports    Macro-economic stability
are operating from a privately       and are operating in second year                        Sustained political commitment to
developed Export Processing Zone,    after completion of civil works;   Developer annual reports   PSD
in strict compliance with            20 by end-third year; and 30 by
environmental guidelines.            end-fourth year.              Trade statistics
* Net export revenues are
increased by 25% in second
year; by 30% in third year; and
by 40% in fourth year after
_______________________________     _completion  of the civil works.
III. Project Outputs
3.1. 1. A private developer with  *  Signed contract with developer.  Signed lease agreements    Promoters succeed in securing
anchor tenants are found for the  * On-site infrastructure.                                  new industries
Tema EPZ.                            Development plan.             Effectiveness document
* Tenants occupancy plan.                                  Promotion remains focused and
3.1.2. Off-site Infrastructure for  *  Completion report.          Firms annual reports.     well targeted.
Tema EPZ is completed.                                             Investor perception
surveys.                  Commitments translate into actual
3.1.3. Effective marketing of Ghana   * 587 targeted workshops                               investments
as a Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)  between 1998-2002, with yield   Supervis:on reports
destination.                         of at least 8% site visits and a                        Utilities are restructured as part of
yield of $900 million of      Annual report             a well-defined privatization
investment firmly committed by                          strategy and are capable of
end-2002.                     Investor perception       meeting EPZ demand and quality
surveys                   of service requirements



- 26 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4
III. Project Outputs
(Continued)
3.2.1. Cost of doing business   *  Organizational restructuring of GPHA is
is reduced and front line      completed
agencies are trade facilitators.  *  Private  sector  participation  in  port  Signed Lease,     Suitable private operator is
operations, who will assume investments in  agreement(s) with     found
both rehabilitation and expansion.       private operator(s)
* New Ports Act which transforms the GPHA                            Private operator can
into  a "landlord" structure, and grants  Legislation establishing    mobilize resources in a
greater autonomy to the ports submitted to  GPHA in its new role  timely fashion
parliament no later than end-1999.
* The devanning area is relocated outside the  Supervision reports   Efficiency gains are
port no later than end-1999.                                      realized by customers and
* A   privately  developed  and  financed  Ports and Airport annual   operator (s)
Electronic Data Interchange is in place.  statistics.
*  Costs of loading import containers are
reduced from US$168 in 1998 to US$80 by  Annual ISO, ICC
end-1999 and to international standards by  certification.
end-2000.
*  Speed of unloading containers increases
from gross 12 boxes per ship hour to 20
boxes per ship hour by end-1999 and 24
boxes by year-2000.
* Average dwell time for imported containers
drops from 25 days in 1998 to 15 days by
end-1999 and less than 7 days by year-2000.
Customs  procedures  are  streamlined  and                           Commitment of CEPS
efficiency is improved (CEPS)                                         in ensuring that reforms
* Number of examinations at point of entry, of  Ghana institute of   are sustained.
cargo and documents, are reduced to one.  Freight Forwarders
*  Cargo examination is reduced from 100% to
10% for statutory free goods, and 20% for  (GIFF) reports.
all dutiable goods.
* Appropriate customs regulation is in place to  ISO, ICC annual
allow direct delivery of containers between  certification
the port of Tema and the free zone enclave
no later than end-1999.
* A  valuation  system  acceptable  to  all
stakeholders is established.
* Number of overland customs check points
on road are reduced to I to Togo; 2 for RCI;
and 2 to Burkina Faso.
*  EPZ customs unit is operational in line with
EPZ regulations.



- 27 -
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
Narritive Summary                Monitorable Indicators     . -Means of Verification         .sks &   Assumptionsg
III. Project Outputs
(Continued)
3.2.1 Cost ofdoing         Immigration procedures for investors and
business is reduced and    tourists are streamlined
front line agencies are    *  Business and tourist visas issued on   *   Annual survey           There are incentives for frontline
trade facilitators.           arrival upon payment of reasonable fees   *   GIS annual reports and   agencies to sustain commitment
by end-1999.                              statistics              to the spirit of service provider
*  Business/ Tourist visas are delivered  *   Airport statistics     and trade facilitator.
within 48 hours at all Ghana consular
missions abroad, by year-2000.                                    Autonomy of agency is upheld
* Services at entry points consolidated                              by GOG
into one (Immigration, Health and BNI)
ensuring rapid clearance.
* 100 Immigration officers/ consuls
trained in the Gateway concept by year-
2000.
Agency establishes and maintains
Civil Aviation Sector                                               high standards of professionalism
*   A future development scenario for the   Air traffic data        and credibility
civil aviation sector, reflecting GOG  Flight permissions
gateway priorities is adopted by end-    Legislation
1999.                               Signed concession
*   Regulation operationalizing liberalized   agreements            Privatization of Ghana Airways is
skies policy is adopted by end-2000.                            done outside the scope of this
*   KIA, management and development                                 Project -- by Divestiture
concession is signed with private                               Implementation
operator by end-2000.                                           Committee
*   Ghana Airways is privatized by end-
1999.
Adequate regulatory framework in place
and a regulatory agency is operational
*   Legislation and criteria governing   Legislation
private sector participation in
infrastructure is adopted.
*   Regulatory agency is adequately      Regulatory agency reports
staffed with qualified personnel, and  and proceedings
operational policies and guidelines in
place.



- 28 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
IV. P    ctoiponents                 Khpuf.      7:, .  K    .        yerWca          .-. Risks &i 
1.0 Infrastructure and Development of
Geographically-sited EPZ
1.1 Implementation of EMP.         US$2.00 million        Contracts                   No unforeseen environmental
or resettlement issues
1.2 Construction of the off-site   US$ 33.41 million      Completion reports          Investment for on-site
infrastructure for the Tema EPZ.                                                     infrastructure comes from
private sources
1.3 Construction of devanning area  US$ 3.50 million      Detailed engineering design    No design problems, cost
outside port and improvement of port                      and bidding documents.      overruns or geological
container facilities.                                                                 problems
2.0 Trade Facilitation Capacity of
Front-line Institutions
2.1 CEPS- Conforming CEPS processing  US$2.25 million      Consultant report (roadmap)    Timely availability of
standards to ICC and ISO 9000.                                                         Counterpart funds
2.2 GPHA Concessioning of ports      US$ 1.75 million                                  Gateway Secretariat and
activities to the private sector and                                                   Oversight Committee may not
building capacity to regulate PPI;                                                     prove sufficiently powerful to
feasibility study for the extension and                                                carry out all of the basic
dredging of quay 2, landlord port.                                                     institutional reforms in the
Project.
2.3 Converting GCAA into a regulatory    US$ 1.00 million
agency, operationalization of open skies.
2.4 Modernization of Immigration Legal   US$ 1.18 million  Consultant report           Beneficiary Agencies comply
Framework, regulations and standard                                                    with terms of contract with
operating procedures.                                                                  Oversight Committee.
2.5 Country and Investment Promotion    US$ 2.75 million   Annual Surveys
support to GIPC.
2.6 Search for developer and oversight    US$ 2.40 million
capacity of GFZB.
2.7 Project Management & Program    US$ 2.87 million       Gateway Project progress
Coordination.                                              reports Project audit reports
2.8 Preparation of Gateway 11        US$ 0.5 million       Project implementation
progress reports



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
GHANA
Trade and Investment Gateway Project
Detailed Project Description
Project Development Objectives
1.    The Project development objective is to attract a critical mass of export-oriented
firms in Ghana to kick-start export-led growth as well as facilitate trade. This would be
achieved by creating an enabling environment to facilitate increased levels of private
investment in Ghana, reducing the cost of doing business and providing the necessary
infrastructure services. More specifically, the Project will (a) modernize the front-line
institutions/agencies that deal with investors by re-engineering them into trade
facilitators; and (b) provide off-site infrastructure for the privately-developed and owned
EPZ.
Project Component 1 - Development of Geographically-sited EPZ
2.    The Project would provide financing for the feasibility study of a railway corridor
and marshalling yard, as well as feasibility studies, detailed engineering, construction
and supervision of the off-site infrastructure for the Tema EPZ, including:
* Construction of access road, side drainage and associated works;
* Construction of water supply systems, wastewater disposable systems and off-
site drainage systems; and
* Supply and installation of electrical power and transformers.
3.    During project preparation an environmental impact assessment was carried out
and has provided the GOG with an in-depth assessment of the Project impact as well as
an environmental mitigation plan. The EIA concluded that there are no major negative
environmental problems resulting from the Project and that anticipated environmental
problems from construction works namely: dust, noise from heavy machinery, and other
nuisance, as well as the problems expected during project operation, were adequately
addressed in the study. Project preparation, bidding and implementation, therefore,
incorporate specific measures to avoid negative impact,  and to improve currently
inadequate environmental conditions in the Project area. These measures include: (a)
environmentally safe construction methods and techniques; (b) environmental and social
criteria to avoid environmental degradation of the Project site; and (c) improvement of
solid waste management in the final waste disposal sites in the Tema municipality. The
Project will finance mitigation and monitoring plans and an industrial risk contingency
plan, all of which clearly identify the institutional arrangements for the execution of the
respective plans. This EMP is estimated to cost US$ 2.0 million.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
4.    Under this component the Project will provide support for the construction of a
container devanning area outside of the port and for the general improvement of seaport
and airport operations.
5.    Upon completion of this component, the infrastructure will be transferred to the
respective utilities. Off-site telecommunications will be provided by one of the private
telecommunication companies at a cost which will be negotiated with the GOG.
Project Component 2 - Capacity Building in Trade Facilitation
6.    Customs, Excise and Prevention Services (CEPS).  Under the proposed
Project, CEPS will develop and implement a far reaching program of re-engineering its
corporate structure and culture to become a trade facilitator. CEPS will implement a
strategic business plan covering all required changes in regulations, operational
procedures and human resources. A work program designed to achieve ISO 9000
certification of Ghana's Customs and Port Cargo Clearance Processes is expected to be
put in place. Specific trade related processes and procedures will be re-engineered to
bring the quality of custom services up to international standards. Special attention will
be directed to: (a) streamlining of processing and reduction of clearance time for both
export and import cargo; (b) re-equipment and development of adequate information
technology infrastructure; and (c) training on special procedures designed specifically for
free zone enterprises in line with free zone regulation. The proposed Project would
finance the modernization of customs administration and the implementation of CEPS's
strategic business plan covering changes in the regulatory, operational procedures and
human resources.
7.    Ghana Ports and Harbor Authority (GPHA). Government has approved a
policy to further improve the operation of the ports which will reduce the cost of
operations and shorten the turn-around time of ships. The policy entails increased private
sector participation in the management of the ports. GPHA will be converted into a
"Landlord" Port Authority while the private sector will participate in port operations
particularly container handling operations, dockyards, sites maintenance and services.
The Project will provide technical expertise to build capacity in the GPHA to assume the
role of a landlord structure with responsibility to regulate the participation of private
sector in infrastructure investments and in operations of the ports. To enhance the
capacity of the ports to take modern generation vessels, the Project will also finance the
feasibility study for the dredging of Quay No. 2, as well as technical expertise for privately
developed and managed Electronic Data Interface for the major port users.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
8.    Ghana Civil Aviation Authority (GCAA).  Aviation plays a key role in
supporting a high-growth, outwardly-oriented development strategy. One of the key
objectives of GOG's Gateway Project is to develop a strategy of "liberalized skies policies"
which implies, inter alia, an institutional reform of the GCAA. The reformed GCAA
should have full charge of safety regulations; pilot, carrier and facility licensing; and air
navigation and air traffic control. Airport operations and development would be under
the control of an independent airport authority.
9.    Under the proposed Project, and in tandem with the Public Enterprise and
Privatization Technical Assistance Project (PEPTA), scenarios for the development of air
transport that would achieve private participation in developing the airport facilities into
a regional hub for passenger, cargo and express delivery services will be developed. In
addition, the Project will provide support to develop a comprehensive and holistic
aviation sector strategy which will operationalize the liberalized skies policy adopted by
the GOG.
10.   Country and Investment Promotion. Based on the GIPC five-year Corporate
Plan, the "aggressive investment promotion" strategy pursued by the Center within the
last three years has been showing remarkable results, particularly in the year ending
December 1997, with 237 foreign projects brought into the country compared with 187 in
1996 (27 percent increase). The GIPC, since it became operational in 1994, has
registered in excess of 600 foreign projects primarily in the manufacturing and service
sectors, with a potential total investment of US$1.1 billion. Despite the encouraging
performance, this investment level will need to be significantly increased if Ghana is to
achieve the growth targets established under the Vision 2020 program.
11.   The Project would help transform GIPC's promotional strategy from a general
approach to a specifically targeted promotional program. It will finance several
campaigns of well-targeted promotions directed to the firms and sectors pre-identified in
the FDI Demand Study. Promotional efforts will be facilitated through improvements
in, in-ter alia, the definition of service standards and progress monitoring indicators,
staff training, private sector survey tools and other promotion activities for GIPC and
GFZB. The Project would also finance the preparation and implementation of a strategy
to develop backward linkages between foreign investors and local suppliers.
12.   Trade facilitation by Ghana Immigration Services. The organizational audit
carried out in April 1998, noted that the GIS is committed to carrying out its mandate,
but is hampered by a lack of resources, a strategic vision and formal training program.
The Project would, therefore, provide limited support to (a) prepare Standard Operating
Procedures; (b) put in place technology infrastructure; and (c) benchmark GIS processing
of immigration functions.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
13.   Ghana Free Zones Board (GFZB). The GFZB, which was established under the
Free Zones Act of 1995 represents the principal catalyst for export-oriented industrial
development in Ghana. The Board is charged with implementing the Ghana Free Zones
Program, which combines both the enclave and single factory enterprise concept design
that aims to promote the processing and manufacturing of goods through the
establishment of Export Processing Zones (EPZs) and to encourage the development of
commercial and service activities at its air and sea port areas.
14.   The Project will finance the activities necessary to propel the Board into a
proactive implementing organ for the Ghana Free Zones Program. These would include:
(a) a well-targeted marketing plan (to complement GIPC's promotional efforts) for
attracting the free zone developers and enterprises as detailed in the recently completed
FDI Demand Study; (b) design of the information systems architecture to provide the
Board with an appropriate technological backbone to undertake all aspects of promotion
and facilitation (e.g. investor tracking and investor/enterprises management functions;
and (c) a comprehensive capacity building program aimed at improving service delivery
within Board staff, both in terms of proactive promotion as well as investor hospitality
and related facilitation functions.
15.   The marketing plan for developer identification will be carried out with
professional support. It will involve a two-prong process. The first prong will assist the
current potential developer in addressing project financing issues that may hamper the
investment implementation process. The second prong will operate in tandem with the
first and will take the form of an aggressive campaign to locate qualified developers using
a combination of an International Competitive Bidding (ICB) process with a Direct
Developer Identification (DDI) process. As part of its preparation, the GFZB will develop
an "offer" document, which will fully disclose site features and advantages as well as
delineate the criteria for the qualification of the developer. The GFZB expects to combine
the invitation to tender with targeted marketing to overseas companies. The short list of
companies from the universe of qualified developers will subsequently be invited to
negotiate. The DDI process will be repeated a few times if previous efforts are unable to
lead to the identification of qualified or interested prospects. The GOG and IDA have
agreed during appraisal on an exit clause should a developer not be found at the end of a
24-month period following effectiveness of the Project.  The preferred developer is
expected to bring anchor tenants, develop a minimum of 8,000 square meters of factory
space within the first development phase or within a period of no longer than one year
from ground-breaking.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
16.   Project management and Program  Coordination. The Project would help
develop the institutional capacity to better implement and coordinate the Gateway
Project. A Gateway Oversight Committee presided over by the Vice-President of Ghana
and including representative Ministers from relevant Ministries including those from
Trade and Industry; Roads and Transport; Finance; and Interior, will be responsible for
the management of the Gateway Program. Other members of the Committee will include
the Ghana Investment Promotion Center, the Private Enterprise Foundation and other
relevant agencies. The Gateway Oversight Committee has created a Gateway Secretariat
under the auspices of the Ministry of Trade and Industry which is responsible for the day
to day management and coordination of the Gateway Program. The Secretariat reports
to the Oversight Committee and is responsible for coordinating the respective sub-
components of the project to be executed by the relevant beneficiary agencies as well as
the daily monitoring of the performance contracts between the Oversight Committee and
the beneficiary agencies.
17.   The Gateway Secretariat has so far been an effective vehicle for bringing together
all agencies whose work impact on trade and foreign direct investment. However, now
that the program is moving into full operation, the Gateway Secretariat will be effectively
reorganized to meet the increasingly challenging objectives of the Gateway Program. The
Secretariat will also employ a full time Procurement Specialist, an Infrastructure
Coordinator, a Legal Advisor and an Administrative Secretary to oversee the
implementation of the project.
18.   Setting the Stage for Gateway II. The Project would support work aimed at
developing new policies, instruments and implementation strategies in project finance
and franchising; vocation skills development, tourism development and the construction
of a railway corridor and marshalling yard to improve transportation access for patrons
of the EPZ.



- 34 -
ANNEX III
GHANA
Trade and Investment Gateway Project
Estimated Project Costs
(US $'000)
a. Off-site Infrastructure                 1,997.90           36,909.10              38,907.00
1.1 Consultant to oversee civil works     -               1,500.00                1,500.00
1.2 Construction contractors for Tema
EPZ
* access road                       303.90             5,773.20               6,077.00
* water system & sewage             993.25            18,871.75               19,865.00
* power connection                  118.30             2,246.80               2,365.00
* telecommunications                420.00             1,680.00               2,100.00
* feasibility study for railway       -                1,500.00                1,500.00
corridor link from port to EPZ
1.3 Relocation of Devanning area &     162.50             3,337.50                3,500.00
improvement of port container
terminal
1.4 Implementation of the EMP             -               2,000.00                2,000.00
b. Trade Facilitation                                         11,830.00              11,830.00
1.0 Ghana Free Zone Board (GFZB)          -               2,400.00                2,400.00
2.0 Business Environment
* CEPS                                 -               2,250.00                2,250.00
* GIS                                  -               1,180.00                1,180.00
* GIPC                                 -               2,750.00                2,750.00
* GCAA                                 -               1,000.00                1,000.00
* GPHA                                 -               1,750.00                1,750.00
3.0 Setting Stage for Gateway II          -                500.00                  500.00
c. Project Management (Investment and      280.00              2,516.4                2,796.4
recurrent)
Total Baseline Cost                    2,277.90           51,255.50               53,533.4
PPF-Telecom                                               2,000.00                2,000,00
Contingencies (Unallocated)               0                466.60                  466.60
Total Project Costs                    2,277.90           53,722.10               56,000.00



- 35 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 8
GHANA
Trade and Investment Gateway Project
Costs and Benefits of Ghana Export Processing Zone
1.    The foreign firms and the offshore nature of the zone's impact on the domestic
economy can be analyzed using "enclave approach" following Corden (1974 and 1985)
below. The figure below shows: (a) the flows of goods and services and financial flows
between the EPZ and the rest of the world, and (b) the flows between the EPZ and the
host country. The essence of the enclave approach is that the flows in (b) are relevant for
evaluation of welfare impact of the zone, but not those in (a). Economic conditions in an
EPZ are generally less distorted than those elsewhere in the domestic economy. This does
not however, suggest that the net outcome of the real and financial flows in Figure 1
necessarily raises welfare in the host country. However, the existence of EPZs in Ghana
is expected to raise the welfare of Ghanaians primarily through externalities.
Figure 1: Enclave ApDroach Framework by Corden
~=Labor
Intermediate goods=.               _=Raw material
Processed goods.                  _capital go&s
Capital goods=>'                Processed goods=>
Rest of the   _-Remitted profits    EPZ            TaxesEm        Domestic
World                                                             Economy
Management=>                       <-Subsidies
Technical Knowledge=r                 =Utilities
External effects=>
(manage ent skills, technical
kno, ;>dge. technology
--ansfer, etc.)
Source: Peter Warr. 1987.
Major Assumptions
2.    Simplifying assumptions have been necessary in conducting the economic analysis
and efforts have been made not to be biased towards social profitability of the EPZ. Other
assumptions include:



- 36 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 8
(a)   The Government of Ghana's firm commitment towards the Project and
continued improvement of the macroeconomic environment; especially in
the reduction of the inflation and domestic interest rates;
(b)   The firms that entered the EPZ would have delayed their entry for three
years without the zone;
(c)   The identified basket of industries will materialize;
(d)   A developer will be in place during the second year of the project;
(e)   The value added for export is between 10 -15 percent of total value of
export sales;
(f)    There will be some "catalytic effects" from the existence of the EPZ. These
will be in activities like service businesses and other industries which will
be suppliers of raw materials and other services, and thus creating a
backward linkage to the EPZ. There will also be some employment creation
in these industries and creation of new ones;
(g)   The minimum wage rate for the EPZ will be equal to that of existing
manufacturing firms; i.e. US$ 50.00 per month;
(h)   It is assumed that the EPZ firms will export up to 100 percent of their
production; and
(i)   The number of firms in the zone has been based on the three year estimate
from the Foreign Direct Investment Demand Study of March 1988.
Components of Cost- Benefit Analysis of EPZ
3.    Six main benefits and two types of costs have been identified. These are as follows:
Employment Generation. Based on the information provided by the Foreign Direct
Investment Demand Study of March 1998, about 10,500 jobs will be created from 36
firms within 3 years.2 In 15 years it is estimated that more than 53,900 jobs will be
created in the EPZ. From the basket of industries, apparel creates more jobs than the
other industries at a lower ratio of dollar invested per job US$ 2,000 per job because it
is labor intensive. The average ratio of dollar invested per job for the whole basket of
industries is $16,700 per job. This ratio depends on the mix of industries as some of
the industries are highly capital intensive e.g. seafood processing. This ratio will be
2 This assumption is highly optimistic and have been used in the high case scenario.



- 37 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 8
relatively high in high-tech industries operating in mostly Asian countries. However,
Ghana compares favorably with its competitors in terms of labor costs. A firm in
Ghana engaged in manufacturing will incur 300 percent less in labor costs compared
to Dubai and Mauritius; and 30 percent and 20 percent less than in Kenya and Togo
respectively. A secondary effect is expected in employment creation which will create
additional jobs from activities from the peripheral of the EPZ. These jobs have been
estimated at 30 percent of the total jobs created in the EPZ. Thus within 3 years,
3,210 additional jobs will be created and by year 15 a total of 16,200 will be created.
The concern of most governments is to create jobs through the EPZ reflecting the
belief that the social benefits of creating additional jobs outweigh the costs. Thus,
implying that the wage received by a worker exceeds the opportunity cost of
employment in the zone. It is difficult to measure relevant opportunity cost because
wages in the zone tend to be higher than those outside the zone.
F Foreign Exchange Earnings. Public discussions of EPZs places considerable emphasis
on foreign exchange earnings derived from the zones, reflecting the presumption that
these earnings have direct welfare relevance for the host country. In fact, the foreign
exchange earnings of foreign-owned EPZ firms merely constitute transactions
between these firms and firms abroad. They, therefore, have marginal direct effects
on economic welfare of domestic nationals, except for the money that is converted into
domestic currency to be spent on wages and purchases from local economy. The
importance of this effect creates a net benefit to the host country from these
purchases. This economic analysis has quantified these benefits to represent foreign
exchange earnings by using value added of exports.
* Technology Transfer. EPZ normally involves labor-intensive production and thus
promote technology in the host country. This constitutes the most important
externality that comes with the presence of the EPZ. In the long-run, the learning by
doing mechanism will come into play through the "catalytic effect" that will result in
gains in managerial practices and notions of quality control transferred to local
middle managers employed by the EPZ firms. This is expected to increase
productivity and efficiency in domestic firms which would have otherwise not have
improved without the influence of the EPZ. This benefit is difficult to measure and
has thus not been included in the cost-benefit analysis.



- 38 -
ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 8
*  Domestic Sales. EPZ firms will be permitted to sell up a to maximum of 30 percent of
their output in any year on the domestic market. Such sales are treated as imports,
and duty is paid at normal rate. The net value to the host country of the goods
consumed is the value of c.i.f. prices of the imports, which is also the net price
actually paid by EPZ firms. Thus, domestic sales have no net welfare effect and have
been ignored by the cost-benefit analysis.
*  Electricity. EPZ firms are heavy users of electricity. Thus, the cost-benefit analysis
must compare the tariff rates paid with estimates of the long-run marginal cost
(LRMC) of supplying the extra power. If the average tariff exceed the LRMC, the
electricity used by EPZ would entail net tax, or, in the reverse case, a net subsidy.
There will be no special tariffs for the EPZ. However, the current utilities tariffs in
Ghana are extremely low, and thus suggests a net subsidy to the EPZ firms. However,
these rates are currently being revised upwards to reflect cost-recovery market rates.
It is therefore assumed that there are no net welfare effects to the economy, and thus,
have been ignored by the cost-benefit analysis.
-  Taxes. Although taxes raised from EPZ firm are small, they represent a clear source
of benefit for the domestic economy. They would not have been received if the EPZ
firms were not present although firms which transfer to the zone from elsewhere in
the country are an exception. Taxes will, therefore, be expected from wages of both
EPZ employees, EPZ firms (after the expiration of the income tax-holiday) and other
taxes from domestic firms that will provide raw materials to the EPZ firms as they
provide a backward linkage to the rest of the economy.
* Infrastructure Costs. Public expenditures required to set up the zone represents a
clear economic cost. Therefore, the off-site infrastructure investment costs will be
included as the major costs for the EPZ project.
* Administrative Costs. The establishment of the zone site, its maintenance, and
administration all represent economic costs and in principle should be evaluated at
shadow prices. In the absence of data the financial costs will be used.



- 39 -
ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 8
Economic Evaluation: Results
4.     Experience in other countries suggests that the main quantifiable benefits from
EPZ are: (i) foreign exchange earnings from value added of exports; and (ii) creation of
additional direct and indirect employment3. However, this economic analysis uses value
added of exports from the EPZ to quantify the foreign exchange earnings. To measure
this benefit a set of figures generated by the FDI Demand Study of March 1988 for a
manufacturing firm in the EPZ were used. The value of export sales minus imported
inputs which equals to value added. The value added forms a mere 10-15 percent of the
export values.
5.     Since the Project supports the acceleration of a process that leads to an outcome --
increases in exports -- the methodology adopted assumed that the Project will accelerate
the increase in exports by three years. This increase in exports would not have been
achieved without the Project. Figure 2 below shows graphically the effects in net
increases in exports' value added by the support provided under the Project. Investments
on the off- site and on-site infrastructure will take place during the first three years of
the Project. Therefore, the benefits stream will start in year four of the Project.
Figure 2: Sunmary of Proiect Economnic Effects
800,000
,    0   .0'   0    0   -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  --- - -- - - - - - - ---  -  ---   ----  -  -------
600,000            .   .        *                         ,  /          /   'i    Witout 
Project
000,000                                                                     |rTot. 9With |
.j400,000-.  ..  .  .  /.  .  *,/ .....qoProject I
I 300,000                                        i/;      ----        -----Net EHec 
2 0    0  ,0-0  0 .  ..   .   .   ..  .    .  .  .  .  . ..  .  ,:  .              n .
tOO,OO  --------- - --  ----------- ----- -------- -  ;.\               i-
t   2    3    4    5    8    7    8    9    10   11   12   13   14   1 i
Year
3Kenya: Export Development Project. 1990. Report # P-54 1 7-KE



- 40 -
ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 8
6.        As indicated in Table 1 below, the final economic results are represented by
the net present value calculations of the difference between the first scenario of
increases in exports resulting from the Project and the same scenario, three years
prior to the period. The results show that the overall project can be strongly justified
in NPV and ERR. The cash flow was developed for the whole project and not per
component. This was mainly because it is difficult to quantify the indirect benefits
that would have been derived from the capacity building component. However, in
Table 1: Cash Flow and Output Determinants of Economic Results
Detail of  Project                  Net Increase in Exports Owing to Project (US$ million)4
Project  Costs
Components  US$
million
Year   Year    Year   Year 4    Year    Year    Year    Year    Year  Year  Year  Year  Year    Year
1   2    3         5     6    7    8     9    10    11   12    13   15
(1) off-site
Infrastructure
for the GTZ;
and (2)
Building in
Trade
Facilitation
and
Capacity
Totai     53.0  0.0  0.0  0.9  2.5  5.6  10.0  17.2  28.8  48.5  78.7  109.3  136.7  128.4  83.1
order to take account of significant resources that are expected to be diverted from other
economic activities into the EPZ, the benefits have been reduced by two thirds. This
reflects the social opportunity costs of these resources. The discount rate used in this
analysis is 12 percent. These figures are however, extremely conservative since other
benefits have not been quantified.
7.    All project benefits and costs have been considered over a period of 15 years. In
the base case, an EPZ firm is estimated to invest a total of US$ 4.0 million and employ an
average of 280 workers. The growth of EPZ firms is estimated to be high during the first
three years, but the number of firms is small. Based on successful promotional
campaigns to foreign investors it is expected that the number of firms will grow at a high
rate of 220 percent during the second year, 80 percent during the third year and 60
percent per annum up to year 10. Thereafter, the growth will stabilize at 10 percent. The
value added of exports per firm is expected to grow at a rate of 5 percent per annum.
Employment in off-zone firms induced by EPZ development is estimated to match the
growth of unskilled employment within the zone. As a result, the EPZ is projected to
4 Reduced by 2/3.



- 41 -
ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 8
create 53,900 jobs within the zone, and 16,200 jobs outside the zone firms. Calculations of
net foreign exchange earnings have been measured by using the firm's value of export
sales minus imported inputs. This has resulted in a value added of exports from the EPZ
firms of 10 -15 percent.
8.     Based on the assumptions, the Project has an ERR of about 43.4 percent in the
base case, with the NPV of US$ 143.5 million, which compares favorable with the rates of
return for successful EPZs elsewhere5. Sensitivity analysis was carried out assuming: (a)
a reduction of 40 percent per annum of number of firms entering the EPZ (low case); and
(b) an increase of 35 percent of annual number of firms entering the EPZ (high case). The
effects of each of these on the project's ERR is shown in Table 2. (below), and illustrates
the ERR for the EPZ would be 30.8 percent in the low case scenario and 56.2 percent in
the high case scenario. An assumption was made that all firms will sell 30 percent of
their production to the domestic market, the results showed an ERR of 33.6 percent and
a NPV of US$ 81.5 million. These sensitivity analysis have demonstrated that the Project
produces solid results. The payback period is 8.5 years. The NPV is below zero when the
ERR is below 13 percent.
Table 2: Economic Analysis Summary
Present    Net Present   Economic
Value    Value (NPV)   Rate of
(US$million)  (US$million)   Return
(ERR) %
1. Base Case                                            233.0       143.5      43.4
2. Sensitivity Analysis
(a) A reduction of 40% on the number of EPZ firms     135.7       65.9       30.8
(b) An increase of 35% on the number of EPZ firms     361.9      246.2       56.2
(d) All EPZ firms sale 30% of their products in the domestic market  155.4  81.5  33.6
5The IRR on Penang EPZ firns (Malaysia) is 28 percent, 26 percent in Indonesia, 23 percent in Shenzhen
(China) 15 percent in Korea and -3 percent in Philippines. The ERR of Kenya EPZ was 18 percent.
Source: World Bank.



- 42 -
ANNEX IV
Page 8 of 8
Main Beneficiaries
9.    The main beneficiaries of the Project would include three broad target groups:
. Local population - the Project will lead to a reduction in unemployment
through creation of job opportunities and through improvements in the skills
and mobility within the labor force.
* Private investors - private foreign and domestic investors will benefit through
reduced uncertainties and transaction costs associated with doing business in
Ghana; and availability of ready sites for export processing industries and
simplification of trade procedures.
* Government of Ghana - the Project is expected to attract a flow of foreign
direct investment that will have positive effects on the balance of payments. It
will also help increase the capacity of government agencies dealing with the
private sector. In addition the fiscal impact has been estimated at US$ 87.3
million for the 15-year period, mostly from personal income taxes of new
employees, EPZ firms after the expiration of the tax holidays and estimated
leasing fees from the developer of the EPZ.
Conclusion
10.   The general experience in other African countries with EPZs has not been
encouraging. This is mainly due to: (i) frequent political instabilities (Togo), (ii) unstable
macroeconomic environments, (iii) the presence of strong labor unions in the zones that
distorts the labor costs (Senegal), (d) public sector management of the EPZ (Kenya) and
cumbersome customs procedures (Senegal). However, Ghana has a high probability of
success because of its political stability, reasonably stable macroeconomic environment,
availability of a cheap and large labor force with both skilled and semi-skilled workers,
and a private developer to manage the EPZ. The private developer is expected to bring
along with it a critical mass of firms to operate in the EPZ. The challenge for the GOG is
to promote the zone and increase awareness among foreign investors. The Project
includes funds for these activities.



- 43 -
ANNEX V
GHANA
Trade and Investment Gateway Project
Financial Summary
(US$ '000)
.-- . .. ...  ...  -        .  .  .                                       -       1              i  A;
Project Costs
Investment      4,996.8     4,319.8      14,757.9    13,570.9    11,950.9     4,646.5       590.8       54,833.6
Costs
Recurrent        100.0        100.0        100.0       100.0        100.0       100.0       100.0          700.0
Costs
Total*         5,096.8     4,419.8     14,857.9    13,670.9    12,050.9      4,746.5      690.80       55,533.6
Financing sources
IDA              4,852.9     4,077.9      13,315.0    12,251.2    10,800.8     4,280.4       635.7       50,213.7
Government        243.9        341.9        913.4       800.2       630.6        237.9        55.1        3,222.9
Local Private                               629.5       619.5       619.5        228.2         0          2,097.0
Unallocated                                                                                  466.4         466.4
TOTAL         5,096.8     4,419.8      14,857.9    13,670.9    12,050.9     4,746.5      1,157.2      56,000.0
* contingency costs of US$ 1.3 million included under investment costs



- 44 -
ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 7
GHANA
Trade and Investment Gateway Project
Table A: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
(US$ 000)
Procurement Method
ICB         NCB         Other     N.B.F       Total
A. Civil Works           31,557.0                          2,100*     33,657.0
(29,979.2)                             (0)   (29,979.2)
B. Consultants                              -     9,749.4       -       9,749.4
(9,749.4)            (9,749.4)
C. Promotion                                -     3,285.0              3,285.0
(2,628.0)      -     (2,628.0)
D. Training                                 -     2,165.0       -      2,165.0
(2,165.0)            (2,165.0)
E. Equipment             1,679.50      817.50     1,200.0               3,697.0l
(1,343.6)    (654.00)     (960.0)      -     (2,957.6)
F. Operating Costs                                1,050.0       -       1.050.0
(805.0)              (805.0)
G. PPF-Telecom                                    2,000.0              2,000.0
!___________                 (2,000.0)            (2,000.0)
H. Unallocated                                     396.60                606.6
l_____________  ____________  (215.80)               (47.2)
Total                   33,236.50       817.5   19,846.00    2,100    56,000.0
l___________________   (31,322.80)    (654.00)  (18,523.20)    (0)   (50,500.0)
Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts to be financed by IDA.
* Private Sector Investment in Telecom
N.B.F. = Not Bank financed



- 45 -
ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 7
Procurement
1.    All goods and services financed under the IDA credit would be procured in
accordance with IDA guidelines for goods, works and services (Guidelines: Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995 and as revised in January and
August 1996 (Procurement Guidelines) and Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency, January 1997 (Consultant
Guidelines). The management of the procurement of goods and equipment, civil works
and services under the Project would be the responsibility of the Project Implementing
Unit (PIUT).
Procurement Capacity of the Project Implementing Unit (PIU)
2.    Each project component would be implemented by a specifically designated agency
who would be primarily responsible for the execution of project activities and timely
delivery of outputs as defined and agreed under the Project Implementation Plan. The
PIU would provide procurement support to each of the Implementing Agencies. Given
the volume of works and the number of consultant's contracts envisaged under the
Project, particularly in the first year of implementation, the core staff at the PIU would
include a procurement specialist. The procurement specialist should be familiar with
World Bank's procurement procedures and would work with each of the implementing
agencies under the Project to ensure efficient and timely project execution through
compliance with the procurement schedule agreed with the Bank. The procurement
specialist would (a) prepare and update the procurement plan for the Project; (b) monitor
the progress of procurement; and (c) assist the implementing agencies in: (i) the
preparation of bidding documents and advertisements for goods and works contracts and
requests for proposals for consulting assignments; and (ii) bid opening and evaluation.
The procurement specialist would also advise the Implementing Agencies on procedural
matters.
Procurement Plan
3.    A draft General Procurement Notice (GPN) has been prepared for the Project and
will be finalized and published in Development Business after Board approval. The GPN
would be updated yearly and would show all outstanding ICB for works and goods
contracts; and international consulting assignments. A procurement plan has been
prepared by the Borrower and includes relevant information on all goods, works and
services contracts under the Project as well as the timing of each milestone in the
procurement process. The procurement schedule would be updated every six months and
submitted to IDA. The procurement specialist would monitor the progress of
procurement and implementation of each contract under the Project and would ensure
effective and timely project execution.



- 46 -
ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 7
Civil Works
4.    The Project provides $33.6m for civil works. Contractors would be pre-qualified
and would bid for the works under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures.
The Bank's Standard Pre-qualification document and Standard Bidding Document --
Procurement of Works would be used for the contracts.
Goods & Equipment
5.    To the extent possible and practicable, goods and equipment to be purchased
under the Project would be combined into packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$100,000 or more and would be procured under ICB procedures using IDA Standard
Bidding Documents. Contracts for goods available locally for an aggregate amount of
US$700,000,  with contracts between US$50,000 and US$100,000 each would be
procured through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) using procedures acceptable to
IDA. IDA review of the draft of the first bidding documents for NCB is expected to
become the standard for future contracts.
6.    Procurement for readily available off-the shelf goods that cannot be grouped or
standard specifications for individual contracts less than US$ 50,000 not exceeding an
aggregate amount of US$ 0.1 million for the life of the Project, would be procured on the
basis of comparison of quotations from at least three eligible national suppliers. If
these goods are not available in the country, international shopping procedures would be
followed. IAPSO procurement may be used for purchase of small number of vehicles or
equipment needed at the start of the Project for an aggregate amount $0.3m.
Consultant Services
7.    Selection and appointment of consultants for studies, technical assistance, and
support of project execution would be carried out in accordance with the Guidelines:
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency, January 1997 (Consultant Guidelines). As a rule, consultant services would be
procured  through Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) methodology.  All
consultancy assignments estimated to cost the equivalent of US$ 200,000 or more would
be advertised in a national newspaper and in Development Business. In addition, the
contracts may be advertised in an international newspaper or a technical magazine
seeking "expressions of interest". All consulting assignments in the range of US$
100,000 to US$ 200,000 would be procured through QCBS. In the case of assignments
estimated at US$ 100,000 or less the assignment may be advertised nationally and the
shortlist may be made up entirely of national consultants provided that at least three
qualified national firms are available in the country and foreign



- 47 -
ANNEX VI
Page 4 of 7
consultants who wish to participate are not excluded from consideration. Consultant
services estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$ 50,000 may be contracted by
comparing the qualifications of consultants who have expressed an interest in the job or
who have been identified. Auditors would be selected using Least-Cost Selection
procedures.
Annex 6, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(US$ 000)
Consultant Services                                            Selection Method                    Total Cost
Expenditure category                                                                              . (including
~~~~~~~~~~~ contingencie.s).
.                              ~~~~          ~~~~~~~~~ CBS   *BS.I T  FB.''''LCS.V''-'CQ'' SS       '''''''''''''
1. Servies for                              550
Environmental
Management Plan                                        4
2          Construction Suervisin                . i      t. .     .    - .                       t     - 
3. Feasibility g dies                                    2                                    250
.for vanmng area
4. Feasibility Study for Railway          1'500''                                                                     ,50'
Corridor
5Exernal Managementa, .......            350                                                                       350
Planning Advisor CEPS
Review legislation ......................... 72
CEPS         of Sysem                    200|
8.  mplemen  StrategicPlan                  178 1                                         8,247                       178
9. Evaluation"of Embassy   ...50. ..
Investor Servicing,                                     .        i
GIPC                                                   .
,,,,,,,,,G,,I,PC,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,..,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,..............................,.,,,,,,,,,,,,,..,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,i,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.........................i.i
10. Review Investment Act                        j                                  43 i         ,43
& Investor road map,
GIPC
1: User Fees to Upate                       i7   -j . - -  .  7g
2.Ma.riet profile & Co                      225                                                                       225
identificationii                                                j         j   
;tra icPian & SOP                          80|
14. GCAA conversion into                    1500
R5 Develop Scenario fiv                     350                                                                       350. 350
Aviation and Concessioning                    i        i              
.. Se"tt"in"gS9t-a-ge for                  500                                                                         0
Gateway II.                                                    
i7  Converting GP    into                   150                                                                       j7-  .
landlorcl
18. Social Plan                             300.                                                                      30
19. Concessioning of Port            1.....t i    i                              t50
'20Feasibility Study for .                                                        45                                    50
extending and dredging of         ,           '
21h.Opej~rainiestructuring            ,     300                                                   .30
.:gAy42 ao                                                                     2                                   2
22GTZSecai.        dSe...........''''''qgo'e''''''   t       -y----    .........R   .............. .....           0
Procurement Specialist. . vc336 s                                                                i.                   3
''Project Acountant.'                t           i     -  t         i        t    210f     . t   t                    750
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......................................... ............... . ............................................ ,W   ................. ::............................................... .
Adiocurminit    Siecra                                                              501 ..i...
.....e.A ...t  .2......................3
.                  a     .     I . 4 . I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........... .....4. I.....-.................... 



- 48 -
ANNEX VI
Page 5 of 7
QCBS =      Quality and Cost Based Selection
QBS  =      Quality Based Selection
SFB  =      Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS  =      Least-Cost Selection
CQ   =      Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
SS          Single Source Selection
Promotion
8.    The Project provides US$ 3.3m  for investment promotional activities. The
Borrower has prepared a program of promotional activities to be carried out under the
Project. The program would indicate the nature of the promotional activity, the location,
the timing, the method of procurement and the estimated cost. The program would be
submitted to IDA for review and clearance every six months.
Training
9.    Training within the country and abroad, including twinning arrangements would
be carried out on the basis of IDA approved programs which would identify the nature of
training, personnel to be trained, the duration of training, institutions where the
training would be conducted, estimated cost of training etc. Such programs would be
submitted to IDA for review and clearance every six months.
Review by the Bank
10.   All goods and works contracts estimated to cost US$100,000 or more would be
subject to IDA review of bidding documents including draft contracts and technical
specifications prior to inviting bids and IDA review of bid evaluation prior to contract
award. Pre-qualification of contractors for civil works must be cleared with the Bank
(including IDA review of invitation to pre-qualify and requirements for qualification).
11.   The TOR for all consulting assignments irrespective of value would be subject to
IDA prior review. For consultancy contracts with firms an estimated value of US$
100,000 or more, and US$ 50,000 or more in the case of individuals, the draft Request for
Proposals (RFP) and the shortlist of consultants must be cleared by IDA prior to inviting
proposals from consultants. In addition, the evaluation of technical proposals must be
cleared with IDA before financial proposals of the qualifying firms are opened.
12.   With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost the equivalent of US$ 50,000 or more but less than the equivalent of US$ 100,000,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1,2 (other than the second subparagraph of
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix I to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.



- 49 -
ANNEX VI
Page 6 of 7
13.   With respect to each contract for the employment of the consulting firms
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$ 100,000 or more and each contract for the
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of US$ 50,000 or
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of
paragraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix I to the Consultants Guidelines shall
apply.
14.   Contracts which are not subject to prior review would be selectively reviewed by
the Bank during project implementation and would be governed by the procedures set
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix I to the Guidelines.
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contracts Subject to Prior
Expenditure    Contract value     Procurement    Review / Estimated Total
Category        (Threshold)         Method        Value Subject to Prior Review
US $ thousands
Works       200,000 or more    ICB                All
200,000 or more    QCBS (International All
Consultants                    Advert)
>100,000 - 200,000  QCBS (International All
Shortlist)
50,000 - 100,000    QCBS    (National All contracts with individuals.
Advert)
<50,000           CQ
Promotion/                                        Training / Promotion program
Training
Goods        1 00,000 or more    ICB              All
50 - 100,000      NCB                $ 0.7m
<50,000           IS/NS              $0.1m
CQ - Selection Based on Consultant's Qualifications
Note: All sole source assignments would be subject to prior review.
All TORs for consulting assignments would be subject to prior review



- 50 -
ANNEX VI
Page 7 of 7
Use of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs)
15.   Disbursements for all expenditures would be against full documentation except for
contracts below the equivalent of US$ 100,000 equivalent each for works , goods and
consulting firms and US$ 50,000 for consultant services (individuals), training and
incremental operating costs for which disbursements would be based on Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs). Supporting documentation for SOEs would be retained by the
borrower for review by IDA missions and external auditors. All expenditures above the
threshold indicated above will be eligible for direct payment.
Special Accounts
16.   To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account would be established and operated
at a commercial bank under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. Upon credit
effectiveness, a sum of US$ 1,000,000 to cover about four months' expenditures would be
deposited by IDA into this account. Further deposits by IDA would be made into this
account against withdrawal applications supported by appropriate documents . The
borrower will be required to replenish the special account on a monthly basis or more
often when the total disbursed amounts to one third of the initial deposit, whichever is
soonest. Disbursement categories and the percentage financed are shown in Table C
below.
Table C-1: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
1. Civil Works                         29,250           100% foreign expenditures
la. Off-site Infrastructure          (26,000)
lb. Devanning                         (3,250)
2. Equipment                            2,900           80% of expenditures
3. Consultants and Training             9,950           100% of expenditures
4. Operating Costs                       800            75% of expenditures
5. Investment Promotion                 2,650           80% of expenditures
6. PPF                                  3,000           100% of expenditures
7. Unallocated                          1,950
Total                                  50,500
17.   Operating costs include incremental operating costs incurred on account of project
implementation, management and supervision, including office supplies, communication
costs, travel allowance of project staff but excluding salaries of the Borrower's civil
service. The annual audit will also be financed under the Project.



- 51 -
ANNEX VII
GHANA
Trade and Investment Gateway Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
ACTUAL
FY       PHASE             SWS         $'000    TRIPS  TRAVEL $    CONS. FEES   SOF
95       LENP                      2.9      8.3                9.1                       BB
96       LENP                      1.1      3.4                                          BB
23.4     60.3                8.8                       TF
97       LENP                      4.7     11.3               17.4                       BB
2.0      2.0                                          TF
98       LENP                     23.9     38.4               20.1                       BB
LENP                    18.4     45.8               11.6                        TF
LENA                     4.1       5.3               3.9                        BB
Source of funds - Bank administrative budget, trust funds, project preparation facility, other



- 52 -
ANNEX VIII
GHANA
Trade and Investment Gateway Project
Documents in Project File
Feasibility Studies
* Provision of Off-Site Infrastructure for Export Processing Zone - TEMA --
Preliminary Cost Estimate, March 1998
* Provision of Off-Site Infrastructure for Export Processing - TEMA -- Draft
Engineering Design and Report, March 1998
* Corporate Plan (1998-2001) -- Ghana Free Zones Board, March 1998
* Foreign Direct Investment Demand Study -- Final Report from the Services
Group, March 1998
* CEPS Organizational and Institutional Audit (March 1998) and
* Trade Facilitations and Effective Customs' Control Report (March 1998).
* Organizational Assessment for the Ghana Immigration Service (April 1998)
* OECF Port Study
* Civil Aviation Study
* Economic Analysis of Gateway Trade and Investment Project
* The Environmental and Social Assessment



-53-
ANNEX IX
Page 1 of 2
GHANA
Statement of Loans/Credits
as of February 28, 1998
(in Million of US Dollars)
Credits
73 Credit(s) closed                                      1,960.53
20390       1989        Water Sector Rehab              25            5.35      6/30/98
21090       1990        Vra/Sixth Power                 20           14.73      6/30/98
21570       1990        Urban Ii(Sec Cities)            70           13.38      6/30/98
21800       1991        Agric Divers (Tree C          16.5            9.39     12/31/98
22240       1991        Econ Mgt Support                15            0.66      6/30/98
22470       1991        Agric Research                  22            7.43      3/31/99
23190       1992        Feeder Roads                    55            5.55      6/30/98
23460       1992        Agric Extension               30.4           10.21      11/1/99
24260       1993         Environment                  18.1            4.67     12/31/98
25080       1993         Primary School Devel         65.1           15.83     12/31/98
24280       1993         Tertiary Education             45            1.47      9/30/98
24410       1993         Livestock                   22.45             3.9    12/31/98
24670       1993         Nat'l Electrificatio           80           24.54      9/30/98
25020       1993         Enterprise Devt                41           23.95      3/31/98
24980       1993         Urban Transport              76.2           38.79     12/31/98
25550       1994        Agric Sector Invest           21.5           11.41     11/30/99
25680       1994         Local Govt Dev.              38.5           22.55     12/31/01
26040       1994         Community Water & Sa        21.96           12.76     12/31/99
26650       1995        Priv Sector Dev                 13           10.46      6/30/00
27180       1995        Priv. SctrAdj                   70           22.56      3/31/98
26820       1995        Thermal (P-Vii)              175.6           92.94      6/30/01
27430       1995        Mining Sec. Dev & Env         12.3               9     12/31/00
27130       1995        Fisheries                        9            6.56      6/30/01
26950       1995        Educ/Voc.Trng                  9.6            6.67      6/30/01
27920       1996         Non-Bank Fin Ins Ast         23.9           20.53      6/30/00
28360       1996        Urban Env. Sanitation           71           59.72     12/31/02
28580       1996        Hwy Sect Inv. Prog             100           83.56      6/30/01
28770       1996        Public Enterprise/Pr         26.45           22.45     12/31/01
28850       1996        Basic Education                50            44.77      6/30/01
29250       1997        Pub. Fin. Mgmt. Tap           20.9           17.29     12/31/01
N0200         1997        Village Infrastructure          30            27.5     12/31/03
29940       1998        Health Sctr Support             35            33.9      6/30/02
27183       1998        Priv. SctrAdj                  2.4             2.3      3/31/98
Total Number of
Credits = 33                                         1,332.86          686.77
Loans
10 Loans(s) closed                              189.72                          0
Total Number of Loans = 0                           0                           0
Total**                 189.72   3,293.39
of which repaid                    166.78      58.74
Total held by Bank & IDA            22.94   3,234.66
Amount                  0.38
of which repaid         0.38
Total Undisbursed                                             691.92



-54-
ANNEX IX
Page 2 of 2
GHANA
Statement of Loans/Credits
as of February 28, 1998
Number of Loans/Credits
Pool           Non-Pool    B-Loans   SCL  SCP  IBRD    IDA           Total
Disbursing                        0                    0          0      0      0      0     33        33
Total                             0                   10          0      0      0     10    106       116
Loans/Credits Summary in USD (000)
IBRD                 IDA      TOTAL
Original Principal:          190,500           3,323,546   3,514,046
Cancellations:                  780               30,152      30,932
Disbursed:                   189,719           2,696,059   2,885,779
Undisbursed:                      0              691,916     691,916
Repaid:                      166,396              58,738     225,135
Due:                          22,943           2,634,031   2,656,974
Exchange Adjustment:           6,169                  0        6,169
Borrower's Obligation:        29,112           2,634,031   2,663,144
Sold 3rd Party:                 380                   0         380
Repaid 3rd Party:               380                   0         380
Due 3rd Party:                    0                   0           0



-55-                                             ANNEX X
Page I of 2
Ghana at a glance
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Saharan    Low-
Ghana    Africa  Income       Development diamond'
Population mid-1996 (milions)                        17.5      600    3,229
GNP per capita 1996 (USs)                            360       490      500                Life expetancy
GNP 1996 (billons US$)                               6.3       294    1,601
Average annual growth, 1990-96                                                                   T
Population (r)                                       2.7        2.7     1.7      GNP          /                  Gross
Labor force (%)                                      2.7        2.6     1.7      per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since l989)                          capita        \'W'          enrolment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)            31                                          I
Urban population (% of total population)              36        31       29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      59        52       63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 fie bfths)                73        92       69               Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of chldken under 5)             27
Access to safe water (% of populaton)                 56        47       53
Illiteracy (% of populaton age 15+)                   40        43       34                Ghana
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age populbon)   76        72      105                Low4noome grup
Male                                                83        78      112                Lwicm   ru
Female                                              70        65       98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986      1995    1996
Economic ratios*
GDP (billions USS)                           2.8     4.5        6.2     6.3
Gross domestic investment/GDP               12.7     9.6       18.6    18.7              Openness of economy
Exports of goods and services/GDP           19.4     9.7      25.6    27.2
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  13.7     5.7        9.9     8.2
Gross national savings/GDP                  13.8     4.5       12.1     10.3
Current account balance/GDP                  0.6    -5.8       -6.5    -8.4
Interest payments/GDP                        0.7     1.7       2.1      2.3      Savings                    Investment
Total deWbGDP                               25.6    50.1       92.3    93.3
Total debt service/exports                   6.4    23.7       35.4    27.1
Present value of debt/GDP                     ..      ..      68.7    67.0
Present value of debt/exports                 ..      ..    276.0   246.0                    Indebtedness
197464  1986-96    1995       1996  1997-05
(average annual growth)                                                                   Ghana
GDP                                -0.4      4.6     4.5        5.2     5.9         -     Low-4ncome group
GNP per capita                     -2.9      1.6     1.8        2.4     3.0
Exports of goods and services      -8.9     7.7      3.4      19.8      6.1                                             1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975    1986      1995    1996       Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                47.7    44.9       45.0    44.4       40 T
Industry                                   21.0    16.7       16.8    16.6      20
Manufacturing                             13.9    11.5        9.6      94 
Services                                    31.3    38.4      38.2    38.9        0          t 92    3    4    9s5  96
Private consumption                        73.3    84.9       77.4    79.5    -40
General govemment consumption               13.0     9.4       12.7    12.3                   GDI        IGDP
Imports of goods and services              18.4    13.6       34.2    37.8
197545  1986-96      1996    1996
(average annual growth)                                                         Growth rates of exports and Imports
Agriculture                                  1.1     2.2       4.2      4.0      20
Industry                                    -7.0     5.1       3.3      4.2
Manufacturing                             -7.7      3.2       1.8      3.0     10
Services                                     0.8     7.0       5.0      6.3
Private consumption                         -0.6     3.6       3.4      5.0      0
General govemment consumption                5.0     6.1       -6.0     2.2             91   92   93           90 56
Gross domestic investment                   -8.3     6.7      33.1      1.1    -10I
Imports of goods and services              -9.6      5.7        1.2    12.6             -Exports            Imports
Gross national product                      -0.5     4.6       4.5      5.1                                              .
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



-56-                                           ANNEX X
Page 2 of 2
Ghana
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976    1986       1995     1996    1        Ilo-
Domestic prices                                                                    Inflation
(% change)                                                                         o0T
Consumer prices                              29.8     10.3       59.5     45.6    40
Implicit GDP deflator                        29.5     20.6      43.4      33.1
20 tI-
Govemment finance
(% of GDP)                                                                         o$-                    -
Currentrevenue                                 ..    11.3        21.4     19.2            91   92   93   94   95   906
Current budget balance                          ,,     0.1        4.2      1.3             - G3P def. -+CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ,,    4.1        -10.4    -13.3
TRADE
1975     1985      1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                     Export and import levels (mill. US$)
Total exports (fob)                            .,    633        1,431    1,571     2,500 T
Cocoa                                                412        390      552
Timber                                        ,.      28        191      147    ''0,0
Manufactures                                  ,.       ..                        1.500t
Total imports (cif)                            ..    729        1,841    2,125     1o000
Food                                         ..       40         56       64
Fuel and energy                               ..    199         197      267       s0n                      n
Capital goods                                        187        398      490 o
Export price index (1987=100)                  ..       92        91       85            90  91  92  93  94  95  96
Importprice index (1987=100)                    ,.    105        124      125   |                Expors    * mports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                      ..       88        73       68                   E
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1996     1996   I
(millions US$)                                                                     Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                 891      672      1,582    1,728      0
Imports of goods and services                 882      857     2,117    2,3975 
Resource balance                                9     -185      -535      -66
Net income                                    -36     -111      -130      -141     _0-
Net current transfers                         45        33       263      276
Current account balance,                                                          -10
before official capital transfers            18    -263        -402     -532    1
Financing items (net)                        -20       148       686      513
Changes in net reserves                         3      116      -284       19    -15
Memo:                                                                            I
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)           147      552       710      599
Conversion rate (locaWJS$)                    1.9     76.2   1,200.4  1,637.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS                                                                         _    ______
1976     1986      1996     1996 
(millions US$)                                                                     Compositionoftotaldebt,1996(mill.US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         721    2,257       5,709    5,918
IBRD                                        40       118        59       44                   G    A
IDA                                         44      259      2,375    2,530                  640  44
Total debt service                             57      159       567      476
IBRD                                         5        18        21       13
IDA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FB
IDA                                          0         3        25       28           1171         t000 2530
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              8       75        260      206
Official creditors                          13        93       171      358
Private creditors                          -17       35        149     -171                E
Foreign direct investment                   71        6         35       20               1078  D    C
Portfolio equity                             0         0        72      100                     -54  509
World Bank program
Commitments                                 89       191       299      275      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               10       70        242      244    I g- DA    D-Other rnutilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                         2        10        23       20      C- MF                       G - Short-terrn
Net flows                                    8        60       219      224    1 _
Interest payments                            3        11        23       21
Net transfers                                5       49        196      203
Development Economics                                                                                               8/28197



-57-
ANNE XIa
Page 1 of 5
.%     j rupiy aks                                                MINiSTRY  OF FINANCE
$'  b .  *tei.                                                      P.O. BOX  M  40
ACCRA
SEC/P/0336
Ya *4. Nw....3rd June                                                                        98
ftEPUtaC or GM""            .-......................   .....
GHANA
TRADE AND IEST1IENT GATEWAY PROJEC
LETTER OF DEVLOPMENT POLICY
=troducdon
The Government of Ghana requests the Intenational Development Association
(M '.) to provide a credit in the sum of S50.S million in support of the 'frade and lave,; ient
Gz t.way Programme.
2.    Under the Economic Recovery Programme, the Government of Ghana bas
implemented far-rcaching economic xecrmns aiied at increasing growth rates in the
productive sectors of the economy. -The devel J.pment of the private sector is a major goal of
the Goverrnent's growth strategy. The objectives are to increase the rate of private capital
and private entcrprise formation, icrease employment opporunities in the private sector,
divarsify the export sector, enhance thc technological capabilitics of the private sector, and
divcrsify agricultural and industrial activities in line with Ghana's comparative advantage.
To these ends, the Govertnent is committed to improving the policy and regulatory
en,ironment for the private sector Measures that will foster a stable, low-inflation
environment in addition to sLructural reforms To enhance incentives for savings, encot-rage
pr vate izvestment. and improve resource allocation are being pursued In additionr, the
Gosvernment will continue with the on-going liberalization of the financial sector and putrsuit
oi Lhe divestiture programme, as well as the form of the public services (including suovented
o ;anisations).
3.    The purpose of this letter is to outline a future programme of actions in support of the
private sector through Ghana Vision 2020 and, in particular, the Ghana Trade and Ir. estenent
Gateway Programme.
4.    Ghana Vision 2020
The Goverment's programme for tbe development of the private sector is
rooted in Ghana's Vision 2020. The long-term vision is that by the year 2020, Ghana
will have achieved a balanced economy and middle-income country status and
standard of living. This will be realised by further developing an open and liberal
rsLarket economy characteised by competition, initiative and creativity, and that
MR. JEAN-LOUIS SARBIB
VICE PRESIDENT
AFRICA REGION
WORLD BANK
WASHINGTON, D.C.
U.S.A.



-58-
ANLLXI
Page 2 of 5
employs science and technology to derive maximum results from the use of all our
humn and natural resources. Vision 2020 also takes into account the protection and
environment, and the fair and equitabic distribution of thc national wealth.
Specifically, by the year 2020, Ghana should be a country in which:
* long, healthy and productive 1fe for all individuals is the norm, with access to an
elarged range of choices for employment, shelter and leisure;
* the Senefits of development are equitably distributed and gross deprivation and
hard-core poverty are eliminated;
* nr  veal income is growing by at least 8% per annum, compared with the present
average of 4-5%,
* population growth is reduced from its present level of about 3% to 2% per annum,
thereby allowing real income per head to rise to more than four times the 1993
level; and
solutions to socio-cultural and economic problems of the individual, the
community or the nation are recognised and addressed partly through the
appropriate use of science aad technology.
5. he transfowmation of tle country's socio-economic structure will involve not
only economic changes but also refonns in land tenure, legal and administrative
systems to make them fully supportive of private sector development and
conducive to increased domostic and foreign investment in Ghana
6. Ghana Traded and Investment Promwaune
The Trade and Investment Gateway Programme is one of the programmes
envisaged under the Ghana Vision 2020 programme. The Gateway Programme
seeks to make Ghana the trade and investment gateway to West Aftica and increase
the participation ofthe private sector in the development of the national economy.
7. Trade Facilitation and Free Zones
The project will attempt to attract a critical mass of export-oriented investors
into Ghana by encouraging the private development of Free Zone enclaves in
Te=n  and by improving the infrastructure faciLities of the ports as well as the
instiutional framework of Ghana Hasbour and Ports Authoity, the Ghana
migration Service, Ghana Civil Aviation Authority, Customs, Excise and
Prmentive Sevice and Ghana Investment Promotion Centre. The enactment of the
Investment Promotion Centre Act of 194 and the Free Zone Act of 1995 were the
St initiatives implemented under the strategy. The Acts provide incentives to
enterprises, especially those establishdid in the fiee zones, and detail the riles and
regulations govering private sector participation in the development of tte zones.
Another major element of this strategy was the purchase by the Govenreont of
sites in Tema, Takoradi, and Kumasi which have been reserved for private



ANNEX XI
-59-                              Page 3 of 5
development as free zones. The Governmnent. will, as an initial step, provide the off-
site infrastructure facilities to the free zone in Tenia.
8. Frce Zones Board
The Govemment has created the Free Zones Board to coordinate its efforts to
attract a developer capable of locating anchor-tenants. The Board consists of
rep esentatives of both the Governrent and tle private sector. The Board will
imnlement a targeted marketing plan to attract free zone developers and
enterprises, design schematic infomsaLion systems to provide the Board with an
appropriate technological backbcne Lo undertake all aspects of promotion and
facilitation, and undertake a comp::hensivc. capacity building programme aimed at
improving service delivery withIin bioard s tvf, both in terms of proactive promotion
as well as investor hospitality and related fi-. ,ilitation finctions.
9.  Ghana Investment Promotion Centre QGTIC)
GIPC has over the past few years benefitted from considerable capacity
building in general promotional activities. Nevertheless, the Government's current
strategy for GIPC is to move it away from general promotion to specifically-
targeted promotion, by financing preparation and implementation monitoring
indicators, staff training, and upgrading of information teclhology facilities. The
Governient would also finance preparation anid implementation of a strategy
which will develop backward linkages between foreign investors and local
suppliers. With respect to huiman resource developmcnlt for investment promotion,
funds will be provided to increase technical capability and efficiency of GIPC staff
and to upgrade the investment promotion skills of overseas Embassy staff.
Provision has also been made for teclnical assistance to review the Investrmen. Act,
update the Investor Roadmap, develop company profiles of firms targeted as
potential investors and for the evaluation of training.
10.   Customs. Excise and Preventive Service (CEPS)
CEPS will implement a strategic business plan covering all required changes
in regulations, operational procedures and humaa resources. CEPS will develop
and implement a far reaching programme of rc-engincering its corporate structure
and culture to become a trade facilitator. The plan will ensure that Custom's
transactions are computerised, making it less reliant an human intervenlions.
Processes and procedures will be re-engineered to bring the quality of Custom's
services up to intemational standards. In particular, the Govemnment will provide
support for:
i) streamlining of processing and reduction of clearance time for both export and
import cargo;
ii) development of information technology infrastructure and supporting facilities
and equipment;
iii) training on facilitation procedures designed specifically for free zone
enterprises in line with free zone regulatiori and



-60-
ANNEX XI
Page 4 of 5
iv) work programme designed to achieve ISO 9000 certification of Ghana's
Customs aad Port Cargo Clearance Processcs.
11. Ghana Immieration Service (GIS)
GIS is committed to carrying out its mandatc, but is hampered by lack of
resources, strategic vision and a formal training programme. Government would
therefore overhaul immigration procedures, process and technology infrastructnre
and re-training of staff. In particular, it would undertake a review and enactment of
a new immigration law, implement intra-agency operations refornm prepare a plan
to consolidate immigration services, and prepare standard operating procedures. It
would also improve GIS technology infiastructure, retrain staff, aLnd benchmark
GIS processing of immigration fumctions. The GIS whose primary responsibility is
the admiuistration of entry and exit of foreigners, would evolvc into a business
friendly organisation. All GIS functions which are currently dispersed among
several government agencies would be centralised in the GIS.
12.   Ghana Ports and-Harbours Authority (_PHA)
To further improve upon the operations of the ports, particularly Tcma Port
which is considered a major link to intemational trade, Govermment would improve
the operations of the ports by reducing the cost of operations and shortening the
tumn-around time for ships and clearance tinie for imported goods. Increased
pnvate sector participation in the nmanagement and operation of the ports is a
strategic decision made by Government to achieve these objectives. Govenmment
would convert GPHA into a regulatory authority (Landlord Port), while the
operations will be concessioned to the private sector, particularly contziner
operations, dockyards, sites maintenance anid services. In addition, Government
will finance the feasibility study for the extension and dredging of Quay #2 and
tcchniceal assistance for a privately developed Electronic Data Interchange at Tcmna
Port.
13.   Ghana Civil Aviation AuthoritY (GCAA)
Aviation plays a key role in supporting a high growth, outwardly-oriented
development strategy. Consequently, Govemment would develop a strategy of
"liberialised skies" policies which implies, inter alia, an institutional carrier and
facility licensing and air navigation and air traffic control. Government would
encourage private participation in developing the airport facilities into a regional
hub for passenger, cargo and express delivery services. In addition, Government
-.ould provide support to develop a comprehensive and holistic aviation sector
strategy which wilt operationalise the liberalised skies policy adopted by the GOG.



-61-
ANNEX )a
Page 5 of 5
14.   Environmental Issues
In pursuit of these goals, Government will take necessary steps to ensure that
the environment is not degraded in any way whatsoever. Accordingly, Govermment
will develop an Envirommental Management Plan (ENO) prior to any infrastructure
development on the fiee zones and at the poIt. In addition, an LIdustrial Risk
Contingency Plan and an Environmental Monitoring Plan will be prepared for the
zone.
15.   Conclusion
The initiatives described above are fully consistent with the Govemment's
commitment to encourage the development of a dynamic and innovative private
sector. I therefore hope that IDA will approve the requested credit amoumt to
support this programme.
WAK\MPEPRAH
STER OF ]FNANCE



-62-
ANNEX XII
GHANA
Trade and Investment Gateway Project
Environmental Assessment, Social and Environmental
Analyses
(Available in Project File)



IBRD 23606
BURKINA FASO                                                     K.Pg-
H-5
LAT 9  EennoI                 unbgdGHANA
ein     on             '>          cj                      ooo,--   RMR   OD
S  WA                                                               g
/                   o.a~~~~~~~~~~P                             SECONDARY ROADS
j(ARLE                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~TERTIARY ROADS
D.bsyo                                                                .           ---n-   RAILWAYS
Zohoogo             ~REOION HEADQUARTERS
(YCsonshe[   -  Morse ~~~~~~~  Nb' .~~~'n .t9   *                                         -  *       N~~~~ATIONAL CAPITAL
IN4TERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
27<  22   'r'  ''->                         <~~~~~~~~~~H'  5Ib~~~~N.... ~~The  boundaries,  colors,
cOrE                                                             lj1deaiaonaday
other inf.ormaion drown
snv\   on  this  map  dIO  not
D'IVOIRE                                                                                                          5              n5t       ipyo    h    ato
->  / TLSuinbi ~~~  The World  Bn Grup,
0Ch eAilan  judgment on the legal1
..status  of sny  terrtory
us   '    ,- 2    Duebni   ~~~~~or acceptance ofSuc
-.  stornpo                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~boundaries.
ctu~~~~~       Th9NQtn~~~~~~~~~~su    .                          I~~~~~~~~                                     2    M>  55LE
Atehn .                          -t'                                  50        0 05 o  s
SUNYANOI
Lonnod~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  dp 
Nt,A
Donhoo    s  Odo          ~KOFORI<sA                              -  o,Lbehd
o ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~rtsM*~-                                               05cs 
0  ssms                                                                                                               Jt5rnA                               tJ5AN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GtA 
ono                                                            EIs5su    aurAMs
SEKONDI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
I                                                           02cy  9TtmA                                            co      o  0sr,u
-LR)TWA   ~        JILEss
SkTotssoj
P.,.,.        CAPE COAST                                              SE EGA\L                          N~~~~     ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ rERc  AD
fHe WB                                    -e 5 h
on'                                                                                              t'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J~
EOUArCEBUAY  99



