Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3114 GH
Development Credit Agreement
(Trade and Investment Gateway Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated October 7, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3114 GH 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated October 7, 1998, between the REPUBLIC OF GHANA (the Borrower) 
and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Association has received a letter dated June 3, 1998 from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to improve 
its trade and investment sectors (the Program) and declaring the Borrower's commitment 
to the execution of the Program; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph 12 is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs 12 through 14 of said Section are accordingly renumbered 
as paragraphs 13 through 15: 
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines 
meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 
1996; and ‘Participating Countries’ means, 
collectively, all such countries.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“CEPS” means  the Borrower’s Customs, Excise and Preventive Service;
(b)
“EPA” means the Environmental Protection Agency, established pursuant to 
the Borrower’s Environmental Protection Agency Act, 1994 (Act 490);
(c)
“Export Processing Zone” means an area in the terrritory of the Borrower 
regulated under the Borrower’s Free Zone Act (as herinafter defined) and where 
activities for export processing are to be carried out;
(d)
“FZB” means the Free Zones Board, established pursuant to the Borrower’s 
Free Zone Act, 1995 (Act 504);
(e)
“Gateway Secretariat” means the secretariat established by the Borrower 
on December 11, 1996 for the purpose of coordinating activities under the Project;
(f)
“Gateway Oversight Committee” means the interministerial committee 
established by the Borrower in December 1996 to oversee the implementation of the 
Ghana Gateway Program;
(g)
“GIPC” means the Ghana Investment Promotion Center, established pursuant 
to the Borrower’s Investment Promotion Center Act, 1994 (Act 478);
(h)
“GIS” means the Ghana Immigration Service;
(i)
“GPHA” means the Ghana Ports and Harbors Authority, established pursuant 
to the Borrower’s Ports and Harbors Authority Law, 1986 (PNDC Law 160);
(j)
“GCAA” means the Ghana Civil Aviation Authority, established pursuant to 
the Borrower’s Civil Aviation Authority Law, 1986 (PNDC Law 151); 
(k)
"Ghanaian Cedi" and "C" mean the currency of the Borrower; 
(l)
“Initial Deposit” means the deposit referred to in Section  3.04 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(m)
“Memorandum of Understanding” means a memorandum of understanding to be 
entered into between FZB and a qualified and experienced developer or an investor, 
Page  3
pursuant to paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, for the purpose of carrying 
out Part B.2 of the Project;
(n)
“Performance Agreement” means each agreement between the Gateway 
Oversight Committee and CEPS, GCAA, GIPC, GIS and GPHA, respectively, for the 
implementation of the respective activities under the Project, as specified in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and delivery of outputs thereunder;
(o)
“Project Implementation Plan” means the plan, adopted by the Borrower on 
June 1, 1998, containing, inter alia, detailed arrangements regarding the 
implementation of the Project, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term  includes any schedules to the Project Implementation Plan; 
(p)
"Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of 
this Agreement; 
(q)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advances 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the exchange of letters dated 
August 9, 1995 and August 17, 1995 and May 2, 1996 and May 3, 1996 and May 16, 1996 
and October 17, 1996 between the Borrower and the Association;  
(r)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
(s)
“Project Executing Agency” means CEPS, GIPC, GIS, GPHA, GCAA, FZB and 
EPA. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirty-seven million, six hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 37,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank or any other bank acceptable to 
the Association on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
Page  4
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each May 1 and November 1, commencing November 1, 2008 and ending May 1, 2038. Each 
installment to, and including the installment payable on, May 1, 2018 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, environmental and technical practices, and 
Page  5
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)
open and maintain an account (the Project Account) in Ghanaian Cedi in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
promptly thereafter, make an initial deposit into such account, in an 
amount equivalent to $1,000,000 (the Initial Deposit), to finance the Borrower's 
contribution to the Project;
(c)
deposit into the Project Account by April 15 in each year, until the 
completion of the Project, such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Project 
Account in a timely manner to equal the amount of the Initial Deposit referred to in 
paragraph (b) above; and
(d)
use the Project Account funds exclusively to finance expenditures under 
the Project not otherwise financed from the proceeds of the Credit. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; and
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
Page  6
(i)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; and
(ii)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:  
(a)
a situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out; and 
(b)
the Memorandum of Understanding shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
the Borrower has opened the Project Account and deposited therein the 
Initial Deposit referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement; 
(b)
the Borrower has, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement, appointed a procurement specialist and an infrastructure 
coordinator for the purpose of the Project;  
(c) 
the Borrower has established an accounting and financial management 
system acceptable to the Association, and has, in accordance with the provisions of  
Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, appointed an accountant and an auditor for 
the purposes of Article IV of this Agreement; and 
(d)
the Performance Agreements, satisfactory to the Association, have been 
executed and are effective. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Page  7
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box M.40
Accra, Ghana
Cable address: 
Telex:
ECONOMICON
2205 MIFAEPGH
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
By /s/ Richard Kwame Peprah 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Peter Harrold 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
(a) under Part B.1
   2,400,000
of the Project
Page  8
(b) under Part B.2
  19,400,000
of the Project
(2)
Equipment
   2,200,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
(3)
Consultants' services,
   7,400,000
100%
audit and training
(4)
Incremental operating
     600,000
75%
costs
(5)
Incremental 
   1,950,000
80%
promotion costs
(6)
Refunding of Project
   2,250,000
Amounts due pursuant
Prepartion Advance
to Section 2.02 (c)
of this Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
   1,400,000
TOTAL
  37,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;  
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means the incremental expenses 
incurred on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including 
office supplies, vehicle maintenance and operation, telephone, electricity, travel and 
supervision costs but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower; and 
(d)
the term “investment promotion costs” means the expenses incurred on 
account of investment promotion activities, including, inter alia, costs for 
trade-fair participation, publicity, travel and subsistence allowance of participants 
who are associated with the Executing Agencies.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; (b) payments made for expenditures under Category (1) (b) of the table in 
paragraph 1 above unless the Memorandum of Understanding, including a provision for 
the developer or investor to prepare and implement an environmental mitigation plan, 
satisfactory to EPA and the Association, has been prepared, entered into and has 
become effective.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods, works and 
services of consulting firms, under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent; 
(ii) services of individual consultants under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent; (iii) training; and (iv) incremental operating costs, under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to implement measures designed to attract a 
critical mass of export-oriented firms and facilitate trade in the territory of the 
Borrower to accelerate growth through: (a) the development of off-site infrastructure 
Page  9
for a privately financed export processing zone; and (b) the improvement of the 
quality and standards of services delivered to investors and to exporters by the 
Borrower’s institutions and agencies responsible for trade and investment.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Trade Facilitation 
1.
Customs Administration
(a) 
Development and implementation of a plan to instill International 
Standards Organization-9000 compliance by CEPS, including: (i) streamlining of 
procedures for both the export and import of cargo, and (ii) installation of an 
information technology infrastructure for CEPS, through the provision of technical 
advisory services and equipment. 
(b)
Carrying out of a training program for CEPS staff to familiarize them 
with the procedures to be applicable to the enterprises operating in the Export 
Processing Zone. (c)
Carrying out of systems-based audit controls. 
2.
Investment Promotion Development and implementation of a well targeted plan for 
investment promotion by GIPC and FZB, design and installation of a management 
information system, preparation and implementation of a strategy to develop linkages 
between foreign investors and local suppliers, and carrying out of a program for 
selective retraining of  GIS staff on trade facilitation and reduction of formalities 
and procedures for investors, all through the provision of technical advisory 
services.
3.
GPHA (a) Carrying out a review of GPHA’s operational procedures with a view to 
shortening turn-around time for ships and clearance time for goods, through the 
provision of technical advisory services. 
(b)
Implementation of improved procedures to increase private participation 
in developing port facilities in the territory of the Borrower into a regional hub for 
passenger, cargo and express delivery services, through the provision of technical 
advisory services. 
(c)
Transformation of GPHA into a “landlord” port authority which will own 
port assets but contract out its operations to the private sector, through the 
provision of technical advisory services. 
(d)
Development of electronic data interchange at the port of Tema through 
the provision of technical advisory services. 
(e)
Carrying out of a feasibility study for the dredging of Quay 2. 
4.
GCAA (a) Conversion of GCAA into a regulatory agency and the operationalization 
of the liberalized skies policy, and implementation of reforms designed to increase 
private participation in the airport infrastructure, all through the provision of 
technical advisory services.
(b)
Implementation of improved procedures to increase private participation 
in developing airport facilities in the territory of the Borrower into a regional hub 
for passenger, cargo and express delivery services through the provision of technical 
advisory services. 
(c)
Design and implementation of an aviation sector strategy through the 
provision of technical advisory services. 
5.
Implementation and Management Development of the institutional capacity of the 
Gateway Secretariat to implement and supervise the Project and preparation of a second 
phase of the gateway program, all through the provision of technical advisory services 
and logistical assistance.
Part B:
Development of Export Processing Zone 
Page  10
1.
Construction of container devanning area outside the port of Tema and 
acquisition of equipment therefor. 
2.
Construction of off-site infrastructure facilities for the Export Processing 
Zone, including water connection, sewage and solid waste treatment facilities, 
electricity connection facilities, access roads, and carrying out of a study to assess 
the feasibility and economic rationale for the construction of a rail link between the 
Export Processing Zone and the port of Tema. 
3.
Carrying out of an environmental assessment, and preparation and implementation 
of an environmental management plan. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and in 
September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this 
Part A (the Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section 
I. 
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and "member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and "Participating Country.”
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Prequalification 
Bidders for works under Part B shall be prequalified in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Grouping of Contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
(c)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
(d)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
Page  11
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $700,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Vehicles and minor office equipment may be procured from the United Nations 
Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
With respect to each contract  estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of 
this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts 
of this Section II. 
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country.”
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto 
and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and 
cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
Page  12
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The shortlist of consultants for services under Parts A and B.3 of the Project, 
estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely 
national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-Cost Selection
Services for Project implementation under Part A.4 of the Project estimated to 
cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for information systems design under Part A of the Project estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract under Part A of the Project for the 
employment of consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
Part A of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less 
than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other 
than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Page  13
Implementation Program 
1.
The Borrower shall carry out Part A.1 of the Project through CEPS, Part A.2 of 
the Project through GIPC and GIS, Part A.3 of the Project through GPHA, Part A.4 of 
the Project through GCAA, Part B.1 of the Project through GPHA and CEPS, Part B.2 of 
the Project through FZB and Gateway Secretariat, and Part B.3 of the Project through 
EPA. CEPS, GIPC, GIS, GPHA, GCAA and FZB shall be fully accountable to the Gateway 
Oversight Committee for the delivery of expected outputs from the respective parts of 
Project.  
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, in carrying out the Project, 
the Borrower shall apply the guidelines and procedures specified in the Project 
Implementation Plan and shall not amend such Project Implementation Plan or waive any 
provision thereof, if such amendment or waiver may, in the opinion of the Association, 
materially or adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
3.
(a)
The Borrower and each of the Project Executing Agencies shall maintain 
the Performance Agreement; and (b) the Borrower shall exercise its rights under the  
Performance Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and 
the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Performance Agreements or any provision thereof. 
4
The Borrower shall, until the completion of the Project, maintain the Gateway 
Secretariat for the purpose of overall coordination of the Project, and for general 
oversight of the Project, the Gateway Oversight Committee.
5.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about January 31, 2001, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Association, by February 28, 2001, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
Page  14
amount equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 4,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
Page  15
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be. 
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
