                                 Document of
                    The Independent Evaluation Group



                                                       Report No.: 82728




             PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                           REPUBLIC OF GHANA

    GHANA TRADE AND INVESTMENT GATEWAY PROJECT (GHATIG)
                      (IDA-31140 IDA-3114A)




                               December 11, 2013




IEG Public Sector Evaluation
Independent Evaluation Group
                                                ii


Currency Equivalents (annual averages)

Currency Unit = GHS

1998      US$1.00         GHS0.23                    2005     US$1.00        GHS0.91
1999      US$1.00         GHS0.27                    2006     US$1.00        GHS0.92
2000      US$1.00         GHS0.54                    2007     US$1.00        GHS0.94
2001      US$1.00         GHS0.72                    2008     US$1.00        GHS1.06
2002      US$1.00         GHS0.80                    2009     US$1.00        GHS1.41
2003      US$1.00         GHS0.87                    2010     US$1.00        GHS1.43
2004      US$1.00         GHS0.90                    2011     US$1.00        GHS1.51

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CEPS        Customs, Excise and Preventive Service
FDI         Foreign Direct Investment
GCNet       Ghana Community Network Services Limited
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
ICR         Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA         International Development Association
IEG         Independent Evaluation Group
PAD         Project Appraisal Document
PPAR        Project Performance Assessment Report
PRSP        Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
UNCTAD      United Nations Conference on Trade and Development



Fiscal Year

Government:              January 1- December 31




Director-General, Independent Evaluation                 :   Ms. Caroline Heider
Director, IEG Public Sector Evaluation                   :   Mr. Emmanuel Jimenez
Manager, IEG Public Sector Evaluation                    :   Mr. Mark Sundberg
Task Manager                                             :   Ms. Xubei Luo
                                                                   iii


Contents
Principal Ratings ................................................................................................................. v
Key Staff Responsible......................................................................................................... v
Preface............................................................................................................................... vii
Summary ............................................................................................................................ ix
1. Background and Context................................................................................................. 1
2. Objectives, Design, and their Relevance ........................................................................ 3
   Relevance of the Objectives............................................................................................ 4
   Design ............................................................................................................................. 4
   Relevance of Design ....................................................................................................... 7
3. Implementation ............................................................................................................... 8
4. Achievement of the Objectives ..................................................................................... 12
5. Efficiency ...................................................................................................................... 24
6. Ratings .......................................................................................................................... 25
   Outcome ........................................................................................................................ 25
   Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................................... 25
   Bank Performance ......................................................................................................... 26
   Borrower Performance .................................................................................................. 27
   Monitoring and Evaluation ........................................................................................... 27
7. Lessons .......................................................................................................................... 28
References ......................................................................................................................... 29
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet ............................................................................................... 31
Annex C. Key Performance Indicators ............................................................................. 35
Annex D. List of Persons Met........................................................................................... 38
Annex E. Borrower Comments ......................................................................................... 39
Tables
Table 1: Free Zone Companies Operating in Tema Enclave in June 2012 ...................... 16
Table 2 : Total Import Revenue (current cedi) ................................................................. 17
Table 3 : Foreign Direct Investment in Various West African Countries ........................ 21
Table 4: Gross Capital Formation ..................................................................................... 22
Table 5: Experts of Goods and Services ........................................................................... 22



This report was prepared by Xubei Luo, Task Manager and David Parish, Consultant, who assessed the
project in June 2012. The report was peer reviewed by John S. Wilson and panel reviewed by John
Eriksson. Carla F. Chacaltana and Vikki Taaka provided administrative support.
                                                        iv


Figures
Figure 1: Planned Disbursement of Project Funds by Agency (US$ million) .................. 10
Figure 2: Actual Distribution of Funds at Project Closure by Agency (US$ million) ..... 10
Figure 3: Free Zone Licenses by year issued .................................................................... 13
Figure 4: Distribution of Ghana Free Zone Board Enterprises by Region ....................... 14
Figure 5: Distribution of Greater Accra Enterprises by Location..................................... 14
Figure 6: Ghana Export Revenues (US$ million) ............................................................. 23
                                                              v

Principal Ratings
                                                       ICR*                        ICR Review*                    PPAR
Outcome                                    Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately                Moderately
                                                                                   Unsatisfactory             Satisfactory
Risk to Development                                 Moderate                          Moderate                  Moderate
Outcome
Bank Performance                                   Satisfactory                    Unsatisfactory            Moderately
                                                                                                            Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance                               Satisfactory                     Moderately                Moderately
                                                                                   Unsatisfactory             Satisfactory
* The Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department. The ICR
Review is an intermediate IEG product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.



Key Staff Responsible
                                                                Division Chief/
Project                Task Manager/Leader                      Sector Director                    Country Director
Appraisal                      Demba Ba                        Thomas W. Allen                      Sergiy V. Kulyk
Completion               Papa Demba Thiam                      Peter J. Mousley                       Ishac Diwan
                                                           vi

         IEG Mission: Improving development results through excellence in independent evaluation.




About this Report
       The Independent Evaluation Group assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank’s self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank’s work is producing the
expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the
dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, IEG annually assesses 20-25 percent of the
Bank’s lending operations through field work. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that
are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which
Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons.
      To prepare a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEG staff examine project files and other
documents, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government, and other in-country
stakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and in local offices as
appropriate.
      Each PPAR is subject to internal IEG peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. The PPAR is also sent to the borrower
for review. IEG incorporates both Bank and borrower comments as appropriate, and the borrowers' comments are
attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has
been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


About the IEG Rating System for Public Sector Evaluations
     IEG’s use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to ad apt to
lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEG evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive
at their project ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (additional
information is available on the IEG website: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
     Outcome: The extent to which the operation’s major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to
be achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
relevance of objectives and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project’s
objectives are consistent with the country’s current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies). Relevance of design is the extent to which
the project’s design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project’s objectives
were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance. Efficiency is the
extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of capital
and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to adjustment
operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or
expected outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High,
Significant, Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operation and supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate
transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after loan/credit closing, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing
agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and
agreements, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
performance and implementing agency(ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
                                             vii


Preface
The $56 million Ghana Trade and Investment Gateway Project was approved on July 9,
1998, financed by an International Development Association (IDA) credit of US$50.5
million equivalent. The final project cost was $56.8 million, of which $52.4 million was
financed by IDA. Appreciation of the Special Drawing Right vis-à-vis the dollar
accounts for the fact that more US dollars were disbursed; two percent of the original
IDA credit was cancelled. The original, planned closing date was December 31, 2005.
After three extensions the project closed on December 31, 2009.

The objectives of the project were to attract a critical mass of export oriented investors to
Ghana to accelerate export-led growth and to facilitate trade. The project had two main
components. The first involved the development of an area of land in Tema, Ghana as an
industrial estate. Initially reserved for export oriented companies, after project
restructuring, the site was opened up to any company type in order to stimulate additional
interest from investors. The project helped finance infrastructure both around the site (for
example improvements to the port of Tema) and on site. The second component involved
support to various organizations such as the Customs, Excise and Preventive Service,
Ghana Immigration Service, Ghana Ports and Harbours Authority, Ghana Investment
Promotion Centre, and Ghana Free Zones Board to improve their services to foreign
investors.

This report was prepared by Ms. Xubei Luo, Sr. Economist, IEG, and Mr. David Parish,
IEG Consultant. The report presents findings based on review of the Project Appraisal
Document, the Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR), aides-memoire
and supervision reports, project files, and other relevant material. The evaluation team
visited Ghana in June 2012 to interview government officials, representatives of relevant
agencies, and other stakeholders. Bank staff members were interviewed at headquarters
and in the Accra country office.

The decision to conduct this in-depth assessment was motivated in part by significant
differences of view that emerged between IEG and the project team in the course of IEG's
review of the ICR. These differences of opinion centered on the extent to which the
project fulfilled its development objectives. This assessment aims, first, to serve an
accountability purpose by verifying whether the operation achieved its intended outcome.
Another, equally important, motivating factor was the belief that an in-depth assessment
of the Gateway project would impart useful lessons pertinent to the design and
implementation of similar projects in other countries, particularly in Africa.
Following standard IEG evaluation procedure, the report will be shared with the
government of Ghana for comment. The comments received will be included in the
report as Annex E.
                                             ix


Summary
In the mid-1990s, Ghana undertook significant legal and regulation reforms in order to
promote investment and facilitate trade. With the implementation of the Investment
Promotion Centre Act of 1994 and the Free Zone Act of 1995, the entire country was
treated like a free zone. Firms that met the free zone criteria – exporting at least 70% of
their good and services -- were provided fiscal incentives no matter where they were
located in Ghana.

The original objectives of the project were “to implement measures designed to attract a
critical mass of export-oriented firms and facilitate trade in the territory of the Borrower
to accelerate growth.” The project had two components. Component A supported a
number of reforms at key Ghanaian institutions to improve the services to foreign
investors. Component B helped to finance the development of an enclave at Tema,
originally for export-oriented companies but subsequently made available to all
companies. The finance for the enclave included support for: (i) a well-targeted
international marketing plan for attracting an international developer and (ii) off-site
infrastructure links with the enclave including water, sewage, solid waste treatment,
electricity, access roads and an environmental assessment and mitigation plan.
The Project also supported minor improvements to the port to enhance operations, such
as cargo handling, in particular by relocating the devanning area outside of the port area.
At restructuring, the objectives “to attract a critical mass of export-oriented firms and
facilitate trade in the territory of the Borrower for accelerated growth” were retained but
the components were revised. The revised component A included the provision of
funding for capacity building at an additional institution, the Ghana Investment Advisory
Council. The revised component B extended the scope of infrastructure that could be
financed under the project and made the site available to all companies as a multi-purpose
industrial park, rather than restricting use to companies that qualified for Free Zone
incentives.


The project met with mixed success. Throughout the project life-span, the objective of
attracting export-oriented firms and facilitating trade were well served by the activities
undertaken by Component A. Thanks to the changes made at the Customs, Excise and
Preventive Service, the Ghana Immigration Service, and the Ghana Ports and Harbors
Authority, the quality of services provided to investors and exporters improved
significantly. Through the creation of Ghana Community Network Service Limited
(GCNet), many customs and import processes were automated, simplified and improved.
This has contributed to cost savings to businesses, better collection of customs revenues
and speedier processing of container traffic through the port of Tema. Immigration
procedures also improved, making passage through Accra airport easier and faster and
facilitating visa on arrival arrangements. Charges at Tema port are now competitive with
other ports in the region and container traffic is moving through the port more quickly
with more streamlined inspections. Transshipment procedures have been improved for
transit traffic to neighboring countries, such as Burkina Faso and Mali. These are
considerable accomplishments with relatively small investments. Various stakeholders
felt that the achievements would not have happened without the Gateway project.
                                              x

However, the activities under the original Component B of the project had limited impact
on promoting exports. Only one export-oriented company was attracted to the Free Zone
enclave before restructuring. After the project was restructured the Free Zone enclave
became a multi-purpose industrial park for all types of companies. In addition, the project
provided on-site infrastructure in the enclave. At the time of the IEG field visit, the
enclave had some fifty companies operating within its boundaries. There are several sites
where construction was in progress as well as further interest from investors.

In the context of Ghana where the fiscal incentives of Free Zones apply to the entire
country, the original concept of the Free Zone enclave did not work. The enclave can
only be attractive if it provides a better business environment besides the fiscal
incentives, such as infrastructure, as export-oriented firms can benefit from the same
incentives elsewhere in the country. The lack of flexibility in the original project design
and the undue reliance on the performance of a single private developer are among the
key factors that contributed to the limited success before restructuring. Legal challenges
further protracted the process of the replacement of the private developer. The
restructuring took longer than expected and project activities came to a virtual standstill
while the restructuring was being considered, which hindered the efficiency of the
project. After restructuring, the project successfully addressed the main constraints of on-
site infrastructure and balanced the responsibilities of public and private sectors. The
project met its objectives in attracting both export-oriented and non-export-oriented firms
to the enclave.

In light of the above, this evaluation rates the project outcome as rated as moderately
satisfactory. The relevance of the objectives is rated as substantial, but the relevance of
the design was modest. The achievement of the development objectives of attracting
export-oriented investment and facilitating trade was substantial. However, the project’s
contribution to the objective of accelerating economic growth was at best modest. This
rating reflects, on the one hand, the achievements under the development of services for
investors through, in particular, the development of GCNet. On the other hand, the rating
also reflected delays in attracting investors to the enclave at Tema, the long process to
restructure the project, and eventual success in achieving the project objectives.

Bank performance is rated moderately unsatisfactory, mainly reflecting the mixed quality
at entry and quality of supervision. The design of the institutional component was of
good quality but the design of the free zone enclave component was deficient;
restructuring eventually helped achieve the objectives but rigidities in the project design
resulted in a prolonged restructuring period. Borrower performance is rated moderately
satisfactory, both for the government and the implementing agencies.

The assessment identified three lessons to be learned from the Gateway project.

   Free Zones are more likely to be inefficient where fiscal incentives are nationwide. A
    Multi-purpose industrial park, which targets all types of investors instead of only
    export-oriented companies, is a more suitable model in the context of Ghana. The
    provision of on-site infrastructure, along with secured land rights, is important to help
    address the business environment constraints and to attract investment and stimulate
    growth.
                                              xi

   Effective market research and flexible project design are crucial elements for the
    success of public-private partnership projects. Market research can identify areas
    where the project can draw on private finance. However, to address the uncertainties
    of the external factors, such as a foreign private investor which conditions the success
    of the project, the built-in flexibility of project design is important so the project can
    swiftly switch gear when required.

   Institutional reforms and trade logistics improvement can play a significant role in
    facilitating trade. The Ghana Community Network Services Limited, which operates
    an electronic system for processing trade and customs documents, has contributed to
    transforming customs and import procedures in Ghana. The significant improvement
    in efficiency lowers the clearing and forwarding costs for importers and contributes to
    port reforms on freight rates. It merits considering the possibility of applying the
    GCNet approach in other countries with similar context.




                                                               Caroline Heider
                                                               Director-General
                                                               Evaluation
                                             1


1. Background and Context
1.1     Ghana’s economy has expanded steadily over the past twenty years, yet it remains
a low income country. The structure of the economy has not changed substantially -
agriculture accounts for 40 percent of gross domestic product (GDP) and 50 percent of
employment, and traditional exports of cocoa and gold account for 55 to 75 percent of
total exports. The industrial sector remains relatively small and is dominated by firms
with low productivity. With a population growth rate of about 3 percent per annum, an
average annual GDP growth rate of less than 5 percent during the previous decade has
not been sufficient to reduce poverty levels significantly.

1.2     Ghana initiated structural adjustment programs in 1983 and carried out sustained
economic reforms over the next fifteen years. During this period, fiscal and monetary
policy performance was mixed and interest rates continued to remain at unacceptably
high levels. But tax revenue collection improved and public investment expenditures
were rationalized. In the early stages, growth was satisfactory in aggregate output,
mining, and services, but not in agriculture and manufacturing. Savings and private
investment remained low.

1.3     In 1994, Ghana, the second largest cocoa producer in the world, opened domestic
cocoa marketing to private operators and producers began to receive up to half of the free
on board (fob) price of cocoa. The liberalization of cocoa marketing led to a significant
attitudinal change towards the private sector. The links between private investment,
accelerated growth and poverty reduction were acknowledged. As a result, the policy
environment for the private sector started to improve and the public-private sector
dialogue initiated in 1991 was broadened and strengthened through the Private Sector
Roundtable and the Private Enterprise Foundation. Changes in policies included the
Statutory Corporations Act, under which public corporations were converted into
companies with saleable shares. Ghana's privatization effort, after many years of
unsatisfactory performance, started to pick-up.

1.4     To achieve accelerated growth, the government reaffirmed its intention to make
the private sector the engine of economic growth. It was also acknowledged that the
ability of the private sector to take on this role depended on how rapidly medium term
macro-stability could be achieved and measures taken towards addressing other key
constraints such as institutional weaknesses and inadequate infrastructure.

1.5     Ghana undertook significant legal and regulatory reforms by enacting the
Investment Promotion Centre Act of 1994 and the Free Zone Act of 1995. The Ghana
Free Zones Board was established on August 31, 1995 by an Act of Parliament - the Free
Zone Act, 1995 (Act 504). The Board was set up to enable the establishment of free
zones in Ghana for the promotion of economic development, the regulation of activities
in free zones, and for related purposes. These acts were designed to promote investment
and to provide fiscal incentives to enterprises (especially free zone companies that export
over 70 percent of their production) while setting out the rules and regulations governing
the private sector. The incentives included extended tax holidays, accelerated
depreciation, and the right to sell up to 30 percent of the value of free zone products in
the domestic market.
                                              2


1.6       Some companies moved quickly to take advantage of these incentives and the
first three licences were issued in 1996 (to enterprises from South Africa, the United
States and Ghana). In addition, the Ghana Government acquired an industrial site in a
high potential business area (in the environs of the capital and near to Tema port and
other transport facilities). It planned to make sites on the enclave available through a
private developer to companies which qualified for Free Zone incentives.

1.7     It was in this environment that the Ghana Gateway Project was designed and
appraised in 1998, with the expectation that it could address three key development
constraints. First, private sector leadership to develop and operate the free zones to attract
export-oriented manufacturing tenants. Preliminary indications were that such a Free
Zone operator could be attracted to Ghana, but only with credible assurances that some
key, off-site infrastructure and institutional issues would be addressed first. Support by
the International Development Association (IDA) for the Gateway Project would provide
the requisite assurances.

1.8      Second, complementary physical investments off-site in areas such as power,
water, waste-treatment and telecommunications hook-ups, and a short road from the Free
Zone to Ghana's existing transport infrastructure. In the ordinary course of events, it
could have taken many years for these to be made available by Ghana's infrastructure
providers. The Gateway Project aimed to accelerate this process by providing targeted
resources to cover the costs of investment in the off-site infrastructure required for the
success of the Zone. Based on the original project design, it is the responsibility of the
private operator to provide for financing, constructing, maintaining and operating all on-
site infrastructure investments.

1.9     Third, complementary trade facilitation service. In order for the Free Zone
enclave to be a successful platform for attracting export oriented manufacturing investors,
a variety of complementary trade facilitation services needed to work effectively (for
example, port and transport, customs and immigration). While institutional reforms were
underway in public agencies, it would take many years for their service standards to meet
international standards. In the interim, to ensure that trade facilitation for the Free Zone
enclave worked smoothly, the Ghanaian authorities developed very precise performance
benchmarks that the Gateway Secretariat would require from the country's customs,
immigration, and investment promotion agencies. The authorities also established clear
mechanisms for holding these agencies accountable for performance. The project
provided financial support to underpin efforts to meet the benchmarks.
                                              3


2. Objectives, Design, and their Relevance

Objectives
2.1      The project’s objectives, as stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD),
were “to attract a critical mass of export oriented investors to Ghana to accelerate export-
led growth as well as facilitate trade” (World Bank 1998a, p. 8). In the Development
Credit Agreement, the stated objectives were consistent as follows: “to implement
measures designed to attract a critical mass of export-oriented firms and facilitate trade in
the territory of the Borrower to accelerate growth through: (a) the development of off-site
infrastructure for a privately financed Free Zone; and (b) the improvement of the quality
and standards of services delivered to investors and to exporters by the Borrower’s
institutions and agencies responsible for trade and investment” (World Bank 1998b, p. 8).
The intended outcomes in the Appraisal Document and Credit Agreement were nearly
identical – the main difference being that the former pointed to export-led growth, while
the latter to growth in general. The other main difference is that the Credit Agreement’s
statement of objectives explicitly mentioned the means to achieve those objectives, the
project’s two components.

2.2      The articulation of the objectives and the components were formally revised in
2005 through a Board-approved restructuring. The revised objectives were: “(a) the
development of a multi-purpose industrial park; and (b) the improvement of the quality
and standards of services delivered to investors and to exporters by the Borrower’s
institutions and agencies responsible for trade and investment aiming to attract a critical
mass of export-oriented firms and facilitate trade in the territory of the Borrower for
accelerated growth.” In this articulation, the means (components) are expressed first, in
order to achieve the three outcomes that comprise the objectives.

2.3      Both before and after the restructuring, the stated objectives in the Credit
Agreement are a combination of objectives and means. The intended outcomes –
attracting a critical mass of export-oriented investors, accelerating growth, and
facilitating trade – remained the same. The means to achieve those outcomes did change,
from a Free Zone to a Multipurpose Industrial Park. In paragraph 3 of the Board Report
that accompanied the restructuring request, this is described as “a paradigm change” and
the report goes on to say “There is a substantial difference between the Free Zone
concept and the Multi-Purpose Industrial Park” (paragraph 8). The Free Zone was
restricted to exporting companies that qualified for fiscal incentives whereas the
Industrial Park was opened up to all company types with no requirements about export
orientation that qualified to use the site. The restructuring therefore reduced the emphasis
on export oriented companies as a source of growth and gave greater encouragement to
companies serving the local market, which also have the potential to stimulate trade and
to export. As such, restructuring drew a different balance between export oriented firms
and trade facilitation, although the desired outcomes were unchanged.

2.4    The geographic reach of the two components of the project - trade facilitation and
development of a Free Zone/Multipurpose Industrial Park - differs. Measures to improve
the quality and standards of services to investors are relevant at a national level. The
development of the free zone/industrial park enclave is specific to the area near Accra
                                             4


where the site is located. The project envisaged that the concept could be subsequently
extended to other sites throughout the country.

Relevance of the Objectives
2.5     The original and revised objectives were consistent with government and Bank
plans at the time of approval and have continued to be consistent with both poverty
reduction strategies and country assistance strategies over time. In its Interim Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) in 2000, the Government stated that overall policy
“will continue to focus on creating an enabling environment for private sector growth.
Policies have been instituted to ensure increased private sector participation and growth
in the real sectors to create employment thereby ensuring improved standards of living
for the large majority of the population who are dependent on those sectors.” In the 2003
PRSP, the Government commits “to strengthen the private sector in an active way to
ensure that it is capable of acting effectively as the engine of growth and poverty
reduction.” The 2006 PRSP reaffirmed the commitment to the private sector, stating: “It
is important that the momentum that is being generated with respect to establishing the
private sector as the engine of sustained growth and poverty reduction be maintained.”

2.6     At entry, IDA's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for 1998 to 2000 defined
poverty reduction as its central goal. The CAS recognized that one of the key
requirements for sustainable poverty reduction is higher rates of economic growth, which
can be achieved by restoring sustainable fiscal balance and promoting private investment
for exports. It estimated that an annual GDP growth rate of 8-10 percent would be
required for significant poverty reduction. In order to achieve the level of investment
required to obtain the targeted growth rate, Ghana needed to consciously develop and
consolidate its "competitive advantages" and cater to export markets. The project aimed
to remove constraints to the development of trade and exports, and to attract direct
investments for industrial and infrastructure development. Ghana’s “Vision 2020” also
saw the Project as a mechanism through which Ghana could achieve middle-income
country status. The project continued to be relevant to the World Bank’s Country
Assistance Strategies. The Strategy for 2004 - 2007 emphasized helping Ghana “to
improve access and security of land, to improve legal and judicial systems as well as the
business regulatory framework and reduce the time and cost of business registration, and
to help ensure provision of a reliable and cost-effective framework of minimum
infrastructure and services.” Private sector competitiveness is one of the three pillars of
The Ghana Joint Assistance Strategy for 2007 – 2010, which again emphasized
improving the enabling environment for business.

2.7    Overall, the relevance of the original and revised objectives is assessed as
substantial.

Design
2.8    The project had two components and both were modified at restructuring.
                                             5


ORIGINAL COMPONENTS

2.9      Part A. Investment promotion and removal of administrative bottlenecks.
There was a range of activities under Part A which were aimed to address the most
binding sector constraints on trade. In general terms, the activities were designed to
define and implement reforms in quality control and the methods, processes, and
procedures used by the Ghana Free Zones Board, Ghana Investment Promotion Centre,
the Ghana Immigration Service, Customs Service, Ports and Harbours, Civil Aviation,
and Immigration in their dealings with investors and exporters. At the Free Zones Board,
the priorities were designing information systems and capacity building to enable the
Board to attract an investor to manage the Free Zone enclave at Tema (see below) and
offering high quality and proactive services to investors in general. At the Investment
Promotion Centre, the project offered support for corporate planning, staff training, and
investment promotion activities. For the Ghana Immigration Service, the plans involved
staff retraining and process and technology improvements. At the Ghana Ports and
Harbours Authority, the aim was to increase private sector participation in the
management and to convert the Authority into a Landlord Port Authority with operations
outsourced to the private sector. For Customs, Excise, and Preventive Service, the project
aimed to develop simple and effective cargo clearance procedures and customs/shipper
information interfaces and to simplify tariffs and valuation procedures and reduce the
number of commodity descriptions and detailed schedule applications. The plans for the
Ghana Civil Aviation Authority envisaged developing a strategic framework for the
Ghana's Civil Aviation Sector. The reformed Civil Aviation Authority would have full
charge of safety regulations; pilot, carrier, and facility licensing; and air navigation and
air traffic control, while airport operations and development would be under the control
of an independent airport authority. Total costs of part A were estimated at US$14.70
million.

2.10 Part B. Infrastructure Investments. The investment component of the Project
was designed to facilitate the development of a privately-financed and owned Free Zone.
The government had allotted 1,200 acres of land near Tema for its development. Under
the Project this land would be leased to a suitable private investor/developer, selected by
international competitive bidding. The Project would finance: (i) a well-targeted
international marketing plan for attracting an international developer and (ii) off-site
infrastructure links with the Free Zone, including water, sewage, solid waste treatment,
electricity, access roads, and an environmental assessment and mitigation plan. The
Project would also support minor improvement to the port to enhance operations, such as
break bulk and cargo handling, in particular by relocating the devanning area outside of
the port area. Total costs of part B were estimated at US$38.90 million.

REVISED COMPONENTS

2.11 There were major changes in the two components at restructuring and a minimal
reallocation of funds with an unallocated amount added to the funds for Part B.

2.12 Part A. Trade Facilitation and Investment Promotion. The change to this part
of the project provided funding for capacity building at an additional institution, the
Ghana Investment Advisory Council. The Council was a consultative group composed of
private sector Chief Executive Officers that provided feedback on implementation of
                                             6


government trade facilitation and investment climate reforms. The other institutions
continued to be funded by the Project as under the original Part A.

2.13 Part B. Development of a Multipurpose Industrial Park. The main change to
this part of the Project was the change in status of the enclave at Tema from a Free Zone
to a multipurpose industrial park. The site was therefore opened up to all manufacturers
and not just those in receipt of fiscal incentives as exporters. Moreover, the original Free
Zone had restricted the use of World Bank funding to the development of off-site
infrastructure and in particular the development of a devanning area at the port. The
devanning area was developed by the private sector without recourse to IDA funding.
After restructuring, funds were reallocated and the project permitted the development of
onsite infrastructure. A section of the site was serviced with power, water, sewerage, and
roads. The plots on this part of the site were then offered to all potential investors,
whether or not they qualified for free zone incentives. Finance was also included in the
project for various road and bridge investments in the vicinity of the site.

M&E DESIGN

2.14 The indicators before restructuring were well thought through, capable of
measurement, and related to the areas of performance that were targeted through the
Gateway program. They related to both the outputs from the project and the anticipated
outcomes. Baseline values were available for outcome indicators measuring the costs of
loading import containers, the speed of unloading containers, and the average dwell time
for imported containers. Targets were set for the “critical number of export-oriented
firms” to be attracted. There was also a target set for increasing ‘net export revenues’, but
no baseline level of net export revenues was provided. Nor was it clear whether the
increase in export revenues referred to the enclave at Tema, all companies which received
Free Zone incentives, or the country as a whole. Many of the targets related to the
institutional improvements that were major components of the project. Some of these
targets were achieved before restructuring. The indicators are shown in Annex C. The
collection of data was coordinated through the Gateway secretariat, with essential inputs
from the various beneficiary organizations.

IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS

2.15 The implementation arrangements for the project were complex, reflecting the
number of agencies which were involved in delivery. The Ministry of Trade and Industry
was the main implementing agency. It was overseen by a Gateway Oversight Committee
that was chaired by the vice president. This provided the necessary high level
commitment to ensure action from the various agencies involved. Day to day
coordination was provided by the Gateway Secretariat, which acted as the Project
Coordinating Unit and had some fifteen staff. The development of the enclave Free
Zone/industrial Park was the responsibility of the Ghana Free Zones Board. A Malaysian
company, Business Focus, was appointed as manager of the enclave with responsibility
for attracting clients but failed to do so. Consequently part of the zone was subsequently
allocated to a local company.
                                              7


Relevance of Design
2.16 Part A addressed major constraints in the business environment facing exporters
and the business community as a whole in Ghana. Services such as ports, customs, and
immigration were widely recognized as unsatisfactory. The objectives of the project in
attracting export oriented investors, accelerating growth, and facilitating trade required
actions in these areas. For instance, the actions at the port were well designed to ensure a
more effective operating structure and the actions to improve performance at customs
addressed the excessive number of checks, targeting a reduction to a single check. The
actions were structured in a way that enabled success across a number of entities by
ensuring high-level involvement in the project from the vice president.

2.17 Part B as originally conceived was only modestly relevant to achieving the
objectives. There are important distinctions among the various ways in which
government and the World Bank may promote investment and, in particular, export
oriented investment. These are:

      Through financial incentives, such as tax breaks.

      Through the establishment of a supportive enabling environment, for example,
       enabling investors to obtain visas easily, having good customs procedures and
       putting in place arrangements that ensure potential investors are aware of
       investment opportunities and officials in the public sector are aware of the
       requirements of investors.

      Through the establishment of serviced industrial plots that may be available to
       investors to establish their enterprises. Such plots should have power, water, and
       telecommunications available and good connections to local and international
       transport networks.

2.18 Financial incentives were already in place under the Investment Promotion Act of
1994 and the Free Zone Act of 1995. Investors who met the criterion of exporting 70
percent of their output could set up as a free zone company anywhere in the country. The
Ghana Gateway project focused on the second and third of the investment promotion
methods outlined above. These incentives attract overlapping but different investor
groups. Some investors who are attracted by fiscal incentives may not be interested in a
serviced plot and may elect to choose their own preferred location for their operations.
On the other hand, investors who are keen to make use of a serviced plot may not be
direct exporters and hence may not qualify for fiscal incentives but may still generate
employment and investment; and some may have backward or forward linkages with
exporters and generate positive clustering and agglomeration effects for attracting
exporters.

2.19 The design of the project before restructuring restricted use of the Free Zone site
to companies that qualified for financial incentives as exporters. However, the design did
not adequately consider whether there were sufficient numbers of foreign investors who
would prefer a serviced plot from a government agency over selecting their own site. No
formal market research on the demand side was found. There was evidence, however,
that firms often identify their own site. For example the first three companies that
                                             8


received free zone incentives were licensed as early as 1996, located outside of the
enclave and have not change locations afterwards. A total of 19 free zone companies had
registered by the end of 1998.

2.20 The intended outcomes of the project were not changed at the restructuring, but
the means to achieve them were, signaling a shift in strategy from export-oriented firms
to trade facilitation. The activities under Part A remained substantially relevant to the
business community as a whole and not just to exporters.

2.21 The change of design had a greater impact on Part B, the Free Zone, which was
now open to all investors as a multipurpose industrial park and not just to exporters.
Some serviced plots were created at the enclave through financing under the project.
With the focus of the project shifted from solely exporters to investors as a whole, the
revised design had much better prospects of attracting tenants to the site and hence
promoting growth and increased trade. The revisions to Part B improved the relevance of
the project’s design to its objectives.

2.22 Overall the relevance of the design is evaluated as modest. There is a clear
difference between the two components. The design of the measures to improve the
quality and standards of services delivered to investors and to exporters by the
Borrower’s institutions and agencies responsible for trade and investment was well
handled. There is also a clear difference for Part B before and after restructuring.



3. Implementation
Planned vs. Actual Expenditure
3.1     The total cost of the project was estimated at appraisal as US$ 56 million of
which US$50.5 million equivalent (denominated as Special Drawing Rights, SDR, 37.6
million) was to be funded from an IDA credit and the balance from government resources
and the private sector. The actual cost was US$56.8 million of which US$52.5 million
was funded from the credit. The US$ value of the credit increased because of the decline
in value of the US$ against the SDR.

3.2     The breakdown of funding between the various agencies that benefited from the
project is shown in the two pie charts below (Figures 1 and 2). In terms of the
expenditure by component, final expenditure on Part A was $7.8 million (105 percent of
planned expenditure) and on Part B was $41.6 million (102 percent of planned
expenditure).

Implementation Experience
3.3      The project was approved on July 9, 1998, and became effective on January 13,
1999. Problems with procurement and the development of the free zone enclave during
the first three years of project implementation were identified during supervision
missions. A briefing note prepared in April 2002 for the midterm review identified
flooding problems with part of the site, which were subsequently resolved. There were
                                                           9


also delays in the procurement process. The records of the Free Zones Board show that
many investors were receiving investment incentives but choosing to base themselves at
other locations around Tema and Accra rather than at the Tema enclave.

3.4      The design of the project had envisaged a private sector manager for the free zone
enclave with international expertise in attracting clients to such sites. A Malaysian
company, Business Focus, was appointed as manager in July 1999 but failed to attract
clients. The Asian financial crisis, which began in 1997, was put forward by some
interviewees as a possible reason for this failure; in fact, it appears the firm had
misunderstood the nature of the free zone legislation in Ghana. Project documents dating
from August 2003 indicate that the company believed that the government was to enforce
relocation of all export producers to the enclave and cease giving licenses to exporters
outside the enclave. However, the free zone legislation indicates that free zone companies
could locate anywhere in Ghana.

Figure 1: Planned Disbursement of Project Funds by Agency (US$ million)




                                    Ghana Free Zone
                                     Board, 35.8m
                                                                                                 Environmental
                                                                                                   Protection
                                                                                                  Agency, 2m




                                                                                             Customs, Excise &
Gateway Secretariat,                                                                         Preventive Service,
      2.87m                                                                                        2.25m


                                                                                             Ghana Port &
                Ghana Investment                                                           Harbours Authority,
                Promotion Centre,                                        Ghana Civil
                                                  Ghana Immigration                              5.25m
                     2.75m                                                Aviation
                                                    Service, 1.18m      Authority, 1m




Source: Gateway Project Coordination Team, Government of Ghana. 2010. Implementation Completion Report
                                                           10




Figure 2: Actual Distribution of Funds at Project Closure by Agency (US$ million)


                                             Ghana Free Zone                                    Environmental
                                              Board, 32.6m                                        Protection
                                                                                                 Agency, 1.3m
                                                                                                     Customs, Excise &
                                                                                                   Preventive Service, 3.1m




                                                                                                            Ghana Ports &
                                                                                                          Harbours Authority,
                                                                                                                7.7m


     Gateway Secretariat,
           6.0m                                                                                     Ghana Civil Aviation
                                      Ghana Investment                                                Authority, 1.6m
                                    Promotion Centre, 1.6m
                                                                          Ghana Immigration
                                                                            Service, 1.5m



Source: Gateway Project Coordination Team, Government of Ghana. 2010. Implementation Completion Report.




3.5 The project contributed to the physical development of a free zone enclave by
providing off site infrastructure such as access to roads and electricity connection for the
site. The development of the infrastructure proceeded broadly in accordance with plans,
but one part of the plan was superseded when private finance became available for the
development of a container devanning area near the port.

3.6    The midterm review took place on June 3, 2002. At that stage, the Bank team
believed the project could still be completed and tenants attracted by the original
completion date of December 2005. A new project coordinator had just been appointed.
The new government was showing strong commitment to the project. There were several
proposed changes to the scope of the works (for example to finance drainage works) at
Tema, but the concept of a creating an enclave devoted to companies which qualified for
Free Zone incentives was maintained.

3.7     In April 2003, a Government mission visited Washington to discuss progress on
the project and, in particular, the slow progress in recruiting tenants for the free zone
enclave. The only tenant in the free zone enclave is a company that had moved from
elsewhere in Accra to Tema. The government proposed changes to the use of the enclave,
to permit development of a garment village, and the use of the credit for on-site
infrastructure. Further missions to Ghana in December 2003 and January 2004 introduced
a new Task Team Leader to the project and confirmed the low level of interest from
exporting firms in locating at the enclave (5 years after project approval). It was at that
stage that consideration was first given to moving away from the free zone concept, and
by April 2004 the government and the World Bank had agreed on the multipurpose
industrial park approach in place of the Free Zone enclave. At the same time, it was
                                             11


agreed that a two-year extension to the project closing date might be needed. A mission
in July 2004 developed the revised concept for the project further, both in relation to the
multi-purpose industrial park and other parts of the project.

3.8     The outline of the restructuring was clear by that stage. However, it took until
September 2004 for formal proposals to be drawn up for the restructuring and during this
period, implementation of the project almost ground to a halt. The restructuring was
formally completed on November 23, 2005 (a year later, and over 7 years after the
project was approved). In addition to the changes to the components there were two
generic changes made at restructuring which affected the project as a whole. The project
adopted new World Bank rules on procurement and consultants but the impact of these
changes was limited. The key performance indicators were also changed and the details
of these changes are discussed further below. The changes included an extension of 18
months in the closing date to June 2007, but this proved insufficient. There were two
further extensions to June 2008 and then to December 2009. The Project therefore closed
four years later than originally planned, on December 31, 2009.

Implementation of Monitoring and Evaluation
3.9     Monitoring and evaluation of the project was largely carried out by the Gateway
secretariat. The secretariat submitted quarterly progress reports and an annual operating
plan to the World Bank. These were complemented by bi-monthly audio conferences
between the Bank and the secretariat. The secretariat did an effective job of collecting
and reporting progress against the various indicators. After restructuring new indicators
were put in place and these were much vaguer (e.g., the creation of new economic
opportunities for entrepreneurship or the percentage of companies benefiting from
improved trade corridor and market access services) and in most cases lacked a baseline
value or data collection procedure to enable monitoring. The revised indicators lacked
targets and baselines and were exclusively focused on outputs and measures of
satisfaction by firms, as opposed to indicators of the outcomes pointed to in the statement
of objectives. The secretariat and implementing agencies continued to collect data to
monitor against the original indicators. The use of the new indicators was limited and it
was unclear how to collect data.

Safeguards Compliance
3.10 The project was classified as category A and triggered an environmental
assessment in accordance with Operational Policy 4.01 because of the off-site and on-site
infrastructure that was planned at the free zone enclave. These included: (a) water
connection; (b) sewage and solid waste treatment for the free zone enclave; (c) electricity
link; (d) telecommunication link; and (e) access roads to the Project site. An
Environmental Impact Assessment was carried out during project preparation which
concluded that there were no major negative environmental problems envisaged from the
project. The Assessment included an Environmental Mitigation Plan and Monitoring Plan
(EMP) and an Industrial Risk Contingency Plan, clearly identifying the institutional
arrangements for the execution of the respective plans.

3.11 The EMP was implemented by the Environmental Protection Agency, to which
Government transferred the component. The Government also established a Gateway
                                             12


Environmental Management Office in Tema and ensured that the requisite human and
institutional capacities were provided.

3.12 Operational Policy 4.12 on involuntary resettlement was also triggered but the
resettlement issues were addressed by the government before project effectiveness. All
safeguards issues were therefore dealt with appropriately.

4. Achievement of the Objectives
4.1     The objectives of the project as stated in the Development Credit Agreement are a
combination of outcomes and means to achieve them. The three intended outcomes are
“creating a mass of export-oriented firms,” “facilitating trade,” and “accelerating
growth.”

4.2      It is difficult to establish results chains which link the outputs from the various
components with these objectives. The objectives themselves are high level and
influenced by many factors which are outside the scope of the project as well as the
project activities. The project was undertaken in a dynamic policy environment in Ghana
and there were many other factors at work which could have helped to create a mass of
export oriented firms or facilitated trade. The appraisal documents do not specify how
many firms constitute a critical mass or how much output needs to be exported in order
for a firm to be export oriented. The investment incentives that were available to
exporters had been created before the project was launched. The procedural reforms at
customs and immigration, for example, were made at the same time as a number of
reforms which were designed to improve the business environment.

4.3     It is also difficult to establish a proper counterfactual for the investment in the
infrastructure at and around the enclave in Tema. It is possible that the enterprises that set
up their businesses at Tema could have found sites elsewhere in Ghana in which case the
Gateway infrastructure has not increased exports but moved exporting firms from one
area to another. Many free zone companies are based elsewhere in the country and in the
early stages the enclave could not attract tenants, which strongly suggests that potential
alternative sites were available. In the past, cocoa was exported in any event as raw
beans. While companies processing cocoa in the Free Zone enclave have high exports,
the incremental impact associated with project investment in this instance is the added
value of processing alone. Although the links between the project outputs and the
outcomes seems plausible, there are inevitably uncertainties over attribution of particular
benefits to the project.

ATTRACTING A CRITICAL MASS OF EXPORT ORIENTED FIRMS

4.4     Outputs. After restructuring, the project delivered clear output through financing
the development of on-site infrastructure. Roads were developed and utilities put in place
in a limited area of the site. This area was designated as a multipurpose industrial park
and made available to investors generally and not just those who qualified for free zone
incentives. These two changes – development of on-site infrastructure and transforming
the Free Zone to a Multi-Purpose Industrial Park - led to a sharp increase in the number
of firms located in the enclave. The enclave became more attractive to investors, with
better infrastructure, and more secure land rights compared with locations outside the
                                                13


park. At project closing, 24 firms were operating in the enclave. At the time of the IEG
mission, there were 31 free zone companies based in the enclave of which four were in
the areas designated for the industrial park. In addition there were around 15 non-free
zone companies in the industrial park. After a slow start, the site is becoming a popular
industrial location for all sorts of companies.

4.5     Outcomes. Based on data collected from the GFZB website, Figure 3 below
provides some details of the numbers of companies which have received free zone
licenses, broken down by year.1 The graph appears to show a steady and growing flow of
companies gaining the incentives during the project life span, but no information is found
on whether the numbers in the most recent years is complete or updated. However, the
data set is incomplete - only 136 out of the 296 companies that have received the
incentives are included on the web site.


         Figure 3: Free Zone Licenses by year issued




Source: Ghana Free Zones Board
4.6     Figure 4 shows the geographic distribution of free zone licenses. 213 of the 296
licenses were for firms in Greater Accra, and that of the 213, only 42 firms were in the
enclave at Tema. Figure 5 shows a further 52 firms were in Tema but outside the
enclave, 7 were at the airport, and 112 were elsewhere in Accra.




1
  During IEG’s mission, interviewees showed reservation on the quality, such as completeness
and timeliness, of the data. The results presented in the graphs on the free zone companies reflect
the imperfectness of the data, and should be interpreted with caution.
                                        14


Figure 4: Distribution of Ghana Free Zone Board Enterprises by Region




Source: Ghana Free Zone Board

Figure 5: Distribution of Greater Accra Enterprises by Location




Source: Ghana Free Zone Board
Photo 1: Free Zone Enclave at Tema
                                             15




Source: Xubei Luo

4.7     The target of 30 export oriented companies at the enclave has now been exceeded,
though much later than planned and there is considerable development taking place at the
site as well as further interest from investors. A random survey of the tenants conducted
by the Free Zones Board concluded they were somewhat satisfied with the services
provided and discussions held during the IEG mission suggested that companies were
generally satisfied with the services provided in the enclave.

4.8     The original performance indicators for the project were that there should be 10,
20 and 30 firms established and operating in the free zone enclave in the second, third
and fourth year after the completion of civil works. It is reasonable to infer that these
targets were expected to correspond with a critical mass of export oriented companies by
the fourth year. These targets were not met, since only one firm had located in the
enclave at restructuring, seven years after project approval.

4.9     During the IEG mission in Ghana it was suggested by several interviewees that
land security remains a challenge in Ghana because of the possible competing claims of
ownership over individual plots. The availability of a plot through a government agency
such as the Ghana Free Zones Board could in fact mitigate the risk. However, the
attribution of the results in attracting investment to secure land rights remains
inconclusive. First, there is no reference to this in the project appraisal documentation or
in subsequent documents such as mission aide’s memoire. Second, only 31 (14 percent)
of the 221 companies registered at the Free Zones Board with Free Zone status are
located in the enclave. Several companies with Free Zone status are located elsewhere in
Tema.

4.10 Achievement of the objective of creating a critical mass of export-oriented firms
is rated substantial.
                                           16


FACILITATING TRADE

4.11 The Ghana Free Zones Board provided some information on employment, capital
invested and exports by Free Zone companies operating in the enclave and these are
shown in the table 1.

Table 1: Free Zone Companies Operating in Tema Enclave in June 2012
Company                                Employment     Capital invested       Exports
                                                           US$                US$
3F Ghana Limited                            69           5,966,540         14,279,223
B D Associates (Gh) Ltd                     0           12,834,190              -
Barry Callebaut                            100          19,330,862         913,888,017
Bear Machines W/A Ltd                       0             294,390               -
Blow-Pak Industries Ltd                     75            795,200           9,143,769
Cargill Ghana Ltd                          186          85,122,997         507,663,353
Comet Gh Ltd                                30            127,000          73,301,115
Commodity Processing Industries Ltd         93           3,588,765         64,312,706
Decorplast Ltd                             357          16,270,273         101,547,985
G C Bio Chemicals Ltd                       11            662,843           5,090,218
Ghana Speciality Fats Industries Ltd       116          26,977,136         90,079,648
Lewadis Ltd                                 11               -              2,832,039
Lucky 1888 Mills Ltd                       129            225,847            723,550
Niche Cocoa Industry Ltd                    0            2,761,583              -
Rebecca Fashion Manufacturing Ghana         19           5,714,769           54,720
Ltd
Red Sea Housing Services (Gh) Ltd          716          28,053,071         241,800,104
Sitos Gh Ltd                                24           1,854,483         11,362,375
Top Industries Co Ltd                      413          16,635,988         72,794,740
Verhad Free Zone Import & Export Co         23          16,242,223          6,975,234
Ltd
Total                                      2372        243,458,162        2,115,848,795
Source: Ghana Free Zones Board.


4.12 These figures are acknowledged by the Free Zones Board to be incomplete.
Several companies are omitted and for some of the included companies there are no data
on employment or capital invested. The results of interviews during the IEG field mission
showed that employee numbers at two of the companies shown in the table had since
doubled. The figures show that substantial investment and export activity is coming into
the enclave and that employment levels are rising. However, the export figure has to be
treated with caution as it shows gross exports from the zone and this will include some
products such as cocoa which would have been exported directly in the past. The exports
of over US$2 billion do not therefore enable an estimate of the increase in net exports
which will be far lower. But the evidence is at least suggestive of increased export trade
                                             17


and hence the achievement of one of the project objectives. It is normal for Free Zone
enclaves to take some time to take off. Analysis by Farole (2010) has shown that such
zones often grow linearly in their early stages before hitting a growth inflection point
some five to ten years after becoming operational. There are signs that Ghana has now
reached this inflection point.

4.13 The project set a target of increasing net exports revenue by 25 percent, 30
percent and 40 percent. But the baseline was not clear.

4.14 Outputs. There were four major categories of service targeted for improvement
by the project, in the areas of customs, immigration, the port and airport. In addition to
their role in facilitating trade, these activities would also have some impact on attracting
export oriented firms. These areas are all important areas for investors and exporters.
Ghana has been making efforts to improve its performance across the board in recent
years and was rated as one of the top ten reformers in 2006/7 in the World Bank’s doing
business surveys because of the improvements in its business environment and in its
ranking. In 2011, Ghana was ranked 67th out of 183 countries in the World Bank’s survey
on the ease of doing business. This is a substantial improvement over 2006 when it was
ranked 82nd out of 155 countries. The higher ranking was achieved by substantive
reforms in business practices.

4.15 Customs. The reforms initiated by the Gateway project (through the creation of
the Ghana Community Network Services, Ltd, or GCNet, in 2003) at the Customs,
Excise, and Preventive Service (CEPS) has achieved results that go far beyond the
original expectations at the inception of the Gateway project. GCNet operates an
electronic system for processing trade and customs documents. It collects Import Duties,
Import VAT, Export Duty and, Petroleum Tax. The majority shareholder is the SGS
group from Switzerland, a major provider of testing, verification and certification
services. Other shareholders include CEPS, the Ghana Shippers’ Council and two banks.
Thirteen former customs and trade processes have been eliminated and the system is now
fully automated, including payments. GCNet has transformed customs and import
procedures in Ghana resulting in significant increases in government revenues (Table 7)
and significant time savings for importers and exporters as well as dividends on the
government’s shareholding in the enterprise. The Ghana Institute of Freight Forwarders
reported that the GCNet system had reduced the processing time for customs
documentation from 7 days to 1 day and the overall time for goods clearance from 21
days to 3 days.The benefits started to flow very quickly. As early as 2004, GCNet was
included as an example of a success story in a World Bank report on Customs
Modernization Initiatives. The report identified higher revenues and faster clearance
times as immediate benefits and also identified areas where further progress could be
made. The IEG mission has confirmed that these improvements have been sustained and
built on. GCNet has since addressed outstanding areas such as customs’ valuations and
risk assessment.

Table 2 : Total Import Revenue (current cedi)
                          A. Total Imports        B.Imports of goods
                           Revenue (cedi          and services (Cedi,
Year                          million)                 billion)          Ratio (A/B) (%)
                                                18


1999                                   110.4           1.02                  10.81
2000                                   169.5           1.83                   9.28
2001                                    244            2.47                   9.89
2002                                   328.8           2.68                  12.26
2003                                   493.2           3.75                  13.17
2004                                   633.7           4.82                  13.14
2005                                   755.5            6                    12.59
2006                                   866.7           7.62                  11.38
2007                                   1196.7          9.45                  12.66
2008                                   1533.5          13.4                  11.42
2009                                   1799.4          15.5                  11.62
2010                                   2167.8           19                   11.42
2011                                   3177.6          30.3                  10.48
Source: World Development Indicators



4.16 GCNet is now also involved in income tax process automation. During IEG’s
field mission, interviewees who had knowledge of this component of the project were
unanimous in their views that GCNet would not have been created without the Gateway
project and the World Bank’s involvement.

4.17 The indicators for this part of the project set at entry were (i) Number of
examinations at point of entry, of Cargo and documents, are reduced to one; (ii) Cargo
examination is reduced from 100 percent to 10 percent for statutory free goods, and 20
percent for all dutiable goods; (iii) Appropriate customs regulation is in place to allow
direct delivery of containers between the port of Tema and the free zone enclave no later
than end-1999; (iv) A valuation system acceptable to all Stakeholders is established; (v)
Number of overland customs check points on the road are reduced to one to Togo; two
for Côte d’Ivoire; and two to Burkina Faso; and (vi) free zone customs unit is operational
in line with free zone regulations. These objectives were generally met. The number of
cargo examinations still exceeds the target (10 percent of all statutory free goods and 20
percent for dutiable goods) but it is based on a reasonable system for classifying cargos
into risk categories and the level of examinations should reduce as compliance improves.

4.18 Immigration. Support to the Ghana Immigration Service had also achieved
substantial results and led to a culture change in the organization, which has become far
more welcoming to foreign investors and visitors more generally. Immigration officers
were trained and services at entry points consolidated. This was confirmed by a number
of the interviewees and by the practical experience of the IEG mission which found a
considerable improvement in immigration formalities compared to previous visits. It is
viewed as an important accomplishment of the project.

4.19 The indicators for this part of the project were (i) Business and tourist visas issued
on arrival upon payment of reasonable fees; (ii) Business/Tourist visas are delivered
within 48 hours at all Ghana consular missions abroad, by year-2000; (iii) Services at
entry points consolidated by the government into one (Immigration Health and Bureau of
                                             19


National Investigation) ensuring rapid clearance; and (iv) 100 Immigration officers /
consuls trained in the Gateway concept by year 2000. The first of these indicators was
met in principle in that it is now possible to obtain a visa on arrival. However, prior
approval is required and, as a result, most visitors still obtain visas from Ghanaian
embassies. There were also deficiencies on performance in the issue of visas by Ghanaian
embassies, over which the agencies involved in the Gateway Project had no control as it
was handled by the Foreign Ministry and not the Immigration Service. No progress has
been made in reducing waiting times. The procedures require two visits to the embassy
and take at least two weeks. It still takes longer than 48 hours to deliver a business visa at
Ghanaian embassies and high commissions. Other indicators were met.

4.20 Ports. The performance of Ghana’s ports has improved considerably since the
inception of the Gateway Project. There has been partial progress toward privatization.
For example, most stevedoring is now done by private firms but the Ghana Ports and
Harbours Authority still selects the firm and there is therefore only limited competition.
The paperwork requirements at the port have been simplified considerably as a result of
the GCNet initiative discussed above and itself part of the gateway project, which has
contributed to faster cargo handling.

4.21 The indicators for this part of the project were (i) Private sector participation in
port operations, who will assume investments in both rehabilitation and expansion; (ii)
New Ports Act that transforms the Ports and Harbours Authority into a "landlord"
structure, and grants greater autonomy to the ports submitted to parliament no later than
end-1999; (iii) The devanning area is relocated outside the port no later than end-1999;
(iv) A privately developed and financed Electronic Data Interchange is in place; (v) Costs
of loading import containers are reduced from S$168 in 1998 to US$80 by end-1999 and
to international standards by end-2000; (vi) Speed of unloading containers increases from
gross 12 boxes per ship hour to 20 boxes per ship hour by end-1999 and 24 boxes by
year-2000; and (vii) Average dwell time for imported containers drops from 25 days in
1998 to 15 days by end-1999 and less than 7 days by year-2000. There has been some
progress towards a landlord structure and greater private sector involvement. The
devanning area was moved and data interchanges established through GCNet. Port
charges are competitive with those in neighboring countries such as Abidjan, Lome, and
Cotonou. Containers can now be unloaded at up to 35 boxes per hour per vessel. The
dwell time for containers is, however, still around 16 days, against a baseline of 25 days
and a target of 7.

4.22 Aviation. In the aviation sector, the Gateway Project aimed to promote a
"liberalized skies policies" that required institutional reform of the Ghana Civil Aviation
Authority. The reformed Authority would become a regulator with airport operations and
development under the control of an independent airport authority. Legislation to achieve
this was passed in 2004 and became effective at the beginning of 2007. It had not become
fully effective by the conclusion of the project but far more international airlines were
now flying into Accra airport following liberalization.

4.23 The indicators for this part of the project were (i) A future development scenario
for the civil aviation sector, reflecting government priorities is adopted by end-1999; (ii)
Regulation operationalizing liberalized skies policy is adopted by end-2000; (iii) a
Kotoka International Airport management and development concession is signed with a
                                                                    20


private operator by end-2000; and (iv) Ghana Airways is privatized by end-1999. These
indicators were partly met and many more airlines are now flying into Accra. The
management of the airport remains in state hands. The Ghana Airways was liquidated in
2005.

4.24         Achievement of the objective to facilitate trade is rated substantial.

ACCELERATING ECONOMIC GROWTH

4.25 There are a number of ways in which the outputs from this project might be
reflected in macroeconomic statistics. First, more opportunities for exporters should
attract firms to invest in Ghana. This would show up as both increased total investment
and increased foreign investment. New opportunities would be likely to attract foreign
investors in particular, who could have immediate access to capital that might not be
available to local firms. Second the increased export activity of these firms should show
up in export statistics.

4.26 Evidence from the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
(UNCTAD) World Investment Report for 2011 suggests that Ghana has had some
success at attracting foreign investment (investment by foreign investors) in recent years.
Table 3 shows the stock of foreign direct investment (FDI) in various West African
countries in 1990, 2000 and 2010, along with GDP figures.2




2   As the statistics for the stock of export oriented firms are not available, FDI is used here as a proxy of measurement.
                                                  21




Table 3 : Foreign Direct Investment in Various West African Countries
                      FDI Stock (US$ million)                            Growth of
                     1990     2000      2010                             FDI stock       FDI stock
                                                                         from 2000        as % of
                                                        2010 GDP        to 2010 (per      GDP in
                                                       (US$ million)        cent)          2010
Benin                           213            849         6633              399            12.8
Burkina Faso            39       28            905         8820             3232            10.3
Cape Verde               4      192            1140        1648              594            69.2
Cote d'Ivoire          975      2483           6641       22780              267            29.2
Gambia                 157      216            675          807              313            83.6
Ghana                  319      1605           9098       31306              567            29.1
Guinea                  69      263            1917        4511              729            42.5
Guinea Bissau            8       38            190          879              500            21.6
Liberia               2732      3247           4888         986              151           495.7
Mali                   229      132            1234        9251              935            13.3
Mauritania              59      146            2155        3636             1476            59.3
Niger                  286       45            2310        5549             5133            41.6
Nigeria               8539     23786          60327      193669              254            31.1
Senegal                258      295            1615       12954              547            12.5
Sierra Leone           243      284            495         1905              174            26.0
Togo                   268      427            955         3153              224            30.3
Total                14185     33400          95394      308487              286            30.9
Source: UNCTAD World Investment Report 2011


4.27 The table shows substantial growth in FDI in most West African countries
between 2000 and 2010. This suggests that there would have been considerable foreign
investment in Ghana even without the gateway project as the region generally was
attracting investors. Ghana performed better than the average with an increase in the FDI
stock by a factor of over five. The increase may have been influenced by the gateway
project but other factors are likely to have played a substantial role as well such as
growing international investor interest in Africa generally and the improved overall
business climate in Ghana. The ratio of FDI stock to GDP in Ghana is slightly lower than
the average in the region. This may well change in the future with the development of the
oil industry. But, overall, the data suggest that Ghana has further to go in order to claim
success in attracting foreign investors. The CAS for Ghana for 2008 – 2011 concluded
that “FDI is relatively low for an economy of Ghana's potential.” The UNCTAD figures
do not distinguish between investments to serve the local market and those for export.
However, in the country context of Ghana it is reasonable to expect investors to plan to
export at least part of their output in order to ensure the repatriation of earnings.

4.28 The creation of new firms, both export-oriented and for local business would be
likely to lead to an increase in investment and hence capital formation. Gross capital
formation has risen slightly as a percentage of GDP and in an environment where GDP
itself has also been growing, as shown in the table 4 below:
                                                                  22


Table 4: Gross Capital Formation
                                                                                                     Annual GDP Growth
Year                                     Gross capital formation as % of GDP                             Rate (%)
1998                                                      23                                                 5
1999                                                              21                                               4
2000                                                              24                                               4
2001                                                              27                                               4
2002                                                              19                                               5
2003                                                              23                                               5
2004                                                              28                                               6
2005                                                              29                                               6
2006                                                              22                                               6
2007                                                              20                                               6
2008                                                              21                                               8
2009                                                              23                                               4
2010                                                              27                                               8
Source: World Bank World Development Indicators


4.29 Ghana’s export performance has fluctuated considerably in recent years, both in
absolute terms and as a percentage of GDP. Export volumes as percent of GDP are shown
in table 5. The level of exports is significantly higher at the end of the period than the
beginning but sustained higher volumes are only achieved from 2006 onwards. The share
of exports in GDP is shown below:

Table 5: Exports of Goods and Services3

                                                                  Exports of goods and services as % of
                  Year                                                           GDP
                  1998                                                             34
                  1999                                                             32
                  2000                                                             49
                  2001                                                             45
                  2002                                                             43
                  2003                                                             41
                  2004                                                             39
                  2005                                                             36
                  2006                                                             25
                  2007                                                             25
                  2008                                                             25
                  2009                                                             29
                  2010                                                             29
                  Source: World Bank World Development Indicators


3The dramatic increase in the exports to GDP ratio in 2000 reflects the significant depreciation of the cedi against the US$ in that
year.
                                                       23




4.30 Over this period, Ghana has continued to be heavily dependent on cocoa and gold
as sources of export revenue as illustrated in figure 6:

Figure 6: Ghana Export Revenues (US$ million)
          4000
                                       Other exports
          3500
                                       Cocoa
          3000
                                       Gold
          2500

          2000

          1500

          1000

           500

              0
                  199920002001200220032004200520062007200820092010

Source: IMF Country reports on Ghana

4.31 The figures for cocoa exports include cocoa products and the value added from
the sector increased due to the investment of companies in cocoa processing at the Tema
enclave. But, overall, the share of other exports in the total has fallen relative to gold and
cocoa over the period of the Gateway project. The reasons for the considerable
fluctuations in Ghana export levels relative to GDP are not clear and there is the
possibility that there are errors in some of the figures. There is ample scope for
agricultural commodities in particular to move undetected across borders in West Africa
and this may also be a factor in understating the export value of other goods. Other
exports have increased in value substantially over the period of the project; however the
economy remains as heavily dependent on gold and cocoa as it was at the start of the
project. While diversification of exports was not an explicit objective of the project it is
clear that the incentives for free zone investors were targeting new investors and hence
could be expected to lead to increases in non-traditional exports. The increase in non-
traditional exports may reflect the improving economic environment in Ghana but on the
other hand the global economic environment was difficult for parts of this period. The
latest Ghana Investment Climate Assessment in 2009 concludes that “The Ghanaian
economy changed very little in the last two decades. The economy’s traditional exports
have continued to dominate.... With respect to the economic composition of production,
the share of industry of total GDP has been steady at 25 percent over the past 25 years.”
Most of this industry is domestically and not export oriented. There are no statistics on
the number of export oriented companies to show any trends.

4.32 These macroeconomic statistics suggest that, since the Gateway project was
approved in 1998, the level of achievement in attracting export oriented firms and
                                             24


facilitating trade has been substantial. However, the most recent results are more
encouraging and this may well show as improved export performance and increased
investment in more recent statistics and in the future.

Efficiency
4.33 Cost-benefit. Both the Project Appraisal Document and the ICR undertook a cost
benefit analysis of the Gateway project. A number of key areas of benefit were identified
such as employment generation, foreign exchange earnings and technology transfer to be
set against the capital and recurring costs of the project, both on and off site. The analysis
considered only increased foreign exchange earnings from exports and the key
assumption was that the project would accelerate growth in exports in three years.

4.34 The IEG mission found both these analyses incomplete and unconvincing. The
analysis is incomplete because it fails to consider the substantial benefits associated with
the various improvements at the Customs, Excise, and Preventive Service, the
Immigration Service, and the Ports and Harbours Authority, referred to in the previous
section. These institutions have all achieved significant improvements in performance
and productivity as a result of the Gateway project and the results are significant. For
example, the productivity of the clearing and forwarding sector is now considerably
greater because of vastly improved handling of paperwork. Productivity is also higher at
the port, where charges are now competitive compared with other ports in the region. The
rate at which containers are loaded and unloaded has improved significantly. The
experience of passengers at Accra airport is greatly enhanced as a result of the project
with time savings that have both GDP and welfare benefits.

4.35 But on the other hand there is little evidence that the expected increase in export
earnings from the project – which entered into the ERR calculations -- has materialized.
In these circumstances it is questionable whether a cost benefit analysis which focuses on
increased exports can accurately measure efficiency because the benefits are too
speculative. The unavailability of the information of the amount of rent that companies
paid in the free zone enclave also add to the difficulties of the cost-benefit calculation.

4.36 Cost-effectiveness. Equally important to the assessment of efficiency is the
extent to which project resources were managed economically and the project was
implemented at least cost. The project suffered considerable delays both before the mid-
term review and subsequent to the mid-term review while restructuring was under
consideration. These contributed to the delays in bringing tenants to the project and hence
to inefficient use of resources. Overall the efficiency of the project is therefore evaluated
as modest.
                                                                  25


Ratings
OUTCOME

4.37 The relevance of the objectives is rated as substantial, but the relevance of the
design was modest. The achievement of the development objectives of attracting export-
oriented investment and facilitating trade was substantial in both cases with performance
on both objectives improving considerably in the later stages of the project. However, at
best the project’s contribution to accelerating economic growth was modest. Overall, the
outcome of the project is rated as moderately satisfactory due to moderate shortcomings
in terms of efficiency, relevance of design, and achievement of the economic growth
objective.4 This rating reflects, on the one hand, the considerable achievements under the
development of services for investors through in particular the development of GCNet
and on the other hand, the delays in attracting investors to the enclave at Tema, the long
process in getting to the restructuring, and eventual success in achieving the project
objectives.

RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME

4.38 The risk to the development outcome is rated as moderate. Now that the site at
Tema is completed a number of firms are operating within it. During IEG’s field visit,
building works were in progress on a number of empty plots. The mission was also
advised that the availability of large plots, of the type that are available in Tema, is
limited. Evidence from interviews with representatives of companies based at the enclave
suggests they are generally satisfied with the service they are receiving from the
developers and the Free Zones Board. The location is also convenient for the port and
airport.

4.39 The institutional reforms also appear to be sustainable. The excellent performance
of GCNet has ensured that reforms at customs have gone far beyond those envisaged at
the time the gateway project was designed. In other areas such as immigration the
government and its agencies continue to be committed to the reforms that have taken
place and accept that they have been beneficial for the economy. Congestion at the port
of Tema continues to be a problem as the volume of trade passing through the port grows
and it is clear that further investment will be needed to sustain the performance at the
port, but this is an inevitable consequence of economic growth. There are plans in place
for the future development of the port.

4.40 One area of concern is the Free Zones Board and Investment Promotion Center
have not produced annual reports and accounts in recent years, which reflects inadequate
internal controls within these organizations. Information, including that on the companies
in the free zone enclave, is not regularly updated. In such an environment the financial
sustainability of these institutions is inevitably uncertain. Following the provision by the
public sector of internal infrastructure at the industrial park, with World Bank funding,
sites in this area were quickly taken up by investors. It is regrettable that a local investor

4 Although the project was restructured and the articulation of the objectives was changed, the anticipated outcomes remained the
same and these are the benchmarks for the evaluation. Thus, this assessment has not separately assessed the results under the
original and revised objectives and weighted the results, per the guidelines for rating projects with formally revised objectives; the
ratings for the original and revised objectives would be identical.
                                             26


has not pursued a similar initiative in another part of the enclave since this would
probably lead to sites being occupied more quickly. In the absence of credible
information from financial accounts it is impossible to assess the feasibility of such
investment.

Bank Performance

QUALITY AT ENTRY

4.41 The quality at entry of the Gateway project was rated as moderately
unsatisfactory. The institutional component of the project was ambitious and sought to
achieve major institutional changes in a number of separate agencies including the
Customs, Excise and Preventive Service, Ghana Immigration Service, Ghana Ports and
Harbours Authority, Ghana Civil Aviation Authority, Ghana Investment Promotion
Centre, and Ghana Free Zones Board. The risks of attempting changes at such a large
number of institutions at the same time were high but the project was well designed to
address these risks with a coordination structure under the vice president. At the time, it
was recognized that a number of Ghanaian institutions were not investor friendly and the
project tackled these issues head on with a mixture of well thought through support
measures and objectives.

4.42 However, the Free Zone enclave component of the project had deficiencies. It
attracted only one free zone company to the enclave before restructuring. The project as a
whole aimed to promote investment generally, not solely export oriented investment and
had, for example, a component for the Ghana Investment Promotion Center, which aims
to assist investors who do not qualify for free zone status.

4.43 The initial project design did not have enough flexibility in what could and could
not be financed in a project that was at the interface between the private and public
sectors. Initially only infrastructure outside the enclave could be financed. However, in
practice, part of the infrastructure outside the enclave (the devanning area) proved
suitable for private financing while some infrastructure had to be developed by the
project within the enclave in order to attract investors to the site. With a more flexible
structure at entry some of these problems could have been avoided and one element that
led to the long restructuring process could have been remedied more promptly.

QUALITY OF SUPERVISION

4.44 The quality of supervision was moderately satisfactory. The new design after
restructuring was far better with provision for onsite infrastructure and the change from a
Free Zone enclave to a multi-purpose industrial park. Once the restructuring was agreed,
implementation proceeded rapidly and well. However, it took far too long to recognize
that the project was failing to attract investors to the Free Zone enclave and carry out the
necessary restructuring. Disbursement ceased for almost two years while restructuring
was undertaken.

4.45   Overall the performance of the Bank is rated as moderately unsatisfactory.
                                              27


Borrower Performance

GOVERNMENT PERFORMANCE

4.46 The performance of the government was rated as moderately satisfactory. It was
strongly supportive of the project throughout implementation. Most crucially, it
established arrangements under the Ghanaian vice president, which ensured that the
project’s ambitious institutional reforms were followed up and implemented effectively.
The main shortcoming on the government side was the continuing disagreements with the
Malaysian investor recruited to develop the Free Zone enclave. These disagreements
were not solely the fault of the government and they were eventually resolved. But they
proved time consuming and caused delays to the project.

IMPLEMENTING AGENCY PERFORMANCE

4.47 The performance of the implementing agencies was also moderately satisfactory.
The Gateway secretariat reported regularly on the results of the program through
quarterly and bi-annual reports. Agencies such as CEPS and the Ghana Immigration
Service achieved significant results through the implementation of the parts of the
program for which they were responsible. Against this, the Free Zones Board clearly did
not perform well in the early stages of the project in that the Board failed to recruit clients
for the Tema enclave, although it was more successful after restructuring. Reforms at
some other agencies were also not fully implemented, for example in the aviation sector.

4.48   Overall the performance of the borrower is evaluated as moderately satisfactory.

Monitoring and Evaluation

4.49 Design. The key performance indicators before and after restructuring are in
Annex C. The monitoring and evaluation framework that was set up at entry was limited
in scope for the physical component of developing a free zone enclave. There were
reasonable indicators for the number of firms basing themselves in the Free Zone
enclave. There was an indicator for export performance that could not be measured as no
baseline had been set for it. There were no indicators for numbers of employees based in
the Free Zone enclave or for levels of investment, although steps were taken to establish
indicators and monitor these variables. The framework for the institutional reform
component of the project was well designed. The indicators set sensible objectives for the
core reforms in customs, immigration, ports and airports.

4.50 After restructuring a new set of monitoring indicators was put in place. Changes
were needed in the indicators, but the new set was inferior to those before restructuring.
At restructuring, the indicators on numbers of companies in the Free Zone enclave were
dropped for no apparent reason. Subsequently, a new target of 30 companies was set.
Few of the indicators that were in place after restructuring could be measured and there
was not adequate effort to set baseline measures for any of the indicators. Examples are
“creation of new economic opportunities for entrepreneurship” and “percent of
companies benefiting from improved trade corridor and market access services.”

4.51 Implementation. Before restructuring only one firm was attracted to the Tema
enclave and after restructuring the indicators were too vague to serve a useful purpose.
                                                28


On the other hand, the indicators for the project’s institutional component were effective
in helping to manage the reform process.

4.52 Use of data. The data for the institutional part of the project were used effectively
to manage the project activities in each sector as the steering committee kept these
indicators in view as measures of progress in the work of the various institutions. The
indicators for the Free Zone/MPIP were not well monitored.

4.53      Overall the monitoring and evaluation framework is rated as modest.

5. Lessons
5.1      The assessment identified three lessons to be learned from the Gateway project.

     Free Zones are more likely to be inefficient where fiscal incentives are nationwide.
      Multi-purpose industrial park, which targets all types of investors instead of only
      export-oriented companies, is a more suitable model in the context of Ghana. The
      provision of on-site infrastructure, along with secured land rights, is important to help
      address the business environment constraints and to attract investment and stimulate
      growth.

     Effective market research and flexible project design are crucial elements for the
      success of public-private partnership projects. Market research can identify areas
      where the project can draw on private finance. However, to address the uncertainties
      of the external factors, such as a foreign private investor which conditions the success
      of the project, the built-in flexibility of project design is important so the project can
      swiftly switch gear when required.

     Institutional reforms and trade logistics improvement can play a significant role in
      facilitating trade. The Ghana Community Network Services Limited, which operates
      an electronic system for processing trade and customs documents, has contributed to
      transforming customs and import procedures in Ghana. The significant improvement
      in efficiency lowers the clearing and forwarding costs for importers and contributes to
      port reforms on freight rates. It merits considering the possibility of applying the
      GCNet approach in other countries with similar context.
                                                 29


References
Farole, Thomas. 2010. Policy Research Working Paper 5447. “Second Best? Investment Climate and
         Performance in Africa’s Special Economic Zones.” Washington, DC: The World Bank.

Farole, Thomas. 2011. “Special Economic Zones in Africa; Comp aring Performance and Learning from
         Global Experiences.” Washington, DC: The World Bank.

———. 2011. Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Network (PREM). “Economic Premises.”
     Washington, DC: The World Bank.

Gateway Project Coordination Team, Government of Ghana. 2010. Ghana Trade & Investment Gateway
       Project - Implementation Completion Report.

International Monetary Fund. 2003. “Ghana: Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper 2003 -2005.” March, 2003.
         IMF Country Report No. 03/56. Washington, DC: International Monetary Fund.

Luc De Wulf, Jose B. Sokol. 2004. “Customs Modernization Initiatives: Case Studies.” Washington, DC:
       World Bank.

———. 2004. “Customs Modernization Handbook.” Washington, DC: World Bank.

Ministry of Finance, Government of Ghana. 2000. “Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper 2000 -2002”
         Accra, June 2000. Washington, D: International Monetary Fund and Accra: Ministry of Finance
         URL: http://siteresources.worldbank.org/INTGHANA/Resources/GJAS_Final_270207.pdf

World Bank. 1998. “Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Credit in the Amount of SDR 37.6 Million
       (US$50.5 Million Equivalent) To Republic of Ghana for Ghana Trade and Investment Gateway
       Project (GHATIG)”. Report 17736-GH. June 5, 1998. Washington, DC: World Bank.

———. 1998. “Development Credit Agreement (Trade and Investment Gateway Project) between
     Republic of Ghana and International Development Association” Credit number 3114GH. O ctober
     7, 1998. Washington. DC: World Bank.
———. 2004. “Memorandum of the President of The International Development Association and the
     International Finance Corporation to the Executive Directors on a Country Strategy of the World
     Bank Group for the Republic of Ghana”. Report No. 27838-GH. February 20, 2004. Washington,
     DC: The International Finance Corporation and the World Bank.
———. 2005. “Ghana-Trade Gateway and Investment Project (Credit 3114-GH); Proposed Amendments
     to the Development Credit Agreement”. Report No. 34300. Washington, DC: World Bank.
———. 2007. “International Development Association, Country Assistant Strategy for Ghana FY08 -11”
     Report no. 39822-GH. May 31, 2007. Washington, DC: World Bank.
———. 2007. “The Ghana Joint Assistance Strategy (G-JAS)”. Washington, DC: World Bank.
———. 2010. “Implementation Completion and results Report IDA -31140 IDA-3114A on a Credit in the
     Amount of SDR 37.6 Million (US$50.5 Million Equivalent) to the Republic of Ghana for a Ghana
     Trade and Investment Gateway Project (GHATIG).” Report No.ICR00001460. June 30, 2010.
     Washington, DC: World Bank.
———. 2011a. Doing Business 2011. “Economic Community of West African Stares (ECOWAS)”
     Making a Difference for Entrepreneurs. Washington, DC: World Bank.

———. 2011b. United Nations Conference on the Trade and Development. “World Investment Report
     2011”; Non-Equity Modes of International Production and Development. New York and Geneva:
     United Nations.
                                                               31


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet
GHANA TRADE AND INVESTMENT GATEWAY PROJECT (IDA-31140, IDA
3114A)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                                            Appraisal                Actual or                 Actual as % of
                                                            estimate              current estimate            appraisal estimate
Total project costs                                            56.0                    56.8                          101
                                                                                              a
Loan amount                                                    50.5                    52.5                          104
Cofinancing                                                      -                       -                              -
Cancellation                                                     -                      0.9                             -
a.The SDR appreciated relative to the US$ over the course of the project


Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
                FY99      FY00     FY01      FY02      FY03      FY04      FY05      FY06         FY07     FY08    FY09       FY10
Appraisal        5.05     9.12     22.12     34.92     45.56     49.96     50.70     50.70        50.70    50.70   50.70      50.70
estimate
(US$M)
Actual           3.07     3.95      6.75     14.38     24.39     28.89     30.23     31.54        36.06    45.88   50.31      52.48
(US$M)
Actual as %     61%       43%       31%       41%       54%       58%       60%       62%         71%       91%     99%       104%
of appraisal
Date of final disbursement: May 28, 2010

Project Dates
                                                                       Original                                Actual
Initiating memorandum                                                July 1, 1997                            July 1, 1997
Negotiations                                                         June 1, 1998                            June 1, 1998
Board approval                                                       July 9, 1998                            July 9, 1998
Signing                                                          October 7, 1998                           October 7, 1998
Effectiveness                                                   January 13, 1999                           January 13, 1999
Closing date                                                   December 31, 2005                          December 31, 2009
ANNEX A                                                             32


Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
                                                                Staff time and cost (Bank budget only)a
                                                    No. of staff weeks                    US$ 000(including travel and
Stage of Project lending                                                                        consultant costs)
FY95                                                        2.9                                             9.1
FY96                                                        1.1                                              -
FY97                                                        4.7                                            17.4
FY98                                                       28.0                                            24.0
                 Total:                                    34.6                                            50.5

Supervision/ICR
FY99                                                                                                                45.46
FY00                                                         54                                                     109.4
FY01                                                         33                                                     72.64
FY02                                                         31                                                    132.57
FY03                                                         21                                                     79.70
FY04                                                         38                                                    122.74
FY05                                                         36                                                    148.62
FY06                                                         31                                                     94.78
FY07                                                         26                                                     78.62
FY08                                                         30                                                    117.32
FY09                                                                                                                90.00
Total:                                                      300.0                                                 1,091.85
Source: Data on preparation are from the Project Appraisal Document (World Bank 1998a, Annex 7); data on supervision is from
the ICR (World Bank 2010). There are many irregularities in the data from the ICR; IEG was unable to confirm its veracity. The
project closed in FY10, yet there are no reported expenditures in staff weeks, travel, or consultant costs for that year, nor are there
any staff weeks reported for FY99 (the first year of operation) or FY09.
a. Excludes preparation activities funded from Trust Funds.


Mission Data
                Names                                         Title                             Unit            Responsibility/ Specialty

Lending
Demba Ba                              Country Manager                                        MNCLB                           TTL
Kofi Boateng-Agyen                    Senior Operations Officer                               AFTFW                          TTL
Serigne Omar Fye                      Sr. Environmental Specialist                            AFTEN                      Safeguards
Georgette Johnson                     Program Assistant AFTPS                                                         Project Support
Supervision/ICR
Papa Demba Thiam
                                      Sr. Private Sector Development Specialist               AFTFW                          TTL
Chad Leechor                          Sr. Private Sector Development Specialist               AFTPS                          TTL
Sherri Achondo                        Sr. Private Sector Development Specialist               AFTFE                          TTL
Sharma                                Sr. Private Sector Development Specialist               AFTPS                          TTL
Michael Wong                          Sr. Private Sector Development Specialist               SASFP                          TTL
Kofi Boateng-Agyen                    Sr. Operations Officer                                  AFTFW                          TTL
Amos Abu                              Sr. Environmental Specialist                            AFTEN             Environmental / Safeguard
Adu-Gyamfi Abunyewa                   Procurement Specialist                                  AFTPC                     Procurement
Ferdinand Tsri Apronti                Procurement Specialist                                  AFTPC                     Procurement
Andrew Osei Asibey                    Sr. Monitoring & Evaluation Specialist                  AFTRL                          M&E
Sylvester Kofi Awanyo                 Senior Procurement Specialist                           EAPPR                     Procurement
Adu-Gyamfi Abunyewa                   Procurement Specialist                                  AFTPC                     Procurement
                                                  33


                Names                          Title                  Unit   Responsibility/ Specialty
Samuel Bruce-Smith       Consultant                                  AFTFM    Financial Management
Irene F. Chacon          Operations Analyst                          AFTFW       Program Support
Wolfgang M. T. Chadab    Senior Finance Officer                      CTRFC        Disbursement
Rona P. Cook             Program Assistant                           AFTFE       Program Support
Lucy M. Fye              Sr. Private Sector Development Specialist   AFTFW             ICR
Ronald Kopicki           Consultant                                  AFTPS
Irene Chacon             Operational Analyst                         AFTPS      Operational support
Andrea Vasquea-Sanchez   Sr. program Assistant                       AFTPS       Program Support
Manush A. Hristov        Sr. Counsel                                 LEGAF            Legal
Sidonie Jocktane         Executive Assistant                         AFMGA       Program Support
Ronald J. Kopicki        Consultant                                  EASCS      Transport Logistics
Anthony Mensa-Bonsu      Consultant AFTPC                                          procurement
Annette E. Minott        Temporary                                   AFTHD       Program Support
Isselmou Ould Louleid    Junior Professional Associate               AFTPS       Program Support
Lydia Sam                Procurement Asst.                           AFCW1         Procurement
Andrea Vasquez-Sanchez   Sr. Program Asst.                           AFTFW       Program Support
Melissa Bennet           Private Sector Development Specialist       AFTPS             PPD
Salli Wondergem          Executive Assistant                         AFCW1       Program Support
Tony Mensah-Bonsu        Procurement Specialist AFTPC                              Procurement
Salli Cudjoe             Program Assistant                           AFC10       Program Support
Jessica Dodoo            Program Assistant                           AFCW1       Program Support
Frederick Yankey         Sr. Financial Management Specialist         AFTFM           Financial
Source: ICR Review
                 Annex B: Ghana Selected Economic Indicators
                                                     1997      1998      1999      2000      2001      2002      2003      2004      2005       2006        2007        2008        2009        2010        2011      2012
GROWTH
GDP growth (annual %)                                  4         5         4         4         4          5         5         6         6          6          6           8           4           8          15        8
GDP per capita (current US$)                         392       416       420       265       275        312       376       426       502        930        1099        1234        1097        1331        1578      1605
GDP per capita growth (annual %)                       2         2         2         1         2          2         3         3         3          4          4           6           1           5          12        6
GDP per capita, PPP (current international $)        864       897       929       961       999       1035      1084      1147      1222       1309        1397        1509        1544        1650        1895      2048
Employment to population ratio, 15+, total (%)        69        69        67        67        66         66        67        67        68         66         66          67          67          67          67         -
INVESTMENT
Foreign Direct Investment
         Net inflows (% of GDP)                       1         2         3         3          2         1        2         2         1          3           6           10           9           8          8
         Net inflows (BoP, current US$ millions)     82.0     167.00    244.00    166.00     89.00     59.00    137.00    139.00    145.00     636.00     1,383.00    2,715.00    2,373.00    2,527.00    3,222.00         -
Private Capital Flows
         Total (%of GDP)                                 -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -       -          -           -           -           -           -           -            -
         Total (BoP, current US$ millions)               -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -    -145.00    -636.00    -1,383.00   -2,715.00   -2,366.00   -2,527.00   -3,197.00        -
Gross Capital Information
         (% of GDP)                                      25        23        21        24        27        20        23        28        29         17          18          17       24             23          19        19
         (annual % growth)                                -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -          -          29          19      -19              8          -4         9
TRADE
Trade (% of GDP)                                         85        81        82    116       110           97        97    100         98         66         65          70          72          70          89           96
Service exports (BoP, current US$)                        -         -         -     -         -             -         -     -       1,106.00   1,383.00   1,832.00    1,801.00    1,770.00    1,477.00    1,871.00         -
Trade in services (% of GDP)                              -         -         -     -         -             -         -     -          22         14         15          14          18          14          14            -
Exports of goods and services
         (% of GDP)                                      32        34        32        49        45        43        41        39        36         25          25          25          29          29          38        42
         (annual % growth)                                                                                                                                      18          17           8          25          13        15
Imports of goods and services (% of GDP)                 53        47        50        67        65        55        57        60        62         41          41          44          42          41          51        54
SECTORS
International tourism
         Number of arrivals                         325,000   348,000   373,000   399,000   439,000   483,000   531,000   584,000   429,000    497,000    587,000     698,000     803,000     931,000           -          -
         Receipts (% of total exports)                 -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -        22         18         16          14          11           7              5          -
Agriculture
         Value added (% of GDP)                     40        40        40        39        39        39        40        42         41         30         29          31          32          30          26         23
         Raw materials exports (% of merchandise    12        11        11        10        11         -        10         -          7          4         10           9           6           7           5          -
         exports)
         Raw materials imports (% of merchandise     1         3         3         2         2         2         2         -         1          1           1           1           1           1           1         -
         imports)
Industry, value added (% of GDP)                         29        28        28        28        28        28        28        27        27         21          21          20          19          19          26        27
Manufacturing, value added (% of GDP)                    10        10        10        10        10        10        10        10         9         10           9           8           7           7           7         7
Services, etc., value added (% of GDP)                   31        32        32        32        33        33        32        31        32         49          50          49          49          51          49        50
                 Source: World Ban Data Base, DDP
                                                               35                                                      ANNEX C


Annex C. Key Performance Indicators

              Indicators before restructuring                                    Indicators after restructuring
Attracting export-oriented investment                            * Creation of new economic opportunities for entrepreneurship.
* 10 firms have been established and are operating in           * % of companies benefiting from improved trade corridor
second year after completion of civil works; 20 by end-third                     and market access services.
year; and 30 by end-fourth year.

* Net export revenues are increased by 25% in second
year; by 30% in third year; and by 40% in fourth year
after completion of the civil works
Free Zone and investment Promotion                                 * Off-site and on-site infrastructure is completed and the multi-
* Signed contract with developer.                                purpose industrial park is fully functional in the intervention area
* On-site infrastructure Development plan                      * % of prospective industrial park settlers that are motivated by the
* Tenants occupancy plan.                                                                      new regime
 * Completion report.                                                          * Free zone Act amended and adopted by
* 587 targeted workshops 1998-2002, with yield of at                                            Parliament
least 8% site visits and a yield of $900 million of                             * Implementing regulations implemented
investment firmly committed by end-2002.                            * % of companies/investors that express satisfaction with the
                                                                                            revamped EPZ Act
                                                                 * Improved capacity of the Ghana Investment Council to provide
                                                               strategic advice to the government on investment opportunities and
                                                                                                  policy
                                                                                                Initiatives
                                                                * % of actual and/or prospective industrial park settlers expressing
                                                                       satisfaction with the quality of services available to them
                                                               * Improved trade and investment activities that are directly linked to
                                                                  the quality of services provided to investors through the project.
                                                                      * Evidence that simplification of customs and immigration
                                                                 procedures has resulted in improved trade and investment flows
                                                                                                 generally
                                                                 * % of companies satisfied with the simplification of customs and
                                                                                         immigration procedures
                                                                   * Evidence of improved business activity, increased volume of
                                                               exports and improved export revenue as a result of the construction
                                                                          of physical infrastructure to ease container storage
                                                                                                and transit
                                                                 * % of companies satisfied with simplification and streamlining of
                                                                                           customs procedures
                                                                    * % of companies satisfied with liberalized stevedoring policy
                                                                      * Evidence of improved exports that can be directly
                                                                     attributed to improved destination inspection capacity
ANNEX C                                                          36

              Indicators before restructuring                         Indicators after restructuring
Organizational restructuring of the Ghana Ports and
Harbour Authority is completed

* Private sector participation in port operations, who will
assume investments in both rehabilitation and expansion.

* New Ports Act which transforms the Authority into a
"landlord" structure, and grants greater autonomy to the
ports submitted to parliament no later than end-1999.

* The devanning area is relocated outside the port no later
than end-1999.

* A privately developed and financed Electronic Data
Interchange is in place.

* Costs of loading import containers are reduced from
US$168 in 1998 to US$80 by end-1999 and to international
standards by certification end-2000.

* Speed of unloading containers increases from gross 12
boxes per ship hour to 20 boxes per ship hour by end-1999
and 24 boxes by year-2000.

* Average dwell time for imported containers

drops from 25 days in 1998 to 15 days by

end-1999 and less than 7 days by year-2000
Customs procedures are streamlined and efficiency is
improved (CEPS)
* Number of examinations at point of entry, of Cargo and
documents are reduced to one.
* Cargo examination is reduced from 100% to 10% for
statutory free goods, and 20% for all dutiable goods.
* Appropriate customs regulation is in place to allow direct
delivery of containers between the port of Tema and the free
zone enclave no later than end-1999.
* A valuation system acceptable to all Stakeholders is
established.
* Number of overland customs check points
on road are reduced to 1 to Togo; 2 for Republic of Côte
d'Ivoire (RCI); and 2 to Burkina Faso.
* EPZ customs unit is operational in line with
EPZ regulations.
Immigration procedures for investors and tourists are
streamlined
* Business and tourist visas issued on. arrival upon payment
of reasonable fees
* Business/ Tourist visas are delivered within 48 hours at all
Ghana consular missions abroad, by year-2000.
* Services at entry points consolidated into one (Immigration
Health and Bureau National Investigation) ensuring rapid
clearance.
* 100 Immigration officers/ consuls trained in the
Gateway concept by year 2000.
Civil Aviation Sector
* A future development scenario for the civil aviation sector,
                                                            37                                    ANNEX C

             Indicators before restructuring                     Indicators after restructuring
reflecting government priorities is adopted by end- 1999.
* Regulation operationalizing liberalized skies policy is
adopted by end-2000.
*Kotoka International Airport, management and development
concession is signed with private operator by end-2000.
* Ghana Airways is privatized by end-
1999.
                                        38                                          ANNEX D




Annex D. List of Persons Met

Name                            Title

Private Sector
Agamah, Dorilyn        HR Manager, Lucky 1888 Mills
Amoo-Gottfried, Kojo   President, Cargill Ghana Ltd
Amuah, Kingsley        Senior Manager, Ghana Employers Association
Darko, Emmanuel        Deputy General Manager, GCNet
Lopez, Miguel          General Manager, Lucky 1888 Mills
Sackey, Carl           Product Development Manager, GCNet
Wilson, Joseph         Research Officer, Ghana Employers Association

Government

Affrifah, Lord         Senior Adviser, Ghana Immigration Service and
                       former secretary to the director of the Gateway project
Apronti, Isaac         Deputy Commissioner, Ghana Revenue Authority
Arhin, Kwesi           Former project accountant, Former Gateway Secretariat
Asante Kwame, Nsiah    Manager-Estates & Enclave Development, Ghana Free Zones Board
Bainiah, Angelina      Assistant Commissioner, Ghana Revenue Authority
Boamah, Andrews        Former assistant to project coordinator, Former Gateway Secretariat
Ghartey, Gladys        Head, World Bank Unit, Ministry of Finance and
                       Economic Planning
Modey, Carl            Acting Commissioner, Ghana Revenue Authority
Ofori, Komia           Principal Engineer, Ghana Ports and Harbours Authority
Okyere, Eugenia        Senior Investment Promotion Officer, Ghana Investment Promotion Centre
Otoo, Augustine        Director of Investor Services, Ghana Investment Promotion Centre
Segbefia, Kofi         General Manager Corporate Planning, Ghana Ports and Harbours Authority
World Bank

Boateng Agyen, Kofi    Private Sector, Finance and Energy
Crookes, Yusupha       Country Director
Mossi, Dante           Senior Operations Officer
Thiam, Papa Demba      Senior Private Sector Development Specialist
                                                39                                     ANNEX D


Annex E. Borrower Comments

From:             Ernest Agyapong <ek_agyapong@yahoo.com>
To:               "xlou@worldbank.org" <xlou@worldbank.org>, "msundberg@worldbank.org"
                  <msundberg@worldbank.org>
Date:             12/11/2013 01:23 PM
Subject:          Comments on the Ghana Trade and Investment Gateway Project (GHATIG) Report




Dear Mr. Lou,

I am pleased to forward to you the Ministry of Trade and Industry's comments
(please find attached) on the above-mentioned report to you on behalf of the
Minister for Trade and Industry, Hon. Haruna Iddrisu. I trust that the comments
would be useful.

Thank you.

Ernest Agyapong
Assistant Programmes Coordinator


     Comments on Project Report.docx




                    Comments on Project Performance Assessment Report
                                         GHANA
                             Ministry of Trade and Industry


I wish to indicate that I have reviewed the GHATIG Project Performance Assessment Report
as directed by the Hon. Minister and have the following comments to make.

          The report is very detailed as the evaluation team made every effort to establish
           linkages between the outputs with the intended outcomes. This was however difficult
           because the real outcomes could have been influenced by external factors following
           the revision of the components of the project.

          The evaluation team admitted that the project was ambitious as it sought to achieve
           major institutional changes in a number of agencies. It would have been appropriate
           for the project to be phased to enable it have the maximum impact. This should
           therefore serve as a lesson to the design of projects of this nature in future.

          A contributing factor towards the non-achievement of the project’s objectives was the
           fact that the Malaysian company, Business Focus which was engaged to promote and
ANNEX C                                     40


       attract investors into the Industrial Park did not understand the role it was supposed to
       play. The company therefore failed completely as it was not able to attract companies
       into the enclave as expected. This should be a lesson to designers of future
       programmes to ensure that such misunderstandings should not occur.

      It is evident in the report that the projects objectives and outcomes were affected
       when the components were restructured rendering the baseline data created at the
       inception of the project less useful. No effort was made to come out with measurable
       indicators which made monitoring of the project’s implementation very difficult. The
       indicators adopted after the restructuring were too vague to work with. It is important
       that measures are always taking to address issues of that nature for effective and
       evidence based monitoring of future projects.


Inspite of some challenges encountered during the design, implementation and evaluation of
the project, it is important to note that the project made very useful and had an impact on the
economy of country. There were significant institutional reforms in some government
agencies and the general business environment which all contributed to growth in both
domestic and international trade.

I have no doubt about the fact that implementation of a similar project in Ghana in the near
future would help move the country to a full middle income status.
