                                                                                                           97754
Ghana Trade and Investment Gateway Project
                                                                                                   April 12, 2011




 Development of a Multipurpose Industrial Park
 Improvement of the quality and standards of services delivered to
 investors and exporters


Overview
Over the last ten years, the structured interventions supported by the Trade and Investment
Gateway Project in Ghana have resulted in at least 3,214 projects valued at US$12.6 billion in
investment, with the creation of 305,874 jobs for Ghanaians and 10,994 jobs for non-
Ghanaians.  These interventions included port improvements, the development and
restructuring of an Export Processing Zone (EPZ), and the creation of a Multipurpose Industrial
Park (MPIP). The targeted investments in physical and institutional linkages between the port,
the EPZ and the MPIP produced integrative multi-polar special economic zones (SEZ) in Tema
and a capillary of free zones enterprises in the rest of the country.


Challenge
The main challenge was to create an industrial base for
                                                                    More Results
Ghana. Between 1999 and 2005, government believed that
providing viable land in Tema with off-site infrastructure and

                                                                   305,874
traditional benefits attached to Export Processing Zones
(EPZ) regime would attract investors and create jobs. The
Gateway project was designed to produce this outcome.
During implementation, it became clear that this trickle down       jobs have been created for
approach was not working. The project was redesigned in             Ghanaians through 3,124
                                                                    projects valued at US$12.6
2005 and its implementation methodology was retrofitted.            billion in investments


Approach
Project retrofit successfully piloted an approach to building
competitive industrial development platforms in Ghana with
interventions targeting the port, the restructuring of the         MORE INFORMATION
Export Processing Zone (EPZ), the creation of a                      The Trade and Investment
Multipurpose Industrial Park (MPIP), investments in physical         Gateway Project (GHATIG):
and institutional linkages between the port, the EPZ and the
                                                                     Country Website
MPIP and alignment of national investment and trade
promotion. This retrofit also justified the integrated delivery of   Country Brief
smart pro-activist interventions to close gaps along supply          Country Assistance Strategy
and value chains. This approach strengthened and
                                                                     Data and Statistics
developed backwards/onwards relationships between
economic entities, cut down logistics and opportunity costs
and ultimately reduced enterprise vulnerability resulting from
deficits in infrastructure (both physical and institutional) and
lack of cohesiveness of the economic structures in the
country. This approach to the development of integrative industrial/economic clusters was fully
consistent with World Bank’s new paradigm shift towards enhanced competitiveness through
structural change.

Results
Overall investment promotion and jobs creation
A renewed approach to investment promotion and capacity development for both Ghana
Investment Promotion Council (GPIC) –with two Regional Investment Promotion Offices
outside the capital- and Ghana Free Zones Board (GFZB) resulted in:

      Approximately 3,214 projects valued at US$12.6 billion registered between 1999 and
      2009, with a Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) component of US$12.1 billion.

      Increase in employment generated through integrated investment and trade promotion to
      305,874 for Ghanaians and 10,994 for non-Ghanaians.

Specific results of the Free Zones Program

      Increase in export revenue from US$148 million in 1999 to US$1.3 billion in 2008.

      Establishment of 238 new free zone enterprises in the country, including in the Tema
      EPZ/MPIP.

      Approximately US$2.6 billion total investment in free zones companies.

      Increase in export revenue generated by free zones companies from US$148 million in
      1999 to US$1.3 billion in 2008.

      Direct employment of 8,000 people and estimate of 30,000 indirect jobs created.

Specific project results for the Tema Industrial Zone and the port

      Twenty-four industries operating at the enclave while over 40 more industries have
      acquired lands.

      Sixty percent of the land that remained undeveloped until 2008 has been re-allocated to
      an enclave developer who has started on-site infrastructure and agreed (with GFZB) on
      a timetable to complete development within 18 months.

      About 3,000 direct employment and an estimated 6,000 indirect jobs have been created.

      Environmental Protection and Pollution Control legislation ready for Cabinet approval.

      Establishment of an office in Tema for the Environment Protection Agency (EPA) to
      regulate, monitor and enforce environmental standards in industrial estate development
      and industrial operations in Ghana.

      The congestion of the port has been reduced and together with the provision of the dual
      carriage access road and a dry port, the time for clearing cargo has been significantly
      reduced.

      The development of the enclave has encouraged the transfer of technology since there
      was about 15 percent of expatriate staff at the start, which has reduced to 2 percent
      within two years.

Trade Facilitation

      The Customs, Excise and Prevention Services (CEPS) installed and operationalized a
      new Ghana Customs Management System (GCMS) on an automated electronic
      platform, christened, Ghana Community Network System (GCNet) and the CEPS is now
       ISO 9001:2008 certified.

       The Ghana Immigration Services (GIS) introduced and automated the visa-on-arrival
       (VOA) scheme with the issuance of visas online within 24 hours.

       Improvement of departure and arrival formalities with automated systems at Kotoka
       International Airport (KIA).

       Installation of electronic data management systems and streamlining the issuance of
       resident and work permits.

       The GIS mainstreamed trade facilitation and customer care in its training courses.

       Decoupling of the Ghana Civil Aviation Authority into two entities namely, the Ghana
       Airports Company Limited for the managements of airports in the country and the
       Ghana Civil Aviation Authority for purely aviation matters.



Bank Contributions
The International Development Association (IDA) financed approximately US$50.5 million of the
project. The Government of Ghana contributed approximately US$3.4 in counterpart funds and
about US$2.1 million was provided by the private sector for the development and provision of
teleport facilities for the export-processing zone.

Partners
The project had numerous Ghanaian partners during implementation, including: Ghana Free
Zones Board (GFZB), Ghana Port and Harbor Authority (GPHA), Ghana Immigration Services
(GIS), Customs, Excise and Prevention Services (CEPS), Ghana Investment Promotion Council
(GIPC), Ghana Civil Aviation Authority (GCAA), Ghana Airports Company Limited (GACL),
Environment Protection Agency (EPA), the GCNet and the Ghana Investment Advisory Council
(GIAC). Other development partners were associated with the project retrofit exercise and
proposed to contribute to and fund a second phase of the program.

Toward the Future
With the recent discovery and exploitation of oil and gas in Ghana, the integration of local
competitiveness platforms may be an appropriate approach to industrial policy and structural
change. These platforms could help build integrative economic clusters in the Ghana Western
Corridor, support growth that is more inclusive and foster the country’s sustainable participation
in globalization.
