Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2949 DO
      (Power Sector Rehabilitation and Distribution Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
              CORPORACIiN DOMINICANA DE ELECTRICIDAD
                        Dated June 9, 1988
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2949 DO
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated June 9,  1988 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND   DEVELOPMENT   (the   Bank)  and  CORPORACIiN
DOMINICANA DE ELECTRICIDAD (the Borrower).
     WHEREAS (A) The  Dominican  Republic  (the Guarantor) and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described  in  Schedule  2  to this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
     (B)  by an agreement (the  Guarantee  Agreement) of even date
herewith between the  Guarantor  and  the  Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations  of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake  such  other obligations as set forth in
the Guarantee Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
Page  2
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "CDE" means  Corporacion  Dominicana  de Electricidad, a
corporation established pursuant  to  Law  No.  4115  of April 21,
1955, as amended by Law No. 748 of January 6, 1978;
     (b)  "CDE's  Charter"  means  Reglamento  No.  1034  para  el
funcionamiento de la  Corporacion  Dominicana de Electricidad, the
operating rules of the Borrower of July 25, 1955 as amended to the
date of this Agreement;
     (c)  "pesos" or "DR $" means the currency of the Guarantor;
     (d)  "Project Preparation Advance"  and "Exchange of Letters"
means the project preparation advance  granted  by the Bank to the
Guarantor pursuant to an  exchange  of  letters dated July 5, 1985
and October 11, 1985 between the Guarantor and the Bank as amended
by exchange of telexes  of  the  parties thereto dated December 1,
1986 and January 28, 1987;
     (e)  "Action  Plan"  means  the  action  plan  set  forth  in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
     (f)  "Contract  Plan"  means  the  agreement  referred  to in
Section 3.03 of this Agreement; and
     (g)  "Investment Program"  means  the  program of investments
and financing plan therefor agreed to  by the Bank on November 10,
1987 as the investments  of  the  Borrower's expansion program set
forth in the attachment to the aide memoire signed by the Borrower
and the Bank  on  such  date,  as  such  Investment Program may be
revised and updated pursuant to  the provisions of Section 5.05 of
this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment, an amount in  various  currencies  equivalent to one hundred
five million dollars ($105,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods  and  services  required  for  the  Project  described in
Schedule 2  to  this  Agreement  and  to  be  financed  out of the
proceeds of the Loan and in  respect of interest and other charges
on the Loan.
     (b)  On each of the  semiannual interest payment dates speci-
fied in Section 2.06 of this  Agreement, the Bank shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the  Loan Account and pay to itself
Page  3
the amounts required  to  pay,  on  such  date, interest and other
charges on the Loan accrued and  payable on or before the date set
forth, and up  to  the  amount  allocated,  in  Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, as such Schedule may  be  amended  from time to time by
agreement between the Bank and the Borrower.
     (c)  Pursuant  to  the  assumption  by  the  Borrower  of the
obligations  of  the  Guarantor   under  the  Project  Preparation
Advance, as set forth in  Section  3.05 (a) (i) of this Agreement,
promptly after the Effective  Date,  the  Bank shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the
amount required  to  repay  the  principal  amount  of the Project
Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding  as of such date and
to pay all unpaid charges  thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the
authorized  amount  of  the   Project  Preparation  Advance  shall
thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995 or such
later date as the  Bank  shall  establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of  three-fourths  of  one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal  amount  of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a  rate  per  annum  for  each Interest Period equal to
one-half of one  percent  per  annum  above  the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the  Guarantor  and the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall  carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and  in conformity with appropriate admi-
nistrative, financial, engineering  and  public utility practices,
and shall  provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
Page  4
of this Section and  except  as  the  Bank  and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall  carry out the action plan for
the Borrower's institutional,  financial  and operational improve-
ments set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
for the Project and  to  be  financed  out  of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed  by  the  provisions  of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
     Section  3.03.  The  Borrower   shall:  (a)  not  later  than
September 30, 1988 enter into an agreement with the Guarantor (the
Contract Plan) under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
which shall include, inter  alia,  the specific legal and adminis-
trative actions to be taken by  the Borrower and the Guarantor, as
the case may  be,  for  purposes  of  implementing the Guarantor's
policy of supporting a  greater  corporate independence and stabi-
lity of CDE; and  (b)  unless  otherwise  agreed  by the Bank, the
Borrower shall not assign,  amend,  abrogate or waive the Contract
Plan or any provision thereof.
     Section  3.04.  The  Borrower   shall:  (a)  not  later  than
September 30 each year,  furnish  to  the  Bank for its comments a
training report  detailing  training  activities undertaken during
that fiscal  year  and  the  training  activities  planned for the
following fiscal year; and  (b)  carry  out the activities planned
for the following fiscal year.
     Section  3.05.  (a)  In   consideration  of  the  Guarantor's
securing, for purposes  of  the  Project,  the Project Preparation
Advance, the Borrower hereby  irrevocably: (i) assumes, as primary
obligor, the obligations of  the  Guarantor contained in, or which
are the consequence of, the  Exchange of Letters; and (ii) accepts
the assignment by the Guarantor,  expressed in Section 2.04 (a) of
the Guarantee Agreement, of any contract or agreement entered into
by the Guarantor in  furtherance  of  the  purposes of the Project
Preparation Advance.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, from the Effective Date on, exercise
its  rights  under  any  contract  or  agreement  assigned  by the
Guarantor to the Borrower under  Section 2.04 (a) of the Guarantee
Agreement in  such  manner  as  to  protect  the  interests of the
Guarantor,  the  Bank  and  the  Borrower  and  to  accomplish the
purposes of the Loan.
     (c)  The  Bank  hereby   accepts:   (i)   the  assumption  of
obligations of  the  Borrower  referred  to  above,  and  (ii) the
assignment perfected by, paragraph (a) of this Section.
     (d)  It is understood  that  the  provisions  of this Section
shall come into force on the Effective Date.
                            ARTICLE IV
             Management and Operations of the Borrower
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall carry on its operations
and conduct its affairs  in  accordance with sound administrative,
financial, and public utility  practices  under the supervision of
qualified and experienced  management  assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
     (b)  Without limitation on  the  provisions  of paragraph (a)
above; the Borrower shall:  (i)  promptly employ a Project Coordi-
nator, a Management and Financial Advisor and a Planning Director;
all with  qualifications  and  experience  and  with functions and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) establish, and
thereafter maintain, a project  implementation   unit with powers,
responsibilities, accounting systems  and staffing satisfactory to
the Bank.
Page  5
     Section 4.02. The  Borrower  shall  at  all times operate and
maintain its plants, machinery,  equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly  as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof,  all  in  accordance with sound engineering,
financial and public utility practices.
     Section 4.03. The Borrower  shall  take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make  other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance  against  such  risks  and  in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
     Section 4.04. The Borrower  shall  take all action, including
the  installation  and  utilization  of  adequate  instruments, to
monitor  continuously  its   dams,   reservoir  banks,  associated
structures, earthworks,  penstocks  and  other  waterways, and its
generating plant structures  and  equipment,  and shall cause such
facilities to be inspected, at least once a year, by qualified and
experienced experts  in  accordance  with  appropriate engineering
practices, in order to  determine  whether there are any deficien-
cies or  potential  deficiencies  in  their  condition,  or in the
quality or adequacy of maintenance or methods of operation of such
facilities which may endanger the safety of any of such facilities
or the staff maintaining or operating them.
     Section 4.05. Except as  the  Bank  shall otherwise agree and
except  as  required  in  the  ordinary  course  of  business, the
Borrower shall  not  sell,  lease,  transfer,  assign or otherwise
dispose of any of its rights, property or assets.
                             ARTICLE V
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 5.01. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect  in  accordance with sound accounting
practices  its  operations   and   financial  condition  including
separate records and  accounts  adequate  to reflect the resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have   its   records,    accounts   and   financial
               statements (balance  sheets,  statements  of income
               and  expenses  and  related  statements)  for  each
               fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
               auditing   principles   consistently   applied,  by
               independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than:  (A) September 30, 1988 in
               respect of fiscal year  1987;  (B) six months after
               the end of fiscal  year  1988;  and (C) four months
               after the  end  of  each  fiscal  year thereof: (A)
               certified copies  of  its  financial statements for
               such year as so audited, and (B) the report of such
               audit by said auditors,  of  such scope and in such
               detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
               and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well as the audit thereof as the Bank
               shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain, in accordance with  paragraph (a) of this
               Section,  records  and   accounts  reflecting  such
               expenditures;
Page  6
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
     Section 5.02. (a) Except  as  the  Bank shall otherwise agree
and until  the  Project  has  been  completed,  the Borrower shall
neither commit itself to  nor  make  any capital expenditures (not
required for the Project  or  otherwise included in the Investment
Program) which would  exceed  by  more  than  1.5% the current net
value of the Borrower's fixed  assets in operation unless the Bank
has been furnished with  evidence,  satisfactory to the Bank, that
the  proposed  expenditures   are   economically  and  technically
justified and the Borrower has  obtained financing under terms and
conditions which  will  not  materially  and  adversely affect its
financial condition and operations,  including the carrying out of
the Project.
     (b)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The   term   "capital   expenditures"   means   all
               expenditures incurred on  account  of fixed assets,
               including interest charged to construction, related
               to operations; and
         (ii)  The term "current net value of the Borrower's fixed
               assets in operation" means  the  gross value of the
               Borrower's  fixed  assets  in  operation  less  the
               amount of accumulated  depreciation, as valued from
               time  to  time   in   accordance   with  sound  and
               consistently   maintained   methods   of  valuation
               satisfactory to the Bank.
     Section 5.03. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall take all such  measures as shall be required to
reduce the energy losses occurring  in its distribution systems so
that such losses in  respect  of  its  total net energy generation
shall not exceed  during  the  following  fiscal  year: (A) 30% in
fiscal year 1988; (B) 27% in  fiscal  year 1989; (C) 24% in fiscal
year 1990; (D) 22% in  fiscal  year  1991;  (E) 20% in fiscal year
1992; (F) 19% in fiscal year 1993; and (G) 18% in fiscal year 1994
and thereafter; and
     (b)  for purposes  of  this  Section:  (i)  the  term "energy
losses" means the difference  between:  (A)  the  sum of the total
energy generated by the Borrower  and all its purchases of energy;
and (B) the sum of all energy used in the generating plants of the
Borrower and all sales; and  (ii) the term "net energy generation"
means the sum of: (A) the  difference  between: (I) the sum of the
Borrower's gross energy generation, and (II) the sum of the energy
used in the Borrower's plants; and (B) its purchases of energy.
     Section 5.04. The Borrower shall  pay  all its debts to local
suppliers and  contractors  for  services  rendered promptly after
the date of billing so  that  it shall maintain, in the aggregate:
(a) commencing on  December  31,  1989,  no  more than ninety days
of suppliers and contractors  billings outstanding and unpaid; and
Page  7
(b) commencing on December 31,  1990,  no  more than sixty days of
suppliers and contractors billings outstanding and unpaid.
     Section  5.05.  (a)  The   Borrower  shall,  not  later  than
September 30, 1988 and  by  June  30  of each year thereafter: (i)
revise and  update  in  a  manner  satisfactory  to  the Bank, and
furnish to the Bank, its  Investment Program and related financial
projections  of  the  Borrower's   operations;  and  (ii)  without
limitation to Section 9.07 of  the General Conditions, prepare and
furnish to the Bank progress  reports on the implementation of the
Project including, in  particular,  the  Action Plan, the Contract
Plan and Section 5.07 and 5.08 of this Agreement.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  not  later  than September 30, 1988
and June  30  each  year  thereafter,  review  with  the Bank, the
progress made in the  implementation  of  the  Action Plan and the
Contract Plan and the Borrower's compliance with Sections 5.07 and
5.08 of this Agreement.
     (c)  In the event that the  results  of such review show that
the Borrower is not implementing  the  Action Plan or the Contract
Plan, or is not in compliance with the provisions of Sections 5.07
and 5.08 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall: (i) agree with the
Bank on the actions to  be  taken  by the Borrower for purposes of
restoring compliance of the  requirements  set forth in (b) above;
and (ii) carry out such actions.
     Section  5.06.  The  Borrower   shall:  (a)  not  later  than
September 30, 1988 prepare and  furnish  to the Bank an evaluation
of the degree of  reliability  of the Borrower's generating system
in providing electricity at all times during the period 1989-1991;
and
     (b)  based  on  the  evaluation  referred  to  in  (a) above,
prepare and furnish to the Bank  not later than December 31, 1988,
an engineering and  financial  feasibility  report  for the imple-
mentation of an emergency plan, aimed at improving the reliability
of the Borrower's electric systems; and
     (c)  implement such emergency plan,  taking into account, the
comments, if any, made by the Bank thereon.
     Section 5.07. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall maintain,  for  each  of its fiscal years after
its fiscal year ending  on  December  31,  1987,  a ratio of total
working expenses  to  total  operating  revenues  not higher than:
(i) 98%  in  fiscal  year  1988;  (ii)  85%  in  fiscal year 1989;
(iii) 77% in  fiscal  year  1990;  (iv)  70%  in fiscal year 1991;
(v) 68% in fiscal years 1992 and 1993; and (vi) 65% in fiscal year
1994 and thereafter.
     (b)  Before September 30  in  each  of  its fiscal years, the
Borrower shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower
and satisfactory to the Bank,  ascertain whether it would meet the
requirements set forth in  paragraph  (a)  in respect of such year
and the next following fiscal year,  and shall furnish to the Bank
the results of such review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any review shows that the Borrower would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph  (a) for the Borrower's fiscal
years covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly take all
necessary measures (including,  without limitation, adjustments of
the structure or  levels  of  its  rates)  in  order  to meet such
requirements.
     (d)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The  term  "total   working   expenses"  means  all
               expenses   related    to    operations,   including
               administration,  adequate  maintenance,  taxes  and
               payments in lieu  of  taxes but excluding provision
               for depreciation determined  on  a basis acceptable
Page  8
               to the  Bank,  and  interest  and  other charges on
               debt.
         (ii)  The term "total  operating revenues" means revenues
               from all sources related to operations.
     Section 5.08. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall produce,  for  each  of  its fiscal years after
its fiscal year ending on  December  31, 1987, funds from internal
sources equivalent  to  not  less  than  the  following percentage
of the  annual  average  of  the  Borrower's  capital expenditures
incurred, or expected to be  incurred, for that year, the previous
fiscal year and the next  following fiscal year: (i)-33% in fiscal
year 1988; (ii)-5% for fiscal  year  1989; (iii) 1% in fiscal year
1990; (iv) 12% in fiscal year  1991;  (v) 14% in fiscal years 1992
and 1993; and (vi) 18% in fiscal years 1994 and thereafter.
     (b)  Before September 30  in  each  of  its fiscal years, the
Borrower shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower
and satisfactory to the  Bank,  review  whether  it would meet the
requirements set forth in  paragraph  (a)  in respect of such year
and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank a
copy of such review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such  review  shows  that  the Borrower would not
meet the requirements  set  forth  in  paragraph  (a) for the Bor-
rower's fiscal years covered  by  such  review, the Borrower shall
promptly take all  necessary  measures (including, without limita-
tion, adjustments of  the  structure  or  levels  of its rates) in
order to meet such requirements.
     (d)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term "funds  from  internal  sources" means the
               difference between:
               (A)   the sum of revenues  from all sources related
                     to operations, consumer deposits and consumer
                     contributions in aid of construction, and net
                     non-operating income; and
               (B)   the sum  of  all  expenses  related to opera-
                     tions,  including   administration,  adequate
                     maintenance and taxes and payments in lieu of
                     taxes (excluding  provision  for depreciation
                     and other  non-cash  operating charges), debt
                     service requirements, all  cash dividends and
                     other cash distributions of surplus and other
                     cash  outflows  other   than  capital  expen-
                     ditures.
         (ii)  The  term  "net  non-operating  income"  means  the
               difference between:
               (A)   revenues from  all  sources  other than those
                     related to operations; and
               (B)   expenses,  including  taxes  and  payments in
                     lieu of taxes, incurred  in the generation of
                     revenues in (A) above.
        (iii)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate amount  of  repayments (including sinking
               fund payments, if any)  of,  and interest and other
               charges on, debt.
         (iv)  The term  "capital  expenditures"  means all expen-
               ditures  incurred  on   account  of  fixed  assets,
               including interest charged to construction, related
               to operations.
          (v)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
Page  9
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Guarantor,  debt  payable  in another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 5.09. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any  debt, unless the net revenues of
the Borrower for the fiscal year immediately preceding the date of
such incurrence or for a  later twelve-month period ended prior to
the date of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be at
least 1.5 times the estimated maximum debt service requirements of
the Borrower for any  succeeding  fiscal  year  on all debt of the
Borrower, including the debt to be incurred.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The  term  "debt"  means  any  indebtedness  of the
               Borrower maturing by its  terms  more than one year
               after the date on  which it is originally incurred,
               except for indebtness maturing  after 12 months but
               before 18 months  after  the  date  on  which it is
               originally incurred provided that such indebtedness
               is incurred not  later  than  December 31, 1989 and
               does  not  exceed   in  the  aggregate  $10,000,000
               equivalent.
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred: (A) under a
               loan  contract  or  agreement  or  other instrument
               providing for such debt  or for the modification of
               its terms of payment on  the date of such contract,
               agreement or instrument; and  (B) under a guarantee
               agreement, on the date  the agreement providing for
               such guarantee has been entered into.
        (iii)  The  term  "net   revenues"  means  the  difference
               between:
               (A)  the sum of  revenues  from all sources related
                    to operations adjusted to  take account of the
                    Borrower's rates in effect  at the time of the
                    incurrence of debt event  though they were not
                    in effect  during  the  twelve-month period to
                    which  such  revenues   relate  and  net  non-
                    operating income; and
               (B)  the sum of all  expenses related to operations
                    including       administration,       adequate
                    maintenance, taxes  and  payments  in  lieu of
                    taxes,    but    excluding    provision    for
                    depreciation, other non-cash operating charges
                    and interest and other charges on debt.
         (iv)  The  sum  "net   non-operating  income"  means  the
               difference between:
               (A)  revenues from  all  sources  other  than those
                    related to operations; and
               (B)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
                    of  taxes,  incurred   in  the  generation  of
                    revenues in (A) above.
          (v)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate amount  of  repayments (including sinking
               fund payments, if any)  of,  and interest and other
               charges on, debt.
         (vi)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
Page  10
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Guarantor,  debt  payable  in another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
     Section  5.10.  Without  limitation   to  the  provisions  of
Sections 5.07 and 5.08 of  this  Agreement, the Borrower shall set
rates:
     (a)  at levels which  shall  produce  a weighted average rate
which shall be  sufficient  to  enable  the  Borrower to cover its
operating expenses including taxes, earn an adequate return on the
funds  invested,  meet  its   financial  obligations  and  make  a
reasonable contribution to  the  Borrower's  future investment for
expansion of capacity; and
     (b)  with a  structure  that  reflects  the  economic cost of
services, calculated in a manner  satisfactory to the Bank, at the
various voltage levels at which the energy is supplied.
                            ARTICLE VI
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 6.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  Law No. 4115 of April 21, 1955 as amended by Law No. 748
of January 6,  1978  or  CDE's  Charter  shall  have been amended,
suspended,  abrogated,  repealed  or   waived   so  as  to  affect
materially and adversely the  ability  of  the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations  under  this  Agreement or its operation or
financial condition;
     (b)  that  the  Borrower   or   any  other  authority  having
jurisdiction shall have taken  any  action  for the dissolution or
disestablishment of CDE or  for  the suspension of its operations;
and
     (c)  that the Borrower  shall  have  failed  to  agree to, or
commence implementation of, the actions required from the Borrower
for purposes of Section 5.05 (c) of this Agreement.
     Section 6.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely,
that the  events  specified  in  paragraphs  (a)  and  (b) of Sec-
tion 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VII
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 7.01. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the  Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the Project  Coordinator,  the  Financial and Management
Advisor and the Planning Director  referred to in Section 4.01 (b)
(i) of this Agreement have been appointed;
     (b)  the Project implementation  unit  referred to in Section
4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement has been established; and
     (c)  the Borrower has  employed  the consultants required for
purposes of Part D.1 of the Project.
     Section 7.02. The date September  9, 1988 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Page  11
                           ARTICLE VIII
                             Addresses
     Section 8.01. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     For the Borrower:
          Centro de los Heroes
          Santo Domingo R.D.
          Republica Dominicana
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               COELEC DR                         4195 COELEC
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                    CORPORACIiN DOMINICANA DE ELECTRICIDAD
                    By /s/ Eduardo Sagredo
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each  Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
Page  12
(1)  Goods, works,            77,300,000        100% of foreign
     spare parts and                            expenditures, and
     materials for                              100% of local
     Parts A, B and                             expenditures
     C.2 of the                                 (ex-factory
     Project                                    cost) for goods,
                                                spare parts, and
                                                materials and
                                                100% of expendi-
                                                tures for works
(2)  Consultants'              5,300,000        100%
     services for
     Parts C and D
     of the Project
(3)  Interest and              9,900,000        Amounts due pur-
     other charges                              suant to Section
     on the Loan                                2.02 (c) of this
     accrued on                                 Agreement
     or before
     February 15,
     1993
(4)  Refunding of                540,000        Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
     tion Advance                               2.02 (d) of this
                                                Agreement
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(5)  Unallocated              11,960,000
                             ___________
     TOTAL                   105,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of  this  Agreement, except that withdrawals, in
an aggregate amount  not  exceeding  the equivalent of $5,000,000,
may be made in respect of  Parts  A,  B  and C.1 of the Project on
account of payments  made  for  expenditures  before that date but
after November 1, 1987.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives  of  the  Project  are  to improve electricity
services in the Dominican  Republic and the Borrower's operational
efficiency and finances.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank  and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Rehabilitation  of   the   Borrower's  Transmission  and
          Distribution System
Page  13
1.   Installation  of  about   54   kilometers   of  138  kilovolt
transmission lines and about  42  kilometers of 69 kilovolt trans-
mission lines.
2.   Construction of 3 substations  at 69/12.5 and 138/69 kilovolt
voltage levels with  a  total  installed  capacity of 250 megavolt
amperes.
3.   Installation of about  295  kilometers  and 835 kilometers of
primary and secondary distribution lines, respectively.
4.   Installation of 60 megavolt ampere reactive capacitors, about
103 megavolt amperes on distribution transformers, 135,000 service
drops and protection and sectionalizing equipment.
5.   Acquisition and utilization of  all electrical and mechanical
equipment for the lines and sub-stations referred to in 1, 2 and 3
above, including, inter alia, meters, materials for service drops,
protection and switching equipment, tools and vehicles for project
implementation.
Part B:   Rehabilitation of the Borrower's Thermal Power Plants
1.   Acquisition and utilization of spare parts for the Borrower's
thermal power plants.
2.   Provision of technical  assistance  for rehabilitation of the
Borrower's thermal power plants.
Part C:   Institutional Strengthening of CDE
1.   Carrying out of a program of financial systems rehabilitation
of CDE and improvement of its financial management.
2.   Provision of training  and  teaching  materials and technical
assistance to the  Borrower's  staff  in  the financial, planning,
technical and administrative areas.
Part D:
1.   Provision of  consultants'  services  for  the preparation of
detailed  engineering  work,  supervision  and  management  of the
Project.
2.   Provision of consultants' services  and related equipment for
monitoring the levels  of  coal  contamination  in  the Haina port
area.
3.   Provision   of   consultants'   services   for   the  design,
supervision of  construction  and  follow-up  of  the ash disposal
system for the Borrower's power plants.
                           *   *   *   *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
     beginning February 15, 1994
     through   August 15, 2005                        4,375,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
Page  14
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                            Premium
                                           The interest  rate (ex-
                                           pressed as a percentage
                                           per  annum)  applicable
                                           to  the   balance  out-
                                           standing on the Loan on
                                           the  day  of prepayment
                                           multiplied by:
Not more than three years                        0.18
     before maturity
More than three years but not                    0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but not                      0.65
     more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                   0.88
     more than fifteen years
     before maturity
More than fifteen years                          1.00
     before maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  goods  manufactured in the Dominican
Republic may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of  paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Limited international bidding:
     Spare parts for Part B.1 of  the Project estimated to cost up
to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $5,500,000,
and teaching materials under Part C  of  the Project to cost up to
an aggregate amount not to  exceed  the equivalent of $200,000 may
be procured under contracts  awarded through limited international
bidding procedures on the  basis  of  evaluation and comparison of
bids invited from a  list  of  at  least three qualified suppliers
eligible  under  the  Guidelines   and   in  accordance  with  theprocedures set  
forth  in  Sections  I  and  II  of the Guidelines
(excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.   Direct Contracting:
Page  15
     Spare parts for Part B.1 of  the Project estimated to cost up
to an aggregate amount not  to exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000
may be procured under  contracts  awarded through direct contract-
ing, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more,  the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 5.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the  Borrower  shall   employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions  of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank. Such  consultants shall be selected in accor-
dance with principles and  procedures  satisfactory to the Bank on
the basis of the "Guidelines  for  the Use of Consultants by World
Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World  Bank  as  Executing  Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                            Action Plan
       Area                 Task Description       Beginning  Completion
                                                   (not later (not later
                                                    than)      than)
1. General Management
   1.1 Performance        Take all actions
       Targets            necessary to meet
                          the ratios and other
                          performance targets
                          set forth in the
                          Annex to this
                          Schedule, all to be
                          calculated in a
                          manner satisfactory
                          to the Bank
2. Administrative
   2.1 Organization       Review its organiza-      4/30/88    9/30/88
                          tional structure,
                          including its man-
                          power requirements,
                          functions, respon-
                          sibilities and staff
                          qualifications and
                          reach agreement with
                          the Bank on revised
                          organizational
Page  16
                          structure for its
                          implementation
   2.2 Training           Restructure its            6/30/88     -
                          Training Unit and
                          appoint therein a
                          Unit Chief, with
                          qualifications
                          acceptable to the
                          Bank
       Area                 Task Description       Beginning  Completion
                                                   (not later (not later
                                                    than)      than)
   2.3 Personnel          Prepare a job grading     6/30/88    6/30/89
        Management        system based on staff
                          qualifications, skills
                          and experience require-
                          ments
                          Prepare and implement     6/30/88    6/30/89
                          a staff program to
                          promote professional
                          career within its orga-
                          nization, including
                          staff performance
                          evaluation
                          Review its salary         5/30/88    9/30/88
                          structure and implement
                          a revised salary scale
                          with levels equivalent
                          to those of local
                          comparable companies
                          acceptable to the Bank
   2.4 Salaries           Increase key profes-                6/15/88
                          sional staff salaries
                          to levels compatible
                          with those of the local
                          comparable companies
                          referred to in 2.3 above
   2.5 Procurement        Establishment of a Pro-   6/30/88      -
                          curement Committee for
                          awarding goods and
                          services contracts
                          Review its procure-       6/30/88      -
                          ment practices
                          including bid eva-
                          luation procedures
                          and implement revised
                          procurement rules
                          satisfactory to the
                          Bank
       Area                 Task Description       Beginning  Completion
                                                   (not later (not later
                                                    than)      than)
3. Planning
   3.1 Organization       Review and imple-         4/30/88      -
                          ment recommendations
                          to improve its current
                          planning capabilities
                          Appoint a Planning        6/30/88      -
Page  17
                          Committee with
                          participation of its
                          Planning, Engineering
                          Operations, and
                          Finances Directorates
   3.2 Expansion Plan     Update, on a yearly      12/30/89   12/30/94
                          basis, the Borrower's
                          expansion plans,
                          including generation,
                          transmission, distri-
                          bution and others
   3.3 Reliability        Restore and improve      5/30/88    9/30/88
        Control           the system for col-
                          lection and pro-
                          cessing of data
                          for monitoring the
                          reliability of CDE's
                          electric system
4. Production
   4.1 Rehabilitation     Bidding for the          5/30/88     6/30/90
                          purchase of spare
                          parts and equipment
                          for its thermal plant
                          rehabilitation
                          program
       Area                 Task Description       Beginning  Completion
                                                   (not later (not later
                                                    than)      than)
                          Prepare plant rehabi-    As required during
                          litation quarterly       rehabilitation
                          reports unit by
                          unit. Last report
                          should include results
                          of all commissioning
                          tests, including
                          efficiency
                          Prepare preven-           6/30/88   12/30/94
                          tive maintenance
                          programs for its
                          thermal units, in-
                          cluding implementa-
                          tion plans (man-
                          power, financial
                          resources, etc.)
   4.2 Fuel               Appoint a con-            4/30/88    8/30/88
                          sulting firm or
                          an individual consult-
                          tant to study its
                          requirements of fuel-
                          oil and coal, such as:
                          specifications,
                          purchase, inspection
                          and quality control,
                          transport, handling,
                          etc.
       Area                 Task Description       Beginning  Completion
                                                   (not later (not later
                                                    than)      than)
5. Engineering
Page  18
   5.1 Losses Control     Prepare and implement     5/30/88   12/30/94
                          a program for a con-
                          tinuous metering in
                          all urban substations
                          (by circuits and
                          feeders), in coordi-
                          nation with its
                          Commercial Department.
                          The program should
                          include the ways and
                          means for its imple-
                          mentation
                          Preparation of semi-     12/30/88   12/30/94
                          annual reports regarding
                          reduction of technical
                          and non-technical
                          losses
   5.2 Coal Unloading     Carry out a study of      4/30/88    3/30/89
                          location, and
                          detailed engineer-
                          ing work for a coal
                          unloading port. Study
                          should include cost
                          estimates and imple-
                          mentation schedule
   5.3 Plant Location     Appoint a consulting      4/30/88   10/30/88
                          firm to update a
                          study related with
                          location of future
                          thermal power plants
       Area                 Task Description       Beginning  Completion
                                                   (not later (not later
                                                    than)      than)
1.6.   Financial
   6.1 Accounting         Implement a Financial               6/30/89
                          Systems Rehabilitation
                          Program (FSRP) accept-
                          able to the Bank with
                          the assistance of
                          consultants
   6.2 Internal           Restructure and staff               6/30/89
       Auditing           its Internal Auditing
                          Department according to
                          recommendations of the
                          FSRP consultants
   6.3 Insurance          Employ a consultant                 3/30/89
                          to evaluate its
                          insurance coverage
                          and implement his
                          recommendations in
                          consultation with
                          the Bank
7. Commercial
   7.1 Revenue            Implement a Revenue                 12/30/90
       Improvement        Improvement Program
                          (RIP), acceptable to
                          the Bank, to rehabi-
                          litate the Borrower's
                          metering, billings,
                          collection system and
                          control systems, and
Page  19
                          monitoring of non-
                          technical losses
                            ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 5
                   Ratios and other targets of financial
                        and operational performance
A.   Financial ratios and other targets of financial performance.
1.   Rate of Return of Fixed Assets  in Operation. Defined as the ratio of
net operating income for the year to the average net plant in service.
Fiscal Year   1988     1989     1990     1991     1992     1993     1994
Ratio (%)     -3.5%    0.8%     2.1%     3.9%     4.1%     3.8%     4.8%
2.   Operating Ratio. Defined as  the  ratio  of total operating expenses,
excluding financial costs, to total sales revenues of each year.
Fiscal Year   1988     1989     1990     1991     1992     1993     1994
Ratio (%)     117%     100%      95%      88%      87%      87%      83%
3.   Current Ratio. Ratio of current assets to current liabilities.
Fiscal Year   1988     1989     1990     1991     1992     1993     1994
Ratio (%)     0.4%     0.4%     0.4%     0.4%     0.5%     0.5%     0.5%
4.   Collection Ratio (days). Ratio of  the balance of accounts receivable
less provision for bad debt at  the  end  of the year to the equivalent of
one day of sales revenues (total sales revenues divided by 365 days).
Fiscal Year   1988     1989     1990     1991     1992     1993     1994
(Days)         122       91       80       73       67       60       60
5.   Debt/Debt + Equity Ratio. Ratio  of long-term debt (including current
portion) to the sum of long-term debt and equity.
Fiscal Year   1988     1989     1990     1991     1992     1993     1994
Ratio (%)     0.43     0.45     0.47     0.49     0.52     0.54     0.55
6.   Debt Service Coverage Ratio. Ratio  of gross internal cash generation
(difference between sources and  cash  expenses  from operation plus other
net  income  excluding  government   subsidies)   to  total  debt  service
(excluding interest during construction financed by loans).
Fiscal Year   1988     1989     1990     1991     1992     1993     1994
Ratio (%)     0.13     0.70     0.84     1.20     1.20     1.20     1.20
B.   Targets of operational performance.
     Customers/Efficiency Ratio. Yearly  average  of  the monthly ratio of
the total number of customers to the total number of employees.
Fiscal Year   1988     1989     1990     1991     1992     1993     1994
Number         106      110      115      120      126      132      137N
