RESTR I CTED
F-ILE     COPY                     Report No.P-67 
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do'not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness: The rero-rt may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDAITION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
ELECTRICITY SUPPLY BOARD
WITH THE
GUARANTEE OF IRELAND
February 26, 1969



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND lRECO11METDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE ELECTRICITY SUPPLY BOARD
FOR A PUMPED STORAGE POWER PROJECT
1.     I submit the following report and recornmendation on a proposed loan
in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$14.5 million to the
Electricity Supply Board (ESB) in Ireland.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.     The proposed loan would be the Bank's first to Ireland. Because of
increasing need for capital for economic developriient and difficulty in
obtaining the necessary amounts in the domestic and external markets,
Ireland, in August 1965, requested the Bank's financial assistance. The
projects then proposed were not of a character suitable for Bank financing.
In January 1967 a Bank mission to Ireland identified a pumped storage
power project which could provide a basis for a Bank loan and concluded
that ESB would be a suitable borrower. At that time, however, the Bank
felt unable to lend to Ireland. because of a shortage of funds. In 1968, the
position eased and-the Bank undertook to consider financing the ESB project.
3.     The pumped storage hydroelectric project located at Turlough Hills
was appraised in August 1968, and found to be satisfactory. Negotiations
with ESB and the Irish Government took place in Washington in January 1969.
The negotiators for the Borrower were led by Mr. L. J. Barry, Chief Finan-
cial Officer of ESB; the negotiator for the Guarantor was 1ir. M. Horgan,
Financial Counselor of the Embassy of Ireland in Washington.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
4.     Borrower:           Electricity Supply Board
Guarantor:          Ireland
Amount:             The equivalent in various currencies of
US$145. million
Purpose:            To assist the financing of a pumped storage
power station, the associated substation and
control equipment, and transmission lines
Amortization:       In 25 years including a five-year period of
grace, through semi-annual installments beginning
June 15, 1974 and ending June 15, 1994
Interest Rate:      6.5 percent
Commitment Charge:  3/h of 1 percent



- 2 -
PART III - THE PROJECT
5.     An appraisal report entitled "Ireland - Electricity Supply Board -
Appraisal of the Pumped Storage Project" (PU-5a) on the proposed project
is attached (No. 1).
6.     The sustained growth of recent years in the demand for electric
power is likely to be continued in the future. This is due in part to the
expected development of induistrial uses. It is also an effect of the Govern-
ment program of country-wide electrification which is close to completion.
7.     ESB is an autonomous statutory corporation which generates and sells
all central station power used in Ireland. Since its establishment in 1927
the Board has progressively expanded and has become one of the largest
enterprises in the country. It is a stable conservative institution with
a competent management and efficient staff. The legislation establishing
ESB provides that revenues should be just sufficient to meet expenditures,
including depreciation, annual debt service and appropriations to reserves
as ESB sees fit. Under this legislation, ESBIs earnings in recent years
have been sufficient to produce an average rate of return on net assets in
service of 6.7 percent. ESB's financial situation is generally satisfactory
and internally generated funds financed more than one-third of its total
capital requirements in 1966-68.
8.     The purpose of a purmped storage project is to supply economical
capacity for generating poWrer to meet peak loads, and to provide flexibility
in system operation. It will also enable the base-load thermal plant to
operate more efficiently by running at more nearly uniform load. The pro-
posed pumped storage project is the least-cost alternative presently avail-
able for supplying needed peaking capacity. Both gas-turbine units and
additional conventional base-load steam plant which would release older
units for peaking service were considered. Neither is as economically
attractive as the proposed project. The internal rate of return on the
investment for thle project would be 19 percent w;ith the additional power
sales valued at prevailing rates.
9.     The proposed loan of $14.5 million would finance about 80 percent of
the foreign exchange component of the project, the estimated total cost of
which is $31.5 million equivalent. It would contribute 8 percent to the
total capital requirements of the Board over the next four years. ESBts own
resources, borrowing on the domestic market and other domestic contributions
are expected to finance more than 80 percent of the investment program of
ESB, the balance being financed by suppliers' credits. Projected earnings
of the Board over the period 1969/70 - 1973/74 would represent a rate of
return on net assets in service averaging 7.7 percent: interest on debt,
which is at present covered 1.1 times by net income, would be covered 1.5
times by 1973/74.
10.    Procurement is being carried out on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding.



- 3 -
PART IV - ITJGAL INSTRUlIENTS AND AUTHORITY
11.    The draft Loan A-reement betwfeen the Bank and the Electricity Supply
Board, the draft Guarantee Agreement between Ireland and the Bank, the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of
the Articles of Agreement and the text of a Resolution approving the proposed
Loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
12.    The provisions of the loan and guarantee agreements follow the usual
pattern in projects of this kind. As the Electricity Supply Act of 1927
provides adequately for the rates to be charged by ESB, the rate covenant
is based on this legislation rather than on a requirement to earn a specific
rate of return. (Sections 5.11 and 6.02 of the Loan Agreement)
PART V - TIIE ECONOIIY
13.    A report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects of
Ireland" (M4A-2, dated November 29, 1968) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on December 13, 1968.
lh.    Ireland's economic performance has been satisfactory. After a
period in which little emphasis was placed on economic growth, beginning
in 1959 development plans have been adopted by the Government (the current
plan covers the period 1969-1972), and in recent years there has been a
much greater development effort. Gross investment has risen from 12 percent
of GNP in 1958 to 19 percent in 1967. In the same period, public capital
expenditure has increased from f42 million to fl20 million, and is estimated
at fl4l million in 1968/69.   This expanding public capital program has been
financed mainly from domestic resources. The deficit on the current account
of the balance of payments has been small and the external debt burden is
relatively light. At present there is a need to accelerate investments in
infrastructure and the Government aims to attract foreign capital for this
purpose. Probably owing to measures taken by some capital exporting countries
to curtail investments abroad, it is, however, proving more difficult to
attract private capital and there are indications that the inflow is slow-
ing down. Irelandts experience in the international capital market has not
been entirely successful; after a successful issue early in 1966, a second
issue later that year met with a disappointing response and other enquiries
in capital markets have not been encouraging but are continuing. Bank lend-
ing, apart from meeting the emerging capital requirements, could have the
secondary effect of enhancing Ireland's ability to borrow from private
capital sources abroad. The country is fully creditworthy for the proposed
lending.



- 4 -
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WsITH THE ARTICLES OF AGREEHNT
15.    I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the require-
ments of the Articles of Agreemeent of the Banc.
PART VII - RECOITNEIATION
16.    I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
February 26, 1969



