Report No. 720-MOR                                                                7    -                          t
Morocco-Souss Groundwater Project
April 18, 1975
EMENA Projects Department
Not for Public Use
U
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                                         Moroccan Dirham (Dli)
IH 1                        =                US$0.238
DH 1,000                                     US$238
hI 1,000,000                                 US$238,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Millimeter (mm)                                     0.039 inches (in.)
1 hectare  ha                                          2.47 acres
1 kilometer km                                        0.62 mile
1 square meter (m2)                   =              10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (m3)                    =              35.31 cubic feet
1 kilogram kg                                          2.205 pounds
1 metric ton (m ton)                  =           2,205.00  pounds
1 bar.                                =              14.666 pounds/square inch
1 hectoliter hl                                      26.5 US gallons
ABBREVIATIONS
CLCA - Local Agricultural Credit Bank
(Caisse Locale de Credit Agricole)
CMV - Development Center
(Centre de Mise en Valeur)
CNCA - National Agricultural Credit Bank
CRAFA- Regional Center for Agricultural Development and Training
(Centre Regional d'Animation et de Formation Agricole
CRCA - Regional Agricultural Credit Bank
(Caisse Regionale de Credit Agricole)
ER   - Hydraulic Directorate of MTPC
(Direction de l1Hydraulique)
DMVA - Directorate for Agricultural Development of MARA
(Direction de la Mise en Valeur Agricole)
IEE  - Water Resources Division of MTPC
(Division des Ressources en Eau)
WAD - World Bank Economic Analysis and Projections Department
FAO  - Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
GERSAR-Groupement d'Etude des Societes d'Amenagement R6gional
INRA - National Institute for Agricultural Research
(Institut National de la Recherche Agricole)
MARA - Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
MT i     (Ministgz de l'Agriculture et de la Reforme Agraire)
MTPC - Ministry of Public Works and Communications
(Ministere des Travaux Publics et des Communications)
OCE  - Export Office
(Office de Commercialisation Ext6rieure
OCICL- Trade Office for Cereals and Vegetables
(Office Ch6rifien Interprofessionnml des C&r6ales et des Legumes
ONE - National Electricity Office
(Office National de l'Electricit6)
ORMASK-Regional Agricultural Development Office for the Souss and Massa Areas
(Office RAgional de Mise en Valeur Agricole de Souss Massa)
SCET - Socidte Centrale pour l'Equipement du Territoire (International)
UNJP - United Nations Development Program
GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SOUSS GROUNDWATER PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  .....           .....................         i - ii
I.    INTRODUCTION  .....................             .............. .1
II.    BACKGROUND ......................................... o..........     
A.    The Agricultural Sector             ..............                  1
B.    Institutions Responsible for Agricultural
Development ...............................                      2
C.    Previous Bank Projects in the Agricultural
Sector        ....................................               3
D.    The Souss Valley Master Plan ....               ............        4
III.  THE PROJECT AREA ...................                                         4
A.    Area ..         ......................................              4
B.    Natural Resources  .....        ..............                      5
C.    Land Tenure .......... .. . .....................                   6
D.   Land Use, Agrict.ltural Production and Yields                        6
E.    Marketing and Cooperatives  .................           .           6
F.   Development Institutions and Credit Resources                        7
C7,   Water Rights  ................................                      8
IV.   THE PROJECT  ....           .....................................          8
A.    General  .......       ............... ........ .                   8
B.    Description ......           ...........................            9
C.    Detailed Features  .... o    .....................                  9
D.    Water Demand, Supply, Quality and Rights   ....                    12
E.    Construction Schedule and Status of
Engineering ......          .........................           13
F.    Cost Estimates  ......          ........................           13
G.    Financing  .......         ............................            14
H.    Procurement  ......          ...........................           15
I.    Disbursement ................................                     15
J.    Environmental Impact  .....           ...................          16
V.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ...........................                      16
A.    Organization and Management  ....              .............       16
B.    Operation and Maintenance  ....              ...............       18
C.    Services and Training .......................                      19
D.    Land Consolidation and Distribution                .........       20



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)                                          Page No.
E.   Recovery of Project Costs ....       ...............  21
F.   Monitoring and Conservation of Water
Resources   .................................       22
G.   Accounts and Audit ..........................         23
VI.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .......................         23
A.   Production ...............                            23
B. Markets ...............                                 25
C.   Prices   ......................................       26
D.   Farmers'  Income   .............................      26
E.   Main Benefits and Beneficiaries ....     .........    26
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....     .......     27
ANNEXES
1.       Monthly Average Climatic Data
2.       Water Demand, Supply and Quality
3.       Crop Production
4.       Land Tenure in the Project Area
5.       Livestock Subsector
6.       Marketing
7.       Agricultural Credit
8.       Project Description
9.       Construction and Activity Schedule 9525 (R)
10.       Cost Estimates
11.       Schedule of Expenditure
12.       Estimated Value of Contracts
13.       Schedule of Disbursements
14.       Organization and Consultants 9524 (R)
15.       Recovery of Project Costs
16.       Economic Analysis
17.       Farm Income and Budgets
MAP       IBRD 11381



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SOUSS GROUNDWATER PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Morocco has an area of 506,000 sq km and a population of 16 million
which is increasing at a rate of 2.6% per year. Its agriculture accounts for
about one fourth of GDP and is the largest production sector in the economy,
providing about one-half of the exports and employment to one-half of the
labor force. Agricultural commodities, mainly sugar, cereals, tea, dairy
products, coffee and tobacco, valued at US$340 million, are imported an-
nually to meet the nation's needs.
ii.       Irrigation is important to increase agricultural production.  Irri-
gated land is classified in a traditional sector with temporary and deficient
water supply and a crude distribution system, and a modern sector with ade-
quate water supply and an efficient distribution network. Out of 7.7 million
ha of arable land about 840,000 ha are irrigated with 550,000 ha belonging
to the modern and 290,000 ha to the traditional sector. The Third Develop-
ment Plan (1973-77) emphasizes improvement of the trade balance of agricul-
tural products, increased farm output and farm income through irrigation and
improvement in the distribution of growth benefits. The proposed Souss Ground-
water Project would contribute to the realization of these objectives by pro-
ducing import substitute products, implementing land consolidation and dis-
tribution, improving supporting services and providing basic village infra-
structure. The Government of the Kingdom of Morocco has requested a Bank
loan to help finance the project.
iii.      Bank Group lending to Morocco for agriculture started in 1965 and
consisted of five loans and one credit totalling US$140 million. Except for
the latest Sebou II Project, on which it is too early to report, upcoming
problems in the implementation of projects and disbursements have been re-
solved satisfactorily. Working relations with the borrower have been cordial.
iv.       The project would develop irrigation on 7,300 ha of which about
1,000 ha belong to the traditional sector. The currently unirrigated area
of 6,300 ha would be provided with sprinkler irrigation. Water would be
pumped from wells. To facilitate access of farmers and create,an improved
rural environment the project would also provide village infrastructure for
11 new and 9 existing villages in form of streets, street lighting, domestic
water supply, schools and health and community centers tb benefit the project
population of about 13,000 persons.
v.        The Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MARA), the National
Electricity Office (ONE) and the Ministry of Urbanization, Environment,
Housing and Tourism with the assistance of other Government agencies would
be responsible for project implementation. The "Regional Agricultural Develop-
ment Office for the Souss-Massa Area" (ORMVASM) would be the agency of MARA
charged with planning, design, construction, operation and maintenance of all
agricultural and irrigation works. General consultants would assist ORMVASM



- ii -
in design preparation of contract documents and start up of the project. The
Ministry of Housing would be responsible for the construction of village in-
frastructure.
vi.       The total project cost is estimated at US$39.0 million, with a
foreign exchange component of US$18.5 million. The Bank loan would finance
the foreign exchange requirements and the Government would finance the local
costs (US$20.5 million) with its own resources, apart from a minor contribu-
tion by the project farmers (US$0.6 million). Construction would start in
1975 and be completed in 1978. The total value of the works and equipment,
including taxes, duties and contingencies, that would be tendered would be
about US$34.3 million. The value of works, and equipment that would be
procured under international competitive bidding would be about US$25.4
million.
vii.      At full development, the project would increase annual production
of the main crops: cereals 8,600 tons; maize 10,600 tons; pulses 900 tons;
citrus 3,700 tons; olives 1,800 tons; almonds 900 tons; plus 70,000 tons,
alfalfa and berseem (green). Increased annual animal production would
amount to 2,800 tons of milk, 3,300 tons of mutton and 630 tons of beef.
Most of the incremental production would be import substitute products. At
full development the net annual production value would be increased from the
present level of US$0.4 million to US$5.8 million and the per capita income
of the farming population would increase from the present subsistence level
of about US8100 to US$280 and US$580 in the traditional and modern sector,
respectively. The project would thus assist the very poor section of Morocco's
rural population, but even at full development their income would still be
below the average national per capita income, estimated to reach about US$700
by b')2.  The net annual foreign exchange savings from the project would be
about US$5.8 million. The estimated economic rate of return excluding the
village infrastructure would be about 10%. Including the village infra-
structure the rate of return would be about 9%.
viii.     Subject to agreement on the issues set forth in this report, the
project would be suitable for a Bank loan to the Kingdom of Morocco. The
loan would be repaid over a period of 20 years including 5 years of grace.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SOUSS GROUNDWATER PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Kingdom of Morocco has requested a Bank loan
of US$18.5 million to finance the foreign exchange cost of the US$39.0 mil-
lion Souss Groundwater Project. The proposed project would provide for in-
tensive irrigation of 7,300 ha in the Upper Souss Valley and for the provi-
sion of village infrastructure in the project area.
1.02      Development of the land and water resources of the Souss Valley
has been investigated by two UNDP/FAO projects, Souss I (1968-1971) and
Souss II (1971-1974). The Souss II Project finalized a Master Plan for
development of the water resources of the river basin and the feasibility
studies of two major development projects including the proposed Souss
Groundwater Project. Preparation of both the Master Plan and the project
has been carried out by the UNDP/FAO consultants, SCET International/
cGERSAR, and government agencies, with the assistance of the FAO/IBRD Co-
operative Program.
1.03      The project was appraised in October 1974 by a mission comprising
of Messrs. M. Raczynski, H. Laeyendecker, M. Sulieman (Bank), and Messrs.
P. Ruby and G. Saab (Consultants). Based partly on contributions of the
consultants in their respective fields of specialty, the report was prepared
by Bank staff members of the mission.
II. BACKGROUND
A.   The Agricultural Sector
2.01      Morocco has a land area of 506,000 km  and a population of about
16 million with an average annual growth of 2.6%. Nearly 10 million people,
or 65%, live in rural communities. About 35% of the land area is used for
agriculture, roughly equally divided between crop production and grazing.
In 1972, agriculture accounted for about 27% of GDP and employed about 55%
of the labor force. About 30% of agricultural output was exported, mainly
to Europe, with France accounting for more than half the value of exports.
The agricultural trade surplus, averaged over the years 1968-72, was some
DH 700 million a year.
2.02      The long-term historic growth trend of agriculture in Morocco was
estimated by the Bank's Economic Mission (1973) to be about 3% per annum.
However, growth of the value of agricultural production averaged nearly 6%
during the period of the Second Development Plan (1968-72), mainly due to a
rapid growth of irrigation, increased use of fertilizer and other inputs
and increased production of high value crops. The main objectives of the
Second Plan were the extension of large-scale irrigation, expansion of credit
to large and medium farmers and export promotion. Although growth in the
sector was stimulated during the Plan period, there appears to have been a



- 2 -
widening of income differentiation within the rural areas as well as between
rural and urban areas. The latest Bank Economic Mission estimated that in
real terms average consumption declined slowly for about one-third of the
rural population, implying that benefits accrued mainly to medium and large
farmers.
2.03      During the period of the Second Plan, DH 2.5 billion equivalent to
45% of totalinvestments was invested by the Public Sector in agriculture, of
which 64% was for irrigation, 6% for rainfed agriculture and 4% for livestock
production, with the remainder in a miscellaneous category. Under the Third
Plan (1973-1977) agriculture continues to receive the highest priority with
a nearly half of the planned investments (47%) in the economic sector with
emphasis towards more productive investment in irrigated agriculture, rainfed
cropping and livestock improvement. The main objectives of the Third Plan
are to: (a) improve trade balance of agricultural products; (b) increase
the contribution of the agricultural sector to economic growth through an
increase in farm output; (c) raise farm income through irrigation; and (d)
improve distribution of the growth of wealth in the rural areas through land
reform and a better balance of Government support to farmers. The proposed
project would contribute to these objectives in the Souss Valley by producing
import substituting products, implementing land consolidation and distribu-
tion, and providing village infrastructure.
B.   Institutions Responsible for Agricultural Development
2.04      Development of Moroccan agriculture is the responsibility of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MARA) primarily through its
five major Directorates: Agriculture Development, Engineering and Construc-
tion, Animal Production, Agricultural Research and Forestry, In designated
development zones the Ministry carries out its task through eight Regional
Agricultural Development Offices which are also responsible for assisting
small-scale irrigation and rainfed farming in their regions. Elsewhere the
Ministry operates 22 provincial offices and about 100 district extension
centers.
Land Reform
2.05      Morocco has experience and the necessary technical, legal and
administrative machinery to carry out land consolidation and distribution
programs in irrigated areas. The Government has recognized that small size
and fragmentation of holdings have been a major obstacle fo;r improving agri-
cultural productivity and has taken the following steps to overcome these
problems.
(a) Under the legislation introduced in 1963 the Government
has successfully started a land consolidation program.
During the second Five Year Plan (1968-72) 19,000() ha
benefited.



(b) Under the Law of 1966 (amended in 1972) Government is
distributing stateland, including land formerly held by
foreigners to the rural poor, both small farmers and
landless farmers. About 180,000 ha were distributed in
1972 and the third Five Year Plans target is to distribute
almost 400,000 ha by 1977.
(c) The Agricultural Investment Code (1969) provides for trans-
formation of collective land into individually held free-
hold plots. Although only a small proportion of the farm-
ing population benefited from the Land reform program, the
impact is mainly concentrated in the irrigated sector.
C.   Previous Bank Projects in the Agricultural Sector
2.06      Bank Group lending for agriculture in Morocco began in 1965 and to
date five projects representing US$10 million in IDA Credits and US$129.5
million in Bank Loans have been financed.  The first loan, made in 1965, was
US$17.5 million for the Sidi Slimane Irrigation Project. The project in-
creased the storage capacity of El Kansara reservoir and provided for ex-
tension of an existing irrigated area served from the dam.  Though perfor-
mance under the project was satisfactory as far as civil works and agricul-
tural development were concerned, delays arose due to a series of reorganiza-
tions within the agricultural and irrigation services. By mid-1967 these
problems had been overcome and the project was completed in 1970. In 1966 a
loan of US$10 million for an Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 433-MOR) was
made to the National Agricultural Credit Bank (CNCA). The loan helped finance
a three year lending program for on farm development and purchase of agricul-
tural equipment. Initial progress was disappointing until a mutually satis-
factory agreement was reached between the Bank and the Government on a re-
organization of the local credit agencies involved in the project. The
loan was fully disbursed by September 1969.
2.07      A Second Agricultural Credit Project under which CNCA will borrow
US$10 million from IDA (Credit 338-MOR) over a three year period and a further
US$24 million from IBRD (Loan 861-MOR) commenced in 1972. The project will
help finance farm equipment for rainfed grain production, on-farm improvements
for citrus and winter vegetable production, livestock developient and market-
ing facilities for export produce. Although disbursements are behind the
expected schedule, the project is progressing satisfactorily.
2.08      The Sebou I (US$46 million) project was financed in 1969 (Loan
643-MOR) followed by the Sebou II (US$32 million) project in 1974 (Loan
1018-MOR). The Sebou I project provides for the construction of -a dam for
irrigation in the Sebou River Basin, and for the equipment of some 38,000 ha
for irrigation, while the Sebou II project provides for complementary infra-
structure (sugar factory, roads, flood control) in the Sebou I project area.
Numerous problems, including a lack of continuity in senior management and
difficulties with land consolidation and reallocation programs, beset the
Sebou I Project at the start, but these problems are now resolved and progress



- 4 -
is satisfactory. The Sebou II project is progressing satisfactorily and its
main component, a sugar cane factory, is expected to start operation in
June 1975 as originally scheduled.
D.   The Souss Valley Master Plan
2.09      Water resource planning in Morocco is carried out on a river basin
basis. The Master Plan for the Souss Valley prepared under the UNDP/FAO
Souss II project (para 1.02) identified the present land use and the agri-
cultural development potential of the valley. Permanent agriculture is
essentially limited to areas under irrigation since the area planted to
rainfed crops varies widely from year to year due to variatiot in rainfall.
Of the total cultivable land in the valley of 180,000 ha some,55,000 ha are
irrigated annually whereas the rainfed area varies from some 10,000 ha up to
80,000 ha.  Irrigation consists of the "traditional" sector and the "modern"
sector. In the traditional areas, water is derived from storm-water flows,
from resurgence springs in the river bed or in some cases from government
operated wells. In these areas water distribution systems are relatively
crude. In the modern sector groundwater is pumped into relatively efficient
distribution systems. Some 24,000 ha in the valley are in the modern sector.
2.10      Assessment of available land and water resources indicates that some
9,000 ha upstream of Taroudant could be irrigated by groundwater (see Map IBRD
11381).
2.11      Continuing development of irrigation by large farmers has in recent
years caused the government concern that unless there is Public Sector inter-
vention in development, the water resources in the valley would not be
mDbilized to benefit the rural poor. The Souss Groundwater Project would be
the vehicle for such intervention by the Government in the Upper Souss Valley.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
A.   Area
3.01      General.  The project area is situated in the vaLley of the Souss
River, upstream the town of Taroudant, about 100 km east of Agadir in Southern
Morocco (Map IBRD 11381). It consists of 12 separated areas ranging from 200
to 900 ha, and totalling 7,300 ha net (8,000 ha gross), located on both sides
of the Souss River.
3.02      Population.  The population of the project area comprises about
13,000 persons. About 47% of the population is below 15 years old, wThich
is close to the rural average in Morocco.  About 23% of The population is of
school age (3,000 children).  The average household has 6 persons rith a po-
tential of about 60 man days of labor per month.  About 72% of the active
population is directly employed in agriculture, 5% in the industrial sector
mostly in small agro-industries5 8%. in retail merchandizing and marketing of



-5-
-agricultural products, and 12% in the service sector. Unemployment is re-
corded at about 3% but most people are underemployed. The town of Taroudant
which is located near the project area, has a population of about 22,000
inhabitants.
3.03      Electricity and Domestic Water Supply.  High tension lines of 60
kv and 22 kv serve part of the Upper Souss Valley. Additional lines would be
required to serve the project area (para 4.10). Apart from the domestic
water supply system in Taroudant, there are no other water supply systems in
the area. Water is presently obtained from local wells, springs emerging in
the riverbed and by diversion of surface flows.
3.04      Transportation and Communications.  The road network, which is the
only means of transportation in the region, provides adequate access to the
project area. The network consists of a primary paved road which extends'from
Taroudant on the right bank of the Sousa River to the Upper Valley, connecting
the project area with the port of Agadir in the west and Marrakech and Quarza-
zate in the northeast. A secondary road network adequately serves the left
bank of the Souss River.
3.05      Health.  The Ministry of Health maintains a 110 bed hospital in
Taroudant and some dispensaries in the upper valley but none in the project
area. The main diseases are typhus, meningitis, and other infectious diseases.
No bilharza has been observed in the project area.
B.   Natural Resources
3.06      Climate.  The climate is mediterranean with hot dry summers and
moderately cool wet winters. Rainfall averages 246 mm, 70% of which falls
between November and February and most of the remainder during October, March
and April. During 30 years of observation, ending in 1974, annual rainfall
measured at Taroudant has varied between the extremes of 33 mm and 594 mm.
Average monthly temperatures range from 13.4°C in January to 26.5° in August.
Average maximum and minimum temperatures are about 10°C above or below of
these values. Dry warm winds are common throughout the year. Evaporation
varies between 80 mm in December and 166 mm in July. Climatic data are summa-
rized in Annex 1, Table 1.
3.07      Water Resources.  The Souss River originates in the Atlas Mountains
and enters the Souss Valley through a steep gorge at Aoulouz. Most of the
river discharge is lost during storm runoff to the sea. However infiltration
is substantial and is estimated at about 25% of the total runoff. Immediately
upstream of Taroudant rock ledges in the substratum force the underground flow
to emerge and the riverbed shows zones of resurgence of groundwater alternat-
ing with zones of reinfiltration. At several places water from resurgence
springs is diverted for traditional irrigation. Average annual discharge of
the Souss at Aoulouz is about 270 million m3 per year.
3.08      Groundwater conditions in the valley were surveyed in detail during
the Souss I and Souss II studies. The studies showed that, in addition to



- 6 -
present extraction, up to 70 Mm /year could be safely pumped from the upstream
valley aquifer. Annex 2 gives details on the hydrology of the Upper Valley.
3.09      Soils.  Soils are deep, light textured, of alluvial origin and
suitable for proposed uses. They are characterized by high infiltration rates
(up to 100 mm/hour) and relatively low moisture retention (8-15 cm/m). Be-
cause of their moisture characteristics, they are best suited for sprinkler
irrigation. Fertility could be improved by adding organic matter and includ-
ing leguminous plants in the rotation. The longitudinal slope of the valley
(east-west) in the project area is less than 1% and cross slopes do not ex-
ceed 2%. The microrelief is uniform. Soils are suitable for a wide variety
of crops. For details see Annex 3.
C.   Land Tenure
3.10      There are three types of tenure in the project area:  private free-
hold (melk), collective land, and state-forest land, accounting for 47%, 33%
and 20% of the project area, respectively. Land tenure changes to be imple-
mented under the project are governed by the Land Consolidation Law of 1962,
the Agricultural Investment Code of 1969, and the Land Reform Legislation of
1972. The main objectives of the existing legislation are to (a) improve
income distribution; (b) stabilize ownership pattern by providing title
security; and (c) establish viable family holdings by eliminating fragmenta-
tion and future subdivision (Annex 4).
D.   Land Use, Agricultural Production and Yields
3.11      Existing irrigation in the valley, upstream of Taroudant totals
27,800 ha of which 4,100 ha are in the modern sector and 23,700 ha in the
traditional sector (para 2.09). Out of 7,300 ha net to be developed under
the project, about 1,000 ha in the traditional sector and the remainder are
partly dry farmed but mainly used as range land. Sheep and goats (4,000
female units) and, to a lesser extent cattle (700 female units), subsist on
the grazing land supplemented by crop residues and stubbles. Cereal yields
are low and vary on the dryland between almost nothing and one ton per hectare
depending on rainfall. The currently irrigated land produces mainly wheat,
some fruits, maize, pulses and alfalfa. The total production of the project
area amounts to 200 tons of olives, 1,200 tons of citrus, 2,600 tons of
cereals, 200 tons of pulses, and 5,500 tons of alfalfa (green). Present
yields production and cropping intensity can be substantially improved,
through irrigation, increased use of inputs, greater application of tech-
nology and reorganization of the land tenure. Annex 3 gives details of the
present cropping pattern, areas, yields and production. Annex 5 describes
present livestock production in the project area.
E.   Marketing and Cooperatives
3.12      With the exception of cereals, which are purchased by the Cereals
Trade Office, all produce is sold through local markets. The province of
Agadir is a net importer of cereals and dairy products. Demand for maize as



- 7 -
feed grain is increasing as a result of the growing emphasis on domestic live-
stock production. Home consumption and marketing through peddlers absorb the
majority of milk production. Livestock is marketed at weekly local markets.
Buyers are independent butchers or agents acting on commission basis for large
institutional outlets, especially tourism hotels and restaurants in Agadir
and Taroudant (Annex 6).
3.13      There are no cooperative organizations in the project area.  How-
ever, experience in adjacent areas in the Souss Valley shows a rapid develop-
ment of cooperatives over the last five years. This is the result of incen-
tive programs implemented throughout Morocco since 1969 under the Agricultural
Investment Code and support and guidance afforded to the Souss Valley Coopera-
tives by the "Agricultural Development Office for the Souss and Massa Region"
(ORMVASM). Existing cooperatives in the region are all local cooperatives of
independent farmers specialized in one or two commodities. The membership of
each is small not exceeding 10 to 15 persons generally related to each other.
The objective of these small cooperatives is mainly limited to supply of in-
puts and bulk marketing of produce.
F.   Development Institutions and Credit Resources
3.14      Agricultural Development in the Souss Valley is the responsibility
of ORMVASM under the supervision of the Directorates for Engineering and Con-
struction and for Agricultural Development of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Agrarian Reform (para. 2.04). ORMVASM is organized into three services, Admi-
nistration, Engineering and Agriculture, and maintains a Development Center
(CMV) in Taroudant and three sub CMV in the project area. The main responsi-
bilities of ORMVASM are to (a) design, supervise construction, operate and
maintain irrigation projects in the region, (b) authorize and control the
water rights; (c) consolidate and distribute land; (d) assist in the forma-
tion and management of cooperatives; (e) supply inputs; (f) provide extension
services; and (g) train farmers. The scope of ORMVASM activities in the proj-
ect area is presently limited to agricultural activities, authorization and
control of water rights, and land consolidation and distribution.
3.15      The "National Institute for Agricultural Research" (INRA) is respon-
sible for agricultural research in Morocco and operates two experimental sta-
tions in the Souss Valley but none in the project area. INRA has successfully
introduced high yielding varieties of maize hybrids and Mexicanl and Italian
wheat varieties. ORMVASM operates a 40 ha field station in the project area
serving as a "Regional Center for Agricultural Development and Training (CRAFA)
which could be equipped and staffed for experimentation, demonstration and
training purposes of the project (paras 4.14 and 4.15).
3.16      ORMVASM provides agricultural extension services and supplies inputs
through its CMV, but is giving more importance to the latter. The extension
service is understaffed and lacks subject matter specialists.
3.17      Agricultural credit in the project area is provided through the
"National Agricultural Credit Bank" (CNCA), which maintains a "Regional Bank"



- 8 -
(CRCA) in Agadir and a "Local Bank" (CLCA) in Taroudant. The credit system
is well established. Annual nominal interest rates for agricultural loans
vary from 6% for seasonal to 6%-8% for medium term loans (Annex 7). Other
credit sources are commercial banks, input suppliers and equipment dealers.
Commercial banks charge about 8% for seasonal loans. The non-institutional
market provides also seasonal credit, but its magnitude is not known.
3.18      Other Ministries concerned with development in the project area in-
clude: (a) the "Ministry of Public Works and Communications" which through
its "National Electricity Office" (ONE) is responsible for power supply and
generation, and through its Division of Water Resources (DRE) for ground and
surface water recordings and hydrology; (b) The "Ministry of Urbanization,
Environment, Housing and Tourism" for village infrastructure; (c) the "Minis-
try of Education" for construction and operation of schools; and (d) the
"Ministry of Public Health" for the establishment, operation and management
of health facilities. The "Ministry of Interior" maintains a Land Registry
Office in Agadir which registers and controls all land tenure changes.
G.   Water Rights
3.19      Under a law passed in 1914, all Moroccan water resources, both sur-
face and underground belong to the public domain of the state, except for
water rights acquired prior to this 1914 legislation. By permanent delegation
the public domain is administered by the Ministry of Public Works, which has
transferred its powers in this respect to the "Regional Agricultural Develop-
ment Offices" (para 2.04). In the project area, ORMVASM authorizes and con-
trols the use of water of the public domain. Out of the 1,000 ha presently
irrigated in the project area about 650 ha receive water from Government wells
which are of limited capacity while the remaining 350 ha receive water, from
resurgences in the Souss river, diversion of stormwater flows, and one well.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   General
4.01      The Souss Groundwater Project would provide irrigat:ion for the
production of forage for livestock and of cereals and fruit, all for local
consumption. It would reduce underemployment and improve rural incomes. It
would stimulate an evolution from traditional irrigation methods towards
modern techniques, thus promoting a more efficient use of water in an area
xwhere water shortage is the biggest constraint to agricultural development.
Project beneficiaries would be primarily small farmers who wcould benefit from
the consolidation and distribution of land to be carried out under the proj-
ect (para 5.17).
4.02      The pro_ect would serve twel-v.e separated perimeters having a totain
net area of about 7,300 ha, NZine of these perimeters, presentl-;7 consisting
of 6,300 ha of rangeland and dry farmland, would be equipped for sprinkler



- 9 -
irrigation. The selection of sprinkler irrigation was made on the basis of
a technical and economic comparison with a surface irrigation system which
showed that sprinkler irrigation was the preferred alternative. The three
other perimeters, consisting of 1,000 ha of traditionally irrigated land
(para 2.09) would be rehabilitated by providing an adequate water supply
and an improved gravity irrigation network. The twelve perimeters would
be divided into 21 separate sections each served by groups of tubewells.
4.03      To facilitate access of farmers to the areas to be newly irrigated
and to create an improved rural environment, the project would also provide
the basic infrastructure for 11 new villages and improve the existing infra-
structure of 9 existing villages.
B.   Description
4.04      The project would provide:
(a)  49 tubewells with submerged electric pumps and appurtenant
pressure regulating installations, and pumps and equipment
for 24 additional wells, existent or under construction.
(b)  116 km of buried asbestos cement pipe distribution systems
and mobile sprinkler equipment serving 6,300 ha.
(c)  Rehabilitation of an existing gravity distribution system
serving 1,000 ha.
(d)  36 km of open drains to intercept surface runoff from adjacent
areas.
(e)  80 km of 22 kV power transmission lines for pumping stations.
(f)  Village infrastructure.
4.05      The project would also provide for land consolidation, distribution
and preparation; farm access roads and windbreaks; buildings and equipment
for extension, training, operation and maintenance services and milk collec-
tion centers; and general consultants. The major executing agency for the
project works would be ORMVASM. Major features of the project are des-
cribed below, and in more detail in Annex 8.
C.   Detailed Features
4.06      Tubewells and Pumping Stations.  The 49 tubewells to be provided
by the project would have depths varying from 80 to 90 m and would be equipped
with 65 1/sec submerged pumps and associated equipment. Ten existing wells,
which were installed during the project feasibility studies and 14 wells for
which contracts have been awarded, would be provided with pumps and equipment.
The normal well field pattern would be triangular with three wells spaced at
equal distances of 400 m. The pumping stations would consist of shelters



- 10 -
for the electrical controls and concrete platforms for mounting of trans-
formers, surge suppressors and hoods over the wells.
4.07      Buried Pipe Distribution System.  The buried pipe distribution
system would consist of about 116 km of asbestos cement pipe, distributing
water to independent irrigation sections (para 4.02). Hydrants with two out-
lets and a constant discharge device would be installed at 216 m intervals,
along the buried pipeline, each hydrant serving units of about 16 ha. Mobile
sprinkler equipment per unit would consist of two central feeder pipes, four
moving laterals of 120 m each, and sprinkler head units.
4.08      Rehabilitation of Existing Gravity System.  In 1,000 ha of tradi-
tionally irrigated land, situated in three separate perimeters, existing con-
crete and earth channels would be rehabilitated and about 5 km of precast con-
crete elevated open channels would be constructed.
4.09      Drainage.  The light and deep soils provide sufficient internal
drainage. Small ditches would be constructed along all farm roads. Larger
drains would protect some sections of the perimeters by intercepting and
diverting overland flow from adjacent higher areas. A total of 36 km of
these interceptor drains would be constructed.
4.10      Power Transmission System.  Power supply would be provided by tying
into the 60 kV and 22 kV main lines now mostly completed in the Souss valley,
through the construction of 48.5 km of 22 kV connecting lines required for the
completion of the main lines. In addition the project would provide 31 km of
22 kV main lines. The connecting lines would terminate in the center of the
tubewell groups from where low tension lines (500 V) would be connected to
the pumps. The Government agreed to cause ONE to complete construction of
the main transmission lines necessary to supply the project so that power can
be made available to the project as and when required.
4.11      Land Consolidation Distribution and Preparation.  "Melk" land would
be consolidated and collective and state land would be redistributed (para
5.17). Land preparation would consist of removal of the thorny shrubs and
trees which cover the rangelands in varying density. Small erosion gullies
and minor topographic irregularities would be filled. Treatment with a large
disc harrow would suffice surface treatment.
4.12      Farm Access Roads.  About 150 km of gravel surfaced farm access
roads would be constructed.  Main access roads with a top width of 5 m would
be constructed along the main axis of the irrigation sections. Secondary
roads, 3 m wide, would branch off perpendicularly at 720 m intervals, provid-
ing easy access to the hydrants.
4.13      Windbreaks.  Wind data are scant except for observations made near
Agadir, which are likely to be in excess of values in the project area.
ORMVASM would install an anemometer in a representative location and wind
records thus obtained would be used to decide the need for and design of
windbreaks.



- 11 -
4.14      Buildings.  Project headquarters in Taroudant would be established
by the project, comprising of an office building, central workshop, service
centers, warehouse and staff housing. Offices, stores and staff housing would
also be provided in the three development centers (CMV's) located in the proj-
ect area (Annex 8). In addition, buildings would be constructed for the in-
creased activities at the Government's demonstration and training center
(CRAFA) near Ait Yaza (Annex 3), and seven milk collection centers to be
established in seven of the larger population centers throughout the project
area. (Annex 5).
4.15      Equipment.  The project would provide:  the first set of mobile
sprinkler equipment; maintenance equipment and vehicles for the service
centers (para 4.14); farm machinery; equipment for the seven milk collecting
centers; and vehicles and equipment for extension services. The replacement
of sprinkler equipment and its maintenance would be the responsibility of the
farmers.
4.16      Village Infrastructure.  The transformation of 6,300 ha of dry
grazing land into irrigated mixed farming at relatively long distances from
existing villages, exceeding 5 km in some cases, and the expected increase
in rural income would bring about a change in the way of life for the rural
population. The proposed sprinkler irrigation would require frequent atten-
tion at given hours to comply with operation schemes. The project would there-
fore establish basic infrastructure for 11 new villages and rehabilitate the
infrastructure of 9 existing villages. The villages (average size about 100
families) would be close to the new irrigation perimeters. Facilities pro-
vided under the project would include:
(a) Water supply at community taps;
(b) Public lighting;
(c) One health center at Ouled Berrhil and two dispensaries;
(d) Asphalt paved roads inside the villages;
(e) Schools for 600 students each, including teachers' housing,
in five of the largest new villages;
(f) A community center for every village.
Farmers would at first live in houses built of local materials of a similar
type as their present adobe constructions, which they construct with their
own labor. As farm incomes increase, improvements in housing would be
expected to follow. Government agreed to provide farmers free of cost with a
residential plot in the new centers.



- 12 -
D.   Water Demand, Supply, Quality and Rights
4.17      Water Demand.  Allowing for effective precipitation, types of crops
to be grown in the project area, and a cropping intensity of 135% the total
gross project water demand would amount to 60.0 Mm3/year.  Gross irrigation
water demand for the modern area would be about 8,000 m3/ha/year or 50.3 Mm3
year, based on an overall efficiency of 75%. For the traditional area, gross
water demand would be about 10,000 m3/ha/year or 9.7 Mm3/year, based on an
efficiency of 60% (Annex 2). Peak gross water demand occurs in July and would
total 7.7 Mm3 in the project area. Total domestic water requirements are
estimated at 0.8% of the total irrigation needs.
4.18      Water Supply.  Groundwater was selected as a source of water supply
because of the existence of a large under-exploited aquifer in the Upper Souss
valley, i.e., upstream of the town of.Taroudant. Studies carried out under
the masterplan (para 2.09) proved that the alternative of obtaining surface
water from a dam at Aoulouz (Map IBRD 11381) would be less economic. The
Souss river enters the valley at Aoulouz, where it has an average annual
discharge of 270 Mm3/year. In addition, 180 Mm3/year enters the upstream
valley from smaller tributaries. Part of this water infiltrates into the
aquifer and most runs off as surface flow during storms. Details of the
estimated present and future water balance are given in Annex 2. Comprehen-
sive groundwater investigations carried out under the Souss I and Souss II
project (Annex 2) were reviewed by the mission and found satisfactory. The
available groundwater reserves are such that an additional extraction of
50 Mm3 per year during 40 years would result in an average drawdown of the
watertable in the project area of about 10 m. Because of the groundwater
reservoir, the water supply has no great sensitivity either to seasonal
fluctuations in riverflow, or to the occurrence of high or low rainfall years.
However monitoring of the water table and control of further development would
be necessary to avoid overpumping (para 5.24). Adverse project effects on
the down stream valley would be negligible (Annex 2).
4.19      Water Quality.  Waters are of acceptable quality for irrigation
purposes. Average salinity of the groundwater in the upper part of the
valley is 490 ppm. According to the United States Department of Agriculture-
Salinity Laboratory standards the waters would be classified as C2S1 with
medium salinity and very low alkali hazard. Rainfall and drainage are suf-
ficient to prevent accumulation of salt in the top soil layer. Boron does
not occur in toxic concentrations (Annex 2).
4.20      Water Rights.  For the 6,300 ha new area water rights would present
no problem since water would be obtained from groundwater which belongs to
the Public Domain (para 3.19). Existing water rights in the 1,000 ha tradi-
tional sector would be retained by present owners. The Government agreed to
supply water rights owners from new wells if, in the future, natural supplies
to rights owners decrease as a result of project action. They would, however,
be charged the cost of pumping.



- 13 -
E.   Construction Schedule and Status of Engineering
4.21      Construction Schedule.  Construction of Project works would begin
in 1975 and be completed by December 1978. Construction and activity schedule
is presented in Annex 9.
4.22      Status of Engineering.  Semi detailed soil maps scale 1:10,000 have
been prepared. At present, land consolidation and topographic surveys on a
scale 1:5,000 are being undertaken. Of the 73 wells required for project
water supply, 10 have already been drilled during the course of the feasibil-
ity study and a contract for fourteen wells has already been awarded. Designs
of the irrigation network are at the feasibility level. In addition several
hydro-geological studies and surveys have been completed (para 4.18 and
Annex 2). Plans for villages have been prepared by the Ministry of Housing.
4.23      Consulting Services.  General consultants would be engaged to assist
in final design of project works, preparation of tender documents, start-up
of the irrigation system, and preparation of a maintenance program.
F.   Cost Estimates
4.24      The total project cost is estimated at US$39.0 million (DH 156.0
million), including taxes, duties and physical and price contingencies. The
foreign exchange component is estimated at US$18.5 million (47%). Taxes and
duties would amount to about US$6.9 million (DH 27.8 million). Cost estimates
for civil works and major equipment are based on unit rates obtained in con-
tracts for similar works in Morocco during 1974 and have been updated to
March 1975 prices. Physical contingencies included in project cost estimates
are 15% for civil works and 10% for all other cost items, except for Govern-
ment administration for which no physical contingency was assumed. For all
civil works, price contingencies were compounded at annual rates of 16%
(1975), 14% (1976) and 12% (1977-1978). For equipment, price contingencies
were compounded at annual rates of 12% (1975), 10% (1976), 8% (1977-1979) and
7% (1980). Overall contingencies amount to 49% of basic costs. The cost
estimates are summarized in the following table and shown in detail in Annex
10.



- 14 -
COST ESTIMATE
Dirham (million)-/       US$ (million)/     Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total Exchange
A. Irrigation Network
1. Land Consolidation
and Preparation      4.1    2.6      6.7     1.0    0.7      1.7    41
2. Tubewells            4.1    5.2      9.3     1.0    1.3      2.3    56
3. Underground Pipe
Network               7.5    4.0    11.5      1.9    1.0     2.9     35
4. Roads, Drains etc.   3.3    3.1      6.4     0.8    0.8      1.6     50
5. Electro-Mechanical
Equipment            6.0   14.0    20.0      1.5    3.5      5.0     70
6. Mobile Sprinkler
Equipment            2.3    5.3      7.6     0.6    1.3      1.9     70
7. Power Supply         2.9    4.3      7.2     0.7    1.1      1.8    60
B. Agricultural
Management             4.8    4.4     9.2      1.2    1.1     2.3    48
C. Village
Infrastructure        8.5    6.2    14.7      2.1    1.6      3.7     42
D. On-Farm Development   8.1       0      8.1      2.0     0      2.0      0
E. Administration and
Consultants           3.6    0.6      4.2     0.9    0.1      1.0     13
Sub-total           55.0   49.7   104.7    13.8   12.4    26.2    47
F. Physical
Contingencies         6.5    6.0    12.5      1.6    1.5      3.1     48
G. Price Contingencies  20.4   18.3    38.7        5.1    4.6     9.7    47
Total               82.0   74.0   156.0    20.5   18.5    39.0    47
/a   Discrepancies due to rounding.
G.  Financing
4.25      A Bank loan of US$18.5 million would finance 1b0% of the estimated
foreign exchange component of the project, equivalent to about 47% of total
project cost. The balance would be financed by the Government and the project
farmers. The financing plan is summarized as follows:
DH million          US$ million       % of cost
Bank loan               74.0                 18.5               47
Government             79.5                  19.9               51
Farmers                  2.5                  0.6                2
156.0                 39.0              100



- 15 -
The Bank loan would be for a period of 20 years including a five year grace
period. The loan period was selected by taking into account the life of
tubewells and the grace period approximates to the period before significant
project benefits are generated. Interest during construction and commitment
charges on the Bank loan, estimated to be about US$3.1 million, would be paid
by the Government. The estimated project investment schedule is presented
in Annex 11.
H.   Procurement
4.26      Contracts for civil works and equipment for the irrigation network
would be divided into seven contracts: (a) tubewells; (b) one substation and
power lines; (c) irrigation distribution system and associated works; (d) ac-
cess roads, irrigation, drainage and protection channels, and land prepara-
tion; (e) electro-mechanical equipment; (f) mobile sprinkler equipment and
hydrants; and (g) agricultural equipment (Annex 12). The total estimated
value of these seven contracts, including taxes, duties, and physical and
price contingencies, is US$25.4 million equivalent. These contracts would
be tendered under international competitive bidding according to the Bank's
guidelines. Construction of village infrastructure, miscellaneous adminis-
trative buildings, civil works for pumping stations and windbreaks estimated
to cost a total of US$8.7 million including taxes, duties and physical and
price contingencies, would be let in small contracts after local competitive
bidding following normal Government procedures, which are satisfactory to
the Bank.
4.27      Equipment for supervision, operation, maintenance and agricultural
extension, estimated to cost a total of US$0.3 million, including taxes,
duties and physical and price contingencies, would be procured after inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines except for
purchases not exceeding US$40,000 equivalent, when procurement will be in
accordance with the normal government procurement procedures, which are
acceptable to the Bank, provided that such purchases do not exceed an aggre-
gate of US$250,000. A 15% preference margin, or the prevailing custom duty,
if lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids
for equipment. The government agreed to follow procurement procedures as out-
lined in paras 4.26 and 4.27.
4.28      General consultants would be appointed according to normal Bank
procedures (para 5.07).
I.   Disbursement
4.29      The proposed Bank loan of US$18.5 million to be disbursed by end
1979 would finance:
(a) 60% of the cost of the power transmission lines and related
equipment;



- 16 -
(b) 44% of the cost of all civil works except those under (a),
representing the estimated foreign exchange component;
(c) 100% of the CIF cost of imported equipment and 70% of ex-factory
cost of locally purchased goods; and
(d) 100% of the foreign exchange cost of general consultants.
Savings, if any, would be cancelled. The estimated disbursement schedule is
presented in Annex 13.
J.   Environmental Impact
4.30      The project area is free of health hazards such as malaria and
bilharzia. The project would not adversely affect the environment but would
in fact improve it by intercepting damaging surface runoff from adjacent areas
and providing village infrastructure in the form of village roads, watersupply
to community taps, health centers and dispensaries.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Organization and Management
5.01      ORMVASM would be the primary executing agency for the project, res-
ponsible for the construction, operation and maintenance of the irrigation
works, and for agricultural development. Other government agencies with a
direct involvement in the project would include a) the National Electricity
Office (ONE) of the Ministry of Public Works, which would be the executing
agency for the construction of connecting power lines for the project (para
4.10), b) the Ministry of Urbanization, Environment, Housing and Tourism which
would be executing agency for the construction of village infrastructure, in-
cluding schools and health centers. The Ministries of Education and Health
would be responsible for operation and maintenance of schools and health cen-
ters respectively when construction of these facilities is completed.
5.02      A Project Coordination Committee, chaired by the Governor of the
Province of Agadir and with the local representation of all government agen-
cies involved in project implementation would be responsible for the coordina-
tion of the different agencies involved. The Government agreed that the Proj-
ect Coordinating Committee would meet not less than once every three months to
approve quarterly progress reports, review past achievements and the future
work program for each of the participating organizations and make recommenda-
tions and take action as necessary to ensure coordination between participants.
The establishment of the Project Coordinating Committee, with composition,
powers and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, is a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed loan.



- 17 -
5.03      ORMVASM.  The existing setup of ORMVASM in Agadir has been described
in Chapter III. This present organization would be restructured and strength-
ened for the implementation of the proposed project in view of the heavy work-
load presently being undertaken by ORMVASM, noticeably the development of the
18,000 ha Massa Project. ORMVASM would set up subregional headquarters in
Taroudant, which is adjacent to the project area, and the director of this
office would have responsibility for project implementation through a Techni-
cal Service (engineering and agricultural) reporting to him. (Annex 14, Chart
No. 9524 (R)).Technical support for this service would be available from the
central office in Agadir as required. The subregional headquarters would be
based in the existing CMV of Taroudant and the two existing sub-CMV's in the
project area would become full CMVs (para 3.14). The implementation of the
organizational changes is a condition of effectiveness of the loan.
5.04      The Technical Service would be responsible for the design and
supervision of construction and maintenance of the irrigation works, with .the
assistance of the General Consultants and for agricultural training and ex-
tension, supply of inputs and farmers organization. Since the post of the
Director of the Subregional Office is of great importance for the effective
implementation of the Project, the Government agreed to fill this position
at all times by a person fully competent in the management of the construction
and operation of the proposed project.
5.05      The local offices in Agadir of ONE and of the Ministry of Housing,
would be responsible for the construction of power lines and village infra-
structure respectively. The local organization of these agencies is satis-
factory for the needs of the Project.
5.06      Consultants.  Local engineering staff is competent in design and
project implementation. The Government agreed that General Consultants be
employed to assist in the more complicated design of the electro-mechanical
control systems, well testing, preparation of tender documents in accordance
with Bank guidelines, start up of operation and formulation of maintenance
procedures.
5.07      Outline of Terms of Reference and time schedule for General Consult-
ants are given in Annex 14. The Government agreed to cause ORMVASM to appoint
consultants acceptable to the Bank and on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank.
5.08      Organization of Farmers and Cooperatives.  Farmers whose collective
rights are converted into freehold and beneficiaries of land distribution
would, in conformity with the existing legislation, become members of Govern-
ment Sponsored Service Cooperatives. These would be established by ORMVASM,
who also would provide the management until farmers are prepared for self
administration. Government Sponsored Service Cooperatives generally group
up to 50 members and have the objective of bulk purchase of inputs, group
ownership of equipment, and bulk marketing of production. About 20 service
cooperatives would be established in the project area and initially managed
by ORMVASM. It is expected that within a period of three to five years
farmers would be prepared to take over the management. Independent freehold



- 18 -
owners are expected to join in groups when their land becomes more productive
following the trend observed in other areas of the Souss Valley. With assist-
ance of ORMVASM, independent freehold owners would participate in the estab-
lishment of independent service cooperatives serving as a channel to meet
their needs for medium and short term credits, bulk purchase of inputs, and
bulk marketing. Independent free holders are more experienced and more
enterprising and would become self-sufficient sooner, and support and super-
vision would be minimal. ORMVASM would therefore have only an advisory
function. The setting up of about 20 land reform Government Sponsored Service
Cooperatives and providing assistance for about 30 independent service coop-
eratives with a total membership of about 1,500 farmers would require a great
effort of the project authority. ORMVASM has previous experience in the
establishment of cooperatives and plans to start a training program for
managers of cooperatives to attend future needs of the Souss Valley including
the project area. In addition farmers would group into "Water Users Associa-
tions" in order to organize equitable water allocation among themselves.
The minimum size of such associations would be determined by the number of
farmers served by one hydrant. The association would not be in conflict with
service cooperatives, but their size might increase to coincide with service
cooperatives. Agreement was reached that a cooperative manager be appointed
by ORMVASM to each Government Sponsored Service Cooperative until such time
as the farmers are capable of running the cooperatives by themselves. In
addition the Government would give advice and assistance to independent service
cooperatives and water users associations.
B.   Operation and Maintenance
5.09      Operation of the irrigation system would be the responsibility of
the local CMV offices (para 5.03) (Annex 14, tables 1, 2 and 3). Watermen
attached to these CMV would be responsible to organize allocation and to
record hours of usage for billing purposes (para 5.18). Farmers water users
associations would select among themselves a "common irrigator", responsible
for equitable allocation of water and to serve as contact between the farmers
and Government watermen. Major repairs and maintenance of the irrigation
system, and all equipment and vehicles would be the responsibility of the
Technical Service in Taroudant, which in addition to its central workshop,
would be equipped with a mobile repair unit. Minor maintenance and repairs
of the irrigation system would be carried out at the local CMV level. Opera-
tion and maintenance of mobile sprinkler equipment would be the responsibil-
ity of the farmers, who would obtain assistance from thq CMV's.
5.10      Operation and maintenance of schools would be the responsibility
of the Ministry of Education. No firm program has yet been established for
staffing and operation of the schools, but agreement was reached that the
Ministry of Education will provide the staff and facilities needed to operate
and maintain the schools as and when required.
5.11      Operation and maintenance of the health centers would be the respon-
sibility of the Ministry of Health, and similarly no firm program has yet been
established for this. The Government agreed to cause the Ministry of Health



- 19 -
to provide the staff and facilities needed to operate and maintain the pro-
posed health centers as and when required.
5.12      Maintenance of items of village infrastructure not already covered
above would be the responsibility of the Local Government Administration using
funds available from its annual budget. Local Government has the staff and
facilities necessary for this.
C.   Services and Training
5.13      Supply of Inputs.  Agricultural inputs required for the project are
listed in Annex 3. Inputs would be supplied to the farmers through local
merchants and through the CMV's. Extension Agents would assist the indi-
vidual farmer, group of farmers and cooperatives in selecting type and
quantity of inputs and in obtaining necessary credit. Since the government
gives priority to the supply of inputs to irrigated areas, the availability
of inputs in the quantities required for the project is not expected to be a
problem.
5.14      Extension.  Extension would be improved significantly by (a) re-
cruiting three general agriculturists, to head the three CMV; (b) recruit-
ment of subject matter specialists and consultants for livestock and crop
production; (c) increasing the number of agents working exclusively for the
project; and (d) providing the necessary equipment and vehicles. The rela-
tively small number of additional agents would be justified as their effort
would be multiplied by farmers trained at the demonstration and training
center and by managers of service cooperatives. Annex 3 Table 3 indicates
incremental staff and equipment needs for the extension service. Agreement
was reached that (a) appropriate staff be recruited before December 1977 and
(b) an extension program be prepared and furnished to the Bank for comment
not later than October 1978.
5.15      Research and Training.  As there are no agricultural experimental
stations in the project area, the existing demonstration and training farm
operated by ORMVASM would be equipped to carry out applied field experiments.
Staffing would include a director, a veterinarian and two research assistants.
Additional staff, equipment and buildings which would be supplied under the
project are listed in Annex 3, table 2. Experiments and demonstrations would
be carried out with assistance of the subject matter specialists. Training
would be provided on the demonstration and training farm for farmers in form
of short courses on topics of relevance during the season, like sprinkler
irrigation, land preparation, fertilization, etc. These courses would be
given by the staff of the training center, subject matter specialists, and
staff from other agricultural organizations. In addition training of agents
would include short courses and weekly one day sessions, on upcoming prob-
lems during project implementation. ORMVASM also plans training programs for
cooperative managers. The Government agreed that details of proposed training
programs be furnished to the bank for comment.



- 20 -
5.16      Credit.  At full development incremental annual requirements for
seasonal credit would total an estimated DH 4.0 million. Medium term credit,
totaling about DH 12 million, which would be required in the initial stages
of the Project, for on farm development (livestock development and stables
costing about DH 8 million) and farm machinery (costing about DH 4 million).
Present credit practices are satisfactory (para 3.17), and the Regional Agri-
cultural Credit Bank (CRCA), based in Agadir, would be represented by CLCA
in Taroudant to process the credit needs of the project. The Government
agreed to make sufficient funds available to meet the credit needs of the
project. Credit would be provided to individual farmers, group of farmers
and cooperatives. (Annex 7).
D.   Land Consolidation and Distribution
5.17      Land tenure changes to be implemented under the project are governed
by the Land Consolidation Law of 1962, the Agricultural Investment Code of
1969 and the Land Reform Legislation of 1972. The main tenure changes are
detailed in Annex 4 and summarized below:
(a) rights to collective land would be transformed into joint
ownership shares, or where holdings so created are at least
5 ha, into private freehold. No fragmentation of these
ownership shares or holdings would be allowed;
(b) state-owned land would be distributed to rightholders to
collective land, owners of joint ownership shares or
freehold, and landless agricultural laborers, in accordance
with the Land Reform legislation of 1972. No fragmentation
of holdings so created would be allowed;
(c) ownership shares on former collective land in the project
area ceded to the State by beneficiaries of land distribution
would be used to enlarge the shares of other former collec-
tive rightholders; and
(d) existing freehold plots on rainfed land and, to the extent
possible, on traditionally irrigated land, would be consoli-
dated; future subdivision of these plots would be subject to
Government approval.
These land tenure changes will be completed in time for the physical execu-
tion of the project. Based on the Moroccan legislation and taking into ac-
count (a) socio-economic studies carried out under the Souss I project; (b)
statistical data based on tax declarations; and (c) recent field surveys
carried out by ORMVASM in part of the project area (Tazemmourt), the estimated
farm size distribution after land consolidation and reallotment would be ap-
proximately as follows:



- 21 -
Farm Size            Holdings             Area
Ha               No.    %           Ha    %_
Less than 3          540   32          1,100  15
3 - 6                880   53          4,400  60
Above 6              250   15          1,800  25
The Ministry of Agriculture has the legal administrative machinery for land
distribution and consolidation.
E.   Recovery of Project Costs
5.18      Costs to be recovered would include all irrigation and drainage
costs except for replacement and operation and maintenance costs of mobile
sprinkler equipment, which would be the responsibility of the project
farmers (paras 4.15 and 5.09).
5.19      The Agricultural Investment Code of 1969 provides for the recovery
from project beneficiaries of full operation and maintenance costs and up to
a maximum of 40% of investment costs. Costs are recovered through (a) fixed
betterment levy, (b) basic water charge on a volumetric basis, and (c) supple-
mentary water charge to cover the cost of energy used for pumping.  The
betterment levy amounts to DH 1,500 per ha; however, the first 5 ha of hold-
ings, up to 20 ha, are exempted from payment of betterment levies and, in
addition, farmers can choose to pay the levy through annual installments over
20 years. Over the first five years of irrigated cultivation, the amount of
the basic water charge is increased linearly to the full base rate. At pre-
sent, a maximum basic water charge of DH 29 per thousand cubic meters is im-
posed on beneficiaries of public schemes of surface irrigation in Morocco.
Under the Bank financed Sebou II Development Project (Loans No. 1018MOR)
Government has agreed to a periodic review of the level of water charges in
that project area to take into account actual operation and maintenance costs.
5.20      For the proposed project, using a method of calculation informally
agreed with the government, and on the basis of estimates presently available,
a total water charge (including the supplementary water charge) of DH 120 per
thousand cubic meters is proposed for farmers irrigating project land in the
modern sector and DH 77 per thousand cubic meter for farmers irrigating
project land in the traditional sector. This would include a basic water
charge for the modern sector of DH 53 and the traditional sector of DH 38,
and provides for the recovery of estimated capital and replacement costs in
accordance with the Investment Code. This water charge is considered to be
compatible with adequate farmer incentives.
5.21      Operation and maintenance costs for the pro'ect would be signifi-
cantly higher than in the other public irrigation schemes which use surface
water rather than pumped groundwater. In addition, the level of the water
charge would be very sensitive to changes in electricity tariffs since
electricity costs in the proposed project account for an estimated 70% of the
total cost of operation and maintenance. A nationwide study of electricity
tariffs has been made by consultants and its tentative conclusions are being
reviewed by Government. Preliminary calculations indicate that the tariff
now applied by ONE to ORMVASM approximates to the marginal cost of generating



- 22 -
electricity during the low seasonal demand and outside the peak consumption
hours. The present tariff has been used in calculating the proposed water
charge. Any increase in the cost of electricity either due to change in fuel
costs or to use during peak hours, would be passed directly to consumers
through the supplementary water charge. However, use of energy during peak
hours seems unlikely, as project wells with a daily pumping time of 15 hours
would satisfy water requirements during the peak consumptive use months. The
Government agreed to install demand meters so that peak power consumption,
if any, can be recorded and charged in accordance with the peak tariffs. To
quantify the impact of changes in electricity tariffs on water charges,
separate computations are presented with 2% and 4% compounded annual increases
in tariffs expressed in constant prices during the next 17 years through 1992
(the year corresponding to full development of the project). These two
assumptions would lead by 1992, to 40% and 95% increase over the current
electricity rate of 0.128 DH/kwh, respectively. The resulting water charges,
their impact on farmers income and their relation to the current water charge
in surface irrigation projects elsewhere in Morocco are summarized in Annex
15, Table 1.
5.22      The proposed charge would correspond to approximately 27% of the
farmers net incremental value of production in the modern sector (typical 5 ha
farm) and 25% in the traditional sector (typical 2 ha farm). On the few re-
latively large farms the water charge would reach over 35% of the net incre-
mental value of production. It would also represent increases of 313% in the
modern sector and 166% in the traditional sector over the present water
charge of DH 29 per thousand cubic meters imposed today on beneficiaries of
other public irrigation schemes in Morocco. Although at full development
this would leave farmers with a per capita income below the projected national
average (para 6.07), the proposed charge is considered reasonable considering
that farmers are earning only about DH 2,500 per year now and that they would
receive substantial secondary benefits such as improved education, health,
and social services. In accordance with Moroccan legislation the basic water
charge would be gradually increased over a five year period. It was agreed
that ORMVASM will collect from the start of irrigation and thereafter review
at its own initiative or at the request of the Bank the basic and supplemen-
tary watercharge in order to recover actual operation and maintenance costs
and up to 40% of the actual capital cost at a positive interest rate, taking
into account the beneficiaries incentive and capacities to pay. The Govern-
ment also agreed that beneficiaries will be promptly billed and that all
water charges, levied and bills will be collected within a reasonable time.
5.23      To measure the subsidy element, direct project costs and project
revenues were discounted at a rate of 10% over a 40-year period. The present
value of Government subsidy with this discount rate amounts to about DH 59
million (Present value of costs is DH 104.0 million while present value of
revenues is DH 45.0 million), which is equivalent to 56% of costs. Cash flow
of cost recovery is presented in Annex 15, Table 2.
F.   Monitoring and Conservation of Water Resources
5.24      Parallel with project construction, and following project comple-
tion, ongoing programs to monitor water flow and groundwater levels would



- 23 -
have to be continued and complemented with an inventory of all surface water
derivation and groundwater extraction in the Upper Souss valley. Ongoing
programs would remain the responsibility of DRE (para 3.18) whereas ORMVASM
would be responsible of the inventory of surface water derivation and ground-
water extraction. The monitoring program is essential because it would:
(a) provide quantitative information on any variation that would
take place in surface water flows in the project area as a
result of implementation of the project;
(b) provide detailed information on groundwater movement that would
take place as a result of the project and enable a refined
assessment to be made of the rate of groundwater depletion,
if any;
(c) enable ORMVASM to establish a policy and timetable for issuing
new pumping permits to the private sector.
The government agreed that DRE will continue its ongoing monitoring program
in the Upper Souss Valley and will provide ORMVASM with the appropriate analy-
sis of the results of the monitoring and that ORMVASM will carry out an inven-
tory of surface water derivation and groundwater extraction in the upstream
valley. Since the project would use much of the undeveloped water resources
of the Upper Valley (para 4.18) pumping would be strictly controlled. It was
agreed that ORMVASM will limit the issuance of new pumping permits in the
Upper Valley to a cumulative maximum of ten million cubic meters per year
until such time as firm information is available from the monitoring program
that issuing additional permits will not be detrimental to existing develop-
ments. Priority in allocations of new pumping authorizations would be given
to small farmers in the traditional sector in the upper valley.
G.   Accounts and Audit
5.25      Government agencies maintain budgets and accounts which are satis-
factorally audited by the Auditor General. The Government agreed that each
government agency that is responsible for any part of the Project will main-
tain a separate account for the project work with which it is associated and
that certified audited annual financial statements of these accounts would
be forwarded to the Bank within four months of the end of each fiscal year.
In addition, in order to facilitate ORMVASM's review of water charges (para
5.22) agreement was reached that ORMVASM will maintain a separate account
reflecting revenues from water charges and the annual cqsts of operation and
maintenance of the irrigation system.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A.   Production
6.01      The main crops to be grown under the project in order of decreasing
tonnage would be alfalfa, berseem, wheat, maize, citrus, olives, pulses and



- 24 -
almonds. Similarly, the main livestock products would be fattened lambs and
milk. The dairy cattle herd would also contribute, in addition to fattened
bulls, with some cross-bred heifers to the regional stock of improved heifers.
6.02      Without the project, crop yields on the currently irrigated proj-
ect area (about 1,000 ha) are expected to increase at 2% annually for a pe-
riod of five years through 1979, beyond which no further improvement due to
application of known technology are expected. Pasture conditions at present
are degraded with the result that the productivity of grazing animals is quite
low except when this level of nutrition is supplemented with fodder grown on
the irrigated farms. In fact, whereas the present irrigated project area is
only about 15% of total project area, it accounts for more than 40% of the
total value of livestock production. However, total livestock production
is also expected to increase at an average rate of 2% annually for five years
through 1979, beyond which further improvement would be severely limited by
the prevailing animal production practices. No possibility for yield im-
provement is foreseen on 6,300 ha (85% of project area) presently unirri-
gated. Low crop and livestock productivity is partially explained by the
low cropping intensity, poor yields and low carrying capacity of pastures
which are direct results of low rainfall and lack of irrigation water.
Other constraints of importance are lack of satisfactory agricultural exten-
sion service and training in improved method of production.
6.03      After the project, the production of all crops and livestock prod-
ucts would increase appreciably as shown in the following table with the
exception of barley, which would no longer be grown under the project. In-
cremental production would result from adequate and timely irrigation, a
change in the cropping pattern, intensive cultivation, greater and efficient
use of fertilizers and effective pest and disease control. Greater use of
this technology package would be achieved by improved agricultural extension
service.
6.04      Choice of crops and crop rotation takes into account soils, climate
and marketing aspects. Wheat followed by maize would be alternated with
leguminous crops like alfalfa, berseem and pulses in order to improve and
maintain soil fertility. Yields are expected to increase significantly
because of irrigation, increased inputs and strengthened supporting services.
Maximum yields of all crops would be reached in a five year period with the
exception of orchards which would reach full production in a 12 year period.
Further details on rotations, yields and inputs are given in Annex 3. At
full development cropping pattern, incremental production and cropping inten-
sity would be as follows:



- 25 -
Cropping Pattern and Output
Future
Present      Without Project    With Project
Cropped         Cropped          Cropped            Incremental
Crops     Area   Output  Area    Output   Area    Output        Output
ha     tons     ha      tons     ha      tons         tons
Barley    2,640   2,110   2,640    2,110                        (2,110)
Maize        50      60      50       70   2,590   10,680       10,610
Wheat       550     670     550      740   3,870   11,500       10,760
Citrus      100   1,200     100    1,320     220    5,060        3,740
Olives      220     200     220      220     660    1,980        1,760
Almonds      --      --      --       --     470       940         940
Pulses      250     220     250      230     660    1,170          940
Alfalfa      90   5,400      90    5,940      810   56,250      50,310
Berseem      --      --      --        -     570   19,950       19,950
Total     3,900           3,900            9,850
Cropping
Intensity   54%             54%             135%
Livestock -----------------------------tons---------------------
Milk                180               200            3,000       2,800
Lambs                70 (liveweight)  80 (live-      3,430       3,350
weight)
Cattle               50 (liveweight)  60 (live-        690         630
weight)
-------------------------Head-----------------------------
Cross-bred
heifers                                                410         410
B.   Markets
6.05      Commodities produced under the project would be for local consump-
tion.  At present, Morocco and the Province of Agadir are net importers of
soft wheat and dairy products. The additional production would thus cause
a welcome reduction of such imports. About 58% of maize production would be
marketed through transformation into livestock products. Similarly, the
entire output of alfalfa and berseem would be utilized on the farm. The
incremental output of citrus, almonds, olives and pulses, being relatively
small, would be readily absorbed domestically although other export markets,
especially the French, are traditionally receptive of these products particu-
larly citrus, almonds and olives. The incremental output of red meat at full
development which would consist of 84% mutton and 16% beef is estimated to
meet about 60% of the incremental annual increase in demand for red meat with-
in the Province of Agadir by 1985. No marketing difficulties are, therefore,



- 26 -
expected for the produce of the project. Details are given in Annex 6. Mar-
keting of commodities to be produced under the project would require imple-
mentation by Government of its plan for providing adequate slaughtering capa-
city and milk processing plants in the project area. Agreement was reached
to this effect (Annex 6).
C.   Prices
6.06      Two sets of output prices have been used for project appraisal,
one for economic analysis and the other for financial analysis of farmers'
income and farm budgets. For economic analysis, tradeable commodities have
been valued at international prices as derived from the Bank's Economic
Analysis and Projections Department (EAPDI) for 1985, in 1974 constant
US dollars. Other products which are not covered in the EAPDI list of
commodities have been based on the mission's estimates of projected border
prices. For the financial analysis, all commodities have been valued at
1974 current farmgate prices including subsidies. The two sets of prices
are given in Annex 16.
D.   Farmers' Income
6.07      At full development the average farm income (after tax) of a farm
family in the modern sector with 5 ha is estimated at about DH 14,700
(US$3,500), and of a farm family in the traditional sector with 2 ha is es-
timated at DH 7,120 (US$1,695).  These compare with DH 2,444 (US$582) and
DH 2,874 (US$684) without project, respectively. In relative terms, the
project is estimated to improve the net cash income of a typical farm
family in the modern sector by about 500% and of a typical farm in the
traditional sector by about 150X. Details are given in Annex 17. The per
capita income of the farming population would increase from the present low
level of about US$100 to US$280 and US$580 in the traditional and modern
sector respectively and would still be below the average national per capita
income of US$700 estimated for 1992.
E.   Main Benefits and Beneficiaries
6.08      The economic rate of return, costing hired labor at the market rate
of DH 9.00 and family labor at DH 7.00 per day and excluding the village in-
frastructure is estimated at about 10%. Including the village infrastructure
the rate would be about 9%. Sensitivity tests show that 10% increase in net
benefits would give about 11% rate of return while 50% increase in electric-
ity cost would decrease the rate of return to about 9% and a 10% increase in
total project costs would reduce it to 9%. Details of other sensitivity tests
are presented in Annex 16.
6.09      The major quantifiable benefit from the project would be the sub-
stantial increase in agricultural output which would raise farmers incomes
and employment opportunities. The main beneficiaries of the project would
be small farmers and their families operating about 1,400 farms of 6 ha or
less each. Among the intangible benefits would be an improved income dis-
tribution, since the overwhelming majority of beneficiaries are small farmers



- 27 -
and better living conditions as a result of investment in social infrastruc-
ture which would enhance the quality of life and would also tend to discour-
age migration to urban centers. Another important benefit of the project
is that about 53% of the total project area would be transferred from collec-
tive land into private ownership. Within the socio-economic framework of
the country and the existing land reform legislation this would improve
security of tenure, stabilize farm size in viable and well organized hold-
ings, and improve land conservation and use.
6.10      Foreign Exchange.  The incremental foreign exchange savings due
to the project have been estimated at US$7.7 million annually. Including
debt of service of the Bank loan, the net annual foreign exchange earnings
from the project would be about US$5.8 million. (Annex 16).
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      The legal documents will record the following:
(a) civil works and equipment totalling about US$25.4 million will
be procured through international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank guidelines (paras 4.26 and 4.27);
(b) general consultants will be retained on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank for assistance in the design of
electromechanical control systems, well testing, preparation
of tender documents in accordance with Bank guidelines, start
up of operation, and formulation of maintenance procedures
(paras 5.06 and 5.07);
(c) ORMVASM will levy and collect from the start of irrigation
and thereafter review at its own initiative or at the request
of the Bank the basic and the supplementary water charge in
order to recover therefrom and from the betterment levy actual
operation and maintenance costs and a reasonable portion of
actual capital costs rate, taking into account the benefici-
aries incentive and capacity to pay (para 5.22);
(d) beneficiaries of the project will be promptly billed and
notified of all water charges and levies and the billl will
be collected within a reasonable time (para 5.22);
(e) DRE will continue its ongoing monitoring program in the Upper
Souss and provide ORMVASM with the appropriate results of the
monitoring. ORMVASM will carry out an inventory of surface
water derivation and groundwater extraction in the Upstream
Valley and limit issuance of new pumping permits to a cumul-
lative maximum of ten million cubic meters per year until such
time as firm information is available that issuing additional
permits will not be detrimental to existing developments (para
5.24); and



- 28 -
(f) ORMVASM will maintain separate accounts reflecting the
annual costs of operation and maintenance of the irriga-
tion system and revenues from water charges (para 5.25).
7.02      The legal documents will also specify as conditions of effectiveness
of the loan:
(a)  establishment of the Project Coordinating Committee
with composition powers, and terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank (para 5.02); and
(b)  implementation of the organizational changes of ORMVASM
(para 5.03).
7.03      In view of the above agreements and conditions of effectiveness
the project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$18.5 million, repayable over.
20 years with a 5 year grace period. 'The Borrower will be the Kingdom of
Morocco.
April 20, 1975



ANNEX 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SOUSS GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Monthly Average Climatic Data:
TEMPERATURES                                   /2            /3
MONTH        Maximun    Minimum    Average           Rainfall  Evaporation    Velocity
C        °C           &C                mm           mm           M/s
January        21.7         5.1        13.4            51.6           88           2.3
February       23.1         6.5        14.8            38.1           97           2.6
March           25.4        8.7        17.0             21.9         134           2.8
April          27.4        10.3        18.8            18.1         10            3.3
May             29.3       12.1        20.7              4.o         141           3.4
June           31.4        13.9        22.7              2.7         132           3.3
July           35.7        15.9        25.8               .1         166           3.2
August         36.3        16.7        26.5               .4         160           3.0
September      33.4        15.7        24.1             9.0          144           3.1
October        30.5        13.1        21.7            19.4          116           2.8
November        25.6        9.7        17.7             40.6          98           2.1
December       22.2         6.3       14.3             39.7           80           1.8
ANNUAL AVE.    28.5        11.2       19.8                                         2.8
ANNUAL TOTAL                                          245.6        1,496
a Average at Taroudant 1940-1971
L  Measured with evaporimeter PICHE
/3  Obeerved inAgadir at 11 m above ground level and reduced to 2 m.
January 1975



ANNEX 2
Page 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SOUSS GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Water Demand, Supply and Quality
Water Demand
1.        Rainfall in the area averages 246 mm per year.  Effective rainfall
was assumed at 115 mm, computed as 50% of gross precipitation during October
through April and 0% during May through September. Estimated gross irri-
gation demand is 50.3 Mm3/year or 8,000 m3/ha/year for the modern area and
9.7 Mm3/year or 10,000 m3/ha/year for the traditional area, based on effi-
ciencies of 75% and 60% respectively. Crop water demand was determined
from computations using the modified Blaney and Criddle method and from
field tests with sprinkler irrigation at the Ait Amira research station,
located 40 km south of Agadir. Table 1 shows the resulting net irrigation
requirements in mm/month for different crops.
2.        For the computation of gross irrigation requirements, the effi-
ciencies used were 60% for gravity irrigation in the traditional areas and
75% for sprinkler irrigation in the modern area. These assumptions take
into account that during peak months daytime operation is unavoidable and
that frequent strong winds blow in the valley. Wind observations in the
project area are unreliable because of the extremely sheltered location of
the anemometer near Taroudant. An indication of the wind velocities may be
obtained from the records at Agadir airport which are indicated in Annex 1,
table 1. Since Agadir lies on the coast and the anemometer is located on
an open airfield, Agadir values certainly will be higher than in the project
area. To reduce evaporation and maintain the assumed efficiency of 75%,
cypress windbreaks would be included in the project. To finalize the design
of these windbreaks ORMVASM would carry out wind observations at more repre-
sentative locations in the project area.
Water Supply
3.        The availability of groundwater at depths varying between 20 and
40 m would be adequate to meet project demand. The Souss river has its ori-
gin at an altitude of 3,500 m and enters the alluvial Souss valley through
a steep gorge at Aoulouz at an elevation of 700 m. Downstream of Aoulouz,
the river water infiltrates in the river bed which at some locations reaches
a width of 2 km. Only storm runoff reaches Loulija - 35 km downstream from
Aoulouz - as surface flow. Between Loulija and Taroudant, rock lecdges in
the substratum force the underground flow to emerge and the river bed shows
zones of resurgence of the groundwater alternating with zones of reinfiltra-
tion of the water from these sources. At several places water from these
sources is diverted for traditional irrigation. Downstream of Ouled Bou R'Bia



ANNEX 2
Page 2
until it reaches the ocean, the hydraulic gradient crosses the slope of the
ground resulting in a continuous zone of resurgence, and permanent surface
flow.
4.        During storm periods, surface flows in tributaries coming from the
High Atlas all reach the Souss river, whereas the very permeable limestone
formations of the lower Anti Atlas mountains and the generally lower rainfall
on that range both contribute to a far less extent to surface flows in
tributaries coming from the south.
5.        Discharges of the Souss river are regularly measured at Aoulouz,
Taroudant and Ait Melloul. It was observed that up to 18 m3/s may pass at
Aoulouz and infiltrate before reaching Taroudant. Most of this flow dis-
appears before Loulija and the balance in the remaining infiltration zones.
Average annual discharge of the Souss at Aoulouz for 16 years of gauged ob-
servations is 8.6 m3/s, average discharge for January is 21.9 m3/s and high-
est average January discharge is 114.7 m3/s. (See Table 2).
6.        The principal aquifer in the Souss is 100 - 500 m thick and consists
of tertiary marl and limestone formations overlain with permeable quaternary
alluvial deposits 30 - 40 m thick along the present bed of the river. Its
horizontal dimensions are about 70 km x 20 km. At times, two aquifers are
distinguished in the tertiary material but the transitions are rather vague
and indistinguishable. For the project area, transmissivities are equal to
or larger than 5 x 10-3 m2/s. There is never more than a two months time lag
between a flood passage in the river and a related rise of the groundwater
level, observed in the piezometer located the furthest away from the river.
7.        During the Souss I and II studies (para 2.08), a geoelectric survey
was conducted and 10 testwells and over 300 piezometers were installed in ad-
dition to 21 existing wells. These studies were reviewed by the mission and
found satisfactory. The groundwater analog model study concluded that, in
addition to present extraction, 70 Mm3/year could be pumped from the upstream
valley aquifer for at least 40 years without lowering the water table in
excess of 25 m in some locations and 10 m in most. A possibility exists of
recharging of the aquifer through construction of a dam upstream of Aoulouz
should that become necessary. Technico-economic studies have also shown that
groundwater extraction would provide the least cost of supplying additional
water during the first 40 years of project operations.
8.        The infiltration capacity in the Souss river bed is about 0.86
m3/day/m2. At present, no infiltration can take place in about 17 km of the
riverbed: storm waters "slide off" over the resurgences and their contiguous
zones with high water tables just underneath the riverbed. If the groundwater
were sufficiently lowered, extended infiltration zones would be created and
it is expected that a new equilibrium would be established at a higher ground-
water level as a result of increased infiltration, resulting from this "flood



ANNEX 2
Page 3
trap." An order of magnitude of the capacity of such an infiltration trap is
obtained as follows: 17 km long x 1 km wide riverbed = 17,000,000 m2 x 0.86 m3
/day/m2 x 70 days of flood/year = 1,023 Mm3/year. It is the future func-
tioning of this phenomenon which presents the largest unknown factor in
predicting the need for the Aoulouz dam after 40 years of project operation,
and which at the same time provides a large factor of safety in the scheme.
Another factor of safety is introduced by assuming that no return flow from
irrigation to the aquifer will occur.
9.        In the waterbalance for present and future conditions in the upper
valley (Table 3), it was assumed that of the additional extraction of 70 Mm3/
year only 20 Mm3 would be obtained from a reduction in outflow and the remain-
ing 50 Mm3 from groundwater mining. If this assumption were to materialize
and the expected substantial increase in recharge failed to take place, pump-
ing of 50 Mm3/year over a 40-year period would extract 2 x 109 m3 from the
groundwater reservoir during the project life. Assuming the upstream aquifer
to have a void ratio of 15%, 13.33 x 109 Mm3 of the aquifer would be depleted.
For an aquifer with horizontal dimensions of 70 km x 20 km   1 .4 x 109 m2,
this would correspond to an average drawdown of 13.33:1.4 = 9.5 m in 40 years.
The estimated project demand of 60 Mm3/year - which assumes no return flow to
the aquifer - and the proposed maximum extraction of 70 Mm3/year leave only
a margin of 10 Mm3/year for irrigation expansion in other areas of the up-
stream valley, which should remain reserved for this purpose. Therefore
ORMVASM would not grant permission for additional pumping in the upstream
valley until analysis of results from the monitoring program (para 5.24)
would indicate that this would not be detrimental to the project.
10.       DRE already records groundwater movements in 150 piezometers on a
biweekly basis. This program would be complemented with a gauging program of
resurgences and pumped volumes. A mathematical groundwater model is being
formulated by the DRE and the expanded monitoring program would assist in
refining predictions on the possible rate of groundwater depletion and hence
the timing for the construction of a regulating dam at Aoulouz. Should devel-
opments give rise to optimism, the restrictions on further groundwater devel-
opment might be relaxed accordingly.
Water Quality
11.       Water quality from samples regularly taken from the piezometers
indicate an average EC = 770 mmhos or 490 ppm. According to the United States
Department of Agriculture - Salinity Laboratory Standards, the waters would
be classified as C2S1 with medium salinity and very low alkali hazard. Rain-
fall and drainage are sufficient to prevent salt accumulation in the top soil
layer. Boron does not occur in toxic concentrations.
March 1975



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SOUSS GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Estimated Water Requirements
Jan   Feb    Mar   Apr    May   Jun    Jul    Aug    Set    Oct   Nov    Dec    Total
Average Rainfall mm              51.6 -38.1   21.9  18.1  4.0        2.7   0.1    O.4    9.0    19.4  40.6  39.7   245.6
Effective Rainfall mm            25   20       10     10     0       0     0      0      0      10      20     20     115
Net Irrigation
Requirement mm
Modern area,(ha)
Olives        560           0     0      60    60      0      70    70      0     70      60      0       0
Almonds       470          15   10       30    50    80    100    90       70     50       0      0       0
Citrus        120          15    25      50    60    85       90   105    100     85      60     30      20
Wheat       3,290          31   43       81     32    40                                          22     36
Maize grain 2,300                                            105  105    105    105
Pulses        560          35   80       90                                               70     40      40
Alfalfa       720           0    15      81   116   175      196   220    200    161     126     70       0
Berseem       570          45    35      60    35                                         60      35     3,
Total in Mm3                  1.56  2.25    4.63   2.72  3.05    4.80  4.94   4.30   4.30    1.98  1.54   1.63       37.70
Net Irrigation
Requirement mm /1
Traditional area (ha)
Olives            100       0     0      60     60     0      70   70       0     70      60      0       0
Citrus            100      15    25      50    60    85       90   105    100     85      60     30      20
Wheat             580      31    43      81    32    40                                          22      36
Maize grain       290                                        105   105   105    105
Pulses            100      35   80       90                                               70     40      40
Alfalfa            90       0    15      81   116   175      196   220    200    161     126     70      0
Total in Mm3                  0.23  0.37    0.74   0.41  0.47    0.64  0.68   0.58   0.60    0.29   0.24   0.27       5.52
Net Irrigation Requirement - Net Water Requirement - Effective Rainfall
February 1975



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SOUSS GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Souss River Discharges at Aoulouz
Average Monthly Discharges in m3/s
Year      SeP     Oct      Nov     Dec      Jan     Feb     Mar      Apr     May      Jun     Jul      Aug     Annual Ave.
1954/55    0.00    0.03    20.00   8.60    8.60   26.30   17.90    3.70    4.90    1.20    0.01    0.00              7.60
1955/56    0.00   14.40    11.70  13.40   85.oo   57.80   98.40   49.30   30.60    9.70    3.90    6.30             31.70
1956/57    2.80    5.20      3.20   8.60    2.50    4.30    5.00    9.40    2.50    1.00    0.36    0.42             3.77
1957/58    0.52    0.50      1.50  15.50   18.50   15.50    6.00    8.80    4.40    8.40    0.00    0.00             6.47
1958/59    0.00    0.00      0.00   4.00    2.40    0.84    5.20    1.30    0.94    0.12    0.00    0.21             1.25
1959/60    0.17    1.20      4.00   4.10    8.20    5.00    4.20    1.50    1.90    3.60    0.00    1.20             2.92
1960/61    0.00    0.20      0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.03    0.02    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00             0.02
1961/62    5.30    7.00      8.20  13.60   13.40    0.00   22.90    9.00    2.50    1.50    0.87    0.30             7.05
1962/63    3.44   15.13    15.40   8.55   34.74   43.82    5.73   11.99    6.63    4.45    2.51    1.18            12.80
1963/64    2.36    1;89      1.30  38.13   17.52    8.44    4.94    9.45    2.64    1.78    0.50    0.20             7.43
1964/65    0.35    0.29      0.43   8.18    7.49   41.36   17.94    5.73    3.57    1.38    0.69    3.28             7.58
1965/66    4.85   18.89    29.17   5.1    2.13    2.02    1.02    0.84    1.08    0.35    0.05    0.04               5.50
1966/67    3.59    0.10    11.92   1.42    0.32    3.01   12.68    1.13    3.41    0.11    0.03    0.01              3.14
1967/68    1.65    5.21    73.40  10.02    3.70   14.56   30.87    7.36    3.51    2.77    0.45    0.30            12.82
1968/69    0.39    0.08    19.95  19.74   30.56   46;86   17.54   10.91    4.51    2.86    1.11    0.38            12.91
1969/70    0.17    5.00    15.15   7.96  114.69,  10.90    8.79    5.63    2.62    2.06    0.50    0.14            14.47
Monthly
Ave.       1.60    4.69    13.46  10.48   21.86   17.54   16.20    8.50    4.73    2.45    0.69    0.87              8.59
-February 1975
CD)



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SOUSS GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Waterbalance Upstream Souss Valley
Mm /year
Present Situation
Inflow                              Consumption                             Outflow
3ouss River             270         Modern irrigatiohi       25        S urface        270
Tributaries            180         Traditional irrigation 115          Groundwater      50
Rainfall infiltration   10
Total                  460                                 140                        320
Future Situation
Inflow                             Consumption                              Outflow
Souss River            270         Modern irrigation        90         Surface        260
Tributaries            180          Traditional irrigation 120         Groundwater    40
Rainfall infiltration   10
Groundwater mining      50
Total                  510                                 210                        300               CD
Februarv 1975



ALNNEX 3
Page 1
KINGDOM OF MlOROCCO
SOUSS GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Crop Production
A.   General
1.        Out of 7.7 million ha of land suitable for cultivation in Morocco,
about 6 million ha (80%) are cultivated. Nearly one million ha have irriga-
tion systems, but one-third of these receive water only in winter by flooding
and less than 400,000 ha have modern and efficient perennial irrigation. Al-
though grain crops, mainly wheat and barley, comprise 75% of the cropped area
and about 40% of the irrigated area, the wheat deficit in Mlorocco for 1978 is
projected at 1 million tons if production remains at present levels. The
deficit in the Souss Valley alone would amount to 160,000 tons in 1978.
Production could be significantly increased by irrigation of dry lands, and
by giving full water supply on presently partially irrigated land. In
Morocco and in the Souss Valley where water is a limiting factor, agricul-
tural development should envisage efficient use of this resource. The Souss
Groundwater Project aims at efficient use of water for the production of
mainly milk, meat and cereals for import substitution and fruits for export.
It would provide improved gravity irrigation for 1,000 ha of traditionally
irrigated land and sprinkler irrigation for 6,300 ha of dry land.
B.   Climate
2.        The climate in the project area is characterized by hot and dry
summers and relatively short and moderately cool and wet winters.  Annual
rainfall averages 246 mm.  Dry periods may extend over six months but even
in years of average precipitation, supplementary irrigation would be required
for most crops to be grown in the project area.  Rainfall pattern shows strong
variations from year to year ranging from 33 mm to 594 mm in the last 30 year
period of observations. Often dry years succeed each other causing heavy
damages to animal and cereal production under rainfed conditions. Average
monthly temperatures range from 13.4°C (56°F) in January to 26.5°C (80°F)
in August. Average monthly minimum and maximum temperatures vary from 5.1°C
(41°F) to 16.70C (62°F) and from 21.7°C (710F) to 36.30C (9701) in January
and August, respectively. Evaporation amounts to 1,496 nm per year with a
peak of 166 mm in July. Hot dry winds from the southeast are common and
affect production of certain crops like tomatoes and eggplants. Average
monthly wind velocities are below 3.5m/sec. (Annex 1). Provisions would be
made in the project to cope with this velocity and allowances have also been
made in the irrigation efficiency.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
C.   Soils and Topography
3.        Soils in the project area are suitable for irrigated farming.  Soils
are of alluvial origin, deep but of light texture (mostly sandy loams) charac-
terized by very high infiltration rates (2-10 cm/hour). Available moisture
retention ranges from about 8 to 15 cm/m. Because of their physical charac-
teristics, the soils are best suited for sprinkler irrigation. The fertility
of these soils could be significantly improved by adding organic matter in
the form of manure and by including leguminous plants like alfalfa, berseem
and pulses in the rotation. The topography is uniform and the micro-relief
generally smooth. The longitudinal slope in the project area is below 1% and
side slopes vary from almost zero to 2%.
4.        Project soils are suitable for growing a variety of crops.  A
Moroccan team of consultants, Somet, carried out a land classification sur-
vey in the project area at the scale 1:10,000 according to the standards of
the Bureau of Reclamation, USA, and prepared maps at 1:20,000 scale. About
80% of the lands belong to class I and II and the remainder to class III.
D.   Present and Future Land Use and Yields
5.        Out of 7,300 ha net, 1,000 ha are presently inadequately irrigated
by traditional methods. The remainder is partly dry farmed but mainly range-
land. Sheep and goats (4,000 female units) and to a lesser extent cattle
(700 female units) subsist on the grazing land supplemented by crop residues
and stubble. Only about 2,900 ha are dry farmed. Because of the scanty (less
than 250 mm) and irregular rainfall, barley is the main crop (90%). Yields
vary with rainfall condition from zero to 1 ton per hectare and revenues do
not allow improved agricultural techniques and additional inputs.
6.        The traditionally irrigated land produces mainly wheat (50%), citrus
and olives (20%) and pulses, maize, and alfalfa. The main constraint is in-
secure water supply. In addition, the scattered nature of the small holdings
of traditional land makes proper irrigation layout and irrigation timing dif-
ficult. With exception of alfalfa (60 tons green matter per ha), yields are
low. Alfalfa is used as reserve for the animals in the dry season and is,
therefore, important to the farmer. Yields for wheat average about 1.2 t/ha,
for olives one ton and for citrus 12 ton per ha.
7.        Present crop production in the project area amounts to 200 t of
olives, 1,200 t of citrus, 2,800 t of cereals, 200 t of pulses and 55,000
tons of alfalfa (green matter) (Table 1).
8.        With the project, 6,300 ha net would be irrigated by sprinklers
and on the 1,000 ha now traditional irrigated gravity irrigation would be
improved by assuring adequate water supply to meet crop requirements.
Choice of crops and crop rotations would take into account the fertility
of the prevailing light textured soils. To improve and maintain the



ANNEX 3
Page 3
fertility the rotation based on wheat, followed by maize as second crop would
include leguminous crops mainly berseem, alfalfa and pulses. A representative
farm would dedicate 50% of its area to cereal, 30% to leguminous crops and the
remainder to fruit trees mainly olives, almonds and citrus. The areas devoted
to fruit trees would be grouped together to facilitate larger scale disease
control and cultivation techniques. It is estimated that yields would in-
crease significantly because of irrigation, increased inputs, and strengthened
supporting services (olives 3 tons/ha; citrus 23 tons/ha; wheat 3 tons/ha;
maize 4.2 tons/ha; alfalfa 70 tons/ha). Maximum yields would be reached in
a five year period after project construction with exception of orchards which
would reach full production in year 12. The proposed cropping pattern would
allow a high cropping intensity which would vary between 128% and 140%
according to farm size and average about 135%. Yields and cropping intensities
on the traditional land would increase significantly to 128%' but remain at
lower levels than in the newly irrigated areas because of scattered farm
holdings and less adapted and efficient irrigation methods. Estimated
cropping pattern, yields and production are shown in Table 1.
E.   Inputs
Labor and Mechanization
9.        Although seasonal underemployment is common, agricultural mechaniza-
tion has been introduced in the project area. Under present conditions only
40% of the manpower potential of a typical 5 ha farm household is working.
Under the project, land preparation, bulk sowing and cereal harvesting would
continue to be mechanized mainly (a) because the land preparation and harvest-
ing periods create peak labor demands; (b) in order to ensure that a second
crop is sown on time; and (c) because there are no animals in the project
area for land preparation work. However, pruning of orchards and weeding
would be done manually. Households farming more than 5 ha would need to hire
additional labor. This need would be met by households of smaller farmers,
which otherwise would continue to be underemployed. Five ha farms would be
self-sufficient in labor (labor requirements for livestock included). Total
labor requirements in the project area would increase from the present level
350,000 man-days per year to 1.1 million man-days.
10.       For land preparation, bulk sowing and grain harvesting the project
would require provision of 70 tractors with auxiliary equipment plus 7 har-
vesters which would be provided on credit to individual farmers, groups of
farmers and cooperatives.  However because of the ongoing Massa Project the
availability of tractors and farm machinery would be a constraint in the proj-
ect area during the first years of agricultural developbient. Therefore the
project would provide to ORMVASM 21 tractors with auxiliary equipment and 4
harvesters, to be rented to farmers at custom rates.
Seeds
11.       Improved seeds are available and would be used in the project area.
Mexican varieties of wheat and maize hybrids have been experimented with and
successfully introduced in the Souss Valley. Seed is distributed by ORMVASM



ANNEX 3
Page 4
and private merchants to farmers. About 50,000 tons of certified seeds are
produced annually in Morocco. This is below the needs of the country but
irrigated perimeters have first priority. At full development, about 400 tons
of wheat and 65 tons of hybrid maize would be required. For pulses, alfalfa,
and berseem, enough locally produced seeds are available for the project area.
Fertilizers
12.       Present fertilizer consumption in the project area is low.  Con-
sumption of ammonium nitrate would be expected to increase from 350 tons
without project to 1,850 tons with the project. Similarly demand for super-
phosphates would increase from 200 tons to 1,650 tons, while the demand for
potassium sulfate would increase to about 200 tons, and the demand for mixed
7-12-7 fertilizer to 250 tons. A summary of estimated project fertilizer
demand by crops in the project area is presented below. In addition, manure
would be applied to improve soil fertility and physical characteristics.
Proected Fertilizer Consumption
(kg/ha/year)
With Project                  Without Project
Ammonium    Super-    Mixed   Ammonium         Super-      Mixed
Crop        Nitrate  Phosphates  7-12-7   Nitrate    Phosphates   7-12-7
Wheat          200        150        --        100           50          --
Maize          250       250         --         50           50          --
Alfalfa         60        150        --         --           75          --
Pulses         180       200         --        100          100          --
Berseem         50        120
Olives          --        --        400         --           --         100
Citrus         400       200         --         --           --         --
Almonds        300        150        --         --           --          --
12.       Fertilizers are distributed by ORMVASM and private merchants and
are available on credit to farmers and groups of farmers.
Plant Protection
14.       Fruit trees in the project area suffer from many pests and diseases.
Under the project and under supervision of ORI4VASIi, effectEive control measures
would be implemented. Chemicals are generally available for distribution
through ORMVASM and through private enterprises.
F.   Supporting Services
15.       The National Agricultural Research Institute (INRA) is responsible
for agriculture research in Morocco and operates two research stations in
the Souss Valley. INRA, supported by USAID and the International Center for
Improvement of Maize and Wheat in Mexico (CIMYT) has successfully introduced
high yielding maize hybrids and Mexican and Italian wheat varieties in
Morocco.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
16.       OREVASM owns a 40 ha field station in the project area which would
be equipped under the project to carry out applied field experiments and to
serve as a demonstration and training center.  On the station, ORMVASM op-
erates a Regional Center for Agricultural Development and Training (CRAFA),
and its modern classroom facilities, in addition to regular courses, would be
used for short training courses for farmers and extension agents on project
related matters. Farmers would be brought to the center in small groups and
trained in weekly courses in sprinkler irrigation techniques and ongoing
farming operations. The technical staff would include one director, one
field officer, one training expert, a veterinarian and two research assistants.
Table 2 gives further details on the additional staff, equipment and buildings,
which would be provided under the project.
17.       ORMVASM is also responsible for agricultural extension and input
supply and is presently giving more importance to the latter task than to
extension itself. The extension service is understaffed and lacks subject
matter specialists to solve technical problems. The project would provide
this local staff who would serve the whole upstream valley and would in-
clude specialists for crop and livestock production and extension techniques.
In addition, an assistant veterinarian would be employed on a full tine basis
for the project area. The number of extension agents would be increased from
four to seven. This relatively small number is reasonable as their effort
will be multiplied by farmers trained in CRAFA, and by the government co-
operative managers. The project would also provide the necessary equipment
and transport facilities (Table 3).
February 1975



ANNEX 3
Table 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SOUSS GROUNDW4ATER PR(OJECT
Land Use, Yields and Production
Without Project                      With Project
AREA     YIELD    PRODUCTION       AREA    YIELD    PRODUCTION
1. TRADITIONAL SECTOR       ha       t/ha         t            ha      t/ha          t
Olives               100        1.0         100          100      3.0         300
Citrus               100       12.0       1,200          100     23.0       2,300
Wheat                550        1.2         660          580      2.8       1,624h
Maize                 50        1.2          60          290      3.5       1,015
Pulses               100        1.0         100          100      1.6         160
Alfalfa               90       60.0 A     5,400 Li        90     65.0 A     5,850
TOTAL                990                               1 260
Cropping Intensity   102%                                129%
2.  NEW SCTOR
Olives               120        0.8          96          560      3.0       1,680
Citrus                 --       --           --          120     23.0       2,760
Almonds                --       --           --          470      2.0         940
Barley             2,640        o.8       2,112           --      --            --
Wheat                  --                     --       3,290      3.0        9,870
Maize                  --       --            --       2,300      4.2        9,660
Pulses               150        0.8         120          560      1.8       1,008
Alfalfa                --       --           --          720     70.0 /1   5o,400 Li
Berseem               --        __           __          570     35.0      19,950
TOTAL              2,910                               8,590
Cropping Intensity    46%                                136%
3.   GRAND TOrAL         3,900                              9,850
Cropping Intensity    54%                               135%
/l Green matter
January 1975



ANNEX 3
Table 2
KINGDCM OF MOROCCO
9DUSS GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Incremental Staff, Building and Equipment
For the Demonstration and Training Farm
1. Staff /1
1 Field Officer (Di 14,400 x 4/2 years)                      28,800
1 Training Expert (DH 18,000 x 3/2 years)                    27,000
1 Veterinarian (DH 18,000 x 3/2 Years)                       27,000
2 Research Assistants(DH 8,400 x 2 x 3/2 years)              25 200
Subtotal
2. Transport
1 Pickup 1.5 tbn                                             25,000
1 anall Vehicle                                               9,000
1 Bus 4CP                                                    49 000
Subtotal
3. Buildings
Storage Farm Inputs (25 m2)                                   7,500
Storage Farm Products (75 m2)                                22,500
Farm Machinery Shed (300 m2)                                 90,000
Barn (animal) (150 min)                                      45,000
Sanitary Block (WC-showers)                                   9 000
Subtotal
14. Land Development
Well and punp                                                128,000
Underground Network                                          66,000
Sprinkler Equipment                                          44,000
Subtotal
5. Animals                                                      80,000
6. Farm Machinary and Equipment /2
23 Tractors                                                 805,000
23 Mold Board Plows                                         172,500
23 HD Disc Harrows                                           98,000
23 Light Disc Harrow                                         75,000
23 Cultivators                                               83,000
13 Grain Drills                                             110,500
10 Spreaders                                                 30,000
7 Sprayers                                                 126,000
13 Mower                                                     39,000 
1 Baler                                                     15,000
7 Trailers                                                  59,000
4 Grain Harvester                                          320,000
Audio-Visual Equipnent                                    27,000
Miscellaneous                                                30,000
1,990,000
GRAND TOTAL                                               2.673,000
/1 Staff will attend,the entire Upper Valley and dedicate 50% of their
time to the project area.
/2  Includes agricultural equipment for ORMVA9M.
April 1975



ANNEX 3
Table 3
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SOUSS GRO WJDWATER PROJECT
Incremental Staff and Equipment Needs
for Agricultural Extension
DH
1. Staff
4 Subject Matter Specialist /1
1 Livestock specialist      (18,000 x 3/2 years)    27,000
1 Crop Specialist    (18,000 x 3/2 years)            27,000
1 Fruit Specialist.    (18,000 x 3/2 years)          27,000
1 Extension Specialist      (18,000 x 3/2 years)    27,000
1 Assistant Veterinarian (12,000 x 3 years)            36,000
3 Agents    (8,h00 x 3 years)                           75,600
Subtotal                                            219,600
2. Equipment
Agents Outfit                                         28,000
Miscellaneous                                          2,000
Subtotal                                             30,000
3. Transportation
1 Pickup Truck 1-1/2 t                                  25,000
4 Small Vehicle                                        36,000
10 Motorcycles                                           20,000
Subtotal                                             81,000
GRAND TOTAL                                             330,600
/1   Subject matter specialists will attend the entire Upper Valley
and dedicate 50% of their tine to the project area.
February 1975



ANNEX 4
Page 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SOUSS GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Land Tenure in the Project Area
1.        In the project area there are at present three types of land tenure:
(a)  Private Freehold ("melk").  This form accounts for 3,450 ha
net, 47% of the net project area, and includes the entire
traditionally irrigated area of about 1,000 ha. Tenure is
generally by an individual, but joint ownership, generally
between close relatives, also occurs. The average farm
size of dry-farmed melk is at present about 4.3 ha, while
in the traditionally irrigated area farm size averages about
2 ha. These averages do not take account of the fact that
some farmers own melk in both the irrigated and dry farmed
areas (and may also be rightholders to collective land); no
data on the extent to which this occurs is available.
(b)  Collective Land.  This covers 2,400 ha net, 33% of the net
project area. The collectively-owned lands within the proj-
ect area form part of seven traditional collectives, whose
total area amounts to about 6,000 ha. These lands are the
property of clans, ranging in size from 50 to 300 households,
and are held in trusteeship on their behalf by the Ministry
of the Interior. Members of the groups have use rights to
the land, but land may only be sold by decision of the
council ("i'maa') of the collective, and with the approval
of the Ministry of Interior.  The use rights of each collective
are periodically redivided to ensure that each household in
the collective has an equal share.
(c)  State Forest Land.  This covers 1,450 ha net, 20% of the net
project area. The land is used for grazing by local farmers,
with the exception of 40 ha, which are reserved for the Gov-
ernment training and demonstration farm.
2.        The land tenure changes to be implemented under the project are
governed by the Land Consolidation Law of 1962, the Agricultural Investment
Code of 1969, and the Land Reform legislation of 1972.
(a)  The Land Consolidation Law provides a procedure for land
registration and for consolidation of existing fragmented
holdings in areas delineated by Ministerial Order, and
subjects future subdivision of holdings created by con-
solidation to approval by a local conmission.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
(b) The Agricultural Investment Code also limits fragmentation
by prohibiting any subdivisions of land within defined ir-
rigation perimeters which would lead to holdings of less
than 5 ha; holdings already below this size may not be
further subdivided. The Code further provides for the
stabilization of collective land within the irrigation
perimeters, either through transforming collective owner-
ship into joint ownership between the present collective
rightholders, or, provided holdings so created are larger
than 5 ha, by transforming ownership into melk. Those
who receive melk land are obliged to join a Government
sponsored service cooperative, managed initially by an
extension agent.
(c) The Land Reform legislation of 1972 sets out the conditions
governing the distribution of state-owned land to smallholders
and landless laborers. Beneficiaries must fulfill age, com-
petence, morality and poverty criteria, and are obliged to
join Government sponsored service or production cooperatives,
depending on whether the lots distributed are held as melk
or in joint ownership. The lots may not be sold, and may
only be inherited by a single heir, provided he farms the
plot himself, and fulfills the criteria governing the ori-
ginal choice of beneficiary of the plot. The legislation also
provides a framework for establishment of the service and
production cooperative.
3.        The land tenure organization to be carried out under the project
would consist of the following:
- (i)  Part of the state forest land within the Project Area would
be exchanged for collective land outside the Project Area.
(ii) The collective land in the Project Area following this
operation would be transformed into land jointly owned by
the former collective rightholders.
(iii) The remaining state forest land within the Project Area
will be distributed to collective land rightholders, small-
holders, of freehold and landless agricultural laborers
living in the rural communes in which the Project Area is
located, in accordance with the provisions of Dahir 1-72-277
of 29th December 1972. Distribution would be in holdings of
5 ha. Beneficiaries of distribution would be cbliged to cede
other rights to land, to the state in the case where such
rights are in the form of joint ownership of individual free-
hold, to other collective rightholders in the case where such
rights are to collective land. They would also be obliged to
pay for any additional land they receive as a result of the
distribution procedure, and to join Government sponsored
cooperatives.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
(iv) Ownership shares in former collective land within the
Project area ceded to the state by beneficiaries of the
distribution described in (iii) above would be used to
enlarge ownership shares of other owners of such shares.
Those whose shares are enlarged would be obliged to pay
for the increase in share which they receive.
(v) Rightholders to ownership shares on former collective land
which exceed 5 ha would have these shares transformed into
private freehold. Those whose holdings are so transformed
would be obliged to join Government-sponsored service coop-
eratives. Shares of less than 5 ha would remain in joint
ownership.
(vi) Melk land presently formed under rainfed conditions would
be consolidated under the terms of Dahir 1-62-105 of 30th
June 1962. To the extent possible, traditionally irrigated
melk land would also be consolidated. It is expected that
holders of the smallest melk plots would have their holdings
enlarged as a result of the distribution procedure described
in (iii) above.
4.        The reorganization of land tenure described above would be completed
in time for the physical execution of the Project and the final distribution
of land ownership is expected to be approximately as follows:
Farm Size                      Holdings                        Area
Ha                         No.       X                    Ha     X
0 - 3                         540      32                   1,100  15
3 - 6                         880      53                   4,400  60
above 6                       250      15                   1,800  25
April 1975



ANNEX 5
Page 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SOUSS GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Livestock Subsector
General
1.        Livestock production in Morocco accounts for about one third of the
total value of agricultural production. Total animal population includes
about 3.7 million cattle, 16.7 million sheep, 7.0 million goats, 0.12 million
camels, and 0.05 million pigs. Of the 3.7 million cattle, about 3.3 million
consist of the local breed--Brown Atlas; about 0.34 million are cross-bred
between Brown Atlas and Friesian; while European pure breeds, mainly Friesian
cattle, account for about 56,000 head, or about 1.5% of the total cattle pop-
ulation. The three main breeds of sheep are Beniguil, Timhadit and Sardi, of
which the latter is known for its excellent lamb and wool.
2.        Three systems of livestock production in Morocco originates from
extensive grazing on 12.4 million ha of marginal land, which is either col-
lectively owned or state forest land. In addition animals have access to sup-
plementary grazing on 3 to 4 million ha of stubble following the harvest of
rainfed crops. Animal production centers are located in the outskirts of
urban areas, encouraged by market conditions and/or lack of processing facili-
ties in rural areas. These production centers generally depend on purchased
feed. In irrigation perimeters mixed farming has been widely introduced,
thus minimizing specialization risks by maintaining a balance between fodder
and cash crops.
Present and Future Livestock Production in the Project Area
3.        Current annual livestock production in the project area amounts to
about 180 tons of milk, 70 tons of lamb 1/ and 50 tons of beef. 1/ Low pro-
ductivity is related to (a) unbalanced and insufficient feed because of de-
graded range land and lack of supplementary fodder; (b) low production poten-
tial of local dairy breeds; (c) inadequate health control and vaccination pro-
grams; (d) inadequate marketing facilities; and (e) insufficient extension
services. The project would provide for mixed-farming operations (livestock-
cash crops). Current constraints for livestock production would be eliminated
mainly by (a) introducing grain and fodder crops in the rotation and thus pro-
viding the basis for balanced rations; (b) improving the production potential
of the dairy cattle by replacing local breeds by cross-breds; (c) introducing
artificial insemination, efficient health control and an effective vaccination
Program; (d) improving marketing facilities; and (e) providing technical ad-
vice, credit and cooperative facilities. At full development the total live-
stock production in the project area would be about 3,000 tons of milk, 3,400
tons of lamb 1/ and 700 tons of beef. 1/
1/   Liveweight.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
4.        Dairy Cattle.  Typical 5 and 7 ha farms would receive medium-term
credit to stock 2 in-calf heifers. Cross-bred dairy cows would be purchased
from COMAGRI 1/ farms outside project area. The dairy cattle herd would
reach 3 milking cows, one in-calf heifer, and one fattened steer at full
development, nine years later. The projection of herd development is shown
in Table 1. The annual feed requirements per animal unit would be 0.3 tons
of concentrate, 7 tons of green fodder and 2 tons of straw. These amounts
are based on production and maintenance requirements under the project con-
ditions, and they allow a safety margin to absorb inevitable feed waste.
With 5 animal units at full development, annual labor requirements would
amount to 9 man-months of labor. In addition to milk, the cattle herd would
also produce for the market fattened steers and surplus of in-calf heifers.
At full development 5 ha or 7 ha farms would market the following: (a)
2,650 liters of milk annually; (b) one fattened bull annually; (c) one in-
calf heifer every three years; and (d) one culled cow every other year. The
su;plus of in-calf heifers would be sold at an average liveweight of 400 kg.
Breeding would be based on artificiaL insemination which is currently pro-
vided by the Government.
5.        Lamb Fattening.  Lamb fattening would take place on all farm types.
Each farm would procure three lots of feeder lambs annually and each lot would
be fattened for an average period of 100 days. Incoming feeder lambs would
be bought from grazing areas outside the project area after weaning at 6-8
months. The daily requirement for 1 lamb would be 300-400 grams of concen-
trate and 1 kg of alfalfa. Because of their limited supply of fodder, typical
2 ha farms would initially fatten 15 lambs annually, while 5 ha farms would
have sufficient feed resources to start with 50 lambs annually. However,
when feed production would reach its maximum level, six years later, 5 ha
farms would fatten 75 lambs annually while x ha farms would fatten 60 lambs
for the market. The total production of the project would be 3,400 tons of
mutton (liveweight).
February 1975
1/   COMAGRI is the government agency responsible for livestock breeding.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SOUSS GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Farm Model ( 5-7 ha)
Dairy Cattle-Production Numbers, Technical Coefficients, Sales
(10 farms)
Years Following
First Irrigation                   1       2        3        4       5        6        7        8       9-35
Herd Composition
Breeding Cows                     20       19       26       30      30       30       30       30       30
Female Calves (0-1 year)            9       6        7       10       10      10       10       10       10
Male Calves (0-1 year)              9       5        9        9       10      10       10       10       10
Heifers (1-2 years)                 0       8        6        6       10      10       10       10       10
Steers (1-2 years)                 0        9        5        9       9        9        9       10       10
Males
Culled Cows                         0       0        0        5        6       6        6        6        6
Surplus Breeding Heifers            0       1        1        1       3        4        3        4        3
Bulls (1-2 years)                   0       9        5        9       9        9        9       10       10
Purchases
In Calf Heifers                   20        0        0        0       0        0        0        0        0
Mortal4ty
Breeding Cows                       1       0        1        0        1       0        1        0        1
Steers (1-2 years)                 0        0        0        0       0        1        0        0        0
Heifers (1-2 years)                 0       1        0        1       0        0        0        0        0
Calves (0-1 year)                   2       1        1        1       1        1        1        1        1
Milk Production
Available for sale (kg)       22,000  12,650  19,890  23,595  25,760  26,110  26,250  26,250  26,250
Production Coefficients
Calving Rate %                   100       60       65       65      70       70       70       70       70
Adult Mortality %                   2       2        2        2       2        2        2        2        2
Calf Mortality %                   10       8        6        6       6        6        6        6        6
Cow Culling %                       0       0        0       15      20       20       20       20       20
Net Milk Production (kg)       1,100   1,150   1,200   1,250   1,250   1,250   1,250   1,250   1,250
Animal Units                          20       36      41       45       49      49       49       50       50
January 1975



ANNEX 6
Page 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SOUSS GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Marketing
A. Present Situation
General
1.        Commodities produced in the project are for local consumption.  At
present, Morocco and the Province of Agadir are net importers of soft wheat
and dairy products. Demand for maize is increasing as a result of the growing
emphasis on domestic dairy production. Morocco is self-sufficient in beef
and mutton with intermittent export of modest quantities of mutton. Output
of other products cultivated in the project area, e.g. citrus, almonds, olives
and pulses, being relatively small, can readily be absorbed domestically al-
though some attractive export markets are available especially for fruits.
Local Market
2.        Government support prices for soft wheat and maize are implemented
by the Cereals Trade Office (OCICL) which directs the flow of cereals from
farmers through officially approved intermediaries, which, in turn would
deliver grains to established flour mills. The support prices for soft wheat
and maize are shown below:
1964/65    1971/72    1972/73    1973/74
---------------DH/ton---------------
Soft Wheat        400         430         450         600
Maize              -           -           -          460
3.        At present, home consumption and marketing through peddlers absorb
most of milk production. To encourage milk production and its delivery to the
plants, and also to elevate the level of production during the dry season,
the Government has decided to increase the price paid to producers from a
central equalizing fund, which is fed by proceeds from import duties levied
on dairy products.
4.        Livestock are marketed on the open market held weekly or bi-weekly.
Buyers include independent butchers or agents acting on commission basis for
large institutional outlets, especially tourism hotels and restaurants in



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Agadir and Taroudant. However, Agadir with its almost year-round tourist
trade also receives substantial quantities of high quality meat from
Casablanca and Marrakech. Since the majority of animals offered for slaughter
are raised on seasonal pastureland, the demand for slaughtering capacity
fluctuates widely during the year.
Produce Processing
5.        About 660 traditional oil mills for olives operate at low capacity
throughout the Souss Valley. In addition, 3 modern oil mills are located in
Taroudant with total capacity of 42,000 tons of olives per year.
6.        The Souss Valley contains about 20 grading stations for citrus and
vegetables of which 5 are privately owned and most of the grading stations
are concentrated in Agadir (6), Ouled Taima (6) and Ait Meloul (4). A large,
privately owned citrus processing factory is located in the outskirts of
Taroudant with annual capacity to handle 75,000 tons of all citrus varieties.
7.        There are also about 370 small flour mills in and about the proj-
ect area, each of them with a capacity of about 1 ton per day. In addition,
two modern flour mills are already installed in Agadir with combined capac-
ity of 82,000 tons of grain annually.
8.        A milk processing plant to be located in Ait Meloul was scheduled
to start operation late in 1974 with initial capacity to process 9,100 liters
of milk per day. The preliminary information on its financing has pointed
to the possibility of joint ownership by a private firm, the Government and
producers cooperatives. The plant's daily capacity was projected for 11,000
liters of milk by 1975; 23,800 by 1976; 33,700 by 1977 with the possibility
of physical expansion to double that amount thereafter, if necessary. It
now appears that actual construction has been delayed and that all projections
for expansion would probably be realized with a lag of at least one year.
This plant would produce butter, yogurt and other products of longer shelf
life and higher market value than liquid milk and the resulting derived demand
for milk would boost farmers' income and encourage delivery to collection
centers.
9.        Two types of slaughtering facilities are available in the Province
of Agadir. Throughout the project area small, rural slaughterinig facilities
exist in addition to relatively modern and large municipal slaughterhouses
in Agadir and Taroudant. Both types of facilities share a common feature of
excess slaughtering capacity reaching as high as 40% during the dry season
when the pasture conditions and traditional methods of livestock production
result in lower supply of slaughter animals. A greater part of the project
incremental mutton output, which is produced at a regular level throughout
the year, would be absorbed by the existing slaughtering facilities especially
ulring the dry season. Government considers expansion and modernization of
existing municipal slaughterhouses in Agadir and Taroudant and increased re-
cruiting of veterinarians and assistant veterinarians for meat inspection in
the near future.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
Marketing Organizations
10.       In addition to the Government controlled cereal trade office (OCICL)
which implements the Government policy for domestic cereal production, the
Government Export Office (OCE) has monopoly over the export of fresh and
canned fruits, vegetables, fish, wine and cotton.
11.       Other export commodities produced in the project region such as
almonds and olives are handled by private firms and individuals. Generally
they are competent and experienced and well connected both with producing
farms and foreign markets.
B. Situation at Full Development
Outlet for Individual Products in the Local Market
12.       Wheat.  Domestic production of soft wheat has fallen short of con-
sumption during the last decade and Morocco had to import substantial quanti-
ties of soft wheat of which 20-25% came from the United States under Public
Law 480 Agreements. Recently, deficit in wheat production was estimated by
the Government at 500,000 tons annually. The Province of Agadir with its
current estimated population of 1.3 million people and expanding at a faster
rate than the national average growth of population (2.8% vs 2.6% per annum)
depends on foreign wheat imports. The incremental wheat output due to the
project, expected at 11,000 tons at full development would be readily utiliz-
ed in the Province of Agadir.
13.       Maize.  At full development, about 6,400 tons of the expected 11,000
tons of incremental maize production would be marketed through transformation
into livestock products, especially mutton and milk. With the emphasis on
livestock production and the increasing demand on maize for human consumption,
there would be ample opportunities to absorb 4,600 tons or 42% of incremental
production.
14.       Milk.  The project would provide for 7 milk collection centers,
each with a daily capacity to handle 2 tons of milk. At full development
daily milk production is expected to be about 8 tons. The capacity of 2 tons
per day for each collection center is justified on grounds of efficiency of
operations.
15.       Alfalfa and Berseem.  The entire output of these two crops would
be marketed through livestock production. This would eliminate costly trans-
portation and preservation of bulky material to the fodder consuming centers.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
16.       Meat.  The incremental output of red meat due to the project at
full development in 1985 is expected to be about 4,000 tons liveweight of
which 84% is mutton and 16% beef. By and large, the high quality mutton, has
a stronger consumer preference than beef. It is estimated that the incre-
mental output of meat at full development would meet only about 60% of the
incremental annual increase in demand for red meat within the Province of
Agadir alone by 1985, and a dwindling percentage thereafter.
17.       Manure.  Manure produced on each farm would be directly used for
crop production in partial substitution of commercial fertilizers. This is
a traditional practice in the area.
February 1975



ANNEX 7
Page 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Souss Groundwater Project
Agricultural Credit
1.        Organization and funds are available to meet the Credit needs of
the project. The National Agricultural Credit Bank (CNCA) was set up by
Decree No. 1-60-106 of December 4, 1961 as a public institution responsible
to the Minister of Agriculture, with Head Office at Rabat, and with branch
office (CRCA), in the major regions. It is administered by an Administrative
Council and a Management Committee. The Minister of Agriculture is the
President of the Administrative Council. The 22 members of the Council in-
clude nine representatives of the Ministries of Agriculture, Finance, Planning
and Interior, one from the Bank of Morocco, and eleven from farmers and farming
institutions in the Provinces.
2.        CNCA can set up CRCA on joint approval of the Ministers of Finance
and Agriculture. To approve loans within its competence, each Regional Office
must set up a regional Credit Committee, consisting of the Regional Manager
as Chairman, five regional representatives of the Government, and six repre-
sentatives of local farmers and farming institutions. The decree also
provides for setting up of Local Agricultural Credit banks (CLCA). There is
a CRCA in Agadir and a CLCA in Taroudant.
3.        Farmers whose annual fiscal income is superior to DH 3,000 are
eligible to loans from CRCA. This is automatically the case for cooperatives
or groups of farmers requesting credit jointly for a specific purpose. Farm-
ers with a fiscal income in the DH 100- DH 3,000 bracket must deal with CLCA.
Seasonal loans are given for farm inputs (mainly fertilizer and improved
seeds) and cattle fattening, and medium-and long-term for on-farm improvements
and purchase of farm machinery (including tractors, pumps, irrigation equip-
ment, and harvesters). All proposed medium term loans to cooperatives and
groups of farmers and loans to individuals in excess of DH 40,000 1/ are
referred to Head Office approval.
4.        The request for a loan from an individual farmer includes details
of income and evidence that taxes have been paid, proposed security, proforma
invoices (for machinery purchase), plans and quotations (for building con-
struction, wells and pumps), and farm data. Upon receipt of a loan request
at Regional Office, a technician visits the farm and verifies the information,
1/   This limit is increased to DH 50,000 for maintenance of fruit farms and
cattle fattening.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
except in certain cases where the client is well known, and the farming
pattern has not been altered. A visit is mandatory for all short-term loans
for cereal and vegetable production above DH 20,000 (DH 10,000 for mainte-
nance of vineyards and fruit farms) and for all medium-term loans above DH
20,000 for machinery. After the technician is satisfied, the loan is referred
to the Regional Credit Committee. Average time from receipt of application
to approval of loan has been less than 21 days for the past two years.
5.        Maximum seasonal loans for crops are given on the basis of a fixed
sum per cost per hectare. These sums represent around 70% of the seasonal
cost of growing these crops. Length of loan depends on the growing period
of the crop and can vary from 5 to 10 months. Seasonal loans for livestock
fattening are given on the merits of each individual case. Half of most
seasonal loans are paid to farmers as soon as the loan is approved, and the
other half after proof that the required farm inputs have been bought. Secu-
rity for seasonal loans is invariably a lien on the crops produced. For
livestock fattening and larger crop loans, a guarantor or further collateral
security is frequently required. Nominal interest rate is 6% a year at
present.
6.        Medium-term loans for tractors with accessories, pumps, harvesters
and other agricultural machinery are usually for periods up to five years.
The loan is a maximum of 70% of the purchase price. As amounts of such loans
usually exceed DH 40,000 they require final approval of CNCA. CRCA pays the
supplier direct after receiving evidence that the purchaser has paid the
balance. Security is a chattel mortgage on the machinery. Current nominal
interest rate ranges from 6.5%'-8% a year.
7.        Long-term loans for on-farm improvements, particularly farm build-
ings, are usually for a maximum of 10 years, though the average is about
seven. Security is usually a mortgage on the farm, coupled in some cases
with a guarantor. Nominal interest rate is 6.5%-8% a year.
8.        Applications for loans from cooperatives and from agricultural
enterprises are considered at Head Office, and loans can be for any of the
purposes outlined above. Loan regulations are also similar to the above.
After examination at Head Office and in the field as required (in which Re-
gional Offices may assist), loans are referred to the Management Committee
for approval. Security is usually a lien on the crops produced together in
the case of cooperatives, the collective guarantees of the individual members,
or additional guarantees in the case of enterprises. Interest rate is 6.5% a
year currently.
9.        Applications from groups of farmers ("Groupements de Mecanisation")
for tractors and harvesters are considered by Head Office under procedures
similar to those above. Loans are for a maximum period of five years, at 6.5%
interest, and security is a chattel mortgage on the equipment being purchased.
.idditional security through the collective guarantees of the members is occa-
sionally required.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
10.       Incremental credit needs of the project at full development, as-
suming a farmers contribution of 30%, would amount to DH 4.0 million for
short term loans and DH 12.0 million for medium term loans for farm machinery,
plantations, livestock and stables. These funds could be provided through
the Bank's Third Agricultural credit project now under preparation. In addi-
tion, Morocco received a loan of US$30 million from Iran for seasonal credits
for small farmers and has still undisbursed Bank funds for medium term loans,
which could also be used for this project.
February 1975



ANNEX 8
Page 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SOUSS GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Project Description
A. Selection and Formulation of the Project
1.        The Project is located in the Upper Souss Valley, about 100 km
east of Agadir. The low average annual precipitation of 246 mm necessitates
the use of irrigation for crop production. The project would form the first
part of a master plan developed over six years for the entire Souss Valley
(see Chapter II), which aimed at a more efficient use of scarce water re-
sources. For the Upper Souss Valley, the master plan envisages the develop-
ment by Government into modern irrigated agriculture of 6,300 ha of partly
dry farmed but mainly rangeland and the rehabilitation of 17,000 ha of tradi-
tionally irrigated agriculture. As a first step in this rehabilitation pro-
gram, an area of 1,000 ha would be inJluded in the project.  Table 1 gives
a breakdown of areas involved.
2.        The Project would increase crop and livestock production (Annexes
3 and 5) and thus assist in alleviating the substantial shortages of these
products in the Souss Valley. Year round stable employment would increase
and the net annual cash income of the project beneficiaries in the modern
area would rise from US$100 to US$540 and in the traditional area from
US$110 to US$280, compared with an estimated average income of the nation's
population of US$700 for 1992 (all in 1974 prices).
3.        Groundwater supply was selected because of the existence of a large
underexploited aquifer in the upstream valley and because surface water supply
is not available as the Souss river is dry except during irregular storm run-
off periods. The solution to construct a dam upstream of Aoulouz was rejected
because the cost per m3 of water at the foot of the dam was double the cost
per m3 of water pumped inside the irrigation perimeters. Groundwater supply
to the new areas at the same time would avoid existing water rights on surface
water exploitation which stifle the possibilities of modern development in
areas under ephemeral gravity command. Sprinkler irrigation was selected
primarily because the light soils with high infiltration rates and low field
capacities require frequent small water applications particularly during peak
demand. Economic comparison between sprinkler and gravity irrigation showed
an advantage of sprinkler over gravity irrigation. In addition, the indirect
benefit of faster development with sprinkler irrigation further contributes
to justify the Government's decision in favor of sprinkler irrigation.
4.        Selection of the modern areas was based upon land tenure, topo-
graphy and soil suitability. The selection of the 1,000 ha in the tradi-
tionally irrigated area was partly based upon the possibility that their



ANNEX 8
Page 2
present unreliable water supply might further be threatened as a result of
project construction and partly because existing facilities could be restored
without high new investments. The remaining traditional area would not be
significantly affected as a result of the proposed use of groundwater because
most of it is irrigated by derivation of surface waters. The complicated
landownership and the farmers' present reluctance to remove old olive trees
are likely to delay a changeover to a modern irrigation network for which a
reallotment of the traditional areas would be a prerequisite to install a
rational water distribution network. Because of their location, adjacent
to new perimeters, it is hoped that the surrounding modern areas will in-
duce a desire to accelerate adoptation of modern methods.
B. Description of the Project
5.        The project would provide irrigation water to nine new irrigation
perimeters having a total net area of 6,300 ha and to three perimeters al-
ready irrigated by traditional methods and having a total net area of approe-
imately 1,000 ha. The new perimeters would be subdivided into smaller sec-
tions, each served by its own wellfield. Names, sizes and number of existing
wells for each section are indicated in Table 2, in order of anticipated dev-
elopment.
6.        Land consolidation would take place on Melk land and redistribu-
tion on collective and state land (Annex 4). The land would be prepared by
removing present vegetation, minor earthwork and disc harrowing.
7.        For the modern area water would be pumped from deep wells directly
into an underground pipe network connected to hydrants each serving an area
of about 16 ha. Water delivered from the hydrant would be used for sprinkler
irrigation with mobile equipment.
8.        For the traditional areas, project works would involve repairing
the existing gravity distribution system and installation of wells to replace
present water supply based on natural springs and deviation of floodwaters.
9.        Crops to be grown in both new and traditional areas would be prim-
arily wheat and forage for lamb fattening. In addition, some milk cows would
be kept on all but the smallest farms. Growing of pulses and an allocation
of 18% of the area to fruit trees such as olives, almonds,and citrus would
complete the mixed farm concept. Lambs would be purchased for finishing
from flocks in the surrounding area including the mountains (Annexes 3 and
5).
10.       A power network consisting of 66 kV and 22 kV transmission lines
exists in the Souss Valley. The project would provide: (a) 31 km of a 22 kV
return line Igli - Taroudant; (b) 48.5 km of 22 kV connections to the well-
fields to be provided under the project; and (c) a 60 kV/22 kV substation at
Igli.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
11.       As the road system in the project area is adequate, only farm ac-
cess roads would be provided.
12.       The Regional Agricultural Development Office for the Souss and
Massa areas, (ORMVASM), a semi-autonomous Government agency under the Ministry
of Agriculture would be responsible for the irrigation development component
of the project (see Chapter V).
13.       General consultants would assist in revising final design, prepara-
tion of contract documents and start-up of the irrigation system. Terms of
reference for the consultants are given in Annex 14.
14.       Buildings and other facilities for the project authority would be
provided. These would include main offices and a workshop in Taroudant,
three Development Centers (CMV's) tentatively planned, one at Ait Yaza, one
near the Rezagna perimeter and one in the R'Baa el Oustani area. The exist-
ing facilities at the Government demonstration farm at Ait Yaza would be ex-
tended. Milk collection centers would be established in seven villages.
Extension and training work would be increased using the Ait Yaza farm.
Operation and maintenance services of the irrigation system would operate
from the central office in Taroudant and through the local Development Cen-
ters. Medium term agricultural credit would be extended through the exist-
ing facilities of the Regional Agricultural Credit Bank for the purchase of
agricultural inputsn
15.       Improvements in rural living conditions would be promoted by con-
structing the basic infrastructure (roads, water supply, public lighting,
schools, community and health centers) for 11 new villages and by rehabilitat-
ing the infrastructure of 9 existing villages. The work would be carried out
under the responsibility of the Ministry of Housing. The 11 new villages
would be necessary, since some new irrigation areas are located too far away
from existing centers and frequent commuting over long distances would be
impracticable with the intensive form of agriculture requiring round the
clock attention during the peak irrigation period. Maintenance of the infra-
structure facilities would be carried out by the Ministries responsible for
the operation of the facilities, such as the Ministry of Education for the
maintenance of the schools.
C. Description of Project Works
16.       Irrigation Network
(a) Land Clearing, Consolidation and Redistribution. The present na-
tural vegetation of the project area consists of thorny shrubs and trees
s .ich would be cleared by machine since local experience (Massa project)
has proved this to be more economic. After clearing, the soil would be
broken with a ripper and then disc-plowed. Small erosion gullies and minor



ANNEX 8
Page 4
irregularities in relief would be filled. Land consolidation and topography
are presently underway. Land consolidation and redistribution would allow
establishment of title and a rational layout of irrigation and road networks.
(b) Wells. Wells would tap either one of the two aquifers or both
(see Annex 5). Specific discharges in the project would vary from 3 1/s/m
drawdown to 10 1/s/m, with only six of the wells in the project having dis-
charges less than 4 1/s/m.  A design value of 3.25 1/s/m was adopted.  A
standard discharge of 65 1/sec per well would result in a drawdown of 20 m.
A 15-30 m operative screen depth would be installed to keep entrance velocities
through the screen at a low level. The groundwater_level at present varies
between 15-40 m, depending on location. For the duration of the project, the
lowering of the groundwater table is expected to amount to 10 m in 40 years,
reaching however a maximum of 25 m for the 6 wells in Tazemourt. Geohydro-
logical considerations suggest typical depths of wells of about 80-90 m. Well
fields would consist of one to four units, depending on the area to be served,
the normal pattern being triangular wfth 400 m sides. This spacing would
reduce mutual drawdown to an acceptable level. Power supply at 22 kV would be
provided to the center of gravity of a well field where a 22 kV/500 V stepdown
transformer would be located together with centralized electrical controls
for the individual pumps. 65 wells in 18 groups would serve the modern area
of 6,300 net ha. The project would require a total of 73 wells, 65 located
in the modern and 8 in the traditional areas. Ten of these wells were already
installed during the Souss II Groundwater investigations and for fourteen ad-
ditional wells contract are already awarded. Therefore Bank assistance would
be required for financing 49 wells.
(c) Pumping Units. Pumps would be submerged and would feed into the
underground asbestos cement pipe network. This solution was selected as the
alternative of a system using separate well pumps in conjunction with booster
pumps for the distribution system which would be more expensive. Typical
submerged pumps would have a capacity of 65 l/s and a total dynamic head of
112 m which would later be replaced by 122 m head units requiring 110 kW
motors. Pressure tanks installed between pumps and pipe network would pro-
tect against water hammer. Pneumatically operated switches would provide
automatic operation of the pumps and protection would be included to insure
no more than four start ups per pump per hour. The project provide 73 pump-
ing units including appurtenant control systems.
(d) Pipe Distribution System. The distribution system would consist
of buried asbestos cement pipes with diameters varying from 100 to 400 mm,
terminating in hydrants for mobile sprinkler equipment. Each section would
have its individual distribution system. The average length of pipe per
hectare would be 18 m. Pipes would run parallel to farm roads permitting
easy access to hydrants. Typical layout of an irrigation section would be
as follows: 3 m wide farm roads would divide in two a 15.6 ha irrigation
unit to be served by one hydrant. These hydrants, equipped with two fixed-
discharge outlets, would therefore serve two separate blocks of 7.8 ha on
each side of the road. Each outlet would have a continuous discharge
capacity of 6.7 l/s and a discharge pressure of 3.5 atmospheres. The length



ANNEX 8
Page 5
of one irrigation block measured along the road would be 216 mn and since
hydrants would be placed in the middle of a block, the distance between
hydrants would also be 216 m. The distance measured perpendicular to the
road would be 360 m.
(e)  Mobile Equipment.  A 12 m x 12 m sprinkler pattern was selected
to minimize wind disturbance of the pattern of irrigation. The 360 x 216 m
shape of one irrigation block (= 1/2 unit) was derived on the basis of allow-
able pressure losses and standard pipe lengths of 6 m. The mobile equipment
would consist of one central 3" feeder line of 342 m length connected to a
hydrant outlet with takeoffs at 36 m intervals. Two 2" moving laterals of
102 m would operate simultaneously on each side of the feeder line. Because
of the 12 m x 12 m pattern, it would be necessary to serve three parallel
lateral positions by the 36 m-spaced takeoffs on the central feeder. Each
lateral would carry 9 sprinklers with a discharge of 0.37 1/s. During the
peak month, irrigation would take place 15 hours per day and the irrigation
interval would be 6.4 days.
(f) Traditional Area. The traditional area consists of three separate
sections, which would receive their water supply from a total of eight wells
(Table 2). The existing gravity systems would be rehabilitated. The follow-
ing construction and rehabilitation works would be carried out:
(i) Ait Ouarab section (approximately 300 ha). Water for this
sector is presently obtained from one existing well, from
derivation of storm runoff and from sources emerging from
the Souss river. Two additional wells having a capacity of
130 l/s would be drilled to safeguard against drying up of
the river sources as a result of lowering of the ground-
water table. A 1,500 m elevated channel consisting of
semi-circular precast concrete elements would connect
these wells to the system. Also, a few minor improvements
would be carried out on the existing earth channels.
(ii) Rezagna section (approximately 500 ha). This section is at
present using water delivered from the pumping station lo-
cated in the Tassoukt section. As this supply is insuffi-
cient, three wells having a total capacity of 195 1/s would
be installed to ensure an adequate supply. An existing pre-
cast concrete elevated open channel system of 4.7 km and
400 am 0 would be repaired, distribution gates would be
replaced and 340 m of 250 mm 0 asbestos cement pipe would
be installed to connect the new wells to the existing canal
system.
(iii) Tassoukt section (approximately 200 ha). This section has
an installed capacity of 108 1/s from an existing pumping
station, which exceeds the estimated future needs of 77 l/s.
A diversion box would distribute the excess water into the



ANNEX 8
Page 6
Rezagna system. Elevated concrete channels having a length
of 3.8 km and a diameter of 400 mm would be installed to
replace defective earth channels.
(g) Power Supply. Power supply to the various well fields would be
provided by a total of 80 km of 22 kV lines which would tap the main power
lines (60 kV and 22 kV) already existing or under construction. The proj-
ect would provide a 60/22 kV substation for the sectors Ouled Abdellah, Ait
Ouarab and Ait Igges, which would hook up to the 60 kV main line.
(h) Drainage. The light and deep soils provide sufficient internal
drainage. Small ditches would be constructed along all farm roads. Large
drains would be needed to protect some sections of the perimeters by inter-
cepting and diverting overland flow from adjacent higher areas during storm
periods.  A total of 36 km of these drains would be constructed.
17.       Infrastructure
(a) Farm Roads and Windbreaks
(i) Farm Roads. All irrigation perimeters are located adjacent
to existing all-weather or gravel roads. The project there-
fore would only require construction of farm access roads.
Only a limited length of access road extensions would be
required to connect to the existing public road system or
for interconnection between adjacent irrigation areas.
This accounts for the difference in total road length
(148 km) and total length of pipe network (116 km).  Roads
would be surfaced with gravel. Two standard widths are
foreseen: roads with a surfaced width of 5 m, running along
the main axis of the perimeter, and secondary roads with a
3 meter surface width running perpendicular to the 5 m roads
and spaced at 720 m intervals. The hydrants will be located
along the secondary roads. Both 5 m surface and 3 m surface
roads will have a total reservation width of 10 m to accom-
modate ditches and underground pipelines. Total lengths for
primary access roads would be 41 km (6.5 m/ha) and for
secondary access roads 108 km (17 m/ha).
(ii) Windbreaks. Double cypress rows would provide windbreaks.
They would be planted by the farmers themselves, on their
farms, but the project authority would deliver planting
material at the site. ORMVASM would install windbreaks
when located along access roads. It is expected that an
average of 108 m/ha would be planted, around each 8 ha
block. Final design would be subject to wind observations
carried out by the Project Authority (Annex 2, para. 2).



ANNEX 8
Page 7
(b) Buildings and Other Facilities for the Project Authority. Housing,
offices and stores would be built in the project headquarters in Taroundant
and at the three planned CMV's at Ait Yaza, Rezagna and R'baa el Oustani to
meet the needs of the project during construction. These facilities and those
at the Government training farm would subsequently be used by agricultural
extension staff and operation and maintenance personnel. Necessary office
furniture, equipment and vehicles would be provided under the project. A
cost estimate of these items is provided in Annex 14, Table 3. Provision has
been made for the purchase of specialized equipment for maintenance of pumping
stations (Annex 14, Table 2), and for the demonstration farm (Annex 3, Tables
2 and 3).
(c)  Milk Collecting Centers.  Seven milk collecting centers with a
capacity of 2,000 1/day per unit would be constructed in the larger villages
throughout the project area. These centers would contain as main items pas-
teurizing and refrigerated storage equipment. Since total project milk pro-
duction is estimated at 3,000 ton/year, the planned centers would have an
excess capacity to absorb expected fluctuations in supply.
18.       Village Infrastructure
(a) The 6,300 ha of irrigation to be developed under the project are
at a relatively long distance from existing village centers, exceeding 5 km
in some cases. The introduction of modern techniques would bring about a
change in the way of life for the project beneficiaries. Whereas dry farming
necessitates a few visits per year to the land, irrigated farming on the other
hand requires frequent daily operations. To avoid erratic settlement, planning
for the Upper valley aims at establishing 11 new villages and at rehabilitating
9 existing villages located in the vicinity of the project perimeteis.
(b) Of the 11 new villages, 6 would be of a size for 100 families and
5 for 250 families. Of the 9 existing villages, 2 would be equipped to ac-
commodate 250 families and the 7 other for 100 families each.
(c) Facilities to be provided under the project would include:
(i) Public Water Supply. Connection to the new irrigation
systems would form the cheapest means of providing an
acceptable sanitary supply. Terminal ground storage
reservoirs with 2 separated public fountains for human
and animal consumption would meet the village require-
ments of 25 liters per capita per day without affecting
the irrigation supplies.



ANNEX 8
Page 8
(ii) Electricity. Electric connections to the villages from
the power network would be installed, as well as public
lighting, and would serve small industrial appliances
such as air compressors and power saws.
(iii) Health Centers. One health center at Ouled Berrhil and
two dispensaries, one on each side of the river, would
be constructed while the 110 bed hospital at Taroudant
would continue to serve as backbone of the regional
health infrastructure.
(iv) Roads. Inside the villages, roads would be paved with
asphalt providing better protection against damage from
the concentrated movement of tractors and cattle and
to prevent inconvenience from excessive dust.
(v) Schools. For the five-new large village centers, schools
would be constructed with a capacity of 600 students each.
Teachers housing would also be provided.
(vi) Community Centers. Such centers would be constructed in
all 20 villages. These centers would be used as the local
office of the extension service and as farmer education
centers. Furniture and equipment for educational use
would be provided under the project.
(vii)  Other Facilities.  Development Centers (CMV's) and milk
collecting centers would also be located near the newly
planned villages to enhance their status as centers.
April 1975



Ai I X b
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO                               lI'able 1
SOUSS GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Present and Future Land Use
ha
Total  Arable Land in Souss Valley                                    180,000
Total Area Seeded per year  /                                      70,000 - 10,000
Modern Irrigation                                                      2h,4000
Traditional Irrigation                                                 31,000
Total Irrigated Area Entire Souss Valley                               55,000,
Irrigated Area Lower Souss  Valley                                     27,200
Irrigated Area Upper Souss Valley                                      27,800
Masterplan Upper Souss Valley
Type of I.rrig ation             Existing Situation              Planned Situation
or j 2                    (ha)                             (ha)  A
Modern PrivateZ                        4,100                           7,300
Modern Puiblic                            -                            6,300
Traditional                           23,700                           6,600 a
Traditional Rehabilitated                 -                           17,100
Total                                27,800                           37,300
Zl  Area includes dry farming (barley) and varies with winter rainfall.
/2 Modern -water pumped from well.
/3  Traditional = water derived from diversion of stormwater flows from normally
dry streams, from collection of rainwater falling on bunded catchment
areas and also to a lesser extent from permanent natural springs (resurge-nces in
the river bed).
/A  Expected increase in area subject to issue of pumping permits by ORMVAM4.
L   Areas near foothills, irrigated by derivation of stormwater, which are difficult
to rehabilitate.
,January 1975



ANNIEX b
Table 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SOUSS GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Net Area and Number of Wells per Section
Number of
Perimeter          Section                  Existing Wells              Net Area
Modern Area                                                                ha
Tazemmourt            1                            3                      h00
2                                                  400
El M'hazzem           1                                                   550
"                 2                                                   .400
R'Baa el Oustani      1                                                    280
it                2                           1                        0oo
it                3                           1                        80
Ida on Kais                                       1oo
Ait Igges                                                                 270
Ait Ouarab            1                                                   liOO
"I                2                                         .         00
Ouled Bourious        1                                                   LOO
it                2                           1                       280
Ouled Abdellah        1                                                   IJ°°
"i                2                                                   280
Rezagna               1                                                   400
it                2                                                   400
It                3                          _                       -150
Subtotal Modern Area                             8                      6,290
Traditional Area
Ait Ouarab                                       1                        320
Rezagna                                                                   460
Tassoukt                                          1 with pump             190
Subtotal Traditional Area                        2                        970
Total                                           10                      7,260
April 1975



MOROCCO
SOUSS GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Construction and Activity Schedule
1975               1976               1977                1978                1979               1980
1 Final Design, Specifications, Tenders
2 Land Consolidation and Topography
3 Land Preparation, Roads, Drains
4 Tubewell Drilling                                                   _         _                       -
5 Underground Pipe Network                                                     -                   _ _
6 Pumping Stations                                                         _         _             _ -                      .
7 Mobile Sprinkler Equipment
8 Powerlines and Substations
9 Subdivision and Development Centers                            _              - _        _   _ _
10 Milk Collection Center
11  Village Infrastructure                                                  _        _         _ -            _    _
12 Farm Development, Cattle Pirchase                                   _             - _                           -         -
13 General Consultants                                   _   -         _         _ _                -
World Bank-9525(R)



EINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SOUSS GROUNDWATER PROJECT
COot Estimates L
Foreig.
Local        Foreign         Total             Local        Foreign         Total         Exchange
------------Dh  -                              -----------0US$ '000------------              7
1. Irrigation Network
A.  Civil Works
* Land Coolsolidation and Topography                  1,517              0           1,517              379             0            379            0
* Land PreParation (clearing and leveling)            2,611          2,613           5,224              653           653          1,306           50
* Tubewe                                              4,074          5,187           9.261           1,018          1,297          2,315           56
* Underground Pipe Network                            7,461          4,017          11.478           1.865          1,004          2,869           35
* Pumping Stations                                       503           271             774              126            68            194           35
* Open DrSin-                                            785           788           1,573              196           197            393           50
* Roads and Windbreaks                                 1,999         2,002           4,001              500           500          1,000           50
B.  Equipment
Rletrno-mechasica1 Equipment                        6,001         14,001         20,002            1,500          3,500          5,000           70
Mobile Sprinkler Equipment (10% spares)             2,284          5,331          7,615              571          1,333          1,904           70
C. Power Suonl2
22 kV Transmission Lines and Substation             2,880         4.320           7.200              720          1,080         1.800           60
Subtotal Irrigation Network                        30,115        38,530          68,645            7,529          9,633        17,161           56
2.  Agricultural Management
Subdivision and Development Centers                     3,730          2,009           5,739              933           502          L,435           35
Famr Machinery                                             797         1,861           2,658              199           465            664           70
Workshop                                                   111           258             369               28             64            92           70
Vehicles                                                   124           288             412               31             72           103           70
Subtotal Agricultural Management                        4,762          4,416           9,178            1,191         1,104          2,295           48
3.  Village Infrastructute
* Roads                                                 1,066          1,069          2,135               267           267            534           50
* Water SupplY                                          1,414            761           2,175              354           190            544           35
5 Electricity Supply                                    1,220          1,830          3,050              305            458            763          60
* Conmunity Centers                                     1,924          1,036           2,960              481           259            740           35
* Schools (including teachers' houses)                  2,407          1,032           3,439              602           258            860           35
* Health Centers                                           460           460             920              115           115            230           50
Subtotal Village Infrastr.cture                         8,491          6,188          14,679           2,123          1,547          3,670           42
4.  Farm  Developent                                         8,059              0          8,059            2,015              0         2,015            0
5.  Aduinistration and ConSultants
oI1fVASM (Design, Supervision, Training)                 3,437              0          3.437              859              0           859            0
Consultants                                                195           555             750               49            139           188           74
Sobtotal Administration and Consultants                  3,632           555           4,187              908           139          1,047           13
Total B-sic Cost                                       55 0S9         49,689         104,748          13,765         i2,422         26,187           47
6. Contingencies2
Physica  Contingencies                                   6,532         6,025          12,557            1,633         1,506          3,139           48
Price Contingencies                                    20,409         18,286         38.695            5.094          4,579          9,673           47
Total Contingencies                                    26,941         24,311         51,252            6,727          6,085         12,812           47
GRAND TOTAL COST                                       82             74000              0020,500                                   39,000           47
Li  Discrepancies due to rounding.
L2  Items marked * 15%, others 107, Administration by ORMVASM no physical contingency.
April 1975



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SOUSOS GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Schedule of Expenditures
Total                         1975                          1976                          1977                           1978
Foreign         Total         Foreign         Total        Foreign          Total         Foreign          Total         Foreign         Total
-------DH '000                        H '000------  -------;8H '000 -----N-DH                        '000 -------DHH '000 -----
1.  Irrigation Network
A. Civil Works
* Land Consolidation and Topography                        0          1,517            0            1,255               0            262              -              -                -
* Land Preparation (clearing and leveling)             2,613          5,224            -                 -          1,244         2,487             769          1,538              600        1,199
* Tubewells                                            5,187          9,261            -                 -          1,729         3,087           1,729          3,087            1,729        3,087
* Underground Pipe Network                             4,017         11,478            -                 -            514         1,469           2,430          6,944            1,073        3,065
* Pumping Stations                                       271             774           -                 -             63            180            145            414               63          180
* Open Drains                                            788          1,573            -                 -            120            239            254            507              414          827
* Roads and Windbreaks                                 2,002          4,001            -                 -            669         1,337             641          1,281              692        1,383
B. Eq-uipent
Electro-mechanical Equipment                        14,001         20,002      .     -                 -          2,685         3,836           5,562          7,946           5,754         8,220
Mobile Sprinkler Equipment (10% spares)              5,331          7,615            -                 -              -              -          1,777          2,538           3,554         5,077
C.  Power Supply
22 kV Transmission Lines and Substation              4.320     .   7.200             -                 -            734         1,224           2.765         4.608               821        1,368
Subtotal Irrigation Network                         38,530         68,645            0            1,255           7,758        14,121          16,072        28,863           14,700        24,406
2.  Agricultural Management
Subdivision and Development Centers                      2,009           5,739           -                 -            257            735             515         1,470            1,237        3,534
Farm Machinery                                           1,861           2,658           -                 -             700         1,000             700         1,000              461          658
Workshop                                                   258             369            -                                              -             258           369                 -            -
Vehicles                                                   288             412            -                -               -             -             288           412                -
Subtotal Agricultural Management                         4,416           9,178           -                 -            957          1,735          1,761          3,251            1,698        4,192
3.  Village Infrastructure
* Roads                                                  1,069           2,135           -                 -             267           533             535         1,069              267          533
* Water Supply                                             762           2,175           -                 -            182            520             186           530              394        1,125
* Electricity Supply                                     1,829           3,050           -                 -            457            762            457            763              915        1,525
* Community Centers                                      1,036           2,960           -                 -            259            740             518         1,480              259          740
* Schools (including teachers! houses)                   1,032           3,439           -                 -            215            860             602         1,719              215          860
* Health Centers                                           460             920           -                 -            300            600               -              -             160           320
Subtotal Village Infrastructure                          6,188          14,679           -                 -          1,680          4,015          2,298          5,561            2,210        5,103
4.  Farm Development                                              0          8,059            -                 -              -             -               0         4,000                 0        4,059
5.  Administration and Consultants
ORMVASM (Design.,  upervision, Training)                      0          3,437           0             1,594               0           672               0         . 562                0          609
Consultants                                                555             750          93               125            185            250             185           250               92           125
Subtotal Administration and Consultants                    555          4,187           93             1,719            185            922             185           812               92           734
Total Basic Cost                                        49,689        104,748           93             2,974         10,580        20,793          20,316         42,487           18,700       38,494
6. Contingencies
Physical Contingencies L/                                6,025         12,557            9               201          1,360          2,666          2,446          5,159            2,210        4,531
Price Contingencies                                     18.286         38.695            7               225          2.309          4,679          7.042         15.071            8.928       18720
Total Contingencies                                     24,311         51,252           16              426           3,669          7,345          9,488         20,230           11,138       23,251
GRAND TOTAL COST                                        74.000        156 OOO          109            3400           14.249         28.138              L         6                2            61.745
Li Items marked * 157.. others 107., Administration by ORMVASM no physical contingency.
April 1975



ANNEX 12
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SOUSS GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Estimated Value of Contracts
us$ 000
A. CONTRACTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL
COMPETTTIVE BIDDING (ICB)
1. Civil Works
(i)  Tubewells                                         3,500
(ii)  Power lines and substation                        2,500
(iii)  Irrigation distribution system and                14,600
associated works
(iv)  Access roads; irrigation, drainage and
protection channels; land preparation          4 100
1~7
Total Civil Works
2. Equipment
(v)  Electro-mechanical equipment                      7,000
(vi)  Mobile sprinkler equipment and hydrants           2,800
(vii)  Agricultural equipment                              900
10,700
Total Equipment
TOTAL ICB CONTRACTS                       25,400
B. CONTRACTS UNDER LOCAL COMPETITIVE BIDDING (LCB)
(i   Administrative buildings                              2,300
(ii)  Village infrastructure                                5,g900
(iii)  Civil works, pumping stations                            300
(iv)  Windbreaks                                               200
8-700
TOTAL LCB CONTRACTS
April 1975



ANNEX 13
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SOUSS GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursement
IBRD Fiscal Year                          Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                                at End of Quarter
(US$'OOO)
1976
September 30, 1975                                      0
December 31, 1975                                      20
Narch 31, 1976                                        100
June 30, 1976                                         300
1977
September 30, 1976                                    600
December 31, 1976                                   1,000
March 31, 1977                                      2,000
June 30, 1977                                      3°,000
1978
September 30, 1977                                 4,000
December 31, 1977                                   5,000
March 31, 1978                                      6,500
June 30, 1978                                      8,000
1979
September 30, 1978                                10,000
December 31, 1978                                 12,000
March 31, 1979                                     1h,000
June 30, 1979                                      16,000
1980
September 30, 1979                                18,000
December 31, 1979                                  18,500
April 197'



ANNEX 14
Page 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SOUSS GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Organization and Consultants
A.   Organization
1.        ORMVASM would be the primary executing agency for the project, res-
ponsible for the construction, operation and maintenance of the irrigation
works, and for agricultural development. Other government agencies with a
direct involvement in the project would include (a) the National Electricity
Office (ONE) of the Ministry of Public Works, which would be the executing
agency for the construction of connecting power lines for the project (para
4.10), and (b) the Ministry of Urbanization, Environment, Housing and Tourism
which would be executing agency for the construction of village infrastructure,
including schools and health centers. The Ministries of Education and Health
would be responsible for operation and maintenance of schools and health
centers respectively when construction of these facilities is completed.
2.        A Project Coordination Committee, chaired by the Governor of Agadir
and with the representation of all government agencies involved in project
implementation would be responsible for the coordination of the different
agencies involved. The Project Coordination Committee would meet not less
than once every three months to approve quarterly progress reports, review
past achievements and the future work program for each of the participating
organizations and make recommendations and take action as necessary to ensure
coordination between participants.
3.        ORMVASM would be restructured and strengthened for the implementa-
tion of proposed Project in view of the heavy workload presently being under-
taken by ORMVASM, noticeably the development of the 18,000 ha Massa Project.
ORMVASM would set up a subregional headquarters in Taroudant, which is adja-
cent to the project area, and the director of this office would have full
responsibility for project implementation through a Technical Service (engi-
neering and agricultural) reporting to him. Technical support for this serv-
ice would be available from the central office in Agadir as required. The
subregional headquarters would be based in the existing CMV of Taroudant
and the two existing sub-CMV's in the project area would become full CMVs.
Staff equipment and building requirements for operation and maintenance of
the project facilities are shown in tables 1 to 3.
4.        The Technical Service would be responsible for design and super-
vision of construction and maintenance of the irrigation works, with the
assistance of General Consultants and for agricultural training and extension,
supply of inputs and farmer's organization table 4.



ANNEX 14
Page 2
5.        The local offices in Agadir of ONE and of the Ministry of Housing,
would be responsible for the construction of power lines and village infra-
structure respectively. The local organization of these agencies is satis-
factory for the needs of the Project.
B.   Consultants
6.        General consultants would be engaged starting July 1, 1975 to
supervise engineering design and assist in preparation of tender documents,
start-up of the first irrigation systems and formulation of maintenance pro-
cedures. Twenty-four (24) man-months have been provided for one hydraulic
and one electrical engineer and an additional six man-months for specialist
assistance as and when needed. Terms of Reference for the general consultants
would be:
7.        General
(a) review final design of irrigation systems;
(b) assist in preparation of tender documents for international
competitive bidding;
(c) assist in start-up of first irrigation systems; and
(d) prepare systematic maintenance program.
8.        Specific Items
(a) Review and assist in final design of electro-mechanical equip-
ment including automatic regulation.
(b)  Prepare specifications for electro-mechanical and automatic
regulation equipment.
(c) Assist in testing of wells.
April 1975



ANNEX 14
Table 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SOUSS GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Operation and Maintenance Staff Requirements
Type                               Number             Total Annual Salary
Section Headquarters (Taroudant)                            (DH/yr)
Director                             1                       24,000
Head of Engineering                  1                       18,000
Electrician                          2                       24,000
Mechanic                             2                        24,000
Accountant                           2                       16,800
Storekeeper                          2                        19,000
Laborer                             10                       56,900
Driver                               4                       28,500
Subtotal Section Taroudant                                  211,200
For one Field CMV
Bookkeeper                          1                         9,500
Electrician                          1                       14,200
Mechanic                             1                       14,200
Storekeeper                          1                        7,100
Driver                               2                       14,200
Watermeters                         10                       56,900
Subtotal for one CMV                                        116,100
Total Section Headquarters and 3 CMV.                       559,500 DH/yr
Note: Storekeepers, Laborers and Drivers assumed at 365 salaried days per year;
30% social charges added.
February 1975



ANNEX 14
Table 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SOUSS GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Operation and Maintenance Equipment
Type                                              Number            Cost
(DH)
4-Wheel Drive                                        2             50,000
Small Cars                                           8 /A           72,000
5-Ton Truck                                          1             42,000
Salvage Vehicle                                      1             85,ooo
Workshop Equipment                                                 245,ooo
Welding Equipment                                                   25,000
Spares and Miscellaneous Tools                                     90,000
TOTAL                                                             609,000
Ll Number includes 2 small cars for each of the three field CMV.
February 1975



ANNEx 14
Table 3
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SOUSS GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Operation and Maintenance Buildings
Additions to existing CMV Taroudant
Type                             Number                  Cost
DH
Houses                                5                   300,0
Offices                               2                   200,000
Workshop                              1                   200,000
Total Taroudant                                        700,000
Typical field CMV
Houses                                8                   500,000
Offices                               2                   100,000
Warehouse/garage                      1                   200,000
Electrification                       LS                   250,000
Water supply                          LS                  200,000
Road connection                       LS                  150,000
Totalone field CMV                                  1,400,000
February 1975



ANNEX 14
Table 4
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SOUSS GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Location                                           ORMVASM ORGANIZATION
Coordinating                     ORMVASM
Com                              Directorate
AGADIR                                          r
General               Agricltural               Engineering
Services              Operations                Services       l
Subregion
~~~~~~Taroudant
TECHNICAL SERVICE
TAROUDANT
Agriculture                 Engineering
1 Head of Agriculture
1 Extension Specialist     1 Head of Engineering
1 Assistant Veterinarian    1 Electrician
3 Specialists
I                           I
Training and               Central Workshop
Demonstration Farm
1 Director                     1 Electrician
1 Training Expert              2 Mechanics
1 Veterinarian                 2 Storekeepers
2 Research Assistants
CMV Rezagna                          CMV R'Baa el Oustani                         CMV Ait Yaza
1 Agriculturalist    1 Bookkeeper        1 Agriculturalist    1 Bookkeeper        1 Agriculturalist    1 Bookkeeper
FIELD         2 Agents             1 Electrician       2 Agents            1 Electrician        3 Agents             1 Electrician
1 Mechanic                             1 Mechanic                                1 Mechanic
World Bank-9524(R)
April 1975



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SOUSS GOUDTRPOJC
Recovery of Project Cost
Effect of an Increase in Electricity
Tariffs on Average Wat-r Charge at Foil Development
Electricity                      Type and Si.e                                       Proposed Water Charge (DH) /                                       Govvrr e           _         Water CharRe  n %. of                   Projections of per Capita
Tariff                           of Farm                         On Typical Basis                          On Volumetric Basis ('000 m 1             Sobsidy              Typical Farm income           Existing           _1_n  0.. .  .n992 ADH)-
Supple-          Total                          Supple-          Total                                          Incremental        rate of             Project            Nationa.l
Basic L         mentary /2   Water Charge          Basis         m-stary      Water Charge                         NVP /6          NVP /6         Dh29/'000 m3    Beneficiaries /7   Average
5 ha
Present rate                        Modern              2133             2697              4830             53             67              120              562             23              27                313                2450                2940
(0.128 Dh/kWh)
2 h.
Traditional            730              749             1479              38             39               77             56%              17              25                166                1185               2940
5 ha
Present rate increased              Modern              2V33             3542              5675             53             88               141             49%             27              31                386                2310                2940
2% annually for 17 years
through 1992                          2 ha
Traditional            730             1017             1747              38             53               91             49%              20              29               213                 1140               2940
5 ha
Present rate increased              Modern              2133             4750              6883             53            118              171              38%             33              38                493                2110                2940
4% a.n-ally for 17 years
through 1992                          2 ha
Traditional            730             1344             2074              38             70              108             38%             23               35               272                1085                2940
Lj  Batsi  water charge would cover the full cost of operation and maintenance.  In addition, it would recover 407 of the direct capital investment and replacement of the project facilities
(after deduction of potential revenues from land betterment levies), at 0% interest rate.
/2  Supplementary water charge would cover the energy coat involved in water punping.
/3  Under each level of electricity tariff, the proposed water charge is the  mimum rate of recovery allowed under the Agricuitoral Investsent Code of 1969.
/4 Water consumption per ha under the project has been estimated at 8,050 m3 in the modern sector and 9,600 m3 in the traditional sector.
/5  Both project costs and revenues have been discounted at a rate of 10% and government subsidy in expressed an a % of total cost.
/6  Net value of production, which is calculated from Table I and 2, Annex 17 as follows:  Net Val.e of production  - Gross Value of productSon - Varaible Cost of prodoctio.n
/7  Non-agricultural income, if any, has been excluded from calculation of per  sapita income in the project area.  Si. persons per family have been assuned.
April 1975



ANNEX 15
Table
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
30USS GROINDWATER PROJECT
Cash Flow of Cost Recovery
Project           Calendar            Direct Project       Direct Project
Year              Year                    Cost              Revenue
-'----D    (000)-
1                 1975                  3,563                  0
2                1976                 14,435                  762
3                1977                  29,279               1,215
4                1978                  26,470               2,430
5                1979                   3,718               3,645
6                1980                   4,049              4,860
7                1981                   4,384               6,075
8                1982                   4,719              6,075
9                1983                   4,719               6,075
10                1984                   5,055              6,075
11                1985                   4,719               6,075
12                 1986                  4,719               6,075
13                1987                  4,719               6,075
14                1988                   4,719               6,075
15                1989                  22,796               6,075
16                1990                   4,719               6,075
17-19             1991-93                4,719              6,075
20                1994                   5,055              6,075
21-24             1995-98                4,719              6,075
25                1999                 39,362               6,075
26-29             2000-2003              4,719              6,075
30                2004                   5,055               6,075
31-34              2005-08               4,719               6,075
35                 2009                 28,829               6,075
36-39             2010-13                4,719              6,075
40                2014                   5,055              6,G75
Present Value Discounted at 10%        103,852              45,276
% of Cost Recovery                       44%
% of Government Subsidy                  56%
April 1975



ANNEX 16
Page 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SOUSS GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.        The economic rate of return of the project, costing family labor
at DH 7 per day and hired labor at the market rate of DH 9 per day, would
be 11%. A breakdown of investment costs including operation, maintenance
and replacement costs but excluding the village infrastructure component,
over the project life time of 40 years (1975-2014) is presented in Table 1.
This table also shows the incremental net benefits and net cash flows. For
economic analysis, tradeable commodities have been priced at international
prices as derived from commodity forecasts by IBRD Economic Analysis and
Projections Department for 1985, in 1974 constant US dollars. Non-tradeable
commodities have been valued at farmgate prices (Table 2). Major assumptions
m.ade for calculating the initial rate of return include:
(a) Economic life for tubewells, electro-mechanical equipment
and mobile sprinkler equipment of 20, 10 and 10 years, respec-
tively, and for the buried pipe distribution system and other
major civil work structures of 40 years.
(b) Project investment costs, production inputs and project bene-
fits valued at current prices, net of taxes, subsidies and
price contingencies.
(c)  Electricity costs of DH 0.128 per KWh which corresponds to
present average tariffs for large consumers.
(d) Exclusion from investment costs of credit cost for annual
production since these are included in the cost of production.
(e) Estimation of the opportunity cost of the natural grazing areas
which would be replaced by crops under the project at one half
of the estimated net benefits of livestock without project.
(f) Full development period for fruit trees 12 years, annual crops
5 years and livestock 6 years.
(g) Treatment as sunk costs of the costs of drilling 10 existing
wells (US$0.24 million).
(h) Inclusion of the incremental working capital in the investment
cost during initial years and its salvage value to the benefits
in the final year of the project.



ANNEX 16
Page 2
2.        The results of the sensitivity tests are summarized below:
Assumptions                                          Economic Rate of Return
(a)  Basic run                                                 10.05%
(b)  Including sunk costs                                       9.95%
(c)  Including-village infrastructure                           8.95%
(d)  10% increase in net benefits                              11.25%
(e)  50% increase in electricity costs                          8.75%
(f)  10% increase in project costs                              8.85%
(g) Increasing electricity cost by 50%
and all other costs by 10%                               7.85%
(h)  Advancing project benefits by one year                    11.45%
3.        Foreign exchange savings are estimated at US$7.7 million annually.,
Including debt service of the Bank loaft, the net annual foreign exchange
savings from the project would be about US$5.8 million (Table 3).
April 1975



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SOUSS GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits
Incremental Cost
Capital /1  Operation and      Electricity                               Incremental   Incremental
Year       Investment     Maintenance /2       Cost       Replacement       Total      Benefits      Cash Flow
__---------------------------------------DHIOOO ------------------------------------------------------
1975        2,588               0               0              0            2,588          0         (2,588)
1976      14,435                0               0              0           14,435          0        (14,435)
1977       33,443               0             667              0           34,110          0        (34,110)
1978      31,104               .0           1,334              0           32,438         42        (32,396)
1979       1,000            1,381           2,001            336            4,718         59         (4,659)
1980                        1,381           2,668              0            4,049      3,878          (171)
1981                        1,381           3,003              0            4,384      7,688          3,304
1982            0           1,381          3,338               0            4,719     12,080          7,361
1983            0           1,381           3,338              0            4,719     15,588         10,869
1984            0           1,381           3,338            336            5,055     17,435         12,380
1985            0           1,381           3,338              0            4,719     18,107         13,388
1986            0           1,381           3,338              0            4,719     18,909         14,190
1987            0           1,381           3,338              0            4,719     19,652         14,933
1988            0           1,381           3,338              0            4,719     20,492         15,773
1989            0           1,381           3,338         18,077           22,796     21,490         (1,306)
1990            0           1,381           3,338              0            4,719     21,975         17,256
1991-93         0           1,381           3,338              0            4,719     22,101         17,382
1994            0           1,381           3,338            336            5,055     22,101         17,046
1995-98         0           1,381           3,338              0            4,719     22,101         17,382
1999            0           1,381           3,338         34,643           39,362     22,101        (17,261)
2000-03         0           1,381           3,338              0            4,719     22,101         17,382
2004            0           1,381           3,338            336            5,055     22,101         17,046
2005-08         0          1,381           3,338               0            4,719     22,101         17,382
2009            0           1,381           3,338         24,110           28,829     22,101         (6,728)
2010-13         0           1,381           3,338              0            4,719     22,101         17,382               ( 
2014            0           1,381           3,338            336            5,055     26,101         17,046                 a,
L1_ Excludes cost of schools, teachers' housing, rural electrification, roads, water supply, health and community centers.
Costs are net of taxes and price contingencies.
/2   Excluding electrivity cost.
April 1975



ANNEX 16
Table 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SOUSS GROUNDWATER PROJECT
r,ormodi+t.! Prices 7Jsed in Economic .nalysis and Financial Analysis
Economic   /1      Financial /-
Commodity                   Unit                 Price/Unit          Price/Unit
(ER)                (DE1)
Soft Wheat                  Ton                     700                  760
Maize                       Ton                     560                  600
Almonds                     Ton                  4,000                 li,000
Citrus                      Ton                    600                   600
Olives                     Ton                   1,428                 1,1123
Pulses                      Ton                  1,000                 1,000
Milk                        Ton                     800                  950
Mutton                      Ton (Liveweight)     5,000                 3,750
Beef                        Ton (Liveweight)     4,700                 3,500
Breeding Heifers           Head                  2,100                 °,700
/1 In 1974 Dirham
February 1975



ANNEX 16
Table 3
KING&DM OF MOROCCO
SOUSS GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Estimated Annual Foreign Exchange Savings at Full Development
Item                                                    US$ thousands
Incremental Foreign Exchange Benefits /1
Meat                                                       4,693
Wheat                                                      1,793
Maize                                                      1,4115
Milk                                                         533
Total                                               5,434
Incremental Foreign Exchange Cost /2
Farm Machinary                                              330
Fertilizers                                                 198
Chemicals                                                     98
Veterinary Supplies                                           73
Artificial Insemination Equipment                             23
Total                                                 722
Incremental Foreign Exchange Savings                      7,712
Debt Service /3                                           1,955
Net Foreign Exchange Savings                              5,757
/1 Incremental production for these import-substitute commodities has
been valued at CIF prices
2   Foreign exchange component of the production cost
/3   Annuity on IL%1&5million loan at 8.5 per cent per annum over
20 years.
April 1975



ANTNEX 16
Table 4
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SOUSS GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Economic Life and Maintenance
Assumed Economic    Maintenance as
Item                                     Life in Years    % of Investment
Tubewells                                       20                  /1
Asbestos cement pipes                           40                   1.
Pumping stations                                20                   2
Earth canals                                    10                   2
Roads                                           20                   3
Windbreaks                                      20                   3
Electro-mechanical equipment                    10                   1
Transmission lines and substations              30                   1.5
Buildings                                       40                   2
Workshop equipment                              20                    2
Vehicles                                         5                   8
/1  10,000 DH per well, once every 5 years.
February 1975



ANNEX 16
Table 5
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SOUSS GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Operation and Maintenance Charges
A. Modern area (6300 ha)                          DH'OOO per year
Salaries           .487
Vehicle operation                                   15
Maintenance                                        700
Pover /I                                          3031
Total operation and maintenance /2                4233
B. Traditional area (1COG ha)
Salaries                                            73
Vehicle operation                                    2
Mp.4ntenance                                       104
Power /3                                           347
Total operation and maintenance /2                526
C. Total project operation and maintenance
/1  Average power consumption 3757 KlAqh/he/year.
/2  Charges exclude cost of replacement at end of economic life.
/3 Average power consumption 2789 KWh/ha/year.
March 1975



ANNEX 17
Page 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SOUSS GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Farm Income and Budgets
1.        Two models of farm budgets have been prepared:  one for a typical
5 ha farm in the modern sector (Table 1) and the other for a typical 2 ha
farm in the traditional sector (Table 2). These two farm sizes are the most
representatives and would occupy about 85% of total project area. Net farm
income of a 5 ha farm, at full development, would increase by about 500% of
its future level without project. The income of a 2 ha farm is similarly es-
timated to increase by about 150%. The farm budgets are discussed below.
2.        The functional life of the first set of sprinkler equipment, is
estimated at 7 years. Replacement, as necessary, and maintenance of the on-
farm sprinkler equipment is estimated at DH 126 per ha per year, of which
DH 105 would be depreciation and the remainder for routine maintenance.
3.        Interest on working capital has been calculated under the current
credit regulations which require each borrower to contribute from his own re-
sources 30-70% towards total working capital. A typical farmer is assumed to
contribute from his own resources 50% of his working capital. Therefore,
interest has been computed at 6% for one year for 50% of estimated working
capital for each model and situation (with and without project).
4.        Hired labor is valued at DH 9, tax deductions are made on the basis
of the existing regulation is that the first DH 1,400 are exempted. A tax
of 8% is applied to the fiscal income within income bracket DH 1,401-6,000
and 12%, if the fiscal income is between DH 12,001-24,000.
5.        Crop yields and variable production costs for with and without proj-
ect situations is shown in Table 3. Table 4 gives the area under each crop,
gross value of production and net value of production with and without proj-
ect for a 5 ha farm. Similarly, Table 5 gives the same for a 2 ha farm.
March 1975



ANNEX 17
Table 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SOUSS GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Farm Budgets
Model 1: Future Income of a Typical Modern Farm (5 ha)
at FUll Development
Future
With Project       Without Project
------------- DH ------------------
Gross Value of Production
A. Crop Production
Wheat                             5,700                 _
Barley                              -                1,360
Almonds                           3,200                 _
Olives                            2,499                 -
Maize                             2,340                114
Citrus                            1,380                 80
Pulses                              900                _
Subtotal             iL,09               1,554
B. Livestock Production
Mutton                            8,175              1,000
Milk                              2,494                800
Beef                              2,000                800
1 heifer every 3 years              900
Subtotal             13,569              2,600
Total                29,588              4,154
Variable Cost of Production
Inputs                           6,480              1,545
Mechanical Operations             1,859                 85
Hired Labor                         270                 _
Interest on Working Capital        284                  50
Total                 8,893              1,680
Fixed Costs and Charges
Maintenance and Replacement
of Mobile Equipment              630                 -
Maintenance of Livestock
Buildings                         30                30
Water Charge                                           -
Total                                        30
Farm Income Before Tax             15,205               2,444
Tax on Farm Income                     499                _
Farm Income after tax              14,706               2,444
_------percent-------
Increase in Farm Income after tax              501
April 1975



ANNEX 17
Table 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SOUSS GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Farm Budgets
Model 2: Future Income of a Typical Traditional Farm (2 ha)
at Full Development
Future
'With Project        Without Project
---- ---- ----   ------------------
Gross Value of Production
A. Crop Production
Wheat                             2,584                912
Citrus                            2,738              1,440
Olives                            1,000                228
Pulses                              320                200
Maize                               240                 72
Subtotal              6,882              2,852
B. Livestock Production
Mutton                            6,540              1,200
Beef                                  0              1,000
Milk                                  0              1,500
Subtotal              6,540              3,700
Total                    13,422              6,552
Variable Cost of Production
Inputs                            3,665              3,400
Mechanical Operations               701                 59
Ihterest on Working Capital         139                104
Total-                       0
Fixed Costs and Charges
Mainteiance of Field Irrigation
Network                             100                100
Maintenance of Livestock Buildings   10                 15.
Water Charge                                             0 h
Total                     1-189                 1
Farm Income Before Tax               7,328               2,874
Tax on Farm Income                     209                 -
Farm Income after tax                7,119               2,874
---------percent---------
Increase in Farm Income after tax              148
April 1975



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SOUSS GROUNDWATE. PROJECT
Crop Yields and Production Costs Wiith and Without Project
Variable Production Cost DH/ha
Yield (ton/ha)             Inputs         Mechanical Operations        Hired Labor                Total
With     Without       With      Without       With      Without       With      Without       With    Without
Project                Pro,iect                Project                 Project                Project
Almonds             20           20          763          -          )f80         -         36          -          1,279
Olives              30            0.8        481         70          300        60          36           -            817      130
Citrus              23           12.0        903        )!°-         eon       330          45          -          1,768       75'
Barley               -            0.8         -        131            -        120           _     -                   -       251
Wheat                3.0          1.2        280       151           255       180          18          -             553      331
Pulses               1.8          1.0        309       199          215        180          45          -            569       379
Maize Grain          IL.2         1.2        317       109          180        160          18          -            515       269
Alfalfa             70.0         60.0       170        106          110        110          51          -            334       216
Berseem             35.0          -         185         -           160         -           18          -            363        -
January 1975



ANN X 17
Table 4
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SOUSS GROUNDWATER PROJECT
5}HA Farm Budget
Area   Yield  Production    GPV  Production Costs  NPV
ha    t/ha         t         DH       DH/ha    DR      DH
1. Without Project
1.  Crops:  Olives         0.1     0.8        0.08        114       130       13
Barley        2.8      0.8       2.24      1,360       251      702
Pulses        0.1      0.8       0.08         80        371      38
TOTAL         3.0                          1.554                753   801
2.  Livestock:  Mutton                        0.27 /1  1,000
Milk                         0.84       60o
Beef                         0.29 /1  1,000
SUB-TOTAL                                      2y6oo                877  1923
TOTAL                                          4,154              1,630  2524
2. With Project
1.  Crops:  Clives         0.5    3.5         1.75    2,499         820      410
Wheat         2.5    3.0         7.5      5,700        553   1,358
Maize         2.0    4.2         8.4 /2  2,340         515   1,030
Pulses        0.5    1.8         0.9        900        569      284
Alfalfa       0.5   70.0        35.0 /3      -          334     167
Berseem       0.6   35.0        17.5 73      -         363      181
Citrus        0.1   23.0         2.3      1,380        820      178
Almonds       0.4    2.0         0.8      3,200       1,299     520
SUB-TOTAL         7.0                         16,019             4h128   11,891
2.  Livestock:  Mutton                                  8,175              3,450    4,725
Milk                                   2j,.494
Beef                                   2,000
Heifers                                  900              1,031
SUB-TOTAL                                     13,569              4,481    9,088
TOTAL                                         29,588              8,609   20,979
/1  Liveweight basis
7   4.5 tons are fed to livestock and renainder is directly sold for In  2340
7:  Entire production is fed to livestock
March 1975



ANNEX 17
Table 5
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SOUSS GROUNDWA.TER PROJECT
2Ha Farm Buidget
Area   Yield  Production   GPV    Production Costs  NPV
ha    t/ha        t         DH       DHAa    DH       DH
1.  Without Project
1.  Crops:  Wheat         1.0      1.2         1.2      912        331     331
Maize         0.1      1.2         0.12      72       269       27
Pulses        0.2     1.0          0.2      200       379       76
Alfalfa       0.2    60.0         12.0      -  /1     216       43
Olives        0.2     0.8          0.16     228       130       26
Citrus        0.2    11.0          2.4    1,440       752      151
SUB-TOTAL         1.9                         2,852                654   2,198
2.  Livestock:  tutton                         0.32/1 1,200
Milk                          1.05   1,000
Beef                          0.43/1 1,5°0
SUB-TOTAL                                     3,700              2,805     895
TOTA,L                                        6,552              3,459   3,093
2. With Project
1.  Crops:  Wheat          1.2     3.0         3.6    2,584        553     663
Maize         0.6     3.5          2.1 /2   240       515      309
Pulses        0.2      1.6         0.32     320       569      114
Alfalfa       0.2    65.0         13.0/3   -          334       67
Clives        0.2     3.5          0.7    1,000       820      164
Citrus        0.2    23.0          4.6    2,738     1,768      352
SUB-TOTAL         2.6                         6,882              1,669   5,213
2.  Livestock:  Mutton                      1,474     6,,540             2,697   3,843
TOTAL                                        13,422              4,366   9,o56
/1  Liveweight basis
7T 1.7 tons are fed to livestock and remainder is directly sold for DH 240
71  Entire production is fed to livestock
March 1975



IBRD 11381
TO MARRAKECH                                                                                                  JANUARY 1975
ATLAS  MOUNTAINSAI
A T L A S    M O U N T A I N S                                                                                                                'PO  S
32~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
OULED ABDELLAH  ,/S                                                        ..---    =        AOf'ULOUZ             KINGDOM  OF MOROCCO
^r -'JVRA?' IDA OU GARLAL ,/ J oBYetl;7 ./ ,_//,r{;'v, {                                                              SOUSS GROUNDWATER PROJECT
\ TAMALOUKs:T               /                                                       IL_ /  tRHI,
Rehabilitated Traditional Areas
, AyiV)tl_A                                                                                       lrr gation Development Areas
, - /Ye e ;- 5b 9 s ... -- \ DA VU ltAi. = ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dry Streams
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                              t~~~~~~~~~~)  91i K/c                                                       Wash Deposits
AITYAZA                          -                                               L-B- PrIEZY OA                                  | 5501   Paved Main Roads and Route Numbers
_O , - L O    Paved Secondary Roads
OULED BCURInl,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~Bridgevs
N J                 --------  Gravel Roads
Urban Agglomerations
IONU EL                                   -  /                                                                                                                                      0       Villages
/ K>                                 t' \ ANTI A TLAS  MOUNTAINS                                                                      C500-- Contours in Meters
R'BAA  EL OUSTAN!
0       4        8   | 2         16       20
KILOMETERS
TO MAARRAKECH
S   I   .                                                                                             F-                    4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h  h
/  P     A   I d N   hAs,
IDA  GAILAL ~  ~         ~        ~            1te0  GA 
TO MARRAKECH                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 155  om0  3m0  40 
KiLOM ETERS
AGADIR               BOSHA   )i7016    TAROUDANT                                 ~4                                                                               -                     AA
BOUSHAUBONE/                                                                                                            -         .
ANTELMEIOU    ATA              ONTISCneps,d
ULED TEMA ~ ~     ~       ~       ~      KLOETRSK
A OUAR-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                   C,~AHR



