CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1123 MOR
Loan Agreement
(Souss Groundwater Project)
BETWEEN
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JUNE 11, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1123 MOR
Loan Agreement
(Souss Groundwater Project)
BETWEEN
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JUNE 11, 1975


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                   ,1975, between    KINGDOM    OF
MOROCCO (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "ORMVASM" means Of..ce Regional de Mise en Valeur Agricole du
Souss-Massa, established by D6cret No. 2-70-157 of the Borrower, dated October 8,
1970.
(b) "ONE" means Office National de l'Electricit', a public authority
established Dahir No. 1-63-226 of the Borrower dated August 5, 1963.
(c)   "Irrigation Perimeters" means the twelve irrigation perimeters, having
an aggregate net area of about 7,300 ha, located in the Upper Souss Valley, which
are to be rehabilitated or developed under the Project, and known as Tazemmourt
(800 ha), El Mhazem (950 ha), R'Baa el Oustani (760 ha), Ida ou Kais (400 ha),
Ait Igges (270 ha), Ait Ouarab (800 ha), Ouled Bourious (680 ha), Ouled Abdellah
(680 ha) and Rezagna (950 ha) in the modern sector, and Ait Ouarab (320 ha),
Rezagna (460 ha) and Tassoukt (190 ha) in the traditional sector.
(d)   "Project Area" means the Irrigation Perimeters and such surrounding
land as is needed to construct the roads, villages and other facilities required for
the Project.


﻿4
ARTICLE H
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to eighteen million five hundred thousand dollars
($18,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the goods, works
and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1980 or such later date
as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such
later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight and one-half
per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.


﻿5
ARTICLE HI
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project, or cause the
Project to be carried out, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate agricultural engineering, financial and administrative practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraph
(a) hereof, the Borrower shall cause ONE to complete the main transmission lines
necessary for Part F of the Project in time to supply power to the Project Area
as and when required.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall consult engineering consultants on such
technical matters as set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement as such Schedule
may be amended from time to time. The qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment of the said consultants shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause ORMVASM to: (i) establish the
sub-regional office of ORMVASM at Taroudant, responsible for the implementation
of the Project to the management of ORMVASM and provide it with agricultural
development and engineering services needed for the execution of the Project; and
(ii) ensure that the post of head of the said sub-regional office is filled at all
times by a person with such qualifications and experience as are required for the
successful implementation of the Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall establish and maintain a Project
Coordinating Committee, with composition, powers and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank; such Committee shall meet not less than once every three
months.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause each farmer moving to the new villages
in the Project Area to be provided with a building lot inside such village.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.


﻿6
(b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly upon
their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c)   For the purpose of paragraph (b) of this Section, the Borrower shall
cause ORMVASM to keep separate accounts in respect of the Project. Such accounts
shall identify separately the investment costs of the irrigation works constructed
under the Project. Reports of the audit of such accounts shall be furnished to
the Bank within four months of the close of each fiscal year.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making loans to, or with
the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in normal circumstances, special security
from the member concerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member. To that end,
if any lien shall be created on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security
for any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit
of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect;


﻿7
provided, however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason such
provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no
cost to she Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the
Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)   The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any lien created on
property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the
purchase price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c)   As used in this Section, the term  "public assets" means assets of the
Borrower, of any political or administrative subdivision thereof and of any entity
owned or controlled by, or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower
or any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or exchange stabilization
fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall continue to monitor in the Division
des Ressources en Eau of its Ministry of Public Works and Communications, surface
water flows and groundwater levels in the Upper Souss Valley and shall furnish
appropriate yearly analysis of the results of such monitoring to ORMVASM.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause an inventory of surface water derivation and
groundwater extraction in the Upper Souss Valley to be carried out before start
of irrigation of the Irrigation Perimeters.
(c)   Until such time as the inventory referred to in paragraph (b) of this
section has been carried out, the Borrower shall limit the issuance of pumping
permits in the Upper Souss Valley to a cumulative maximum of ten million cubic
meters per year.
(d)   The Borrower shall ensure that in issuing any new pumping permits
in the Upper Souss Valley, ORMVASM gives priority to farmers undertaking
rehabilitation of existing traditional irrigation systems.


﻿8
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause ORMVASM to: (i) employ such
extension staff as shall be required in the Project Area not later than December 31,
1977 or such other date as the Borrower and the Bank shall agree; (ii) train such
extension staff in accordance with a program acceptable to the Borrower and the
Bank and furnish to the Bank not later than December 31, 1977 or such other
date as the Borrower and the Bank shall agree; (iii) prepare an extension and training
program for the farmers in the Project Area; and (iv) furnish such extension and
training program to the Bank for its comments not later than October 31, 1978,
or such other date as the Borrower and the Bank shall agree.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause ORMVASM to ensure that a manager
is made available to each cooperative formed in the Project Area by article 3 of
Dahir No. 1-72-277 of December 29, 1972 until such time as the cooperators are
capable of managing their cooperative.
Section 4.06. (a) The Borrower shall, through its Ministry of Primary and
Secondary Education, provide the staff and equipment required to operate and
maintain the schools included in the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall, through its Ministry of Public Health, provide the
staff and equipment required to operate and maintain the health center and
dispensary included in the Project.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall cause the Caisse Re'gionale de Crdit
Agricole at Agadir and the Caisse Locale de Credit Agricole at Taroudant to be
provided with the funds needed to serve the credit needs of the Project Area.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall ensure that in the event that as a result
of the implementation of the Project owners of water rights do not receive their
usual supply, such owners receive water from new wells constructed by the
Borrower, on which they may be charged a pumping fee.
Section 4.09. (a) The Borrower shall levy and collect from the start of
irrigation of the Irrigation Perimeters, and thereafter review at its own initiative
or at the request of the Bank, the water charge (redevance pour usage de l'eau
d'irrigation) and the supplementary pumping charge (redevance supplementaire pour
frais de pompage) referred in to Dahir No.1-69-25 dated July 25, 1969 formant
code des investissements agricoles and in Deicret No. 2-69-37 dated July 25, 1969
relatif aux conditions de distribution et d'utilisation de l'eau dans les perimJtres
d'irrigation, in order to recover from such charges and from the betterment levy
(participation directe d la mise en valeur des terres irriguees) referred to in the
said Dahir, all actual operating and maintenance costs of the Project and a


﻿9
reasonable portion of the actual capital cost, taking into account the beneficiaries'
incentives and capacity to pay.
(b)   The Borrower shall take such steps as shall be necessary to ensure
that: (i) the beneficiaries of the Project be promptly billed and notified for all
such water charges and levies; (ii) that all such bills shall be collected within a
reasonable time; and (iii) separate accounts be maintained reflecting such revenues
as well as the costs of operation and maintenance of the irrigation system.
Section 4.10. The Borrower shall ensure that adequate animal slaughtering
and milk processing facilities are established at such time as shall be necessary
to process the meat and milk to be produced in the Project Area.
Section 4.11. (a) The Borrower shall cause ORMVASM at all times to manage
its affairs, maintain its financial position and carry out its operations in accordance
with sound agricultural development, business and financial practices, under the
supervision of experienced and competent management and with the assistance of
adequate qualified and experienced staff.
(b)   The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain, or cause to be
operated and maintained the plants, machinery, equipment and other property
required for the Project, and shall make or cause to be made all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, in accordance with sound engineering and economic practices.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a)   Dahir No. 1-69-25 of July 25, 1969 of the Borrower, "formant Code
des Investissements Agricoles," the Lois particulieres or Dicrets d'application
promulgated in connection therewith or any provision thereof, shall have been
materially amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect the
Project adversely.
(b)   The laws of the Borrower establishing ORMVASM and defining the
scope of its powers and activities (including the D&ret Royal No. 2-70-157 of
October 8, 1970 and the Dcrets d'Application promulgated in connection
therewith) shall have been materially amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect the Project adversely.


﻿10
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof,
namely, any event specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c)
of the General Conditions: (a) that the Project Coordinating Committee referred
to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement has been established in accordance with the
provisions of the said Section; and (b) that the post of sub-regional head and heads
of agricultural development and of engineering at Taroudant have been established
in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.03 (i) of this Agreement, that such
posts have been filled, the post of head of the sub-regional office to be filled
in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.03(ii) of this Agreement, and that
the persons selected have taken up their duties.
Section 6,02. The date September 11, 1975, is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist6re des Finances
Rabat, Morocco
Cable address:
MINISTERE DES FINANCES
Rabat, Morocco


﻿11
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
By /s/ Abdelhadi Boutaleb
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ M. P. Bart
Acting Vice President
EMENA Region


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works
(a)  under Part F              1,200,000         60%
of the Project
(b)  under Part I              2,000,000         44%
of the Project
(c)  under the other           5,600,000         44%
Parts of the
Project
(2)  Equipment                      7,000,000          100% of foreign
expenditures or
70% of local
expenditures
(3)  Consultants'                     200,000          100% of foreign
serices                                          expenditures
(4)  Unallocated                    2,500,000
TOTAL        18,500,000


﻿13
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed on account
of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods
or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or the disbursement
percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the Bank has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) with respect to Category (1), if
such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.
6.    If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procurement of any
item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project, which is designed to provide irrigation for the production of
forage, cereals and fruit in parts of the Souss Valley, consists of the following
parts:
A.    The consolidation, distribution and preparation of land in the Project Area
all as required for the timely implementation of the other Parts of the Project.
B.    The construction of 49 tubewells with electric pumps and related metering,
pressure and other regulating equipment and the installation of pumps and
equipment for 24 wells.
C.    The provision of buried pipe water distribution systems including hydrants,
valves and related equipment, and mobile sprinkler equipment to serve about
6,300 ha.
D.    The rehabilitation of an existing gravity distribution system to serve about
1,000 ha.
E.    The construction of about 36 km of open drains to intercept surface runoff
from areas adjacent to the Project Area and to remove excess water from
the Irrigation Perimeters.
F.    The installation of about 80 km of 22 kV power transmission lines for the
abovementioned pumps and of the necessary transforming and related
equipment.
G.    General land preparation, including clearing, levelling, soil-treaking, roads and
wind-breaks.
H.    The construction and equipping of:
(i)         Project headquarters at Taroudant;
(ii)        offices, stores and staff housing for the Centres de Mise en Valeur
at Ait Yaza, Rezagna and R'baa el Oustani including agricultural
equipment;
(iii)       additional buildings for the Borrower's demonstration and
training center near Ait Yaza:


﻿15
(iv)         seven milk collection centers in the Project Area.
The construction of basic village infrastructure for about 11 new villages
and the rehabilitation of infrastructure for about 9 existing villages, including:
(i)          water supply at community taps;
(ii)        public lighting;
(iii)        one health center at Ouled Berrhil and two dispensaries;
(iv)         asphalt paved roads in the said villages;
(v)          five schools for about 600 students each, including teachers'
housing, to be located in five of the largest new villages; and
(vi)         a community center in each new village.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1979.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                (expressed in dollars)*
September 15, 1980                                      315,000
March 15, 1981                                          330,000
September 15, 1981                                      345,000
March 15, 1982                                          360,000
September 15, 1982                                      375,000
March 15, 1983                                          390,000
September 15, 1983                                      405,000
March 15, 1984                                          425,000
September 15, 1984                                      440,000
March 15, 1985                                          460,000
September 15, 1985                                      480,000
March 15, 1986                                          500,000
September 15, 1986                                      520,000
March 15, 1987                                          545,000
September 15, 1987                                      565,000
March 15, 1988                                          590,000
September 15, 1988                                      615,000
March 15, 1989                                          640,000
September 15, 1989                                      670,000
March 15, 1990                                          700,000
September 15, 1990                                      725,000
March 15, 1991                                          760,000
September 15, 1991                                      790,000
March 15, 1992                                          825,000
September 15, 1992                                      860,000
March 15, 1993                                          895,000
September 15, 1993                                      935,000
March 15, 1994                                          975,000
September 15, 1994                                     1,015,000
March 15, 1995                                         1,050,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿17
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                 Premium
Not More than three years                            1-1/4%
before maturity
More than three years but                            2-1/2%
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but not                          4-1/2%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but                           6-3/4%
not more than sixteen
years before maturity
More than sixteen years but                          7-1/2%
not more than eighteen
years before maturity
More than eighteen years                             8-1/2%
before maturity


﻿18
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Except as provided in Part A.3 hereof, contracts shall be let under procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.    Tender documents for civil works and equipment for the irrigation network
shall be grouped as follows: (i) tubewells; (ii) one transformer and power connecting
lines; (iii) irrigation distribution system and associated works; (iv) access roads,
irrigation,  drainage  and  protection  channels  and   land  preparation; (v)
electro-mechanical equipment; (vi) mobile sprinkler equipment and hydrants; and
(vii) agricultural equipment.
3.    (a)   Contracts for the construction of wind-breaks, village infrastructure
and project buildings shall be let to Moroccan firms on the basis of the Borrower's
local procurement procedures.
(b)   Contracts for equipment estimated to cost less than the equivalent
of $40,000 shall be let in accordance with the Borrower's procedures for such
equipment, provided that the amount of such contracts does not exceed in the
aggregate $250,000 equivalent.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Morocco may be granted a margin of preference
in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿19
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Morocco if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Morocco equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Morocco.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid
from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:


﻿20
With respect to all contracts for civil works relating to the irrigation network,
and all contracts for equipment and vehicles estimated to cost the equivalent of
$40,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before
it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder
to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the intended award
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendation for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Bank's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked or
prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Bank
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract.
3.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect
of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis
of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿21
SCHEDULE 5
Consultants
Type of Consultant                 Duration of Services      Starting Date
Hydraulic Engineer                12 months                  July 1, 1975
Electrical Engineer               12 months                  July 1, 1975
Other Specialists                  6 months                   as required
Technical matters to be referred to
consultants
(a)   Final design of electromechanical equipment including automatic regulation;
(b)   Specifications of tender documents for above equipment;
(c)   Start-up of pumping stations and irrigation network; and
(d)   Maintenance program.


