Report No. PID5931
Project Name                     Yemen, Republic Of-Basic Education Expansion (@+)
Project
Region                           Middle East and North Africa Region
Sector                           Other Education
Project ID                       YEPE43255
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF YEMEN
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Ministry of Education, Sana'a,
Republic of Yemen
Contact Person: H.E. Dr. Yahya
Mohammed Al-Shuaibi, Minister of Education
Tel: (967) 1- 274-548
Fax: (967) 1- 274-555
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                May 26, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         June 17, 2000
Projected Board Date             October 5, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
While Yemen's education system has expanded rapidly over the last 10
years, adult literacy still is a low 44w, and the school-age population
will continue to grow rapidly for the next 20 years. The main issues in
the education sector are: a) low participation rates and large disparities
in access, with girls and rural areas at a disadvantage; b) poor quality
of education at all levels; and c) a weak government capacity which
results in d) inefficient resource use. The Government of Yemen spends a
high 8t of GDP on education and needs to accommodate any expansion of the
system within this resource envelope to ensure financial sustainability.
MOE is responsible for basic education (nine years) and secondary
education (three years); higher education is overseen by a Council which
leaves a lot of independence for each institution. While the government
gives priority to basic education in its strategy, there has been pressure
to expand higher education as well, and the result has been a gradual
erosion of the budget share going to basic education. The Government, with
assistance from the Bank, is addressing these overall strategy and
resource issues, in part through a study on higher education
rationalization. The Government and the Bank have agreed on a sector
strategy, reflected in the Yemen Education Sector Assistance Strategy Note
(September 1999), which gives highest priority to basic education.
2. Objectives
The project supports Yemen's education sector strategy which gives highest
priority to providing all children with basic education of adequate
quality as a direct way of addressing poverty. Among the 12 Priority IDA
Countries with severe gender gaps in education, Yemen has the largest gap:
a 40t disparity between girls' and boys' enrollment in basic education.



Government strategy focuses on increasing access especially for girls in
underserved rural areas. The project aims at addressing the most
fundamental education needs, taking account of the limited implementation
capacity in the country; it focuses on the first six years of basic
education in the four Governorates where enrollments of girls are lowest.
The development objective of BEEP, therefore, is to increase the
enrollment of rural children, especially girls, in basic education of
grades 1-6 of adequate quality.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
IDA's substantial experience in the education sector of Yemen and other
countries has allowed it to: (a) tap international and local experience
in designing and implementing programs to improve access to and the
quality of basic education, particularly for girls and underserved groups;
(b) help ensure that system restructuring and reforms draw on
international best practices and experience and adapt these to local
conditions; (c) draw on the experience of other sectors and agencies
regarding community/NGO-government partnerships; (d) provide analytical
support to help the Government assess the cost-effectiveness of measures;
(e) assist with linkages to the macro-fiscal framework and sustainability
of the expenditure program for basic education; and (f) strengthen
coordination among donors in terms of their assistance for basic
education.
4. Description
The project objective is expected to be achieved by the following three
outputs: (i) an increased number of classrooms available in remote rural
areas so that children, especially girls, may enroll and complete the
first six years of basic education; (ii) improved quality of the resources
(including teachers) available at schools, which would contribute to
enrollment and retention of students, especially girls, in basic
education; and (iii) strengthened management capacity of education,
including community participation, which would improve the efficiency and
sustainability of programs that seek to improve access to and quality of
basic education. The components of the project are: 1. Expansion of access
through: (a) school construction, extension, and rehabilitation and (b)
school maintenance program;
2. Quality improvement through: (a) improving teacher skills and
deployment and (b) supplying furniture and teaching/learning materials to
schools; and
3. Capacity building for: (a) community participation, (b) statistics and
monitoring, and (c) project management.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT               10
IDA                      50
Total Project Cost       60
6. Implementation
The project will be implemented over a five-year period: from January 2001
to December 2005. The project will be implemented by the Ministry of
Education under the leadership of H.E. the Minister of Education who would
be responsible for overall orientation, and through the operational
structure of the MOE. Each sector and department in the MOE is
-2 -



responsible for implementation and monitoring of the activities that fall
under its responsibilities. Whenever competence or experience is lacking,
technical assistance would be made available to assist the responsible
units build up their capacity. The project will help implementing the
gradual devolution of responsibilities to the Governorate and District
levels. In summary, the responsibilities for project implementation would
be shared as follows:Central level: Orientation, strategy, policy-making,
program design, monitoring and evaluation. Implementation and supervision
of centralized project activities.Governorate level: Implementation and
supervision of decentralized project activities. District level: Assist
the Governorate to follow up on implementation and supervision of
activities taking place at the district level, and working closely with
the communities.Community level: MOE staff from the Governorate and
District levels will work with the communities regarding school location,
construction and oversight.
7. Sustainability
The project addresses the following key elements for the institutional
sustainability for improving access to and the quality of basic education:
ownership of the program by MOE staff at all levels; strengthening
implementation capacity within MOE; and the participation of communities
in the construction and management of their schools. The project also
supports implementation of measures and communities' support which could
absorb the recurrent expenditure implications of an expanded basic
education system.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The following lessons were drawn from country and international experience
(especially through IDA projects): a) the project design needs to be
consistent with priorities in IDA's country assistance strategy and sector
assistance strategy; (b) adequate facilities, such as toilets and boundary
walls, are needed for increasing enrollment of girls; (c) community
participation increases the efficiency and effectiveness of education
programs; (d) project design should be kept simple while management
capacity in the sector is being strengthened; (e) involvement of key
stakeholders in project preparation and implementation improves project
design and increases support for education.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  No significant environmental risks are foreseen.
The project includes the construction or extension of rural primary
schools, which may entail only marginal environmental impacts. The schools
will be small, comprised of only three or six classrooms, and they will
not contain laboratories. School sites will be chosen on the basis of
agreed selection criteria which also ensure appropriate mitigation of
environmental impacts. No land purchase will be required, as land will be
provided by local communities or the Government. Schools will have toilet
facilities, which are crucial to retaining female students. Given the
scarcity of water in Yemen, dry toilets are being proposed based on
existing standardized designs.
11. Contact Point:
-3-



Task Manager
Regina Bendokat
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-458-2352
Fax: 202-477-0036
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending June 2, 2000.
- 4 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the
borrower prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report
is required, once it is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in
accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental Assessment, it will be
filed as an annex to the Public Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an
EA annex; the findings and recommendations of the EA will be
reflected in the body of the PID.



