Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20898-YEM
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 42.4 MILLION (US$56 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR A
BASIC EDUCATION EXPANSION PROJECT
September 8, 2000
Human Development Group
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 01/21/2000)
Currency UJnit = Yemeni Rial (YER)
YER I = US$0.00617
US$1 = YER 162
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL     Adaptable Program Lending               LACI       Loan Administration Change Initiative
BEP     Basic Education Project                IDA         International Development Association
BEEP   Basic Education Expansion Project        ITTI       In-Service Teacher Training Institute
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy              MNSHD    Human Development Group, Middle East and North
Africa Region
CAU    Credit Administration Unit               MOCSAR  Ministry of Civil Service and Administration Reform
CIT     Central Implementation Team             MOE        Ministry of Education
CPU     Community Participation Unit            MOF        Ministry of Finance
CSO     Central Statistical Office              MOPD       Ministry of Planning and Development
CU      Coordination Unit                       NCB        National Competitive Bidding
DEO    District Education Office                NER        Net Enrollment Rate
ESAS   Education Sector Assistance Strategy     O&M        Operations and Maintenance
ESIP    Education Sector Investment Project     PER        Public Expenditure Review
EMIS   Education Management Information System  PMR        Project Management Report
EMP    Environmental Management Plan            PPF        Project Preparation Facility
FMIS   Financial Management Information System   PSMAC    Public Sector Management Adjustment Credit
FMPM   Financial Management Procedures Manual  PWP         Public Works Project
FOE     Faculty of Education                    RFP        Request for Proposal
GER    Gross Enrollment Rate                    SFD        Social Fund for Development
GIT     Govemorate Implementation Team          SGEOPS   Sana'a Govemorate's Education Office Projects Sector
GOY    Government of Yemen
Vice President:   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:   Inder Sud
Sector Manager/Director:    Marlaine Lockheed/Jacques Baudouy
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Regina Bendokat



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
BASIC EDUCATION EXPANSION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  7
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       9
3. Benefits and target population                                                     10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      10
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          15
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         18
3. Lessons leamed and reflected in proposed project design                            18
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   19
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        20
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           20
2. Financial                                                                          21
3. Technical                                                                          21
4. Institutional                                                                      21
5. Environmental                                                                      23
6. Social                                                                             24
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 26
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     26
2. Critical risks                                                                     27
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     28



G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            28
2. Other                                                                               28
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          28
I. Compliancewith Bank Policies                                                          29
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          30
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    33
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         40
Annex 4: Economic Analysis                                                               41
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                                50
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       51
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     62
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   63
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  65
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            66
Annex 11: Letter of Basic Education Policies                                             68
MAP(S)



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
BASIC EDUCATION EXPANSION PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Region
MNSHD
Date: September 8, 2000                           Team Leader: Regina Maria Bendokat
Country Manager/Director: Inder K. Sud            Sector Manager/Director: Marlaine Lockheed hacques F.
Baudouy
Project ID: P043255                               Sector(s): EP - Primary Education
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Education; Gender And Development; Poverty
Reduction; Public Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
O Loan          1 Credit        O Grant         [ Guarantee    Ol Other (Specify)
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): SDR 42.4 million (US$56.0 million equivalent)
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                               Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: Standard                               Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan:    Source                                    Local         Foreign         Total
GOVERNMENT                                                      4.80           0.00           4.80
IDA                                                            29.50          26.50          56.00
LOCAL COMMUNITIES                                               1.80           0.00           1.80
Total:                                                         36.10          26.50          62.60
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF YEMEN
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Address: Ministry of Education, Sana'a, Republic of Yemen
Contact Person: H.E. Dr. Yahya Mohammed Al-Shuaibi, Minister of Education
Tel: (967) 1- 274-548               Fax: (967) 1- 274-555               Email:
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
FY           2001        2002         2003 --    2004        -2005-       2006        2007
Annual     0.5           5.4          9.3        12.9        15.4        12.0         0.5
Cumulative     0.5          5.9         15.2        28.1        43.5         55.5       56.0
Project implementation period: 2001-2006
Expected effectiveness date: 01/01/2001  Expected closing date:  06/30/2006
OCQ P R.   , iCCO



A: Project Development Objective
1.    Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project supports Yemen's education sector strategy which gives highest priority to providing
all children with basic education of adequate quality as a direct way of addressing poverty. Among
the 12 Priority IDA Countries with severe gender gaps in education, Yemen has the largest gap: a
40% disparity between girls' and boys' enrollment in basic education. Government strategy focuses
on increasing access especially for girls in underserved rural areas. The project aims at addressing
the most fundamental education needs., taking into account the limited implementation capacity in
the country; it focuses on the first six years of basic education in the four Governorates where
enrollments of girls are lowest and for which a school mapping database has been developed. The
development objective of BEEP, therefore, is to increase the grade 1-6 enrollment of rural
children, especially girls, in basic education of adequate quality. This project would lay the
foundation of an education reform process on which future IDA operations would be built.
2.     Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key performance indicator will be the increase in the gross enrollment rate (GER) for girls in
grades 1-6, in the four Governorates covered by the project. At the district level, it is expected that
enrollments will increase by 30% overall with girls constituting the majority of the increase.
Yemen does not have the capability yet to assess learning achievements; increased enrollments and
project outputs (teachers trained, ava:ilability of teaching/learning materials) will be used as
proxies for better quality of education.
B: Strategic Context
1.    Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see
Annex 1)
Document number: IDA/R99-80, IFC/R99-65       Date of latest CAS discussion: May 25, 1999
The CAS recognizes the crucial role of education in Yemen's development strategy and in
reducing poverty. The project supports two of the four CAS objectives: (i) the creation of an early
stream of social benefits in education which directly address poverty and strengthen the capacity to
achieve a broader range of development objectives; and (ii) the creation of a modern public
administration. The CAS highlights the education of girls as an important factor in Yemen in
improving the status of women, reducing fertility, and increasing productivity in the long run. It
also stresses the need for efficient resource use in the education sector. The project aims at
implementing these CAS strategies through its focus on basic education, especially for girls in rural
areas, and through a range of capacity-building measures that strengthen MOE's resource
management.
2.     Main sector issues and Government strategy:
While Yemen's education system has expanded rapidly over the last 10 years, adult literacy is still
at a low 44%, and the school-age population will continue to grow rapidly for the next 20 years.
The main issues in the education sector are: (a) low participation rates and large disparities in
access, with girls and rural areas at a disadvantage; (b) poor quality of education at all levels; and
(c) a weak Government capacity which results in (d) inefficient resource use. The Government
spends a high 8% of GDP on education and needs to accommodate any expansion of the system
within this resource envelope to ensure financial sustainability. MOE is responsible for basic
education (nine years) and secondary education (three years); higher education is overseen by a
Council which leaves a lot of leeway for e ach institution. While the Government gives priority to
-2-



basic education in its strategy, there has been pressure to expand higher education as well, and the
result has been a gradual erosion of the budget share going to basic education. The Government,
with assistance from the Bank, is addressing these sectoral strategy and resource issues, in part
through a study on higher education rationalization.
The Government and the Bank have agreed on a sector strategy, reflected in the Yemen Education
Sector Assistance Strategy Note (September 1999), which gives highest priority to basic education.
Recent sector and project preparation work includes: a series of Public Education Expenditure
Reviews (PERs) and the UNICEF/World Bank Study of Children and Women in Yemen (1999).
Quantitative analysis in these studies is mostly based on: the Population Census of 1994; the
Comprehensive Education Surveys of 1997/98 and 1998/99; and the Demographic and Health
Survey of 1997. The description of sector issues and Government strategy below focuses on basic
education, where the needs and the poverty impact are greatest. The Government's Letter of Basic
Education Policies (Annex 11) summarizes the Government strategy and the actions that the
Government has taken or is committed to take to implement its strategy.
(a) Low and inequitable participation: Educational attainment in Yemen is among the lowest in
the world: only 17% of the population age 10 and above have completed 6 years of basic
education. Social indicators, such as high rates of fertility, maternal and child mortality, and
child malnutrition, reflect this low level of education. Participation in basic education remains
low, as only 50% of children age 6-14 are enrolled. The net enrollment rate (NER) is 80% in
urban areas (75% for girls and 84% for boys), but only 48% in rural areas, where 70% of the
population reside, with a large gender gap: 28% NER for girls and 67% for boys. Distance is a
key obstacle for parents in rural areas to send their daughters to school. Only 6% of basic
schools have toilets, another important factor in enrollment of girls. While MOE employs
enough teachers to provide one for every 40 children, a deficit of nearly 80,000 classrooms
keeps Yemen from achieving 100% _nrollment in basic education. Without reform, 3.7 million
children ages 6-15 would lack a place in school in 2020. The ongoing school construction
program is too small in scope and Government-funded construction has been too inefficient to
provide a viable solution to the shortage of classrooms.
Government strategy: The highest priority in the Government's education strategy is to
increase enrollment in basic education. To advance this objective, the Government first aims at
increasing the number of classrooms available in rural areas. To meet demand, it has
introduced the following policy measures to increase the efficiency of school construction and
to rationalize decisions on school locations: (a) using low-cost standardized designs for school
construction; (b) involving communities in school construction as a way to reduce costs and
retain students; (c) basing school location decisions on school mapping tools and on
consultations with the communities; and (d) providing additional allowances for teachers in
remote rural areas through the new Teacher Law of 1998. Second, MOE also has adopted
measures that aim at increasing girls' enrollment: (a) placing small schools closer to girls'
homes; (b) obtaining the community's commitment to enrolling girls as a prerequisite for
school construction; (c) changing the physical design of schools to include sanitary facilities
and boundary walls; (d) providing separate classrooms for girls in grades 7-9; (e) building
girls' secondary schools to encourage parents to keep their daughters in basic education; and (f)
providing more female teachers at the upper basic and secondary levels. To increase the
number of female teachers in rural areas, the Government is hiring female secondary school
graduates, reducing the entrance criteria for female secondary graduates to the Faculties of
Education (FOE), and piloting a scholarship program for rural females to enroll in the FOEs.
(b) Poor quality: Quality and outcomes of basic education remain poor, as evidenced by high
dropout and repetition rates. Dropout rates are higher for girls, and they start dropping out at
an earlier age. There is no nationwide mechanism for monitoring students' learning
-3-



achievements in grades 1-8, nor is there any means for controlling the quality of student
assessments in these grades. While curriculum reform is in progress for most subjects in
grades 1-6, as well as for some subjects in grades 7-12, the activities required for the
implementation of the new curriculum (e.g., in-service teacher training, setting of learning
standards, and teaching evaluation criteria) are not yet fully developed. Shortages and
maldistribution of teachers anc! learning resources contribute to poor quality. The
student:teacher ratio of 23:1 masks extreme shortages of teachers in rural areas (particularly
females), and of specialists in mathematics, science, and languages nationwide. Half of the
teachers have not completed secondary school; and teachers receive inadequate supervision and
support. Furthermore, schools experience shortages of instructional materials; a recent
Operations and Maintenance (O&M) study shows that only 30% of O&M requirements at the
school level are being met. Social and informal assessments show that parents in disadvantaged
areas have difficulties buying essential educational materials such as notebooks and pencils and
paying the YER 150 fees to the schools. Without basic educational materials, quality of
learning would be greatly reduced.
Government strategy: The Government is starting to more strongly align curriculum -
including textbooks and instructional materials, teacher training, and classroom instruction into
a coherent system to improve the quality of basic education. The central element of the
Government's strategy to improve quality for grades 1-6 is the introduction of new curricula
that promote interactive learning with improved textbooks and teaching skills; implementation
will start in September 2000. This requires substantial in-service teacher training. The
Government has begun to provide an initial one-week orientation to teachers in August 2000
and is preparing for continued in-service training as well as improved teacher supervision. The
Government also realizes that further investment in school facilities would not yield results
without appropriate provision of furniture, equipment, and O&M. The Government is
developing a strategy to improve O&M at the school level using the results of the
Comprehensive Education Surveys amd the above-mentioned O&M study.
(c) Weak governance: As in many sectors, capacity in the MOE is weak and there is little
outreach to its clients. MOE administration is centralized, cumbersome and characterized by
discretionary decision making and lack of capacity to enforce regulations. Severe shortcomings
exist in personnel management.
* MOE staffing. Since the early 1 990s, the civil service has been acting as the employer of
first resort and a central component of the Government's social safety net. The education
sector absorbed many of these hires, from among the rapidly-increasing number of
graduates from universities, teacher training institutes and secondary schools, and now
employs two-thirds of the civil servants. The result is an overstaffed MOE administration,
as evidenced by a high non-teacher:teacher ratio (2:5) and poorly qualified teachers, as
mentioned above. Implications for Government expenditure are a high share of the wage
bill which is squeezing out O&M expenditure. There is also an issue of low wages and
limited room for reflecting hardship postings in wage differentiation. While the number of
teachers for basic education is adequate, their deployment is inefficient and lacks incentive
and enforcement mechanisms. As a result, many remote areas have difficulties attracting
and keeping teachers assigned to them.
*  Community participation.  MOE's approach to providing basic education has not
involved communities to any significant extent in decisions on location, construction, and
management of schools. The result is schools without children, communities without
schools because of budget limitations, and poorly run schools with absentee teachers and
poor maintenance. MOE has not been adequately staffed to assist communities in
-4-



organizing their support for schools. In addition, school principals and teachers have not
been trained to involve communities in school programs.
Government strategy: The Government is aware that management capacity is crucial to
improving the performance of the education sector and that strengthening capacity will be a
long process. At the macro-level, several reform programs are underway to improve public
administration; they include a long-term civil service reform and the recent adoption of the
Decentralization Law. These reform efforts will also benefit the education sector and provide a
framework for the reform measures which the Government is implementing in the education
sector. These measures include:
* MOE staffing. The Govemment has embarked on a long-term civil service reform
program, described in the Strategic Framework for Civil Service Modernization which was
approved by the Cabinet in 1998. This program will allow MOE to remove ghost workers
from its payroll. MOE has initiated a study aimed at streamlining and decentralizing its
functions. Based on the study, MOE intends to redefine its structure, unit functions, and
job descriptions at the Central, Governorate, and District levels and to proceed with
associated redeployment and skill development of its staff. The Teacher Law of 1998
increases the pay for teachers in rural areas; it also provides MOE with a basis for
improving the effectiveness of the existing teaching corps by linking wage increases to
deployment and performance. MOE is moving towards vacancy-based hiring and
deployment, which would allow schools to get adequate staff on time. The Cabinet passed
a decree on redeployment of teachers on June 27, 2000 and created a committee which
consists of the Ministers of Education, Finance, and Civil Service and Administration
Reform to propose the criteria and mechanism for teacher redeployment. A workshop was
held in July 2000 to prepare a teacher redeployment plan. MOE is now finalizing the
deployment plan and monitoring mechanism, starting with Sana'a Governorate as a pilot
case in 2001.
*  Community participation. MOE has adopted an approach of involving communities
more actively in education programs. Building on recent project experiences, MOE is
establishing capacity at the Central and Governorate levels to increase community
participation, especially for school construction and management. MOE is also
acknowledging the important role of the district offices as a major link with communities,
and plans to enhance capacity at the district level. MOE has already established a
Community Participation Unit (CPU), consisting of four staff at the Central level, four in
Sana'a Governorate, and two in each of the other Governorates; the CPU is gender-
balanced to allow communication with both male and female members of communities.
MOE will also identify staff at the district level to work directly with the communities.
CPU staff are conceptualizing community participation approaches and will collaborate
with other MOE departments in implementing these approaches in all MOE projects.
Efforts have started in school construction programs where experience exists and will
gradually extend to school management. All CPU staff attended a community participation
workshop held by the World Bank's Sana'a Field Office in February 2000. The central
level and Sana'a Governorate staff, in addition to staff from the Projects Sector of MOE,
attended two additional workshops in May and June 2000.
(d) Expenditure management: Weak expenditure management, in the aggregate, is reflected in
the high share of GDP and budget expenditure allocated to education while Yemen's GER in
basic education is lower than that of comparable countries. In addition to the large wage bill,
shortcomings in the management of O&M, the investment program, and in subsector planning
and information contribute to the inefficiencies in expenditure for basic education.
-5-



*  O&M. MOE's budget for O&M (15% of recurrent education expenditure) includes large
allocations for centrally-administered items, in particular textbooks and scholarships, while
other services important for the quality of education, such as in-service training, teacher
supervision, teaching and learn.ing materials, and school maintenance, are neglected. There
are no clear policies for allocating the O&M budget to schools, and as a result, allocations
are very low and inequitable. The YER150 school fee collected per child is transferred to
budgets at the Governorate and National level.
*  Investment program. Poor location decisions, inefficient designs, a complex flow of
funds, and a lack of supervision have resulted in high costs for school construction. In
addition, poor coordination with other agencies, e.g., the Social Fund for Development
(SFD) and Public Works Project (PWP), regarding school location, design, and provision
of furniture and teachers has reduced the effectiveness of educational investments.
*  Programming, budgeting and information. Decision-makers at all levels within MOE
are hampered by a lack of easy and timely access to needed data. Coordination among
MOE departments is poor in providing information, with negative repercussions for
programming, implementation, and monitoring of MOE activities. This seriously affects
the formulation of the MOE budgets; furthermore, the accounting system is not
computerized and does not produce reports on actual expenditures in a timely manner.
Government strategy: The Government is aware that it needs to increase the efficiency of
education expenditure if the expansion and quality improvement envisaged for the basic
education subsector are to be financially sustainable. Improvements in overall budgeting and
expenditure management are under preparation at the Ministry of Finance and should also have
a positive effect on resource management in the education sector. Within the education sector,
the Government aims to ensure an adequate share for basic education by addressing issues of
growth in other subsectors, particularly higher education. Within basic education, several
measures are being prepared or implemented which aim at strengthening expenditure
programming based on needs.
*  O&M. MOE is preparing several measures to improve the structure and effectiveness of
O&M expenditures: It is undertalking a study which aims at rationalizing the scholarship
program. MOE is also preparing pilot programs to increase O&M allocations to schools
and changing the allocation mechanism for community contribution fees in order to
increase the share going directly to schools.
*  Investment program. In addition to increasing the effectiveness of school construction,
MOE is trying to streamline the flow of funds and supervision, thereby allowing effective
devolution of school construction programs to the Governorate level and reducing
construction periods; MOE is also improving coordination among construction projects to
improve school location decisions and coordination between the construction and operating
departnents of MOE. The Government is also exploring whether double shifting can be
increased to reduce the need for school construction.
*  Programming, budgeting and financial management. Over the last two years, MOE has
made initial attempts at prioritizi.ng its school construction program. It has invested in
extensive data gathering on schocls through school surveys and initiated school mapping.
These tools will now be applied gradually to the preparation and prioritization of school
construction programs. In order to increase the efficiency of its operations, MOE's
strategy includes improving its educational and financial information; work is underway to
introduce appropriate management information and financial management systems.
-6-



3.    Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
(a) Sector issues to be addressed by the project
The project will support the Government's strategy for basic education and specifically address the
low participation of rural girls in the first six years of basic education as the most important
sector issue. The first six grades have been selected because: (a) most girls drop out during these
grades; and (b) the Government's quality improvement program starts with curriculum reform for
grades 1-6. The project will address three issues related to the low participation of rural girls in
basic education: (i) the lack of classrooms in rural areas, which prevents girls from enrolling;
(ii) the poor quality of resources available at schools, which contributes to low enrollment and
high drop-out rates, especially among girls; and (iii) the weak capacity of edewation
management, which hampers the institutional and financial sustainability of programs that are
intended to improve access and quality.
(b) Strategic choices
(i) Lack of classrooms in rural areas
Apply new policies for school construction. The project will support the implementation
of the Government's new approach to school construction using tools which have been
introduced recently to promote rational decision-making: school mapping, standardized
low-cost design norms with features that are important in attracting girls, e.g., toilets and
boundary walls, and community involvement. These policy measures, especially low cost-
design norms and community participation in site selection, have been developed on the
basis of experiences from MOE, SDF, PWP, and other projects supported by donors.
These, however, represent significant changes in policies and also require behavioral
changes of MOE staff at several levels [see (iii)]. If successful, they would allow MOE to
significantly increase its school construction program over the medium term. The project
will also assist MOE to develop new approaches to O&M at the school level, to sustain the
investment made in classrooms.
(ii) Poor quality of resources available at schools
* Select inputs for impact. Since educational attainment and institutional capacity are low
in Yemen, a strategic choice was to focus on inputs which affect quality of education and
girls' retention. The project focuses on the inputs which are the weakest elements in the
current system: in-service teacher training and strengthened supervision, provision of
supplemental learning/teaching materials, and provision of furniture to new classrooms.
(iii) Weak capacity of education management
* Build capacity of MOE. The most important strategic choice for the project was to
support MOE's capacity building aimed at improving basic education and to have the
project implemented through MOE rather than a separate project management unit. MOE
staff has been involved in project preparation, is taking ownership of the project, and is
receiving training on project management. A second strategic choice on education
management was to devolve the implementation authority to the Governorate level, while
at the same time strengthening monitoring functions at the Central MOE level.
-7-



* Mobilize community support. Another strategic choice aiming at increasing
implementation capacity and ownership of the program was to have greater community
participation. This involves supporting MOE's new Community Participation Unit (CPU)
at the Central and Governorate level. The project will support MOE's new policy of
involving communities in school construction as a means to ensure commitment to
educating their daughters and to reducing the cost of it. Decisions regarding the location
of new schools will take into account a conmmunity's willingness to contribute towards the
construction cost through e.g., donation of land and construction materials. The formation
of fathers' or mothers' councils to participate in school oversight would be another element
of involving the community in its school. Stronger community participation also has a
positive impact on the demand for education. While experience in Yemen indicates that
demand for basic education for girls has increased over the last few years, sustaining the
commitment of keeping girls in schools will benefit from community involvement. Given
that community participation is an important but relatively new function for MOE, MOE is
considering options for external technical assistance. MOE is discussing with GTZ the
possibility of providing technical assistance and training to MOE staff to gain sufficient
experience.
* Gradual expansion of regional coverage. Considering the limited capacity of MOE, the
geographic focus of the project will be the four Governorates in which girls' enrollment in
basic education is lowest and for which school mapping has been done. A school mapping
database has been developed in eight Governorates as a tool for improving management
capacity since late 1998. These pilot Governorates were originally six -- Sana'a, Al-
Mahweet, Taiz, Lahej, Hadramout and Al-Mahrah -- selected from the north, south-central
and eastern regions and includ;ing large and small, and administratively stronger and
weaker Governorates. In 1999, the Government changed the boundaries of some
Governorates and added two new Governorates (Amran and Al-Daleh). Thus, MOE has
developed school maps for eight pilot Governorates and selected the four project
Governorates. About 800,000 children age 6-15, i.e., nearly 20 percent of the basic
school-age population of Yemen, reside in these four Governorates. Project
implementation will commence in Sana'a Governorate and expand gradually to the other
three Governorates. In each Governorate, the access and quality components of the project
would be implemented in about four focus districts. The Government plans to gradually
extend the program to all 20 Governorates. The CAS discussion at the Board in 1999
referred to the longer-term need of IDA involvement in the sector around a follow-up to
this project. Provided that progress in implementing BEEP is satisfactory, IDA could
consider supporting this expansion through a follow-up project which could follow as early
as 2002.
* Flexible implementation plan. rhe education strategy and associated policy reforms
supported by the project are summarized in the Government's Letter of Basic Education
Policies (Annex 11), which provides the basis for project design.  The reforms are
ambitious given the weak capacity of MOE and the uncertainties as to how quickly
community participation would evolve. Therefore, the implementation plan will be
flexible and evolve annually. The annual work-plans will translate the principles and
policies articulated in the Govermment's Letter of Basic Education Policies into actions to
be mutually agreed by the Government and IDA. The first year work-plan has been agreed
and is summarized in Annex 2.
-8-



C: Project Description Summary
1.     Project components (see Annex 2 for details)
Indicative           Bank-      % of
Component               Sector       Costs     % of  financing    Bank-
(US$M)   Total   (US$M)   finaneing
1. Expansion of Access         EP: Primary       43.60    69.6      37.70       67.3
1.1 School construction, extension,  Education
and rehabilitation
1.2 School maintenance program
2. Quality Improvement         EP: Primary       11.20    17.9      10.70      .19.1
2.1 Improving teacher skills and    Education
deployment
2.2 Supplying furniture and
teaching/learning materials to
schools
3. Capacity Building           EE:                7.80    12.5       7.60       13.6
3.1 Community participation    Education
Adjustment
3.2 Planning, monitoring and
evaluation
3.3 Support for project
management
Total Project Costs                              62.60   100.0      56.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                         62.60   100.0      56.00      100.0
2.     Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
The project supports policy and institutional reforms that aim to expand access to quality education
in the first six grades in a sustainable way. Key policy reforms, described in the Government's
Letter of Basic Education Policies (Annex 11), are as follows:
*  The access component of BEEP will support the implementation of: (a) the new policy for
school location, which is based on school mapping and community participation; (b)
standard designs for school construction that are cost-effective and take into account girls'
needs; and (c) policies for the efficient use of classrooms through the expansion of double
shifts.
* The quality component of BEEP will support: (a) new approaches to teaching and learning,
which are being introduced with the revised curricula for grades 1-6; (b) the associated
introduction of in-service teacher training; (c) improved deployment of teachers to rural
areas and remuneration linked to performance; and (d) an increase of O&M expenditure at
the school level and a modified funding mechanism (during the first project year, the study
on O&M will be completed and its recommendations translated into actions which will be
agreed on under the second-year action plan).
Major institutional reforms are being implemented to ensure systemic improvements in both access
to and the quality of basic education. The project will support: (a) increased community
-9-



participation in school location, construction, and management; (b) building up MOE's capacity to
implement the access and quality program through stronger involvement in project preparation and
implementation at the central and the Governorate level; (c) gradual decentralization of MOE
programming, implementation, and nionitoring functions to the Governorate level; and (d)
strengthening of programming and monitoring tools through the use of annual work plans for
project implementation. The decentralization of MOE functions will be based on a study that is
currently being completed and consistent with the Government's strategy of administrative and
financial decentralization, for which legislation has been passed recently.
3.    Benefits and target population
The main project benefits are expected to be more equitable access and increased quality in the first
six years of basic education. These will be achieved through: an increase in the number of
classrooms; improved teaching skills and performance; additional learning materials; conimitted
communities and parents; and effective management at all levels. The target population will be
girls in the grade 1-6 age group in underserved rural areas in four Govemorates with low NERs;
about 100,000 girls will gain access to ecducation of acceptable quality. The project is also expected
to improve communication between the Government and beneficiaries (communities) in meeting
their educational needs and increasing community involvement in basic education.
In the long term, the project is expected to benefit the population at large through support of the
Government's education reform progra:m. Improvements in sector management capacity and
efficiency at the Central level of MOE and a gradually increasing number of Governorates will
allow more extensive and equitable access to schools of better quality. It is well documented in
research literature that broader educational access stimulates economic and social development by
increasing labor market participation, raising household incomes, and improving productivity in the
manufacturing and agricultural sectors. Female education, in particular, has major social benefits
in reducing fertility rates, increasing awareness of basic health and nutritional issues, and
improving the educational status of the next generation.
4.    Institutional and implementation arrangements
Implementation period
The project will be implemented over a five-year period: from January 2001 to December 2005.
Completion is estimated on December 31, 2005. The Credit will close on June 30, 2006.
Project oversight
The project is adopting a new implementation approach in which the MOE, at both its central and
regional levels, is taking a more active role in policy formulation and implementation of the
project, while a Credit Administration Unit (CAU) will have a limited role (unlike most IDA-
funded projects in Yemen where a Prcject hnplementation Unit approach has mostly been
followed).
The project will operate under the overall guidance and oversight of a Steering Committee (SC)
chaired by the Minister of Education; members of the SC are: (i) MOE's Vice Minister, Deputy
Ministers (Sector of General Education, Sector of Curricula and Education Inspection, and Sector
of Projects and Equipment), the Head of the Technical Office, and one representative from MOE's
Community Participation Section; and (ii) one representative each from the Ministry of Planning
and Development (MOPD), Ministry of Finance (MOF), and Ministry of Civil Service and
Administration Reform (MOCSAR). The main task of the SC will be to set policy guidelines and
direct BEEP to ensure the achievement of the project objectives.
-10-



The SC will approve the annual work plans and budgets for the project. The SC will meet
quarterly to discuss the project progress reports and take appropriate action for any deviations from
the work plans. In its functions, the SC will be assisted by the CAU (see below).
The implementation framework is shown in Figure 1.
Project implementation and coordination.
The project will be implemented by the Ministry of Education under the leadership of the Minister
of Education who will be responsible for overall orientation, and through the existing operational
structure of the MOE. Each administrative entity in the MOE, at both the Central and Regional
levels, will implement and monitor the activities that fall under its responsibilities:
(a) the Sector of Projects and Equipment will be responsible for the access component;
(b) the Sector of General Education will be responsible for teacher deployment;
(c) the Sector of Curricula and Education Inspection will be responsible for the teacher
training and supervision program;
(d) the Community Participation Unit will assist all the sectors with getting conmmunities
involved in their respective activities; and
(e) the Technical Office will be responsible for planning, monitoring and evaluation.
Agreement has been reached with MOE on TA requirements in these entities and on TORs for
first-year TA activities. With TA from the PHRD grant, MOE has prepared an organization
structure and functions which aim at devolving responsibilities to the Governorate and District
levels. The project will help implement this devolution of responsibilities (detailed MOE proposal
has been submitted to Cabinet). In summary, the responsibilities for project implementation will
be shared as follows:
*  Central level: Orientation, strategy, policy-making, program design, planning, monitoring
and evaluation. Inplementation and supervision of centralized project activities.
- Governorate level: Implementation and supervision of decentralized project activities.
-  District level: Assist the Govemorate to follow up on implementation and supervision of
activities taking place at the district level, and working closely with the communities.
* Community level: MOE staff from the Governorate and District levels will work with the
communities regarding school location, construction and oversight.
Responsibilities for project implementation and related procedures are described in more detail in
the agreed Operational Manual for BEEP.
Central level
At the Central level of the MOE, a Central Implementation Team (CIT), composed of Director
Generals of the three 'MOE sectors, the Technical Office and a representative of the Community
Participation Unit, are responsible for overall implementation of the project and report to the
Minister of Education. The CIT will be assisted by the CAU, whose main responsibility will be to
administer IDA credits. The CIT will work closely with the CAU in coordinating project activities
at the Central and at the Governorate levels.
-1 1-



Figure 1: BEEP - Implementation Structure
Central Level
rin                                   Minister                Minister Key Tasks
Committee (SC)          .                     of                   *  Provide orientation and policy
Education                0  Secure counterpart funding
SC Key Tasks
* Approve annual workplans & budgets
*  Set policy guidelines                 1
Central
Implementation
Team  (CIT)           *\
A
CIT Key Tasks
*  Design programs                                               Credit
*  Manage central components                                  Administration    CAU Key Tasks
*  Coordinate and guide                                        Unit (CAU)        *  Keep project accounts
Govemorate activities                                                        0  Manage Special Account
*  Prepare annual workplans                                                      0  Oversee Govemorate
and follow-up on implementation                                                  procurement
*  Oversee EMP implementation                                                   *  Manage central procurement
0  Prepare project
Governorate Level                                                                       progress reports/M&E
(at each of the four project Govemorates)
Goverorate Education Office
GIT Key Tasks                            Impiementation Team
*  Implement project activities                   (GIT)
* Manage decentralized
procurement
* Monitor project progress
General          Cucl                    rjcs&mmunit                          Plannin 
S ....... + .....~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........_ .+ .........  
ucaEqnuipent                                                 Particpton           Saitc
District Level                                         4,
Cistrict Education
DEO Key Tasks                                  Office (DEO)
* Supervise schools
*  Distribute textbooks & materials
*  Select trainees               [       unities] .............. Schools
*  Work dosely with communities
Notes:
1    Supervision
........ - -Support/coordination
-12-



The CAU will report to the Minister of Education and be housed within MOE. Its main functions
will be to facilitate the project implementation of MOE by managing the administrative aspects of
procurement of civil works and directly procuring goods and employing consultants, the utilization
of the proceeds of the Credit (maintaining project accounts and records for audits and Bank's
review) and to monitor project progress. It will be composed of the following staff, recruited on a
competitive basis and financed with the proceeds of the Credit: a director; a financial officer
assisted by an accountant; a procurement officer; a monitoring and evaluation officer; and an
administrative assistant. Other support staff will be provided and financed by the MOE. Terms of
reference for the key staff (i.e., director, financial officer, procurement officer, and planning
monitoring/evaluation officer) have been agreed with MOE. The CAU Director has been hired in
July 2000 and assumed his functions. Hiring of the remaining key staff is underway and should be
completed in October 2000; support staff (e.g., secretary, clerk, driver) will be financed from
MOE's budget.
Governorate level
Most of the project activities will be executed at the Govemorate level. Within each Govemorate
Office, a Governorate Implementation Team (GIT) will be created, headed by the Director General
for Education. He/she will be assisted by five staff drawn from the three sectors, the department of
planning and statistics, and the community participation unit. MOE assured the Bank that
competent staff will be assigned at the Governorate level. The GIT will be responsible for the
implementation of activities at the Governorate level and will be assisted by the District Education
Offices. The GIT will prepare work programs and related budgets for submission to the CIT.
District level
The District Education Offices (DEOs), headed by the District Education officer, will report to the
GIT for project implementation purposes. The main tasks envisaged for the DEOs are: distribution
of textbooks and materials; contribution to the selection of the teachers to be trained; and
supporting community participation activities. The District level staff have little or no facilities
and weak management capacity but they are members of the community. Therefore, the main role
of the DEO in project implementation will be to support the involvement of the community in
school construction and management. Training of District level staff in community participation is
included under the project.
Procurement arrangements
Civil works represent the bulk of activities under the access component. It will mainly be
implemented under the Govemorate education offices. The Projects Department at the Central
level has developed four standard designs for three- and six-classroom schools and corresponding
standard bills of quantities based on the IDA-approved standard bidding documents for National
Competitive Bidding (NCB). This will facilitate the work of the Governorate Education Offices in
adapting bidding documents for new schools.
Since the component also includes rehabilitation and extensions of existing schools, consulting
firms will be hired by the CAU to support MOE's Governorate offices to survey the facilities that
require rehabilitation and/or extensions, develop the bidding documents (based on the standard
bidding documents approved by IDA) for the ones selected for rehabilitation and/or extension and
eventually supervise construction. Evaluation of bids in both cases (new construction and
rehabilitation/extensions) will be done at the Governorate Education Offices.
-13-



Goods will mainly include school furniture and educational kits. The CAU will compile
specifications from central departments in the MOE and will develop and administer all
procurement of goods (with representation of the relevant department in the MOE in the evaluation
committee). Consulting services will be procured in a manner similar to goods; i.e., the relevant
MOE department will draft TORs and compile a shortlist; the CAU will produce the Request for
Proposal (RFP) and administer the remaining process with MOE's involvement in evaluation.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements
The CAU will be responsible for financial management of the project, including budgeting,
accounting, management of the Special Account, handling of financial transactions and reporting.
The CAU financial functions will be undertaken by a qualified financial officer and an accountant.
The financial management system for the project is being developed, building on systems that exist
in another education project unit and with staff that is familiar with IDA projects. The CAU will
install a computerized accounting systern with PMR-based disbursement capabilities. The system
will be based on generally accepted accounting principles and adequate internal control procedures.
The MOE expects to have the PMR-based disbursement system operational by October 2001.
Until then, disbursements from the IDA credit will be made using the traditional system. The
CAU, with TA, is completing the development of the FM systems and the project manual in
accordance with TORs and schedules agreed with IDA.
The CAU will submit quarterly financial reports on project activities to the Government and to
IDA, in addition to the project's annual financial statements. Quarterly project management
reports (PMR) will be generated from the new system and will be submitted to IDA within 45 days
after the close of each quarter; the Government aims at making the first PMR available by
November 15, 2001.
The project financial statements will be audited annually by independent, private auditors
acceptable to IDA, and in accordance with TORs and terms and conditions acceptable to IDA,
using appropriate auditing principles. Auditors for the project accounts of the project's first year of
implementation will be appointed by Effectiveness. Annual audited financial statements and
audited reports - including an opinion on the use of the Special Account and Statement of
Expenditure procedure - will be submitted to IDA within six months after the end of the
government fiscal year. The cost of the audit will be financed from the Credit.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements
Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) for the BEEP will comprise four elements:
*  Implementation of the agreecl sectoral policies and actions. MOE will develop the
annual education plan and budget within the framework of the agreed Letter of Basic
Education Policies and, once completed, the five-year education plan. The Technical
Office, in coordination with other departments, will monitor the implementation,
especially in the project Governorates.
*  Key performance indicators for the project development objective and outputs for each
component (see Annex 1). Monitoring of these indicators and reporting will be done
on a semi-annual basis. The Govemnorate education offices will submit their data to the
Technical Office and the M&E officer of the CAU. He/she will be responsible for
guiding MOE in preparing data and for submitting reports to the Steering Committee
and IDA.
*  Implementation progress, which will be assessed from reports on the status of the
various activities in progress and expenditure/disbursement performance. These reports
will indicate the status of each expenditure category (i.e., civil works, goods,
-14-



consultant services, and training) and source of finance (GOY or IDA). The Central
and Govemorate MOE, assisted by the CAU, will be responsible for consolidating the
data and submitting reports to the Steering Committee and IDA.
* Two evaluation studies of the BEEP approach. The Technical Office, assisted by the
M&E officer of the CAU, will arrange one study before the mid-term review (i.e., third
year of the project) and the other in the fifth year of the project. The first study will
analyse the initial impact on girls' enrollments in the first four focus districts in Sana'a
Governorate.
Implementation monitoring will be carried out by MOE with TA and through semi-annual
supervisions of the Bank. The Bank's field office in Yemen will be heavily involved in project
implementation, including one staff dedicated to supervision of the education portfolio almost full
time. A mid-term review will be organized in the third year of the project. An implementation
completion report to assess the overall performance of the project will be prepared by the
Government and the Bank after the project is closed.
D: Project Rationale
1.    Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
A number of alternative concepts and design options for the project were considered but rejected.
The project concept and components that were chosen are the most appropriate for increasing
education participation of girls in rural areas.
Alternative project concepts
*  Adaptable Program Lending (APL). Since the project supports an agreed set of policy
measures which will be implemented over a longer period of time, the (APL) approach was
considered. This approach was rejected for the BEEP because of uncertainties concerning the
implementation structure and capacity. Provided BEEP implementation is satisfactory, an APL
approach starting with a follow-up project to BEEP could be considered.
*  Targeting nine years of basic education. Coverage of the full nine years of basic education
was considered, as MOE has integrated primary and preparatory education into basic education
by eliminating the standardized exarnination at the end of grade six. This alternative was
rejected because it is difficult for remote rural schools to provide grades 7-9 of basic education
which require specialized subject teachers and special school facilities. Urban secondary
schools often provide these upper grades of basic education. Therefore, to focus the project on
the most underserved, remote rural areas, the first six years of basic education were chosen as a
priority.
*  Addressing only the access issue. Given the huge backlog of classrooms needed, it was
considered to focus the project entirely on the construction of classrooms for rural children.
This alternative was rejected because international experience shows that school buildings
alone do not increase girls' enrollment and retention rates in a sustainable way. Improving the
quality of education is needed as well; therefore, the project will provide such educational
inputs as in-service teacher training, teaching and learning materials, school furniture, and
building maintenance.
-15-



*  Provision of female secondary schools as an incentive for girls' schooling. The original
project proposal included a cluster concept which entailed the construction of girls' secondary
schools and feeder basic schools. This was based on: (a) the experience in other countries that
access to secondary schools is an incentive for parents to keep their daughters in basic
education; and (b) the notion that more female graduates are needed for training as teachers.
This alternative was rejected on the following three grounds: (i) recent information on pilot
rural female secondary schools supported under the ongoing ESIP indicates that capacity at
these schools exceeds the current supply of female graduates from basic rural schools; (ii)
savings from lower construction costs for secondary schools under ESIP are available for
building additional secondary schools for girls in rural areas; and (iii) there is increasing
evidence from studies in Yemen that: male teachers are acceptable for teaching girls in the first
four grades. Therefore, BEEP will focus on basic education, specifically grades 1-6, as the key
bottleneck in providing education to girls.
*  Starting project implementation in all Governorates. The Government considered country-
wide coverage for the project with a focus on underserved districts in each Governorate. This
alternative was rejected due to the complexity of project implementation and limited MOE
capacity. Therefore, project implementation will start in one Governorate, then expand to four
Governorates where the need is greatest, preparatory work for school mapping has been
completed, and where efforts can be concentrated so as to sufficiently strengthen capacity. This
phased approach will allow a realistic pace for MOE capacity building and to gain
implementation experience before reform measures are introduced on a wider scale.
*  Implementation of construction programs through PWP or SFD rather than the Project
Sector of MOE. This alternative was rejected for the following reasons: First, the number of
classrooms needed for basic education vastly exceeds the implementation capacity of the PWP
and SFD. IDA, therefore, agreed to support the combined capacities of MOE, PWP and SFD
to address the need for school construction. Second, the concern of ensuring efficient
construction under BEEP has been acldressed by agreeing on norms and standard designs for
classrooms that result in unit costs for BEEP close to those of the PWP and SFD. Third, and
most importantly, it has become increasingly clear, from the experience of the PWP, SFD and
KfW/GTZ school construction projects, that there is a need to link the hardware and software
elements of the education system, i.e., the construction, teaching, and maintenance parts. MOE
seems to be in the best position to ensure these linkages. For all these reasons, the school
construction component of BEEP will be implemented by MOE Project Sector.
Alternative design options for components
Component 1. Expansion of access
* Full decentralization of school design and siting. This idea was rejected due to its cost-
ineffectiveness. The Governorate Elucation Offices are not equipped with the staff,
management tools, and information necessary for a full process of school construction
programs. Therefore, the project will support the gradual decentralization of implementation,
with standard designs and criteria beinag developed at the Central level in consultation with
stakeholders from all levels.
*  Building only new schools. An estimate that about 25,000 villages do not have a single school
implies a large need for new rural schools. In addition, education surveys show that only 16%
of the existing school buildings are in good condition. This suggests a large need for
rehabilitating and extending existing schools in order to increase enrollments. Therefore, the
project design will be flexible, allowing the construction of new schools or the rehabilitation/
extension of existing schools, according to needs in the catchment areas.
-16-



Component 2. Quality improvement
* Providing demand-driven school grants. Providing a small project fund directly to schools
could increase the incentive for schools and communities to undertake initiatives such as girls'
attendance awards. However, this idea would require special implementation arrangements,
such as the direct transfer of project funds from the central or regional Government to schools,
as well as a mechanism for ensuring accountability. The idea was discarded because it did not
mature in time to be included in the project design.
* Promoting multi-grade training. In remote rural schools, teachers may teach students of
different grades in one classroom. However, institutionalizing multi-grade teaching will
require special teacher training in addition to the planned in-service teacher training for the
new curriculum. Given that Yemen's education system has limited experience with multi-
grade teaching, and most teachers are not well qualified and first need to be trained in basic
teaching skills, the idea was not included in the teacher training program supported by the
project.
-17-



2.      Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies
Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Sector issue                          Project                        Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed education projects
Increased access to basic education; and the  Basic Education Project          S                S
creation of a foundation for improving quality
Improved student learning outcomes, with   Education Sector Investment         S                S
emphasis on science and mathematics in     Project
preparatory and secondary education; increased
access to secondary education for girls through
increased community participation; and
establishment of labor market-oriented
education programs
Improved supply and quality of secondary   Secondary Teacher Training          S                S
school teachers
Increased access to education services in rural   Child Development Project    n/a             n/a
areas; and strengthening of capacities at the
subnational level
Bank-financed related projects
Expansion and improvement of school        Social Fund for Development I      HS                S
buildings and facilities for basic education
Expansion of school buildings              Public Works Project I & 11         S                S
Public expenditure rationalization for key  Public Sector Management           S                S
sectors including education                Adjustment Credit
Creation of a modem public administration that  Civil Service Modernization    n/a             n/a
provides public services in a transparent and  Project
efficient manner
Other major development aeencies
Netherlands                                Cofinancing of IDA Basic            n/a             n/a
Iducation Project
UNICEF                                     Area-based Projects;                n/a             n/a
Community School Projects
Germany: KFW & GTZ                         School construction and/or          n/a             n/a
rehabilitation; community
flarticipation in Abyan and Ibb
Islamic Development Bank                   School construction and            n/a              n/a
_r.habilitation
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3.      Lessons learned and reflected in the project design
The following lessons were drawn from international (especially IDA) experience:
*   The project design needs to be consistent with priorities in IDA's assistance strategy.
This is one of the two main principles for improving IDA assistance to Yemen that the
Operations Evaluation Department (OED) recommended in its review of IDA assistance to
Yemen up to 1996. The proposed project design directly addresses the education priorities
identified in the 1999 CAS and the Yemen Education Sector Assistance Strategy of 1999,
i.e., improving access to and quality of basic education for girls.
-18-



*  Adequate facilities are needed for increasing enrollment of girls. The poor condition of
school facilities, including the lack of toilets and boundary walls, is a constraint for girls
attendance. The mid-term review of the Yemen Basic Education Project also found that a
lack of toilet facilities is one of the major constraints for girls to enroll in schools.
*  Community participation increases the efficiency and effectiveness of education
programs. Yemen's experiences with UNICEF, SFD, and PWP programs show that
construction costs can be reduced dramatically through community participation and
contributions. In addition, UNICEF- and GTZ-assisted programs provide evidence that a
good partnership between communities and local administration (e.g., the district education
office) improves school management. Experience from Pakistan and other countries which
promote girls' education also indicates that parents' involvement was important in girls'
enrollment and improving the quality of education.
*  Project design should be kept simple while management capacity in the sector is being
strengthened. Recent IDA projects supporting Yemen's education sector have been
hampered in implementation and in meeting their development objectives by weak
implementation capacity in the sector. The project uses as simple a design as possible
while addressing the urgent priorities of improving access and quality and mainstreaming
project management into MOE. The project design includes strengthening the capacity of
MOE in these areas.
*  Involvement of key stakeholders in project preparation and implementation improves
project design and increases support for education. The Public Expenditure Review
(PER) found that a lack of coordination among MOE Departments, as well as between
MOE and donor-funded project management units, reduced the efficiency of investment
programs (e.g., schools did not receive furniture or teachers on time, or schools were built
too close to another school). Therefore, the project design includes the strengthening of
coordination and cooperation among various stakeholders in basic education. BEEP
preparation missions have conducted wide ranging consultations, including meetings and
workshops with regional education administrators, school staff, communities, students and
parents, and other concerned Ministries. In addition, other donors have been consulted on
project design through donor meetings, workshops, and individual interviews.
4.    Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
The Government's commitment to and ownership of the project is extensive, given the efforts
made to: (a) initiate education policy and expenditure reforms as a framework for the project
concept; and (b) develop the project components prior to appraisal.
(a) The basis for the project concept was laid by the Government as it developed and initiated
education policy and expenditure reforms in the following processes:
*  setting the institutional framework for universal access to basic education in the Education
Law of 1992 and the Constitution;
*  identifying basic education as a priority for Government and for IDA assistance during the
participatory development of the CAS of 1999 and the Education Sector Assistance
Strategy of 1999. Both strategy papers were developed intensively with the Government.
In particular, the education strategy paper was based on discussions and work with MOE
-19-



during project preparation and the education expenditure reviews. The draft strategy was
also discussed at a donor meeting chaired by the Minister of Education; and
* preparing the Letter of Basic E,lucation Policies which summarizes the goals and policies
for basic education.
(b) During project preparation, the Government, especially MOE, was intensively involved in:
*  preparing building blocks for the project with the support of the Japanese PHRD grant
fund, a PPF, and ongoing IDA projects. The main activities undertaken are: a change in
the MOE structure aimed at streamlining administration; school mapping of the targeted
Governorates; introducing a comprehensive Education Management Information System
(EMIS), based on education surveys; development of software for the Financial
Management Information System (FMIS) and initial training of personnel; and piloting of
community-based female secondary schools;
*  defining a project concept that would best achieve the proposed objective (increased girls'
enrollment and retention in basic education) at several meetings and workshops that
included Central and Governorate MOE staff; and
*  preparing the three project components. MOE managers provided comments and
suggestions on project components and activities. MOE has constituted preparation teams
for each of the project's three components; the teams prepared the project for appraisal,
with support from consultancies Funded under the PPF and from ongoing projects. For the
community participation component, MOE has staffed the newly-created CPU and
assigned staff in the four pilot Governorates.
5.    Value added of Bank support in this project:
IDA's substantial experience in the education sector of Yemen and other countries has allowed it
to: (a) tap international and local experience in designing and implementing programs to improve
access to and the quality of basic education, particularly for girls and underserved groups; (b) help
ensure that system restructuring and reforms draw on international best practices and experience
and adapt these to local conditions; (c) draw on the experience of other sectors and agencies
regarding communityJNGO-Government partnerships; (d) provide analytical support to help the
Government assess the cost-effectiveness of measures; (e) assist with linkages to the macro-fiscal
framework and sustainability of the expenditure program for basic education; and (f) strengthen
coordination among donors in terms of their assistance for basic education.
E: Summary Project Analysis: (detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1.    Economic: (supported by Annex 4)
-...]Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$    million; ERR=   %
[ x ] Cost Effectiveness Analysis
[ x ] Other (specify)
The economic soundness of the project design has been ensured in the following ways: (i) the
project includes efficiency and education expenditure reform measures which the Government
identified and initiated based on PERs conducted with IDA; overall, these measures would ensure
financial sustainability of basic education expenditure; (ii) the two major subcomponents
(classroom construction and in-service teacher training) have been designed on the basis of a
-20-



detailed cost-effectiveness analysis; and (iii) the capacity-building component has been designed
on the basis of a detailed assessment of MOE's capacity to implement expenditure reform
measures and cost-effective subcomponent designs in Sana'a Governorate.
2.    Financial: (see Annex 5)  NPV=US$               Million; FRR=            %
The financial soundness of the project has been confirmed through two analyses: (i) a fiscal impact
assessment of the project, at the macro level and in Sana'a Governorate, which updates the work
done for the PERs (1998 and 1999) in light of the ongoing formulation of the five-year education
plan with new sector data and project cost estimates; this assessment confirms that MOE's
incremental operating expenditures resulting from the project are sustainable; and (ii) an
assessment of the financial management structure being prepared for the project, including work
underway for the development of a project financial management manual and an integrated
computerized accounting and project reporting system.
3.    Technical
The project was designed in cooperation with the relevant Government counterparts, donors (NL,
Germany, UNICEF, Japan) and international and national consultants, and it draws on best
international and national practices. Each project component has been designed to be cost-
effective, feasible, flexible, and sustainable. During project preparation, the implementation
capacity of Sana'a Governorate was assessed and taken into account in the design of the project
implementation structure. While the project includes innovations in the decentralized manner
implementation would be carried out, design of components is based on tested methods and
practices. Therefore, no major technical challenges are anticipated.
4.    Institutional
4.1    Executing agencies:
MOE will be the executing agency for this project. The Ministry has experience with IDA-funded
projects and is involved in the two ongoing education projects financed by IDA.
4.2   Project management:
Project management arrangements under the project will adopt new approaches to emphasize
MOE's governance of the project and capacity building and to be in line with its strategy in
devolving implementation responsibilities to the regional levels. The project will be the first IDA-
financed project in the country to embrace the recently reached agreement between the
Government and IDA on principles governing project management units. Under these principles,
the functions of these units and their staffing will be limited to assist the technical ministries in
administering the project, with stronger emphasis on capacity building within the ministries.
Accordingly, as a first step, MOE has already consolidated existing project management units, and
has designated one unit to manage all on-going IDA-funded education projects and BEEP's Project
Preparation Advance. This unit is the Coordination Unit (CU) of the Education Sector Investment
Project. In parallel, the CU functions are also being gradually reduced to the agreed core functions
which are primarily of an administrative nature and will be eventually integrated in the CAU,
established under the project, according to the principles indicated above. The CAU will be staffed
with seasoned personnel in the field of management, procurement, accounting/auditing and
-21-



statistics, with strong interpersonal and mentoring skills, so that it can contribute to building
capacity in project management in MOE. The CAU Director has been hired in July 2000 and
assumed his functions. Hiring of other key staff is underway.
Capacity building, in particular at the Regional level, is a long process. There is a substantial risk
that the implementation of the project will encounter delays. To mitigate the risk, the Capacity
Building Component supports developing MOE's skills in implementing, monitoring and
evaluating education projects.  The component also supports strengthening general project
management skills related to computer skills, budgeting and accounting, and the use of project
management tools. In 1999, MOE staff participated in a training session on financial management
and procurement which was organized by IDA, and it heightened the awareness of MOE staff
regarding IDA's operating procedures. In addition, in March 2000, MNSHD, in collaboration with
the World Bank Institute (WBI), held a six-day workshop on project management for project
management units staff, which was attended by 10 managers from the MOE.
4.3   Procurement issues:
Reflecting the project's approach of stronger MOE involvement in project implementation and of
gradual decentralization, both the Central and Governorate levels of MOE are involved in
procurement under the project, with a reduced role of the CAU compared to previous projects. A
procurement assessment was conducted at the Central level of MOE and the Sana'a Governorate
Education Office, i.e., the units implementing project activities in the first year, and concluded that
the systems in place are adequate, with some weaknesses. To reduce related risks, the following
measures are being taken:
*  standard designs for school construction have been developed and bidding documents, with
bill of quantities which will be used by the Regional MOE offices;
*  technical assistance will be provided for the design, preparation of bidding documents and
supervision of school rehabilitation and extension; and
*  procurement training is being provided to MOE staff at the Regional level.
Since this procurement arrangement is new to education projects in Yemen, an assessment of the
process will be carried out at the end of the first year of the project. This assessment will look at
the overall performance of the arrangement (e.g., that prototypes and standard bidding documents
are being used, that bid evaluation is carried out in an acceptable manner and in a reasonable time
frame, that the quality of construction and supervision is acceptable). Based on this assessment,
the project's procurement arrangement will either continue or alternative arrangements will be
agreed on.
4.4   Financial management issues:
Risks. The main risk is a weak control environment in which the philosophy of emphasizing a
sound financial management system and dedicated work ethics is not widespread. This risk may
compromise the economical and efficient use of the proceeds of the Credit. To mitigate this risk,
several elements have been integrated in the financial management arrangements of the project: (i)
centralization of management of IDA Credit proceeds in the CAU; (ii) staffing the CAU with
personnel having adequate qualification and experience in the field of accounting/auditing; (iii)
computerization of the project financial management system; and (iv) auditing of the system to
ensure reliability of financial informati3n before declaring the system apt to adopt PMR-
disbursements.
Compliance with audit covenants. For the last two years, audits of IDA-financed projects in
education have been carried out by independent auditors, acceptable to IDA. The reports have
been submitted to IDA on time.
-22-



Flow of funds. The GOY will pass on the IDA funds to MOE, with the foreign exchange risk borne
by GOY. Based on the project annual work programs and budgets, approved by the Steering
Committee, GOY will allocate the counterpart funds for the project through budgetary allocations
to MOE. IDA funds are available to finance eligible expenditures through the Special Account,
opened at the Central Bank of Yemen, or directly through the Credit.
5.    Enviromental assessment:    Environmental Category   [ ] A   [X] B   [ ] C
5.1.   Summnarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) preparation (including consultation and disclosure) and the significant
issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The three main environmental issues relevant to the project are:
* site selection for rural schools for grades 1-6
* water availability for hygienic purposes
* operation and maintenance of schools, including sanitation facilities.
Several steps were undertaken during project preparation to address these environmental issues.
For site selection, environmental criteria were identified and incorporated into the project
implementation plan (PIP), and included into the Environmental Management Plan (EMP). The
impacts related to school construction are expected to be minimal, as the civil works are small in
scope and consist of expansion at existing schools (usually 3-6 classrooms), or construction at new
sites. Furthermore these schools will not house any laboratories or vocational facilities, and
consequently potential impacts related to use of chemicals or paints are eliminated. To mitigate
any potential impacts, an EMP has been prepared, and is part of the PIP for Sub-Component 1.1:
School Construction, Extension and Rehabilitation. MOE engineers, trained to be familiar with
environmental issues in Yemen, will be part of the technical teams that will conduct field visits and
evaluations for the remaining sites to be identified; their TORs will cover environmental aspects.
For the water availability issue, the project will include construction of toilet facilities for each
school because this is crucial to retaining female students. However given the scarcity of water in
Yemen, 'dry toilets' (without water for flushing) have been selected as the standard toilet design.
Water availability for washing of hands will be discussed with communities during the site
selection process for rural schools, and in locations where water supply for schools is not feasible,
communities will make water available for hygiene purposes under Component 3: Conununity
Participation. The project will also assist the GOY to explore alternatives and options for the
provision of water for hygienic purposes in elementary schools.
Adequate operation and maintenance of school facilities after initial construction is a continuing
issue. Community involvement will be a measure for ensuring adequate maintenance activities at
rural schools, including maintenance of 'dry toilets', as is also the case in GTZ supported education
projects in Yemen. In the second year of this project, financing will be provided to schools for
maintenance activities as part of sub-component 1.2: School Maintenance Program.
-23-



5.2    What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The EMP focuses on potential impacts related to (a) site selection; (b) standard design and
specifications; and (c) construction.  The site selection process includes criteria that would
minimize some of the potential impact issues identified above. Other issues in connection with
construction activities are treated with more detail in the EMP. These relate to safety, disposal of
debris from construction sites, as well as sewage, drainage, and sanitation services at the sites.
The EMP has been reviewed and found adequate by IDA. The EMP has also been reviewed with
the Client at Negotiations.
5.3    For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
A separate EMP has been prepared and submitted to IDA for disclosure at the Bank InfoShop in
early June 2000. The EMP was also disclosed to the public in Yemen.
5.4    How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b)
draft EA report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan?
Describe mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted.
As described below in Sections 6.2 and 6.3, project preparation involved consultations with
communities; and project implementatio:rl will continue to do so.
5.5    What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project
on the environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The MOE and its project management set-up will follow up on implementation of the EMP and the
environmental issues outlined above. As a first step, a standard set of architectural drawings and
specifications for small rural schools have been agreed with IDA. During construction, MOE will
ensure that contractors follow instructions in the specifications and construction documents. In
addition, IDA supervision missions will fDllow up with MOE on all the relevant issues.
6.     Social
6.1.   Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's
social development outcomes.
The project design reflects the findings of several social assessments, including:  social
assessments prepared for the Child Development Project; a local NGO's review of a small-scale,
multi-Governorate survey of girls, parents, and community members as part of project preparation;
and UNICEF studies on girls' education. 'The main recommendations of these assessments include:
(a) increasing community participation, with attention being paid to the capacity of communities;
(b) improving subnational education administration; and (c) addressing demand-side issues for
girls' education. The expected social development outcomes of the project are: (a) reduced gender
gap in basic education through an increase in girls' enrollment; and (b) increased prospects of
sustainable education programs through increased community participation.
6.2.   Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The primary beneficiary group (rural children, particularly girls) has been represented by their
parents and by community groups (e.g., local councils and school committees) during visits to
villages by IDA preparation missions and by the Government field teams for selection of sites for
-24-



the first year's workplan. A local NGO, commissioned by MOE, also interviewed rural girls, their
parents, and community members in targeted districts. The project preparation team paid special
attention to ensure women in the communities are involved in consultations and in the preparation
process. During the team's village visits, parents demonstrated cormnitment to educating their
children and did not object to girls' education in grades 1-6. Mothers expressed willingness to bear
the opportunity cost of their daughters going to school, and to collaborate with teachers and school
managers in ensuring their daughters' attendance.  Fathers were willing to commit to the
construction of new schools through formation of councils and donation of land and building
materials. School-age children, including young girls, also expressed a keen enthusiasm towards
schooling.
The project preparation team also consulted with school managers, teachers, local and regional
administrators. These discussions yielded suggestions on how to improve schools and school
management, and were incorporated in the design of the project. Other key stakeholders, including
MOE staff of all levels, school principals, and teachers, have been actively involved in project
preparation, participating in several consultation meetings and regional workshops. Central MOE
staff have collaborated with the project preparation team in developing the project design.
Representatives from the Ministry of Planning and Development participated in all regional
workshops, formal and informal discussions, and wrap-up meetings during each preparation
mission; and the highly-capable Central Statistical Office assisted MOE in developing the EMIS
and the school mapping system as part of the project preparation activities. Governors and
representatives of Ministry of Finance were also significant partners in the development of the
project.
6.3.   How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil
society organizations?
MOE has consulted with national and international organizations (PWP, SFD and GTZ) on their
experiences with community participation in education projects. Furthermore, SFD provided
training for MOE staff in community participation approaches and SFD consultants accompanied
MOE teams in their field visits. Local NGOs, where available, will participate in mobilizing local
communities to participate in site selection, school construction and maintenance.
6.4.   What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its
social development outcomes?
MOE established a Community Participation Unit (CPU) with staff both at the Central and
Governorate levels. MOE will also strengthen its function for community participation activities at
the District level. On the demand side, CPU staff are assisting the target communities in forming
councils to promote a sense of ownership and ensure community participation and management of
schools.
6.5.   How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The project will monitor social development outcomes in two ways: (i) regular project indicator
monitoring report (educational statistics), especially to observe changes in the gender gap in
enrollment; and (ii) reports of field visits of CPU staff to project school sites before and after the
construction.
-25-



7.    Safeguard Policies
7.1    Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                     Applicability (Yes or No)
X   Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01)
Natural Habitats (OP/BP/ aP 4.04)
Forestry (OP 4.36)
Pest Management (OP 4.09)
Cultural Property (OPN 1 L.03)
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)
Involuntary Resettlement ! OP 4.30)
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37)
Projects on International VWaterways (OP 7.50
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60)
7.2    Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard
policies.
The proposed project will follow the World Bank guidelines of OP 4.01 on environmental
assessment and will adhere to the requirements of the Government of Yemen for such projects, as
outlined in the Environmental Protection Law, No. 26 enacted by the Parliament in 1995 and in the
National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) prepared by the Environmental Protection Council
(EPC) in 1996.
The project will construct schools on lancl provided by the local community, by the Government or
donated irrevocably to the community, and during project preparation no other issues related to OD
4.30 Involuntary Resettlement were identified. Accordingly OD 4.30 is not applicable to the
project.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1.    Sustainability:
Institutional sustainability: Key elements for the institutional sustainability of the project are: (a)
ownership of the program by MOE staff at all levels; (b) the building of implementation capacity
within MOE; and (c) the participation of communities in the construction and management of their
schools. The project addresses all these aspects. MOE staff have actively been involved in
designing program elements and are committed to implementing them. The project will assist MOE
in operationalizing the reform concepts and gradually strengthening the capacity at Central and
Regional levels to effectively implement reforms and the agreed-upon annual work programs. In
addition, the project will support building IMOE's capacity to mobilize communities and work with
them. Taken together, these elements will contribute to the strengthening of the institutional setting
for improving access to and the quality of education.
Financial sustainability: Projections done in the context of the PERs for education demonstrate the
need for additional funding for classroom construction, some of which this project will provide.
The project represents about 16% of the annual investment program of MOE. As for recurrent
expenditures for basic education, the project impact is expected to be marginal, amounting to a
0.1% increase in current education expenditure once the project is completed. The project does not
require additional teachers; all the staffing needs could be met through redeploying existing MOE
-26-



staff, which the project will support. Budgetary requirements would increase to the extent that
more teachers become eligible for rural allowances. O&M expenditure will create additional
pressure on Government' s education budget. However, projections show that, if measures to reduce
inefficiencies were taken, the recurrent expenditure implications of an expanded basic education
system could be absorbed. Another key element of ensuring financial sustainability is the
communities' support of school construction and maintenance activities. With continued strong
implementation of these measures, the fiscal sustainability of the program appears feasible.
2.    Critical Risks: (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
Risk                 Risk          Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
From Outputs to Objective
Economic conditions may not allow the    M    Continuous policy dialogue in the Poverty
Government to allocate adequate budget     Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) and PER
resources to the education sector.         context will seek to ensure that basic education
maintains its priority status.
Central authorities (e.g., MOF) and  S    The project design will be closely linked to
local political leaders (e.g., Governors)  ongoing efforts to modernize public
may not commit to the timely approval      administration, especially budget and financial
and implementation of MOE's annual         management.
education plan and budget.                 Government's Letter of Basic Education
Policies provides commitment to resource
allocation.
Communities commitment to girls'     S    MOE has assigned community participation
education may be low and communities       staff to implement community mobilization
may not keep girls in school.              measures under the project. Girls' attendance
will be closely monitored and assessed in a
study before the mid-term review of the
project.
From Components to Outputs
MOE implementation capacity at       H    Extensive capacity development measures at
Governorate level may expand too           MOE' s Sector of Projects, including
slowly to implement access component       strengthening of M & E capacity.
as planned.
-27-



~Risk                 RiskRikiniatnMesr
The new management structure and     H    Extensive TA is being provided to help build
approach adopted by MOE for BEEP           up capacity. Stocktaking at the end of first-
may prove too demanding.                   year implementation also will allow
adjustments in structure and procedures, if
needed.
Trained technical staff may not remain  M    Prior to training, agreement will be reached
in positions relevant to training.         regarding placement of trained technical staff.
Overall Risk Rating                   S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3.    Possible Controversial Aspects:
The project activities which might include potentially controversial aspects are: (a) increasing the
roles of female MOE staff and mothers in education programs; and (b) promoting strict
redeployment and reducing supply-driven teacher hiring. Mechanisms to manage these potential
issues, while increasing public understanding of the reform programs are included in the capacity-
building component.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1.    Effectiveness Condition
*  The CAU will establish a finamcial management system acceptable to IDA, that can
provide with reasonable assurance, accurate, and timely information on the sources and
uses of funds for the project.
*  Independent auditors acceptable to IDA for the project accounts of the project's first year
of implementation will be appointed.
2.    Other
*  Implement an annual program in line with policies described in the Letter of Basic
Education Policies.
*  Annual MOE budget allocations :reflect agreed O&M requirements.
H: Readiness for Implementation
[V]  1. (a)  Standard designs have been submitted.
(b)  Standard bills of quanti.ties have been prepared based on the IDA-approved
standard bidding documents for NCB.
[t]  2.    Site selection is underway; the first year's sites (including community
endorsement) have been identified.
-28-



['I]  3. (a)  A Project Implementation Plan (PIP) has been prepared and agreed.
(b)  An operational manual has been prepared and agreed.
I: Compliance with Bank Policies
[X ] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[  ] The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project
complies with all other applicable Bank policies.
4/F , 1 W                    --
Regina Bendokat VM, aiXeLockheed    Jacq  edouy                    Inder Sud
Team Leader         SeN  Manager            tor Director      Country Director
-29-



Aniex 1: Project Design Summary
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: BASIC EDUCATION EXPANSION PROJECT
Hierareby of Objectives     Key Perfo00rmnelIndicators       Monitoring &    CrtcalmA phis
_      _      _ T5$  :j:::  d:  :j000Ljf  jS   :0:00j003Li0000000  L  0a:i0ij;   Evaluation   L;
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:               Sectorl country   (from Goal to Bank
reports:          Misfion)
1. Create an early stream  Gross enrollment ratios (GERs) for  MOE statistical    The politicat
of social benefits in   girls and boys in ':asic education  yearbook;         enviromnent will
education which directly                                    National Census   remain stable.
address poverty and
strengthen overall
development capacity
2. Create a modem       Improved structure of MOE           Annual investment
public administration   expenditure programs                budget book;
public expenditure
monitoring
Project Development     Outcome / Impact Indicators:        Project reports:    (from Objective to
Objective:                                                                    Goal)
Increase the enrollments                ...There will be spillover
ofnmrease theienrollents   1. Increased GER for girls in grades 1-6 EMIS and MOE  erets    be sprover
of rural children,      in participating Governorates       statistical       effects to non-project
especially girls, in grades                                 yearbook          districts in the
1-6 education of adequate                                                     participating
quality in 4 Governorates  2. Increased enrollments of children in  Evaluation study   Governorates, resulting
grades 1-6 by 30% in about 20 focus   in 3rd and 5th year in increased overall
districts                          of project.        enrollment
3. Girls' share in increased enrollments Semi-annual
is at least 60% in the focus districts  project
performance
monitoring report
Note: The ongoing
school survey
199912000 will
provide baseline
data.
30



Herrchy of Objectives          Key Performce Indicators             Monitoring &       Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
Output from each           Output Indicators:                      Project reports:    (from Outputs to
Component:                                                                             Objective)
I. Increased number of     1.1.1  About 2,100 additional classrooms  Governorate MOE    Economic conditions will
classrooms available for rural  for grades 1-6 in rural under-served  annual statistics  allow the Government to
children, especially girls, to   catchment areas (about 360 new schools                allocate adequate
enroll in grades 1-6 in focus   and 160 extended schools)          MOE semi-annual   resources to the education
districts                   1.1.2  About160ruralbasicschools      follow-up report     sector.
rehabilitated in under-served catchment
rehabilitate in under-served catchment  Semi-annual project  Central authonties (e.g.,
areas                                  performance         MOF) and local political
1.1.3  All schools built and rehabilitated   indicators    leaders (e.g., Governors)
under the project have toilet facilities.  monitoring report    will commit to the timely
1.1.4  Agreed criteria and procedures for                  approval]and
selection of location and standard design                  annual education planning
for schools are used in focus districts                    andabudgting.
and budgeting.
1.2 A mechanism for routine school
maintenance is developed and operational                   Implementation capacity
of MOE at Governorate
level is adequate.
Communities'
commitment to girls'
education will remain
high.
Teachers who are trained
will remain and teach at
their rural posts.
2. Improved quality of rural  2.1.1  80% of teachers in grades 1-6 in    Same as output I
basic schools, especially for   have participated in annual refresher
grades 1-6, in the four project  training
Governorates               2.1.2  80% of inspectors and
headmasterslheadmistresses have
participated in 3-week training programs
2.1.3 80% of schools in the 4
Govemorates receive regular supervision
at least three times per year
2.1.4  Implementation of the teacher
redeployment and hiring plan is
satisfactory
2.2.1 All project classrooms (about
2,600) have agreed set of basic school
fturniture
2.2.2 All students in schools constructed
or rehabilitated (about 90,000) by the
project are provided with agreed basic
learning materials
31



3. Strengthened capacity of  3.1.1  Agreements with communities on   Reviews of
MOE and communities to    their contribution; to construction have    implementation
efficiently and sustainably    been implementecl                capacity (to be
implement basic education    3.1.2  50% of prject schools have active  supported under
programs in the four project   unity participation in school    component 3)
Governorates
management (e.g., routine school
maintenance)                         Site visit reports
3.2 Satisfactory quality of annual
education plan ancl follow-up reports,  Annual education
using EMISlFMIS/school mapping       plans MOE semi-
database                             annual follow-up
3.3  Satisfactory implementation of the    reports
agreed BEEP annual workplan          Project progress
reports
H iUerarchy of Objectives    Key Performance Indicators          Mouitorii'g &     Critcl  AssUmptiOns
Project Components / Sub-  Inputs: (budget for each component)    Project reports:  (from Components to
components:                                                                        Outputs)
1. Expansion of access    US$43.6 million                       Monthly            MOE implementation
1.1 School construction,                                        disbursement       capacity at Govemorate
extension, and rehabilitation                                   summary            level will be adequate for
1.2 School maintenance                                                             implementing Access
program                                                         Quarterly          Component.
implementation
monitoring report:   The new management
1. Progress report  structure and approach
2. Financing       adapted by MOE for
statement          BEEP proves workable.
3. Procurement
management report   Trained technical staff
Sem-&annual project  will remain in positions
supervision reporot   relevant to their training.
Annual audit reports
Site visit reports
Studies/reviews to
be funded under the
project
2. Quality improvement    US$11.2 million
2.1 Improving teacher skills
and deployment
2.2 Supplying fumiture and
classroom kits to schools
3. Capacity building      US$7.8 million
3.1 Community
participation
3.2 Planning, monitoring,
and evaluation
3.3 Support for project
management
32



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: BASIC EDUCATION EXPANSION PROJECT
The development objective of the project is to increase enrollments of rural children, especially girls, in
the first six years of basic education of adequate quality. This objective is expected to be achieved by the
following three outputs: (i) an increased number of classrooms available in remote rural areas so that
children, especially girls, may enroll and complete the first six years of basic education; (ii) improved
quality of the resources (including teachers) available at schools, which would contribute to enrollment
and retention of students, especially girls, in basic education; and (iii) strengthened management capacity
of education, including community participation, which would improve the efficiency and sustainability
of programs that seek to improve access to and quality of basic education. To this end, the project
supports the implementation of the policies summarized in the Government's Letter of Basic Education
Policies and in the annual workplans.
The project will be implemented in four Governorates in which the net enrollment ratio for girls is lowest
and school mapping has been done; these are: Amran, Al-Daleh, Al-Mahweet, and Sana'a. This group
includes both large and small Govemorates, and two of them were newly established in 1998. Nearly 20
percent of Yemen's population of basic school age reside in these Governorates. While the quality
component will be initiated simultaneously in all four Governorates, the access component will be phased
in more gradually, to ensure that implementation capacity for a decentralized approach is adequate. In the
first year, school construction will commence in four districts of Sana'a Governorate, selected on the
basis of a low basic enrollment rate for girls: Safan, Bilad Al-Roos, Nehm, and Al-Himah Al-Karijah.
Based on the first-year experience, implementation will be extended gradually to the other three
Governorates.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$43.6 million (of which US$37.7 million IDA)
Expansion of Access
The access component is expected to increase the number of classrooms available for grade 1-6 students,
especially for girls, in about 20 focus districts (one third of the districts) of the four Governorates through:
(i) construction of 3- or 6-classroom schools with toilets and boundary walls; (ii) addition of classrooms
to existing schools (about 2,100 new classrooms); (iii) rehabilitation of serviceable schools (with about
480 classrooms); (iv) routine maintenance of schools; and (v) strengthened capacity of MOE for
implementing access programs. These classrooms will be used for grades 1-6, with up to 40 students per
class (of whom about 60 percent will be girls). The classrooms will also be used for double shifts, where
possible. The allocation between types of construction and per district will be flexible and defined on a
yearly basis. The access component will be implemented by applying the following policy reform
measures: (a) efficient and demand-based selection of school sites, using the school mapping database
established in 1999 and community participation; (b) cost-effective school designs, using standard
designs adapted to local conditions; and (c) an efficient use of classrooms, expanding double-shift use of
classrooms.
33



Subcomponent 1.1. School construction, extension, and rehabilitation
This subcomponent will provide funds for construction, extension and rehabilitation of small schools for
grades 1-6 in underserved rural areas. To meet the varying enrollment needs of the districts, the standard
design has two capacity variants: one with classrooms sized for 30 students (BEEP's Model 1) and the
second with classrooms sized for 40 students (BEEP's Model 2). MOE already set up access teams in
Sana'a Governorate. The team consists of staff of the Sector of Project and the Community Participation
Unit. Based on an agreed school mappin,g assessment methodology, the Governorate access team will
identify priority catchment areas and the scope of work for the following year's access program in each
focus district. The final selection of a catchment area, site, and type of work will be based on a field visit
of the Governorate access team. It will undertake a physical needs assessment and a community
assessment.
Site selection procedures have been tested in one of the focus districts in Sana'a Governorate for the first
year (Al Haimah Al Kharijiya District) and are being applied to the other three Districts. The procedures
start with a preliminary selection using the school mapping database, including data available mainly
from annual education surveys, the school mapping survey 1998/99, geographical information, and the
population census 1994. This selection is then assessed by field visits of a team comprising an engineer
and a community participation staff from tlhe Governorate Education Office, and a representative of the
District Education Office. Site selection criteria, a standard composition of a field team, and its TORs
have been agreed.
This subcomponent will also provide funds for building management capacity of MOE for
implementation of construction/rehabilitation programs at all levels of its administration. The scope of
actions will be defined on a yearly basis acc ording to results of the MOE capacity assessment, for which
component 3.3 will provide technical assistance.
First year activities. This subcomponent will support in four Districts: (a) construction of 20 three-
classroom and 20 six-classroom schools with toilets and boundary walls; (b) addition of 3-classrooms to 8
existing schools; and (c) rehabilitation of 8 serviceable schools.
MOE has prepared an initial list of about 40 sites for the first project year for construction of new schools
and a standardized bid package for each of the four design variants of new schools. Sana'a Governorate's
Education Office Projects Sector (SGEOPS) will make minor adaptations to these packages to reflect
characteristics of the selected sites for implementation in the first year. These adaptations would be
reviewed by IDA. SGEOPS needs to coraplete the adaptations to the bid packages prior to BEEP
effectiveness to permit the bidding procedures to be started soon thereafter. Detailed design and
supervision of the school extension/rehabilitation would be carried out by independent consultant firms,
based on agreed TORs.
For capacity building, this subcomponent will also support: (a) technical assistance for: review and
implementation of site selection criteria and guidelines, review of school design standards, supervision of
access programs, and preparation of programs in the other three Govemorates; (b) field visits for final
selection of sites for the second-year's programs; and (c) workshops for access programs at the Central
level and in Sana' a Governorate.
Subcomponent 1.2. School maintenance program
This subcomponent will provide funds for the implementation of cost-effective maintenance and repair
methods, which will, over time, reduce the need for costly rehabilitation. This subcomponent will also
provide funds for building management capacity of MOE for implementation of routine school
34



maintenance programs at all levels of administration. The scope of actions will be defined on a yearly
basis according to results of the MOE capacity assessment.
First year activities. This subcomponent will be prepared during the first year of the project and will be
based upon the O&M study (expected to be completed later this year); and implementation will begin in
the second year.
Project Component 2 - US$11.2 million (of which US$10.7 million IDA)
Quality Improvement
The quality component is expected to improve the learning environment of rural basic schools, especially
for grades 1-6 in the four project Governorates through: (i) in-service training of teachers; (ii) training of
inspectors and headmasters/headmistresses; (iii) supervision support to teachers; (iv) teacher deployment;
and (v) adequate provision of furniture and educational materials for students/teachers.
The inputs of the quality component will be implemented in the context of the following policy reforms:
(a) introduction of the new curriculum, which aims to change the teaching methodology to a more
interactive approach, starting September 2000 (new curriculum and textbook revision are funded under
the ongoing Basic Education Project); (b) cost-effective in-service teacher training (the approach has been
developed under the Basic Education Project); (c) continued implementation of the Teacher's Law (1998),
which aims to improve the deployment of teachers to rural areas and link remuneration to performance;
and (d) an increased operations budget for teacher training and school supervision.
Subcomponent 2.1 Improving teacher skills and deployment
This subcomponent will support in-service teacher training, inspector training, school supervision, and
reforms in teacher deployment in the four project Governorates. These inputs are provided in a
systematic and coordinated manner at the Governorate level in order to build synergy and enhance the
impact of each of the interventions. In preparation for the introduction of the new curriculum, the MOE is
providing a 5-day orientation training to all teachers for grades 1-6 starting in August 2000 with funding
from the Basic Education Project. In addition, the Basic Education Project is also funding audio-visual
equipment for the Central In-service Teacher Training Institute (ITTI), 20 Regional ITTIs and 200
district-level teacher training centers (TTC) to enhance in-service teacher training capacities. Most of the
district-level TTCs are one or two rooms at schools in central locations of the districts. This
subcomponent will build on these efforts of the Basic Education Project.
(a) Annual refresher teacher training: There will be a 5-day annual refresher training for all grades 1-
6 teachers in the project Governorates prior to the start of each school year. This training is
designed to refresh teachers' skills, primarily on pedagogical practices and alert them to
updates/changes on textbooks or teacher's guides. The training programs will be delivered at
district-level TTCs and will make use of the audio-visual equipment available at these centers.
The project will support TA required to prepare and help deliver updated refresher training
courses each year.
(b) Two-three day annual teacher training: Teachers in the project Governorates will be offered a 2-3
day training module annually in teaching domains that they need improvement in as assessed by
inspectors and headmasters and as requested by teachers themselves. These modules will be
delivered at the district-level TTCs. Teacher Training Centers will schedule training. Some of the
modules required for this training have already been developed by the MOE but others will be
developed with TA support during the first half of 2001 and updated in subsequent years.
35



(c) Inspectors, headmasters/headmistresses training: All inspectors, headmasters, and deputy
headmasters will be provided wit:h a 3-week training on supporting and mentoring teachers,
assessing their performance and areas for improvement, and providing constructive feedback.
The training, which will be held at the Regional ITTIs, will also include sub-modules in
supervision and school management for inspectors and headmasters/headmistresses. The MOE
has developed modules that could be used in this training program; TA will be provided during
the first half of 2001 to consolidate and finalize the training modules and materials. The training
will be conducted during the first summer, prior to the start of the refresher training of teachers.
In addition, inspectors and headmasters/headmistresses will also take a follow-up annual training
of up to 5 days at the Regional I`17Is. The inspectors and headmasters/headmistresses will also
be encouraged to make use of the district-level TTC facilities on a continuous basis.
(d) Supervision Support: Trained inspectors will support teachers in the project Governorates through
feedback on their teaching performance in consultation with school headmasters/headmistresses.
Inspectors will visit each school ir the project Governorate every alternate academic month (4
times per school year). The project will provide funds for transportation and related costs.
Inspectors will be paid on the basis of their supervision reports and a stamp from the schools
visited. The supervision reports will be filed in the Governorate offices and will be used for
various administrative purposes, including performance-based remuneration and teacher
deployment. TA will be provided for developing detailed mechanisms for supervision and
linkages to the teacher training programs. Supervision support will be piloted in Sana'a
Governorate starting in academic year 2001 and will be expanded to other Governorates only on
the basis of positive results. The sub-component will be carefully evaluated during the Mid-term
Review.
(e) Teacher deployment and hiring plan: BEEP will support: (i) the formulation of a national teacher
deployment and hiring plan on the basis of the agreed criteria; (ii) monitoring of the
implementation in the project Governorates, especially in the focus Districts; and (iii) annual
reviews of the experiences to update the criteria and implementation/monitoring mechanism. It
will fund TA and workshops. The implementation and monitoring will also be supported by
activities discussed above such as training inspectors and headmasters/headmistress and
strengthening supervisions of schools. It will be also expected to utilize the MIS strengthened
under subcomponent 3.2.
Subcomponent 2.2. Supplying Furniture antd Educational Materials
This subcomponent will support the provision of furniture and educational materials to schools that are
newly built or rehabilitated under the project.
(a) Furniture: All classrooms built or rThabilitated by the project will be furnished. The agreed
standard requirements of school furniture will be supplied with the completion of civil works.
(b) Educational materials: All students in schools builtlrehabilitated by the project will receive a
basic kit of pencils, notebooks, erasers, and pencil sharpeners. These will be provided as
incentives for parents to send their children to school. Since project schools will be built in
highly disadvantaged areas, where parents are poor and have difficulty paying for basic school
supplies for children (evidence from social assessments and numerous anecdotes suggests that
parents have difficulty paying the YER 150 or US$1 annual fees to schools); these kits will
provide essential incentives at aboult US$1.5 per child per year.  Supervision of schools
(supported under subcomponent 2.1.) will ensure that these kits reach the students. The sub-
component will be phased in when school construction and furniture delivery are completed.
36



However, the provision of these kits will be phased out as MOE is able to facilitate resource
allocations for educational supplies for highly disadvantaged areas. Community initiatives may
also be able to raise funds for buying these essential learning materials for disadvantaged
children. The sub-component will be carefully evaluated during the MTR and alternative
methods of financing explored.
First-year activities. BEEP will support: (a) annual refresher teacher training in the four project
Governorates in the summer of 2001; (b) annual 2-3 day teacher training in Sana'a Govemorate; (c)
training of all inspectors and headmasters in Sana'a Governorate; (d) supervision support in Sana'a
Governorate; (e) monitoring and review of the teacher redeployment and hiring plan 2000/01 for Sana'a
Governorate and preparation of the plan 2001/02 for the four project Governorates; and (f) provision of
furniture and educational materials as civil works are completed and schools become operational in the
initial four Districts of Sana'a Governorate. For capacity building, this sub-component will support TA
for review and revision of training modules/programs, teacher deployment plan, and supervision
mechanisms and linkages with teacher training programs.
Project Component 3 - US$7.8 million (of which US$7.6 million IDA)
The capacity building component is expected to strengthen the capacity of MOE to efficiently and
sustainably implement the project and basic education reforms, especially in the four Governorates. It will
strengthen the capacity of MOE for: (i) increasing community participation; (ii) preparing educational
statistics and monitoring; (iii) implementing access programs; (iv) implementing quality programs; and
(v) project management in terms of regulatory frameworks, business guidelines, staffing, skills,
management information, and management equipment and facilities.
Subcomponent 3.1. Community Participation
This subcomponent will provide funds for building management capacity for community participation. A
community participation unit (CPU) was established within MOE in December 1999 consisting of four
staff (male and female) at the Central MOE, four in Sana'a Governorate, and two in each of the other
Governorates. The role of the CPU is: (a) to ensure community participation in all activities of the MOE
through collaboration with the various sectors and departments in MOE at the Central, Governorate and
District levels; (b) to involve communities (men, women and children) in addressing their educational
needs through commitment and contribution; and (c) to help communities in helping themselves by
building capacity, encouraging team work and promoting a sense of ownership.
The CPU will prepare annual work programs, in coordination with other concerned departments, for
activities to increase community participation in education programs, including: (a) community
assessment and mobilization for access programs, with the aim to increase community participation in: (i)
decisions of the location and design of new classrooms or schools; (ii) construction supervision activities;
(iii) contribution for school construction and rehabilitation; (b) community mobilization for operations
and maintenance for schools, with the aim to increase community participation in school management and
contributions for school routine maintenance, educational classroom kits, and innovative programs for
girls education such as provision of transportation for girls; and (c) information dissemination to increase
the knowledge and awareness of all stakeholders regarding the role of communities in basic education
reforms and their experiences. The CPU staff will guide other concerned staff at all levels in the
implementation of these activities.
This subcomponent will provide: (a) technical assistance for: reviewing, developing and/or revising the
implementation guidelines and action plans for community participation activities; and facilitating
implementation of action plans; (b) 3-day Central and Governorate level workshops to train MOE staff on
37



visits to construction sites and schools; and (e) funds for community mobilization activities such as
workshops, meetings and printing materials.
First year activities. This subcomponent will target four Districts in Sana'a Govemorate for ensuring
community participation in the implementation of school construction and rehabilitation. It will also
target a few Districts in each of the four project Govemorates for mobilizing communities in selection of
new sites for the second year's implementation. The activities will include visits to the identified sites to
mobilize the target communities, assist them in organizing councils or committees, and ensure the
implementation of communities' agreements. Training activities will include: a workshop for Central
MOE staff for mainstreaming CPU activities within MOE; a workshop for CPU staff at the Central,
Governorate and District levels; and a workshop for representatives from the communities (NGOs,
councils, informal associations). Technical assistance for the design, implementation and evaluation of
CPU activities will also be provided at the Central, Govemorate and District levels. Technical Assistance
will also be provided for developing bylaws for the CPU. The CPU will also promote awareness about its
functions within MOE, and the importance of community participation in MOE activities. This will
include awareness campaigns, seminars and workshops for MOE staff.
Subcomponent 3.2. Planning, monitoring., and evaluation
This subcomponent will provide funds for improving the management capacity of MOE for: (a)
implementing the routine annual school survey; (b) planning and follow-up on the implementation of
policies and workplans through preparing and analyzing educational indicators; and (c) utilizing the
management information and communication system for planning and decision-making. This
subcomponent will support the overall improvement of education data collection and utilization and the
intensive effort in the project Govemorates.
(a) Routine annual school survey. MOE will implement annual school surveys. MOE will publish
the results in annual education statistical yearbooks for dissemination and make the data available
in the computerized MIS at the Central level and in the project Governorates. The project will
support technical assistance for reviewing and proposing necessary changes with respect to the
coverage, quality, implementation procedures, and costs.  The project will also support
implementation of the survey, including: workshop and other non-personnel costs for improving
the capacity of Govemorate staff, District staff, school principals, and teachers for collecting and
reporting accurate school data and the capacity of central and Governorate staff for organizing
and reporting the results. The scope of IDA assistance will be reduced as MOE improves its
capacity.
(b) Annual education plan and follow-up. The MOE statistics and planning team will prepare annual
education plan and follow-up reports of education indicators according to annually agreed
standards with respect to the coverage and quality. The follow-up reports will be prepared twice
per year, including: (a) annual assessment of education outcomes (e.g., number of enrollments);
and (b) annual monitoring of achievements of access, quality, and capacity building programs
(outputs) such as classrooms built and teachers trained. The Central MOE planning team will
organize planning/follow-up workshops yearly at the Central level and in the project
Govemorates. The project will also provide technical assistance to a central planning team for
revising the monitoring guideline and designing workshops.
(c) Management information system. MIOE will implement an MIS strategy by upgrading and
updating computerized key databases and increasing the effective use of MIS for policy planning
and monitoring, especially: (a) school mapping database in selecting school sites; (b)
teacher/personnel database in preparing a teacher deployment and hiring plan; and (c) financial
database in reporting actual MOE expenditures. The MIS strategy and action plan for the central
38



database in reporting actual MOE expenditures. The MIS strategy and action plan for the central
MOE and Sana'a Govemorate have been developed and started implementation under the
ongoing Education Sector Investment Project. Implementation under BEEP will begin in the
second year. BEEP will support the implementation at the Central MOE and in project
Governorates by provision of technical assistance for review and revision of the MIS strategy for
education management (e.g., utilization of database, organizational responsibilities for updating
and sharing data, staff skills, tool requirements), workshops at the Central and Governorate
levels, and software/equipment.
First year activities. (a) implementation of the Routine Annual School Survey 2000/01; (b) follow-up
and evaluation of the annual plan 2001 for Sana'a Govemorate; and (c) preparation of the 2002 plan for
the four project Governorates. The action plan of the management information flow strategy will be
supported under the ESIP for the Central MOE and Sana'a Govemorate.
Subcomponent 3.3. Project management and coordination
This subcomponent aims to ensure that project activities are executed and managed in an efficient manner
within the scope and objectives of the project. Resources and staff will be available to ensure a successful
execution of BEEP, as follows: (i) technical assistance to strengthen project implementation capacity of
MOE; (ii) technical assistance for semi-annual supervision; (iii) the establishment of a credit
administration unit (CAU), to assist the MOE in developing annual work plans and coordinating day-to-
day operation of BEEP; (iv) training MOE's staff in project management, including training in computer
skills, accounting, and IDA's procurement and financial procedures; (v) necessary equipment for the CAU
and the Govemorate offices involved in the implementation of BEEP; and (vi) operational costs,
including annual audit cost.
Table 1: Regional scope of interventions by subcomponent
Focus district
Activities                Project  Non-project  Governorate  National
______________________ schools    schools            level
Construction/rehabilitation                X
School routine maintenance                 X          X
,Trainig of teachers                                                x
Supervision of schools                                              X
!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ._._ ....__.__..__...-----....... ___._. _._._.___._._._._._._._._........ ....... ...... .. ___,.__._, _.._._._.Z._. ............ ... .._ .......... .... ._ ._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._ __.__..
, Cssro  kits                               X 
,. _. . ...~~~~~~~~~~~......._. ._._.. ........  ... . .......   ... .. ............ .. ....    .............. .   .. .. . ........... .. .... .... ........   ..... ............   ............  ... 
Conmmunity participation field visits      X             ............. ....... ..... ..
Community participation capacity building                           X          X
Education monitoring                       X                        X           X
39



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: BASIC EDUCATION EXPANSION PROJECT
Project Cost By Component  Local   IForegnTotal
, ,~~~~~~~~~~~._. _ _....... __._-_ .... ------ ----   -- -- ----  ..........t_. _..Lo aF re g I T t l i
___ Proiect_Cot pBy_Compoent       I Us$ million  US$ million  US$ million,
1. Expansion of Access                22.7         16.2         38.9
2. Quality Improvement       .         6.5  _        3.3         9.8
3. Capacity Building       _           3.0          4.0          7.0
Total Baseline Cost                    32.2         23.5         55. 7
Physical Contingencies                  1.4          1.2         2.6
Price Contingencies                  _2.5_       __1.8           4.3__
Total Project Costs  i   36.1       26.5         62.6
Total Financing Required     36.1         26.5         62.6
40



Annex 4
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: BASIC EDUCATION EXPANSION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
The economic soundness of the project design is ensured by: (i) basing the project concept on the County
Assistance Strategy (CAS, 1999) and sector work, especially the Public Education Expenditure Review
(PER, 1999) and the Education Sector Assistance Strategy (ESAS, 1999); (ii) selecting cost-effective
options for the two major sub-components--classroom construction and in-service teacher training; (iii)
including implementation of key education policy and expenditure reform measures aimed at fiscal
sustainability; and (iv) strengthening institutional capacity.
I. Project based on CAS and ESAS
The objective of the project-increase the enrollments of rural children, especially girls, in grades 1-6-is
consistent with one of the four CAS objectives, the creation of an early stream of social benefits which
directly address poverty. The project also supports capacity building of MOE and communities to ensure
sustainability of the project and efficiency of public expenditure, addressing another CAS objective-the
creation of a modem public administration.
The project also reflects strategic directions in the ESAS: (i) reorienting new lending programs toward the
first stage of basic education; (ii) restructuring supervision for results, which is reflected in a strong
linkage between ongoing IDA projects and the BEEP; and (iii) supporting policy reforms, which is
reflected in the design of project components.
Poverty reduction, the central goal of the CAS, is supported by the project through: targeting grades
1-6 of basic education, rural children, girls, and under-served Governorates and districts. The expected
outcome of the project (increased enrollments in focus districts by 30%) would contribute to increasing
the overall gross enrollment ratio in grades 1-6 of basic education. To increase the gross enrollment ratio
from 70% in 1998/99 to 80% in 2004/05, enrollment would increase by nearly 20%, from 2.2 million in
1998/99 to 2.6 million in 2004/05. While four Governorates are currently close to the target, the
remaining Governorates require special attention. The project has selected four Govemorates among
those that have low enrollment ratios for girls.
The project targets four Governorates including nearly 20% of school-aged population and 370,000
students in grades 1-6. The project will focus on one-third of the 55 districts of the four Govemorates (20
Districts) which provide the least access to basic education for girls. The selection of Districts requires
strong coordination among all agencies involved in school construction. For example, the SFD targets
under-served Districts nationwide and the Child Development Project also targets 30 Districts in 9
Governorates. District selection for BEEP will take into account interventions by other agencies as well
as information from the school mapping exercise.
The project would provide additional school places for nearly 80,000 rural children in the focus Districts
by constructing 2,100 new classrooms and associated basic facilities. In addition, the project would add
school places for 16,000 children by rehabilitating existing schools to improve the capacity of about 500
classrooms. The effectiveness coefficient of an additional school place to enrollment is assumed to be
high (0.8) for this project since the project includes measures such as community participation and school
quality improvement. Therefore, the project is expected to increase enrollments in 20 focus Districts by
30%. At least 60% of them are assumed to be girls.
41



The project is also expected to have spillover effects on enrollment increases and girls' participation in
non-focus Districts of pilot Governorates through capacity building of central and Governorate MOE.
With a modest estimate of 10%, enrollment increase in the remaining 35 Districts, enrollment in the pilot
Governorates would increase by 20%, resulting in an increase of the enrollment ratio by 10%.
II. Project supports cost-effective approaches
For two major sub-components of the project-school construction and in-service teacher training - the
designs are selected on the basis of cost-effectiveness analysis.
Cost-effective construction of rural schools for girls in grades 1-6. To increase availability and use of
school places in rural areas, the design of the component addresses two key elements:
(a) Low cost of classroom. The cost per classroom ranges from US$5,000 to US$30,000 among
projects being implemented in Yemen (see Table A.4. 1). The cost difference is mainly explained
by school design, type of construction (i.e., construction of a new school or extension), and
administration procedures. Classrooms built under the SFD represent the low-cost end of the
range, applying low-cost design, community participation through land donations and other
contributions, intensive supervision of project site, and a streamlined payment system.
Classrooms built under the PWP and the UNICEF Area-Based Program also provide evidence
that community participation is a critical element to lower the construction cost.
(b) High probability of impact on girls' enrollments. The average size of classrooms for grades 1-6 is
29.25 sq.m in Yemen, which is expected to accommodate about 40 students. MOE and other
concerned agencies/donors suggest that better coordination and information sharing regarding
location decision would result in reducing duplication of efforts for expanding schools and
increasing the impact of new classrooms on enrollment increases. Feedback from concerned
officials indicates a high probability that at least 50% of students in the new classroom would be
girls, provided the project has design features such as community participation and school
activities targeted to girls.
The construction program of the BEEP is being designed applying elements to increase its cost-
effectiveness discussed above:  (a) low-cost school design based on the agreed standard area
requirements; (b) data-based school site identification; (c) community participation in confirnming
appropriateness of site and school design for girls; (d) community contribution to school construction; (e)
decentralized and streamlined supervision of the construction program; and (f) provision of furniture to
new classrooms. The classroom cost per square meter is estimated at US$150.
Cost-effective in-service teacher training for rural schools. The in-service teacher training component
of BEEP builds on work being done under the ongoing BEP. BEP will finance the initial orientation of
teachers required to introduce the new curricula for grades 1-6. BEEP will finance the continuing training
for teachers. The objective of training programs selected for further cost-effectiveness analysis is to
refresh knowledge and pedagogy of grades 1-6 teachers. The elements of training approaches which could
affect the cost and scale of outputs are analyzed, by reviewing programs and training facilities available in
Yemen and other countries' experiences (see Tables A4.2a and A4.2b).
(a) Feasible recurrent and investment requirements. The difference in costs of in-service teacher
training is mainly explained by costs of travel, accommodation, and international technical
assistance. While a central-based training would have a large class size (lower instructor cost per
trainee), the travel and accommodation costs would reduce the benefit from the economics of
42



Table A4.1: Data for cost-effective analysis of classroom construction for girls
Probability
Project name        Average          Average          Average         Average         I .Supervision          Community              Specific activity to         Specific activity to        that at lat
(major         number of         number of    cost ($) per   construction             2. final          participation and        ensure availability of      ensure availability of           50%
financier)     classrooms        students per    classroom2           period         approval for           contribution               furnliture and         teachers and O&M  for   of students in
and key         classroom        (per rn2)                         payment to                                    equipnment for new            new classrooms                new
facilities         (ma)                                            contractors                                        classrooms                                          classrooms
are girls 3'
ESIP              12               50               7000            15 month          1. MOE            Land, list of girls to     The project provides         The project facilitates     High
(IDA)            Lab,              (38.95 m2)       ($170-180)                        2. MOF            be students in new         furniture and                community
Wall,                                                                                  schools, identified        equipment                   participation program
Sanitary                                                                               local females to teach                                 for identification of
in new schools                                         female teachers
BEP              4                 40               Low:            12 month          1. MOE            Not specific               The project provides         Agreement with MOE          High
(IDA/NL)         Wall              (34.45 m2)       12,000                            2. MOF                                       furniture and                on allocation of female
High:                                                                          equipment                   teachers to new
15,503                                                                                                     schools
($ 188)                          _ _  _  _ _  _ _   _ _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _     _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _     _  _ _  _ _  _
PWP              3                 40               Low:            8-10              1. PMU            Proposals for projects   Coordinate with SFD            No                          Low
(IDA)                              (29.25 in2)      5,558           month             2. MOF            Contributions of
High:                                               more than 5% of the
Li                                                          7,605                                               total costs
_________________________($170)                        ________ _______________
SFD              3                 40               Low:            7                 1. Consultants   Community                   The project provides         The project facilitates      Medium
(IDA)                              (29.25 m2)       3,949           month             as project         proposals for sub-        fumiture/ equipment          formulation of O&M
High:                            manager &          projects                   for some schools            committees for new
6,435                            SFD                Provision of land,         (depend on proposals).   schools
($163)                           2. SFD             Sign up other
contribution before
tender
ABP              N/A. Q            40               Low:            7                 1. Consultant    Facilitator for             The program provides    The program provides    High
(UNICEF)                           (30.4 in2)       3,333           month             as project         comrmunity                furniture and school         UNICEF school kits
High;                            manager &          mobilization is            media for some              for some schools
5,185                            MOE                located in program         schools
($110-171)                       2. UNICEF          sites
MOE-             3                 40               Low:            24                1. Central         Not specific              Coordinate with              Coordinate with              Low
Central                            (29.25 m2)       16,341          month             MOE:                                          concemed MOE                concemed MOE
(GOY)                                               High:                             2. MOF                                       offices                      offices
25,982                                              _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
MOE-             3                 40               Low:            24                I.Govemorate   Not specific                   Coordinate with             Coordinate with              Low
Govemorate                         (29.25 m2)       14,109          month             2.MOF                                         concerned MOE               concerned MOE
(GOY)                                               High:                                                                          offices                      offices
39,757
Sources: Unit cost per square neter for IDA projects come from CPPR December 1998, PAD of CDP, MOE, CU for ESIP.
Notes: Costsarebasedonacmtalin 1997 orearly 1998. For MOE projects, exchange rates euf 135 YR per dollar was used.
1/ ESIP constructs ew schools. Other projects construct rew schools or expand existing schools.
2/ Costs perclassroomfor BEP, ESIP, and MOE are estimation using data fromtotalcosts ofconistration and the umber of elassooms. Tlerefore, the costs for projects including extensive facilities (e.g., wals, sanitary) ate overestimated.
3/ World Bank staff estinatin of probability that 5  of stkdents in new classrooms are girls, High (far naore than 50%), Medium (about 5%), Low (much less thn 0%) 4/It is difficult to decide average classrooms of the UNICEF program bcause the pgram rehabilitates, adds
classrooms to existing schools, or builds new schools, New schools have averages 6 classrooms and one admsinistrative room Supervision and payment process is for lager contracts For small contracts, a consultant frrm will not be involved.



scale. Regarding technology, there is not yet a strong intemational evidence that high technology-
based training such as video-conferencing and intemet-based training would be cost-effective for
in-service teacher training in low income countries such as Yemen which faces a scarcity of
engineers and managers for operating the system, little familiarity of trainees with self-learning
and distance learning, and necessity to import expensive equipment.
(b) Adequate impact of a new curriculum on classroom teaching. International experiences show that
implementing a new curriculum in grades 1-6 requires special attention to issues that an
orientation training cannot provide by itself; it should be supported by regular supervision and
opportunities for teachers to discuss problems with their peers and local teaching inspectors; and
preparation of teachers needs to include head teachers and principals who would oversee the
implementation of the new curriculum at schools.
The in-service teacher training program of the BEEP is being designed and initiated as a part of the
ongoing Basic Education Project through applying elements to increase cost-effectiveness discussed
above: (a) adequate and fiscally feasible technology, such as television, video-cassette, and tape recorder,
which could be used in existing training facilities and with their trainers; (b) a cascading approach,
starting from training of trainers at the central institute, training of supervisors at the Govemorate training
institutes, and training of teachers at the district-level centers (about one center for one or two Districts),
these district-level centers would be part of schools or adniinistration buildings; (c) provision of follow-
up activities such as supervision visits to schools at least three times per year; and (d) provision of
training of supervisors and principals to assess impact of training on classroom teaching. The unit cost of
5-day training per teacher is estimated at US$35.
Table A4.2. a. Comparison of donor-funded in-service teacher training in Yemen
UNESCO                                   UNICEF
Project status     A pilot project under planning    Ongoing
Location           School in remote areas        School
Number of targets   10 schools/sites (to be funded by Schools in 3 Governorates (Ibb for 2 regions; Abyan for
UNESCO) and 3 schools         4 regions; and Hodaidah for 5 regions)
Trainees           Teachers in nearby schools as    Teachers,
the need arises. No definite  Headteachers,
figures available             Local supervisors
Components and     No definite plans available yet.  (a) 2 weeks initial training for classrooms teachers
duration of program                              (b) 2 weeks course for inspectors
(c) Monthly meeting for teachers, with materials
development sessions.
(d) Bi-monthly newsletters.
Cost               US$1,500 per school           Unit cost for a teacher attending initial training course in
(estimated)                   Sana'a is US$142 (including travel costs)
In addition, the project covers the following travel costs:
(a rough estimate unit cost for a  (a) 2 two weeks training for inspectors
teacher: US$300, assuming that  (b) Supervisory visits schools, twice monthly.
a remote rural school would  (c) Teachers travel to attend monthly meetings
have 5 teachers on average.   Total cost: US$1.6 million for three years
Equipment          A set of TV, VCR, radio and
cassette players per school :r
sub-center
44



Table A4.2.b. International comparison of a short-term teacher in-service training
Yemen                      Belize                   Malaysia
Estimate for a new
program in
Group-Trainees Capacity   20 trainees               20 trainees                 20 trainees
Duration of program       5 days/6 hours per day    5 daysl6 hours per day      5 days/6 hours per day
Unit costs per trainee    US$58.5                   US$300                      US$105
Location                  Regional center-based     Regional based.             Regional college-based
Approach as a whole       Cascading                 No information available.    Cascading.
program
Cost estimates
(a) Subsistence and local   No provision for        US$15 x 20 participants x 5   US$4 x 20 x 5 days =
travel for participants   participants' subsistence.   days = 1,500             400
(b) Participants' travel  US$6 x 20 x 5 days=600    (included in item (a))      US$15 x 20 participants
= 300 (accommodation
provided)
(c) Travel and per diem   US$20 x 2 x 5 days = 200   US$100 x 2 x 5 days        Not applicable.
for local technical                                 1,200
assistance
(d) Professional fees for   No provision.           US$300.00 x 2 x 5 days =    US$30 (per hour) x 6
local technical assistance                          3,000                       hours x 5 days = 900
(e) Internal travel for local  US$16 x 20 = 320     US$150 x 2 = 300            Not applicable.
technical assistance.
(f) Stationery and        US$10 x 5 days = 50       No information available    US$5 x 20 x 5 days =
supplies                                                                        500
(g) Utilities and secretarial
assistance
Total                     US$1,170                  US$6,000                    US$2,100
Source: Aziz, Arfah. (January 2000) "Comprehensive Report In-service Teacher Training Options for Yemen.,
Notes:
1. The estimate for Yemen is based on a proposed training for 23,000 teachers for orientation to the new curriculum in 2000.
The total estimate for the course in Yemen is lower as it does not provide for daily subsistence for participants, as well there
is no provision for professional fees for the trainers.
2. In the Malaysian case, there is provision for professional fees for the trainers if the course is conducted during the period
of vacation.
45



III. Project supports fiscal sustainability
Macroeconomic framework and funding availability for basic and secondary education. To assess
the fiscal viability of public expenditures for basic and secondary education (MOE) over the next five
years, the macroeconomic framework projected by the Government for the Interim Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper (IPRSP) was used. GDP is projected to grow at 3-5% per year in real terms. Public
recurrent expenditures are projected to remain constant at its 2000 level in real terms while its share of
GDP would decrease from 30.8% in 2000 to 23.7% in 2005. Development (investment) expenditures are
projected to increase their share of GDP from 5.7% in 2000 to 6.8% in 2005. The Government has also
projected to increase expenditures for the social sectors (education, health, and social safety net) from
9.3% of GDP in 1999 to 11.1% in 2005.
Official projections of public expenditures for basic and secondary education (or the Ministry of
Education) are not yet available. Thus, this analysis assumes that MOE's central government current
expenditures will stay at its 2000 level in real terms given that (i) the government has completed
substantial increases of salaries and wages incurred by the implementation of the Teacher Law (i.e.,
introducing new allowances such as incentive and special allowances at 100% of base salary) during
1998-2000 and (ii) it aims to rationalize the overall staffing and increase recurrent budgets for adequate
operations and maintenance. For development expenditures, this analysis assumes that the MOE's share
of central government development expenditures would increase nearly to the level in 1998 (13%). This
assumption reflects the facts that (i) increasing access to basic education is the highest priority in the
Government's education strategy; (ii) the MOE has not started any major new project in 1999-2000 but
concentrated on completing all ongoing projects; and (iii) the MOE plans to start new projects in 2001.
Expenditure requirements for basic and secondary education and fiscal impact of the BEEP. The
MOE is currently formulating the five-year education plan (2001-2005) as input to the second five-year
plan. The formulation of the plan is an ongoing and dynamic process which involves stakeholders such
as MOE staff of all levels, Ministries of Planning and Finance, and donors. The five-year education plan
will reflect (i) the General Framework for the Second Five Year Plan which addresses the priority of the
social sectors and (ii) the Letter of Basic Education Policies agreed between the Government and IDA
which the BEEP supports. The Letter of Basic Education Policies includes policy and expenditure reform
measures, chosen from those on which the Government and IDA agreed during the PER for Yemen to
expand basic education within a sustainable rnedium-term macroeconomic framework. They cover:
(a) Overall budget: maintaining the priority of basic education as measured by its share in the
Government budget and GDP. The project contributes directly to this priority.
(b) Personnel: freezing overall MOE hiring with exemptions only to rectify identified shortages, e.g.,
female teachers and some secondary school subjects; rationalizing overall MOE staffing through
teacher deployment and reduction of administrators; and improving linkage between salary
increases and teacher performance. lThe project will support these measures gradually, starting
with monitoring teacher deployment within each pilot Govemorate.
(c) Operations and maintenance (O&M): increasing budget allocations for O&M, channeling these to
schools, and increasing accountability for the use of O&M funds; improving the allocation of
O&M expenditure among Governorates; and allowing schools to retain the community
participation funds they collect. The project will support these measures, starting with piloting
adequate of O&M funding available at schools in focus Districts, based on the O&M study being
completed in 2000.
46



(d) Investment: prioritizing allocation to ongoing projects for completion in the planned project
period; extending the double-shift system to reduce the need for additional classrooms; adopting
lower-cost construction design standards; improving school siting through community
participation; reducing costs with community contributions; and, in the medium term, through
school mapping; improve construction efficiency through improved flow of funds, shorter
construction periods, and better supervision. The project will support these measures, starting
with construction projects in focus Districts and extending the experiences, especially in pilot
Govemorates, through the capacity building component.
A reform scenario is used for updating projections of expenditure requirements for basic and secondary
education to demonstrate the fiscal sustainability of the project and to assist MOE's ongoing work for the
formulation of the five-year plan. The projections will also provide benchmarks for monitoring
implementation of reform measures in the four project Governorates (a set of monitoring indicators is
included in the PIP). The reform scenario aims to increase the GER for basic education from 61% in
1999 to 71% in 2005 through implementing the expenditure and reform measures discussed above
country wide. Table A4.3 shows key indicators from projections of a macroeconomic framework,
funding availability and expenditure requirements for basic and secondary education. The reform scenario
would have no recurrent financing gap. The small investment financing gap could be reduced by
financing resources which are not included in the projection of financial availability such as PWP. For
recurrent expenditure requirements, a status quo scenario is also used to assess the impact of personnel
policies. The status quo scenario assumes that the implementation of personnel policies would not be
satisfactory in some non-project Govemorates and thus the total number of MOE permanent staff
(administrators and teachers) would remain at the same level as 2000. The financing gap (about YER 8
billion) suggests a high sensitivity of assumptions used for the personnel policies and a high attention and
commitment required for following up and monitoring the implementation of the policies.
The total costs of the BEEP are US$62.6 million (YER 10,105 million) over a five-year implementation
period. The project investment costs will represent about 16% of the investment expenditures for basic
and secondary education. The project recurrent costs will be 14% of the project costs (US$9.0 million)
but a small percentage of the projected total MOE recurrent expenditures (less than 1%). The project will
create incremental recurrent costs during its implementation and after project completion. The project
should contribute to more efficient allocation and use of funding through (i) implementing policy and
expenditure reform measures discussed above; (ii) monitoring/following up the implementations of these
measures in the project Governorates; and (iii) building capacity of central and pilot Governorates for the
implementation and monitoring. Thus, the incremental recurrent costs of the project are estimated fiscally
affordable.
47



Table A4.3. Key Indicators for Fiscal Inmact Assessment
Est.     Est.                       Projection 4/
M1999        2000      2001     2002      2003     2004      2005 2001-2005
Macroeconomic Framework
Real GDP at market prices (% change)              3.8      3.9       3.1      3.5       4.1      4.8       5.4        n/a
Total fiscal expenditures (% of GDP)             32.1     36.5      34.6     32.4      31.6     30.9      30.5        n/a
Current expenditure (%of GDP)                  26.5      30.8     28.4      26.1     25.1      24.3     23.7        n/a
Development expenditure (% of GDP)              5.6       5.7      6.2       6.3      6.5       6.6      6.8        n/a
Total budget social expenditures (% of GDP) 1/    9.3     10.1      10.6     10.7      11.0     11.0      11.1        n/a
MOE Funding Availability 2/
Recurrent (YER ml, constant 1999)           51,396   65,490   65,490   65,490   65,490   65,490   65,490    327,452
Investment (YER ml, constant 1999)           5,774    6,568    9,183    9,657   10,372   11,038    11,986       52,236
Key Indicators for Basic Education Reforms
GER-basic education (%)                          62       61        61       62       65        68        71-       n/a
GER-secondary education (%)                      29       30        30       31        31       31       32         n/a
Girls share-basic education (%)                  33       35        37       38        38       39        39        n/a
MOE Expenditure Requirements
(YER ml, constant 1999)
Reform scenaio
Recurrent, of which salary and wages                           49,350   47,596   45,802   45,203   45,689    233,640
Recurrent, of which operations and maintenance                  8,270    8,858    9,905   11,149   12,467       50,649
Recurrent, of which transfer and scholarship                    5,586    5,481    5,411    5,376    5,428       27,282
Total Recurrent                                                63,206   61,935   61,118   61,728   63,584    311,571
Investment of which construction/rehabilitation                -4,231    6,838   10,207   10,654   10,500       42,430
Investment of which others                                      1,610    1,950    2,359    2,336    2,225       10,479
Total Investment                                                5,840    8,789   12,565   12,990   12,725       52,909
Status quo scenariofor staffing
Recurrent, of which salary and wages                           53,016   52,988   52,327   52,311   51,939    262,581
Total Recurrent                                                67,180   67,745   68,135   69,367   70,312    342,739
Reform scenario (% of recurrent distribution)
Recurrent, of which salary and wages                              78%      77%       75%      73%       72%
Recurrent, of which operations and maintenance                    13%      14%       16%      18%       20%
Recurrent, of which transfer and scholarship                       9%       9%        9%       9%        9%
Total Recurrent                                                  100%     100%      100%     100%      100%
MOE Finaning Gap (YR ml) 3/
Reform scenario
Recurrent                                                       -2,284   -3,556   -4,373   -3,762    -1,906    -15,881
Investment                                                      -3,342     -869    2,193     1,952      739        673
Status quo scenario for staffing
Recurrent                                                       1,689    2,254    2,645    3,877    4,822       15,287
BEEP Project Costs (YER ml)
Recurrent                                       n'a       n/a       57      203       295      401       509      1,465
Investment                                      n,'a      n/a     882    1,462    2,060    2,395      1,885      8,685
BEEP Project Costs (% of MOE Expenditure
Requirements)
Recurrent % of MOE recurrent                    n/a       n/a   0.09%    0.33%     0.48%    0.65%    0.80%       0.47%
Recurrent % of MOE non-salary recurrent                         0.41%     1.42%    1.92%    2.43%    2.85%        1.88%
Investment                                      n/a       n/a   15.1%    16.6%     16.4%     18.4%    14.8%       16.4%
Sources: Government of Yemen Budget Book 2000. IPRSP July 2000. IMF and World Bank staff estimates.
Notes: 1/ Social expenditures include all spending on health, education, and social safety net.
2/ Projection based on the macroeconomic framework and the assumptions.
3 /MOE expenditure requirements minus MOE funding availability
4/ While a fiscal year starts in January, a school year starts in September. This analysis assumes 1999/00 as 2000.
48



IV. Project design and preparation aim to strengthen institutional capacity
The main risk associated with the IDA education projects in Yemen relates to potential project
implementation delays caused by: changes in political and administrative leaderships, lack of incentives
among MOE staff related to low ownership of the project, cumbersome bureaucratic procedures among
ministries, weak institutional and organizational capacity at all levels of education management, and
complicated project design. This set of risks has been reduced by: (a) involving MOE and other
stakeholders in project preparation; (b) giving high priority to capacity building in the project design; (c)
making the project concept simple; and (d) keeping the implementation plan flexible.
(a) Involving MOE and other stakeholders in project preparation. The project concept is built on
ongoing efforts of MOE and other concerned Government agencies/donors. In particular, MOE
staff have actively been involved in designing program elements and committed to preparation
activities.
(b) Giving high priority to capacity building in the project design. Project preparation has helped
MOE clarify the organizational framework, establish a policy framework for the next five years,
and establish basic requirements for a modernized education and financial management
information system at Central MOE and pilot Governorates. The capacity building component of
the project will further help MOE utilize the core capacity for annual education planning,
budgeting, and monitoring. The implementation of the project will start in Sana'a Govermorate
where a capacity assessment and development plan for project implementation has been prepared.
The project implementation plan is also being developed, specifying roles and functions in detail
and drawing key stakeholders into the implementation process. A Credit Administration Unit is
being established, limited to core functions.
(c) Making the project concept simple. To maximize ownership and participation at all levels, the
objective of the project is kept simple: it is accepted by all stakeholders as the highest sector
priority. Considering the limited current capacity of MOE, the initial geographic target of the
project will be under-served Districts in a few Governorates with low enrollments of girls in basic
education. The project will start in one Governorate and expand to three more Governorates
where the need is greatest and where efforts can be concentrated so as to sufficiently strengthen
capacity. This phased approach will allow for gaining implementation experience before reform
measures are introduced on a wider scale, and will allow a realistic pace for building MOE
capacity.
(d) Keeping the implementation plan flexible. The reforms which the project supports (summarized
in the Government's Letter of Basic Education Policies) are ambitious given the capacity of MOE
and communities.  Therefore, the implementation plan of the project needs to take into
consideration the stage of capacity development, which could differ by sub-component and target
areas. To adjust to progress in capacity building, the detailed project plan will be based on annual
workplans which the Government and IDA will agree on the basis of the Letter of Basic
Education Policies.
49



Ainex 5: Financial Summaary
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: BASIC EDUCATION EXPANSION PROJECT
Implementation Period               Operational Period
2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   Total   2006   2007   2008
Project Cosis
Investment Costs      5.4    9.0   12.7   14.8   11.6   53.5
Recurrent Costs       0.3    1.3    1.8    2.5    3.2    9.1    3.7    3.5    3.7
Total           5.7   10.3   14.5   17.3   14.8   62.6    3.7    3.5    3.7
Financing Sources
(Amounts)
IDA                   5.4    9.3   13.0   15.4   12.9   56.0
Government            0.2    0.7    1.1    1.4    1.4    4.8    3.4    3.5    3.7
Communities           0.1    0.3    0.4    0.5    0.5    1.8
Total           5.7   10.3   14.5   17.3   14.8   62.6    3.4    3.5    3.7
Financing Sources
(% of Total Project Costs)
IDA                    95%    90%    90%    89%    87%    89%
Government              4%      7%      8%     8%      9%      8%   100%   100%   100%
Communities             2%      3%     3%      3%      3%      3%_ _ _ _
Total           100%   100%   100%   100%   100%   100%   100%   100%   100%
Note: Figures may not add up due to rounding
50



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: BASIC EDUCATION EXPANSION PROJECT
Procurement
Within its mandate to assist MOE in the administration of the IDA credit, the Credit Administration Unit
(CAU) will cover a wide range of responsibilities, ranging from managing central procurement (mainly
procurement of goods and consulting services), overseeing procurement of civil works at the Governorate
levels to provide technical advice to the Implementation Teams.
While MOE has been involved in the implementation of IDA-financed projects through PIUs, BEEP will
introduce new procurement arrangements in which MOE staff at the Governorate level will directly be
involved in the procurement of civil works for new schools. The proposed approach relies on
standardized designs, standard bidding documents approved by IDA, training, and technical assistance for
design, preparation of bidding documents and supervision of schools to be rehabilitated/extended.
Results will be evaluated at the end of the first year of project implementation to assess whether the
approach is working or not (i.e., standard bidding documents and standard drawings are being used,
advertising and bid evaluation is done in a reasonable period of time etc.). Based on the results of this
assessment, the proposed approach may be continued or changed.
The CAU will be staffed with competent professional staff hired through a competitive process. This
recruitment will be carried out prior to Board presentation.
A procurement assessment has been carried out and an action plan prepared to remedy the problems
identified. They are both available in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). The procurement
assessment was conducted for the Central level of the MOE (specifically, the General Directorate for
Designs and Projects -- GDDP) and the Sana'a Govemorate office where implementation will take place
in the first year. Based on the discussion with the relevant authorities and individuals during the
assessment, both the GDDP and its Sana'a branch office have the experience and capacity to implement
the works contracts to be financed under the project. They have been doing similar types of projects for
many years. However, they have weaknesses which need to be addressed and rectified.
Recommended actions to help mitigate these weaknesses are discussed below:
1.    The use of the Bank Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) and Guidelines in the procurement
process. Documents including the engineering designs and bill of quantities have already been prepared
by GDDP and are being reviewed by IDA for approval.
2.    Introduction of Staff Service Rules and Manual of Procedures as a management tool. These tools
are being prepared by the Borrower.
3.    Training sessions will be organized on the Bank's SBD, Evaluation Form, and the Guidelines for
Procurement of Works and Goods; they will be completed for the Sana'a branch of GDDP before
December 31, 2000. This action would give implementation teams more insights into the Bank's
procurement guidelines and procedures.
4.    Introduction of a project management tool: the yearly Project Implementation Plan (PIP) & the
associated Work Program and Operating Budget, will be prepared and discussed with the IDA project
51



team three months before the beginning of the fiscal year. This action would help improve the planning
capacity of the implementation teams.
5.    Operating budget and top up of core staff salary. The Government will allocate out of its own
budget funds to cover the cost of construction supervision for new schools and for paying incentives to
core staff working on the project. This acilion would help reduce risks associated with the low pay level
of Government employees. During negotiations The Minister of Education has committed to allocate
adequate funds through the ministry's budget.
The CAU will be responsible for the preparation and the monitoring of procurement plans, and for all
centralized procurement. It will also provide guidance on procurement procedures to the Implementation
Teams at the Governorate levels. It is agreed that all goods (which will mainly be school furniture and
educational material) will be centrally procured by the CAU as well as technical assistance and training.
The MOE's Governorates' offices will procure all civil works, with TA in case of rehabilitation and
extension. The Credit will finance civil works, goods, technical assistance, and training. Procurement
under the Credit will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for -Procurement under
IBRD Loans and Credits - January 1995, revised January and revisions up to January 1999 and for--
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers-- January 1997 and revisions up to
January 1999. Project components not financed by the Bank will be procured in accordance with national
regulations. The Bank's guidelines and standard documents will be used for the procurement of work and
goods. Although some goods will be procured under International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
procedures, most procurement will follow National Competitive Bidding (NCB); an Arabic version of
Bank-approved standard bidding documents for works and goods will be used by the project.
Procurement methods (Table A)
WORKS. Civil works undertaken by BEEP will comprise construction, extension and rehabilitation of 3-
or 6-classroom schools, and are estimated at US$36.3 million. Civil works will be of smnall value and
spread throughout rural areas of the four project Governorates. They will not attract foreign firms and
therefore ICB is not foreseen. All civil works contracts will be awarded under NCB procedures. For
contract values above US$100,000, advertisement in two national newspapers will be required. For
contract values below US$100,000 up to art aggregate amount of US$20.0 million, simplified bidding
documents and announcements through posti ng in public areas will be used.
GOODS. Goods and equipment will primarily include furniture for schools, as well as classroom kits,
and office equipment and computers for the CAU, and are estimated at US$5.9 million. Goods with
estimated contract values above US$350,000 will be procured through International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) procedures. Goods with estimated contract values below US$350,000 up to an aggregate amount of
US$3.0 million will be procured through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures with
advertisements in at least two national newspapers. Goods with an estimated contract value below
US$50,000 up to an aggregate amount of US$500,000 will be procured through International/National
Shopping (IS/NS) by soliciting at least three competitive quotations from suppliers, in accordance with
IDA guidelines. Classroom kits, up to an aggregate amount of US$500,000, will be procured through
IINICEF, and vehicles, up to an aggregate amotunt of US$100,000, will be procured through IAPSO.
SERVICES. Services to be contracted include long-term and short-tern international and national
technical specialists, architects/engineers, trainers, financial specialists, and auditors. Quality and Cost-
Based Selection (QCBS) will be the preferred method to be used with firms. Auditors will be selected
using the Least Cost Selection (LCS). Other smaller assignments with firms and individuals will use
consultant qualification (CQ). In exceptional cases, for contracts below US$50,000, Single-Source
Selection (SS) may be used.
52



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Methodl
Expenditure Category               ________Total Cost
ICB           NCB          Other2       N.B.F.
1. Works                            0.0           36.3           0.0          0.0         36.3
(0.0)        (32.7)          (0.0)       (0.0)        (32.7)
2. Goods                            2.0            3.0           0.9          0.0          5.9
(1.9)         (2.9)         (0.8)        (0.0)        (5.6)
3. Services                         0.0            0.0           11.4         0.0          11.4
(Technical Assistance and           (0.0)         (0.0)         (11.4)       (0.0)        (11.4)
Training)
4. Recurrent Costs 3/               0.0            0.0           9.0          0.0          9.0
(0.0)         (0.0)          (6.3)       (0.0)        (6.3)
Total                            2.0            39.3          21.3         0.0          62.6
(1.9)         (35.6)        (18.5)       (0.0)        (56.0)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2/  Includes goods to be procured through UN agencies (IAPSO and UNICEF) and intemational and national shopping, consulting
services, services of contracted staff of the Credit Administration Unit, training, workshops, and technical assistance services.
3/  Include supplies, transport, gas, rent, translations (for Credit Administration Unit), field visits (transport and per diem for field
teams), and maintenance and repairs of buildings, equipment and fumiture.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Civil Works: All works contracts, with an estimated value above US$200,000 equivalent, as well as the
first three works contracts in each governorate irrespective of their value, will be subject to prior review.
Post-review will be conducted during supervision missions and procurement audits.
Goods: All goods contracts, with an estimated value above US$200,000 equivalent and the first three
goods contracts will be subject to prior review. The first three contracts for goods will be subject to IDA
prior review. Post-review will be conducted during supervision missions.
Services: All Termns of Reference (TOR) regardless of the amount of the contract will be subject to IDA
prior review. All contracts above US$100,000 for firms, and US$50,000 for individual consultants will
be subject to IDA prior review (TORs, short lists, requests for proposals, draft contract, technical and
financial proposals, contract award).
Procurement Plannin . The monitoring system presently in use for civil works, goods and services
includes data on the main procurement steps (date of advertisement, bid document date, bid evaluation
date, awarded bidder, estimated and actual cost, progress to date versus plan). A detailed procurement
plan has been prepared for the first year of the project and is included in the PIP. This will be the MOE's
blueprint for subsequent years. Methodology for preparing procurement packaging will be subject to a
special presentation prior to project launch.
53



Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review 1
Contract Value                                            Contracts Subject to
Expenditure          Threshold                 Procurement                      Prior Review
Category         (US$ thousands)                Method                        (US$ millions)
1. Works           => US$100,000                    NCB                    All contracts > US$200,000.
(Advertisement in 2 national
newspapers)
< US$100,000       Simplified NCB (Advertisement  First 3 contracts in each Governorate
in a public areas)         regardless of contract value.
2. Goods             > US$350,000                    ICB                   All contracts > US$200,000.
(Advertisement in newspapers
and Development Business)
> US$50,000 &                   NCB               First 3 contracts regardless of contract
< US$350,000         (Advertisement in 2 national               value.
papers)
< US$50,000                   ISINS              First 3 contracts regardless of contract
"Three competitive quotations              value.
from suppliers)
3. Services       Firms > US$100,000       QCBS (Advertisement in        All contracts above US$100,000;
Consultants                                   national papers; and
and Training                               Development Business for
contracts above US$200,000)
Individuals > US$50,000              CQ                  All contracts above US$50,000;
Firms < US$100,000         QCBS, LCS, CQ, SS             All TORs and cost estimates
regardless of contract value.
All SS methods.
Individuals < US$50,000            CQ, SS                  All TORs and cost estimates
regardless of contract value.
________ ____  __ _______ _______ _  ____________All  SS   m ethods.
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:       US$10 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits). However, the first year will require three missions to
ensure proper implementation start-up and famniliarization of the Ministry with IDA's procedures. Two
ex-post review missions per year will take place to review randomly selected contracts below prior review
threshold. At the end of the first year of implementation, a procurement assessment will take place to
decide whether the above arrangements will be continued for other Govemorates or if alternative
arrangements must be used.
I Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement Documentation" and contact the Regional
Procurement Adviser for guidance.
54



Disbursement
Allocation of proceeds (Table C)
The Credit of US$56.0 million will be disbursed over a 5-year period in accordance with Table C. All
project activities are expected to be completed by December 31, 2005, and the Credit will close on June
30, 2006.
Table C: Allocation of Proceeds
Expenditure Category      Amount in                    Financing Percentage
. . . . . ... .. ... .... .. .   .......  . US$   mi   ion
1. Civil works                 31.1                             90%
... . .. .... . . . .. .. ....... --.1 .. .. ., .., ........... . ........  ...................I............ .............................. .. ... .......... ............. .. .._ .- . . . .. . . .. ........ ..... .... ........ ..... . ............
2. Goods (furniture, equipment,   5.0                   100% of foreign expenditures,
educational materials & vehicles)               100% of local expenditures (ex-factory costs); and
90% of local xpenditures      items procured locally
3. Training                       7.7                              100%
4 Consultants Services    __     2.8        _ __   _               100%
i5- Maintenance and repair of      3.6                             60%
buildings, furniture and
equipment                     -               ___           __                             __
6. Incremental operating          1.7                              90%
expenditures                           _ 
7. Refunding of Project           1.5      Amount due pursuant to section 2.02 (b) of Credit Agreement
Preparation Advancep
8. Unallocated                    2.6                                                           l
Total Project Costs               56.0     __
Total                             56.0     _
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursements for Goods and Works contracts below US$200,000 and Services contract below
US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individuals will be made on the basis of Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs). Documentation will be maintained by the CAU and made available for review by
members of IDA supervision missions. Documentation relating to SOEs will be retained for up to one
year after the final withdrawal from the credit.
Documentation for Withdrawals. Withdrawal applications for contracts for goods valued at more than
US$200,000; for works of more than US$200,000; and for consulting services of more than US$100,000
for firms, and US$50,000 for individuals, will be presented with full documentation (in English) for
disbursement.
Special account:
To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, the Government will establish a Special
Account (SA) in the Central Bank of Yemen, to be operated by the CAU under terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA. The authorized allocation of US$2 million represents about 3 months of estimated
disbursements from the IDA Credit. Initially, the allocation will be limited to US$1 million, while the
full allocation can be claimed when disbursements reach US$4 million. The CAU will submit
replenishment applications for the SA on a monthly basis. The replenishment applications will be
supported by a bank statement of the SA and a reconciliation of the SA against the bank records.
Project Preparation Advance (PPA):
To speed up the preparation of the project, a PPA in the amount of US$1,500,000 has been approved on
February 5, 1998. Disbursements under the PPA are made using traditional Bank disbursement methods.
55



ANNEX 6(a): Assessment of Financial Management System
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: BASIC EDUCATION EXPANSION PROJECT
Summary of the Financial Management Akssessment:
The financial management of the project will be undertaken by the Credit Administration Unit which is
also taking over the financial management of the PPA from the Coordination Unit (CU) of the
Educational Investment Sector Project. The CAU is headed by a director, who reports directly to the
Minister of Education. The CAU which w:ill be mainly concerned with the administration of the Credit,
will have the overall responsibility for the financial management of the project, including budgeting,
accounting, management of the Special Account, handling of financial transactions and financial
reporting using systems and procedures acceptable to IDA.
To have in place an adequate financial management system that can provide, with reasonable assurance,
accurate, and timely information on the status of the project, the CAU will use a computerized accounting
system, developed locally, with PMR-basecl disbursement capabilities. The CAU, also, will acquire the
services of a qualified consultant who will set up a financial management system for the project and
finalize the project's Financial Management Procedures Manual. This Manual will document inter alia
the procedures to be followed in project financial management. The TORs incorporate main features of
the FM arrangements which are given below.
The accounting and financial system has to be set up in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principals. The functioning of the accounting system will incorporate internal control and checks
mechanism. The system will cater for the provision of accounting and financial data to the management
of both the Central and Governorate administration. Initial steps toward setting up project FM
arrangements are being undertaken; action plans for completing the system has been agreed.
IDA supervision missions, including countiy office-based staff, will closely monitor the progress of
CAU staff in their installation and use of the new system (including the PMR), and will provide
assistance as and when needed.
Staffing. The CAU is headed by a ful' time director with overall responsibilities of planning,
implementation and reporting. Among the key staff of the CAU will be a Financial Officer and an
Accountant. Central procurement will be managed by a procurement officer. Recruitment of these key
staff will be carried out prior to Board presentation. Selection criteria are mentioned in the action plan.
These individuals will receive on-the-job training in World Bank/IDA procurement, disbursement, project
accounts, financial reporting and auditing guidelines and procedures.
Flow of Funds. GOY will pass on the IDA funds to the MOE, with the foreign risk born by GOY,
through a special account in the Central Bank of Yemen (CBY). GOY will provide counterpart funds for
the project, through deposits to the project counterpart Yemeni Rial special account in the CBY.
Budgetary allocations will be based on the annual plan, which outlines project activities at Central and
Governorate levels.
Financial and Accounting Policies. Financial and accounting policies for the project will be developed
and incorporated in the FM Manual to ensure transparency and uniformity, provide clarity regarding
financial aspects to the various parties, and to enforce accountability. These policies inter-alia cover the
following aspects: (i) treatment of expenditures, including their classification; (ii) eligibility of
56



expenditures to be reimbursed from the IDA Credit; (iii) efficient management of funds; (iv) project
accounting policies; and (v) internal control mechanism.
Project Accounting System. The CAU will use customized accounting books and records on a cash basis.
The CAU will keep separate accounts for the operation of the CAU, for the use of consultant services, for
equipment, for civil works and other contracts, and for the Special Accounts and Statement of
Expenditures (SOEs). The CAU will develop and disseminate financial statements and financial reports,
and ensure timely audit of the financial statements. Funds received from different resources will be
identified separately and reflected in the project accounts and financial statements. The trial balance will
show all project related receipts, expenditures, and other payments as well as project operation costs.
Project financial statements and financial reports will be fully based on the project books of accounts and
substantially generated from the financial accounting system.
Financial Management Procedures Manual (FMPM). The FMPM, which will be completed by
Effectiveness, will cover: (a) flow of accounting documentation and information through the budget,
acquisition, and procurement cycles at the central and governorates level; (b) financial and accounting
policies and procedures; (c) internal control system, including computer data entry and data base
management procedures, identification of key control points within information flowcharts, and other
measures necessary to ensure the confidentiality, quality and reliability of financial data; (d) Chart of
accounts; (e) financial reporting including formats of PMR tables and reporting formats required by
GOY; (f) auditing arrangements; (g) budgeting processes; and (h) procedures for the operation of the
accounting software and related internal control arrangement and levels of protection and security of the
system. The Manual will be periodically updated and improved based on implementation experiences.
Financial Management Reports. The CAU will submit for IDA review and evaluation a quarterly PMR
for the project from the computerized financial management system. The first PMR is expected to cover
the quarter ending on September 30, 2001. The report will include the following standard parts (PMR
formats have been agreed and are included in the PIP):
(i)    Financial statements that include:
Summary of sources and uses of funds
Uses of funds by project activity
Project balance statement of affairs
Cash withdrawal
Cash forecast
Special account statement
(ii)   Project progress statements that include:
Output monitoring report using contract management information, or
Output monitoring report using unit variance as monitoring indicator
(iii)   Procurement management report that includes:
Contract expenditures report - Goods and works
Contract expenditures report - Consultants
Procurement management report - Goods and works
Procurement management report - Consultants
57



Physical information on key performance indicators that can be readily linked to the financial costs would
be maintained as part of the financial management system. Initially this would be maintained for the high
cost items, which count for a significant portion of project cost, and for items for which data on physical
activities can be easily captured. These items will be identified and will be indicated in the manual. This
list of items would be gradually expanded during implementation.
Audited Project Financial Statements. The CAU will submit to IDA the audited Project Financial
Statements (PFS) annually. PFS will include: (i) a statement of sources and utilization of funds or
balance sheet, indicating funds received from various resources, project expenditures, and assets and
liabilities of the project; (ii) schedules classifying project expenditures by components, expenditures by
categories  and sector; (iii) a Special Account reconciliation statement; and (iv) a Statement of
Withdrawals made on the basis of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs).
Audit Arrangements:
Project financial statements will be auditecl annually by independent private auditors acceptable to IDA
on the basis of Terns of Reference (TOR) and terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. By Effectiveness,
the CAU Director will appoint auditors for ithe first year of the project on terms and conditions acceptable
to IDA, and the TOR will be part of the FM[PM. Annual audited PFS will be submitted within 6 months
after the fiscal year. The audit will be comprehensive and cover all aspects of the project (i.e., all sources
and utilization of funds, and expenditures incurred), and will be carried out in accordance with
International Standards of Auditing (ISA). Terms of reference (TOR) for this assignment will cover
audit of financial transaction, and an assessment of the financial management system, include review of
internal control mechanism.
Disbursement ArranLyements
Disbursements from the IDA credit will be initially made on the traditional system (reimbursements with
full documentation and against statement of expenditures- SOEs and direct payment). It will be converted
to the new procedures (based on Project Management Reports - PMR- based disbursement report) after
the assessment of the accounting and reporting system and the issuing of a certification ensuring that the
system is operating satisfactory. This would allow to issue the first PMR by November 15, 2001.
Financial Manaaement Action Plan
To meet the Bank's PMR-based disbursement requirements and to ensure that the financial management
system is in place by Effectiveness, the CAU will oversee the implementation of the following agreed
Action Plan. The Action Plan is based on a planned Board date of October 2000, and an Effectiveness
date of January 2000.
58



Action                         Output           Responsibility         By
1. Preparation for the CAU staff to be  Detailed job position  MOE             Done
recruited                             description and TOR
2. Recruitment of the financial officer  Contract acceptable to IDA MOE        September 15, 2000
3. Preparation of TOR's for the consultant: TOR's and documentation  CAU's Director  SeptemberlO, 2000
specialist in accounting and financial  acceptable to IDA
management to develop FMPM
4. Appointment of the consultant and  Contract for the consultant CAU's Director  September 30, 2000
launching of the assignment
5. Developing of the FMPM             Draft of the FMPM to be   CAU'S Director  October 31, 2000
submitted to CAU and    and the
IDA                     consultant
6. Acquisition of the software for    Reception and installation  CAU's Director  October 31, 2000
accounting and reporting              of the package
7. Implementation of the accounting and   Set-up of the system and   CAU's Director  November 15, 2000
reporting system                      testing documents        and the
consultant
8. Transfer of the financial management   Transfer of accounting  CAU's Director  November 31, 2000
of the PPA to the CAU                 records and related
document from the CU
9. Appointment of auditors acceptable to    Audit Report       CAU's Director  December 15, 2000
IDA
10. Issuing of the 1st PMR            PMR to be submitted to    CAU's Director  November 15, 2001
IDA
59



Annex 6(b): LACI Certification
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: BASIC EDUCATION EXPANSION PROJECt
Report on the Assessment of the PMR-based Disbursements
Ineligible for PMR-based Disbursements
Part I: Financial Management System
I have reviewed the financial managemeni: system relating to this project. The objective of the review was
to determine whether the project has in place an adequate financial management system as required by the
Bank/IDA under under OP/BP 10.02.
My review, which included visits to the project implementing agency, was based on the Bank's guidelines
for "Review of Financial Management System," and focused on the assessment of the project's accounting
system, internal control, planning, budgeting and financial reporting system, selection of an auditor, as
well as the format and contents of the Project Management Report (PMR) to be submitted by the
Borrower in support of Withdrawal Applications.
I confirm that the project satisfies the Bank's minimum financial management requirements. This project
has already started the process aiming at implementing an integrated computerized accounting and project
reporting system that has been developed locally, in accordance with general accepted accounting
principals, with PMR-based disbursemenis capabilities and incorporated with internal control system.
Also, the project has hired a consultant to complete the development of the financial management systems
of the project. In my opinion, this will enable the project to have in place an adequate project financial
management system that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate, and timely information on the
status of the project PMR-based disbursements, and satisfies the Association minimum  financial
management requirements.
Signed by:                             (I6 'c.
Financial Management Specialist
Afif Al-Saqqaf MNCYE             Date
Part II: ProcurementlContract Management System
I have reviewed the procurement/contract mnanagement system relating to this project. The objective of
the review was to determine whether the procurement/contract management system adopted by the
project conforms to the Bank's guidelines fcor procurement in investment projects.
My review was based on the "Assessment: of Agency's Capacity to Implement Project Procurement,
Setting of Prior Review Thresholds and Procurement Supervision Plan" guidelines issued by the Bank.
I confirmed that the project satisfies the Bank's minimum procurement management requirements.
However, in my opinion, the project does not have in place an adequate procurement/contract
management system that can provide the appropriate data on major procurement and contract
management (PMR - Section 3) as required by the Bank/IDA.
I have detailed in the attachment the inadequacies that I found in the system together with an agreed
action plan by the Borrower to remedy the sicuation.
Signed by:                                                       c/6& iO5c
Procurement Specialist
Ali Khamis, MNSID                 Date
60



Part III: Physical Monitorable Indicators and Overall Assessment
I have reviewed the project's system for monitoring physical implementation progress, including its
monitorable indicators for major outputs. In my view, the system cannot provide the appropriate data on
physical progress (PMR - Section 2) required by the Bank/IDA.
I have detailed in the attachment the inadequacies that I found in the system together with an agreed
action plan by the Borrower to remedy the situation.
Also, based on the assessments of the FMS-OPR and PS, and/or considering my overall assessment of the
project, I am of the view that this project is not suitable for PMR-based disbursements.
Signed by:
Task Team Leader                 e        /' 2CW
Regi  Bendokat, MNSHD             Date
Part IV: Concurrence of LOA for Eligibility of Project for PMR-Based Disbursements
I have conducted a reasonable review of the process followed by the Task Team in assessing the project,
and I concur with its recommendation that this project is not eligible for PMR-based disbursements.
Signed by:
FMS-LOA/DO
Andrina A. Ambrose-Gardiner, LOAEL Date
Signed by:
Disb. Off.-LOAlDO              'km                                act/ /l  z
Thao Le-Nguyen, 1:6AftL             Date
61



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: BASIC EDUCATION EXPANSION PROJECT
Project Schedule             Planned       Actual
Time taken to prepare the pioject (months)  27          35
First Bank mission (identification)     07/07/97      07/07/97
Appraisal mission departure             11/30/99     06/17/2000
Negotiations                            12/14/99    08/23/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness          01/01/2001
Prepared by:
Ministry of Education
Preparation assistance:
PHRD grant signed on August 22, 1998, and fully disbursed.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                   Specialty
Afif Al-Saggaf           Financial Management Specialist
Ali Husni                Operations Officer
Ali Khamis               Operations Officer (Procurement Assessment)
Alia Achsien             Program Assistant
Arun Joshi               Education Specialist
Celine Gavach            Program Assistant
Dung-Kim Pham            Operations Analyst/Financial Management
Gustav Brest Van Kempen  Architect (Consultant)
Hind Tawfeek             Team Assistant
Regina Bendokat          Cluster Leader, Pr. Education Economist
Safaa El Tayeb El-Kogali   Young Professional (Community Participation/Gender Specialist)
Saleha Al-Nahdi          NGO Specialist
Takako Yuki              Operations Analyst/Economist
Vasilios Demetriou       Sr. Implementation Specialist
William Darnell          Education Management Specialist (Consultant)
Yasser El Gammal         Operations Officer
Project preparation started in 1997 with a diflerent team, for an Education Management Reform Project.
The project concept was changed in August 1999, to reflect the pace of Government Administrative
Reform and revised sector strategy. The pre-appraisal mission for the project took place in November
1999
62



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: BASIC EDUCATION EXPANSION PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
1.    Description of project components
2.    Implementation arrangements
3.    Project costs
4.    Disbursement table (per year)
5.    Annual workplan for the first year
6.    Key monitoring indicators for the first year
7.    Detailed schedule of activities for the first year
8.    Terms of Reference for site selection
9.    List of civil works sites for the first year of implementation
10.   Terms of Reference for consultants for first year
11.   List of equipment to be procured in the first year
12.   Procurement plan for the first year
13.   Procurement assessment report and action plan
14.   Financial management assessment and action plan
15.   Environmental management plan (EMP)
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1.    Aide Memoire/Memorandum of Understanding for BEEP (after the project concept was changed
in August 1999)
(a) March 2000
(b) December 1999
2.    Report of Technical Missions (before the project concept was changed; It was then called
Education Management Reform Project.)
(a) January 1997
(b) April 1997
(c) August 1997
(d) December 1997
(e) March 1998
(f) August 1998
Hajjah Workshop 1997 (Inspection and Evaluation Sector)
Summary Report of Workshop & Recommendation
Darnell, William "Initial Report on Training Female Teachers in Rural Area - Basic Component of
EMRP". World Bank, Washington D.C. (November 1998).
Republic of Yemen, "Teacher and the Education Professions ." Law No. (37) of 1998.
63



UNICEF, World Bank, and Radda Barnaen in Partnership with the Government of Yemen "The situation
of Women and Children in the Republic of Yemen, "Volume I, Yemen Situation Analysis, Sana'a,
February 1998.
UNICEF, World Bank, and Radda Barnen in Partnership with the Government of Yemen. "State of Basic
Education in the Republic of Yemen," Volume III Yemen situation analysis. Sana'a, February 1998.
Yemen. "Human Development Report 1998". Sana'a, December 20, 1998
Lockheed, Marlaine, Regina Bendokat, Takako Yuki "Republic of Yemen: Education Sector Assistance
Strategy." MNSHD (Human Development Group Middle East & North Africa) Discussion Paper
Series No.3 The World Bank, Washington DC (November 1999).
Bendokat, Regina; Takako Yuki (1999) "'Yemen Public Education Expenditure Review 1999." World
Bank.
C. Other
Aziz, Arfah A. "Comprehensive Report In-service Training Option for Yemen." (January 2000). Paper
submitted to the Ministry of Education and the World Bank as consultant service for the Basic
Education Project.
Nagl, MM; MA Al-Hiziazi; and AM Eng. Al-Sharjabi, "Assessment of Decentralization Experience
within MOE Sector." Ministry of E&ucation (MOE), Coordination Unit (CU), Sana'a, Yemen
(September 1997).
Al-Abbasi, Mutahar A., Yahya Y. Almutawakel, and Abdulkhalek Ba-Alawi. "Decentralization and
Education Expenditures in Yemen." National Expertise for Consultancy, Studies & Training
(NECST) Sana'a, Yemen (May, 1997).
The Arab Regional Conference on Education for All, 2000 Assessment "Report, The Republic of
Yemen", Cairo 24-27/1/2000.
Republic of Yemen, Ministry of Education "Program for the Preparation of the Ten Year Education Plan
1999-2008, Sana'a 1999.
Grimsrud, Bjorne. "Working Children in Yemen: Who are they? A Study of Child Labor in Yemen."
Oslo, June 1998.
Piotte, Fernand. 2000. "Republic of Yemen, Blasic Education Expansion Project, Project Implementation
Arrangements." Report submitted to the Ministry of Education and World Bank, Sana'a. May 7,
2000.
*Including electronic files
64



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: BASIC EDUCATION EXPANSION PROJECT
Difference between expected
and actual
Orginal Amount in US$ Millions             disbursements
Project ID     FY   Borrower                        Purpose                                        IBRD       IDA       Cancel.   Undisb.         Orig   Frm Rev'd
P005904        1993 Yemen, Republic             BASIC EDUCATION                                       0.00      19.70       0.00        3.95       3.71       2.17
P005911        1994 Yemen, Republic             EDUCATION SECTOR                                     0.00       33.00       0.00      19.33       16.78       5.56
P005910        1993 Yemen, Republic             FAMILY HEALTH                                         0.00      26.60       0.00       12.72      13.92      12.86
P048522        1997 Yemen, Republic             FLOOD EMERGENCY                                       0.00      30.00       0.00       6.45        8.44       0.00
P005836        1992 Yemen, Republic             LAND & WATER CONSERV                                  0.00      32.80       5.55        0.99       5.02       0.10
P050483        2000 Yemen, Republic             RY-CHILD DEVELOPMENT                                 0.00       28.90       0.00      28.00        0.00       0.00
P050706        2000 Yemen, Republic             RY-CIVIL SERVICE MODERN                              0.00       30.00       0.00      29.52        0.00       0.00
P057915        1999 Yemen, Republic             RY-LEGAL & JUDICIAL DEV                               0.00       2,50       0,00        2.13       0.26       0.00
P005806        1991 Yemen, Republic             RY-MULTI-MODE TRANSPORT                               0.00      35.80       0.00       5.09       -3.14       2.26
P049735        2000 Yemen, Republic             RY-PRIVATIZATION SUPP.                               0.00       10.90       0.00       10.89       2.00       0.00
P060132        1999 Yemen, Republic             RY-PUBLIC WORKS II                                    0.00      50.00       0.00      41.48       11.60       0.00
P050530        1999 Yemen, Republic             RY-SANAA EMERG. POWER                                0.00       54.00       0.00      34.58       16.79       0.00
P005907        1999 Yemen, Republic             RY-SANAAWSISANITATION                                 0.00      25.00       0.00       15.23      -1.38       0.00
P068830        2000 Yemen, Republic             RY-Second Social Fund for Development                0.00       75.00       0.00      74.34        0.00       0.00
P041267        1998 Yemen, Republic             RY-TRANSPORT REHABILITATION                          0.00       37.00       0.00       18.22      20.53       9.58
P005902        1998 Yemen, Republic             S.GOVAGRI PRIVATIZA                                  0.00       24.70       0.00      21.22       11.18       0.00
P039171        1998 Yemen, Republic             SEEDS &AG. SERVICES                                  0.00       12.50       0.00       7.63        3.28       0.00
P041199        1997 Yemen, Republic             SOCIAL FUND DEVPT                                     0.00      30.00       0.00        3.76     -11.40       0.00
P005912        1996 Yemen, Republic             VOC. TRAINING                                         0.00      24.30       0.00       15.85      14.32       0.00
Total:        0.00      582.70         5.55       351.38    111.91      32.53
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                                      Disbursed
IFC                                           IFC
FY Approval                Company                                     Loan    Equity         Quasi       Partic      Loan    Equity         Quasi    Partic
1999                       ACSM                                       12.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        8.00        0.00       0.00        0.00
1998                       Radfan                                      3.80        0.00        0.00        0.00        3.80       0.00        0.00        0.00
Total Portfolio:                  15.80        0.00        0.00        0.00       11.80        0.00        0.00       0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval                Company                                        Loan        Equity          Quasi         Partic
Total Pending Commitment:                       0.00          0.00          0.00           0.00
65



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: BASIC EDUCATION EXPANSION PROJECT
11A East
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             A North      Low-
Yimen      Afdca   Incoma        Development diamond'
1992d                
Poplation, md-year (mitIions)                           165s       285      3615                   Life expectancy
GUNP p  capita 4Atlas method, USS)                      300      2050        520
GNP (At.as method. USS b.lilons)                         4.9       588      1,844
Avage annual growth. 19S9z-9
Population (%)                                           2.9        2.2        t7
Labor force (%)                                          3.4        30        t.9      GNP                               Gross
uostracest Gstimato (latest yonr ovollAblo, 100244)                         per    I             o /         primary
Mliloat recent timete (iahsteayeasr .v hie1e 199248)                                 ;capita                         enrollment
Poverty (% Of poputa tion beow national pOV4fy fine 1)
Urbanipopulation f% oftotaioopotolori                     36        58         31
Life expectancy atbirth (years)    15 4                             67         83
Infant mortality (pr 1,060 Nve birth sl                   W         49         88
Child malnutriion: (% o? children cdrS)                   29        1:4        ..                Access to safe water
Access to saf water %of population)                       39        81         74
lliteracy (5 of pulation age 15+)                         58        38         32
Gross primarv enrollment ( of schoolXas population)       70       s9         108            -Yemen, Rep.
mate                                                  10D        103       113             -Low-income group
camels                                                  40        89        103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS;
1977     1987       199,17    1998
Economic ratios
GDP (US$ baillons)                                         - ..     5.7       5.4
Gross domestic investmentiGOP                                      21.2      21.5
Exports of goods ard serviceesGOP                .         .       44.0      34.5                       rade
Gross domestic savings/GOP                                         12,0       2,4
Gross national savings/DP                                  .       2368      17.5
Current account balance/GoP                                         2.4      -4 0
interest payments/GOP                                               O S 0     0        Domestic                     Investment
Total deatUSOP                                   .                 67. 37.3            Savings
1Tt debt alce/Xdrtas                             .                  28 
Present value of debtGDP                          .        .        25
Present value of debt(exports                   ..         ,       80.8
Indebtedness
197747  1*884-9       197       1998   1"943
(average annual growth)
GbP                                             3.S      S.4         s        5.1              -     Yemen, Rep.
GNP per ceapita                        ..     .1.0      -06         4.8       2.3                    Low-income group
Exports otf oods and services           ..      6.9      7,1       42         3.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977    `1987       1997      1998      Growth rates of output and investment 1%)
of GDP)                                                                             30
Agriculture                                                        1682      16.2
Industry                                                           449       44.9      20
Manufacluring                                                    10.5      10.5   1|
Services                                                           38.9      38.9     s0s
Private consumption                                                6885      75.7    -10            S         s       07   se
General government consumption                                     18.7      21.9                _     GDI       -GDP
Imports of goods and services                                      52.4      53.6
(average annyual growth)                   197747  1988-98        1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%.
Agriculture                                              4.3        2.2       0.7    60
Industry                                        ..       8.4        3.4       3.8    40
Manufacturing                                          1.6        3.4       3.8           f     /         X
Services                                         .       1.7        9.6       6.1    20
Private consumption                                      1.9       -3.0       6.0 o
General government consumption                           3.0       49.1      121              93           -7
Gross domestic investment                                8 8        6         -27     20
Imports of goods and services                    ..      3 0        8.1      -0.7              -     Exports     eIrmports
Gross national product                                   2.6        2.0       7.3
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators In the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-group aver,qe. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
66



Yemen, Rep.
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                             1977      1987      1997      1998      Inflation (%}
('Y change)                                                                        S.
Consumer prices                                 ..      ..        6.3      8.5    eo.-
Implicit GDP deflator                                   ..        7.0     -4.6    40
Govemment finance                                                                  20
(% of GDP, includes cuffent grants)                                                 o
Current revenue                                                  377      29.8    -20       93   94   es    O    97
Current budget balance                         ..       ..        6.0      1.4             -G OP deflator    0  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..       ..       -1.8     -5.0
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              1977    1987        1997      1998     Export and Import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                             2,262    1,632    D,0
Crude oil (govemment share)                   ..       ..    1,004       599
Crude oil (companies' share)                  ..       ..       935      743       o..
Manufactures                                 ..        ..       199      142
Total imports (cii)                            ..       ..    2,601      2,553
Food                                          ..       ..       916      881      ,.000
Fuel and energy                               ..       ..       185      133
Capital goods                                                    85       73        o
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..       ..       114        91           92  93  94  95   s   97   W
Import price index (1995=100)                   ,.       .        76        75               U Exports    U Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..       ..       149       121
BALANCE of PAYIENTS
1977     1987      1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                   ..      ..    2,522      1,874      20
Imports of goods and services                   .        ..    3,005     2,915
Resource balance                                                -483    -1,041      1
Net income                                                      -636      -467
Net current transfers                          ..       ..    1,254      1,289                     9    s 9s   97
Current account balance                        ..       ..       135      -219
Financing items (net)                          ..       ..       162        56
Changes in net reserves                                         -297       163    -3
memo:
Reserves induding gold (US$ millions)                          '1,227    1,094
Conversion rate (DEC, IocaWVUS$)                                129.3    135.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987      1997      1S98
(US$ millions)                                                                      Composition of total debt, 197 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          723    4,585      3,856
IBRD                                          0        0         0         0                     G:A1S
IDA                                          59     473        934     1,075
~~~--- B: 934
Total debt service                             22      269        98
IBRD                                         0         0         0         0         F:8371f
IDA                                          ..       6         16        18
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                   c: 2s0
Official grants                            287      242                                                           C:2..
Official creditors                           80       94
Private creditors                            13      174
Foreign direct investment                     0        1         ..                                          D -: 458
Portfolio equity                              0        O                                 E: 1,190
World Bank program                                                                  A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Commitments                                  16       66       149        60      B - IDA    0 - Other multilateral   F - Private
Disbursements                               21       41         89       121     C - IMF                       G - Short-term
Principal repayments                         ..        2        10        11
Net fows                                    21       40         79       111
Interest payments                             .       4          7         7
Net transfers                               21        35        72       104
Development Economics                                                                                                9122/99
67



ANNEX 1 1
.,
Sepl:ember 6th, 2000
Mr. J. Wolfeensohn,
President,
The World Bank,
Washxington, D. C
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Woifensohn,
Subject: Yemen - Basic Education Expansion Project
Letter of Basic Education Policies
A. Introduction
1. The Republic of Yemen, at a per .apita GNP of about US$350, is among the low-
income countrics. In receznt years, the Government has successfilly confronted
some major economic challenges through sound mracro-economic management; it
has turned its economy around and is now poised to continue on a path of rapid
economic growth. Yemen's successful implementatior, of a; economic and
administrative reform program, supported by the World Bank and the IMF, has
revered some of the severe econoniic setbacks the country suffercd in response to
several events such as the Gulf war aid its own secessionist conflict of 1994 ard
for the first time the country's economic indicators have shown a highly positive
picture. In April 1997, a new Government was elect.d which has assured
continuing public support for carefully imiplemented mnanagement and
administrative reforms.
2. Through the reforms, the Government has given high priority to education sector
expenditures, considering education to be fulndamental to Yemeni econoinic and
social developEment. As the demand for quality education increases, Yemen faces
considerable challenges in the equity and quality of the education system, in
addition to onrgoing concerns about access as well as sound anid efficient
mranagement of the system. Enrollmnents are low, about 60% at the basic education
level and 27% at the secondary leve:L. An especially severe probl.erm is inequities in
access to education, among Governorates and between rural and urban areas
Further, gander discrepancies in ediucational opportunities are among the highest
in the World. The 1998-99 educa;ion survey shows that 3,335,214 students arc
enrolled in general education (graiie 1-12) but only 29.4% of them are girls. The
percentage of girls enrollment drops further in rural areas to about 28% at the
basic level and 14% at the seconclary level, and in some deprived Governorates
and rural areas these percentages are ever smalleZ.



.*.......    ....... .-
.....    ......   ...................W,,,J.ji 
.......     ................... ....._s,
3 The MOE, Yemen's largest civil employer, is now in the process of restructuring
and streamlining of its system of management with the objective of simplifying its
centralized bureaucratic structure, eliminating overlap, duplication, overstaffing,
especially at the central MOF, and shifting responsibilities to the Govemorates.
This new structural proposal is now at the Cabinet stage as the first step towards
giving it a legally recognized status. The restructuring plan is for an initial four
year period for implementation. Already an Education Survey and school mapping
of eighi govermorates have been carried out. School mapping of the remaining
Twelve Glovemnorates is at a planning stage, and a permanent and colherent system
of informationi gathering is in process to holp with procedures. information flow,
job description, and provide basic management tools.
B. Goals/Objectivesfor Basic education
4. Yemen's constitution (amended in 1994) stipulates thlat all citizens have the right
to education arid that primary education is compulsory. MOE is responsible for
providing and overseeing basic education (nine years) and secondary education
(three years).
Long-term goal
5. The Govcrmrnent gives higl priority to expansion in basic education and allocates
a large share of public spending to the education sector. The Govemment has now
targeted the expansion of basic education especially in rural areas and particularly
for girls as its top and most urgent task; it also recognlizes that it should give a
higher weight to quality education  at this level as quality has suffered in
comparison with quantitative expansioa. This new  perspective is a challenging
task for MOE, which calls for addressing the needs for more qualified and
efficient management, bctter school buildings, appropriate teaching and leaming
facilities, better trained teachers, and more appropriate and updated curricula. The
long-tenn strategy of MOE is to attain unlversal basic education of appropriate
quality in the country and to provide equal access to basic education to boys and
girls in both urban and rural areas.
Objectives for the nextfive years
6. MOE realizes that its long-term strategy requires time to be implemented. and for
this reason, it foresees moving towards its target in phases. The MOE, therefore,
shall over the next five years, as a first phase, work at improving enrollment in
grades 1-6 of basic education of appropriate quality, particulaxly in rural areas and
for  girls, through  appropriate  and efficient planming and management,
decentralizing responsibilities to the Govemorates and secking a more active
participation of the local commumities. It shall also work at improving the
institutional capacity of MOE throughi providing an adequate educational
management infonnation svstem, a more efficierxt and accurate school mapping



................ ,,.y jl
............. ..:sL
and statistical information to also cover the Directorates of Education in the
Govemorates. These actions aim at improving the efficiency and sustainability of
the basic education system.
Implementation
7. MOE's first phase for the expansion of basic education will comnmence in four
;; aic.su ta.i,u o roa                           4tlcev-t   &V-     3SCU4L v tLiU
municipal), Al-Mahweet, Amran  and Dhala. Four districts in each of thcsc
Governorates will be reached as a first stage of this phase. Government aims at
increasing enrollments in grades I - 6 in these districts by about 30% and at
achieving a 60% share of girls in these increases. MOE plans for this phase to take
four to five years, and the evaluated outcome of the Dhase shalI serve in dec.isins.c
for expanding similar actions to other Goveemorates.
8. Policy reforms as described in this Letter will be implemented over the next five
years. For each year, the annual work plan for BEEP will specify the measurcs
Government will take to ensure continued implementation of the policy reforn
program. linplcmcntation will be monitored throu&h lic Lpagred BE-EP monitoring
iiidicators.
Government Policies for Basic Education
9. The MOE policy for expanding basic education builds on infom-ation from the
1997i1998 and 1998/1999 E-ducation Surveys, school mapping, and experiences
gaincd by MOE aS wclt as otzhe 1aUiLQUdl, innmauonal and bilatcral organizatiolns,
such as  the Social Fund for Development, Public Works Project, UNICEF,
Gr2...., etc., in regard to conmunity participation.
1 O.School Construclion. Over ,he last three decades, Yemen h-as built thousands of
qchoklR with envernminnt fiinti;, rommunity donation, IDA.A Credit3 ond bilktcral
non-refumdable aid from a utu'nber of brotherly and friendly countries. In most
cases, there have been no stumdards for school buildings concerning their design,
materials, adaptation to climatic conditions or location. MOE now  intends to
establish proper standards for school buildings and prepare a legal decree by
whi;h-a'il--,gem~ w 1wtll b=td schdooWls ihe lurure will abide. MOE shall
prepare school designs following international standards and local requirements as
well as healthy leamring conditions. The emphasis in the first phase will be on
schools at Lhe basic levcl for grades 1 - 6. Cwtrenitly school construction in Yemen
i.s crriet-uir hl'_-tbno   ajor bodies. narnely  ACE, the Social Furd for
Development and Public Works projects, and coordination arnong them  is
improving. MOE's Sector of Projects and Equipment, irt close consultation with
tlhe Directorates of education at the Governorates and the local cormmunities, has
established school construction norms, stanidard designs for 3- and6 -ctassroom



~~~~~~~~~~~-A
.........            ,                                             :sY U9
.....    .....   ........X...A 
.....................:i                      {       1,                           j       l
..........  ......... .......
schools, and guidelines for the selection and location of schools The -ttantisrwd
designs are cost-effective and take into account girls' needs. The policies for
school construction are based on school mapping data and include envirornental
aspects. Community participation in site selection and construction of schools is
an importanr principle of thc new policies.
11. The  1998/l19. -rurv.y revealed that only-30%' of the acl%ois c  iii uoud
structural condition and 55% of the schools are in need of repair and of which
46% are in the urban areas. 15% of all schools are in dangerous and unsafe
condition for use. 77% of all schools are without boundary wails and of those
schools with boundary walls only 3% are girls schools. MOE realize.s the need for
carrying out major repair work to schools to render them in a good working and
usable contdition as well as adding boundary walls, toilets and administration and
staff rooms. MOE shall allocate a higher budget for the repair of schools as of the
financial year 200 l/20C2 on a gradual bases of 15-20% yearly increases over the
pcrind.2001 ta%OOS.
12. Curriculum reform and teacher training. New curricula for grades 1-6 have
been developed under thc IDA-funded Basic Education Project, an-d new curricula
for grades 7-12 in rnathematics and science have also bqen developed under the
Education  Sector Investment Project. 'rho cumicula for grades 1-6 will be
introduced in the school year 2000/2001. Teachers need to bc familiarized witl
the new curricula. MOE's Sector of Curricula and Education Inspection has
worked closely with the ERDC for training of teachers and revising the training
programs of the teacher training institutes to reflect the changes in curricula.
Training of almoct-4 00,000 teachowv-hae 3toarcd i1.1 Au5ust 2000 to pliC; fvr die
use of the new curriculum and textbooks. MOE shall also utilize its newly
acqtuired capacity for distance education in developing distance iri-scrvice teacher
training programs; it has also developed a modular teacher tra;iiing prograrn for
in-service teacher training. Theqet actions are scheduled to strt by She beginning
of 2001. PIarali.l to thc tecaclh-trhtuiirLa, s3ptvi ^hm-ternrworkhops and training
seminars that will be organiized for school inspectors and headmastors.
13 .Teachaer deployment. The Govenmnent is aware of teachers' reluctanlce to move to
assigiunents in rural arc;as. The Teachors Law. passed by Parliament in 1 99R
provides additional incentives for teachers assigned to schools in rural areas; and
the ongoing Civil Service Reform Program, supported by IDA, provides
additional instruments for rationalizing MOF. Rtqffinsr A, An inirini sts! towaxad
rationalizing MOE staffing, the Ministry has substantially reduced, hiring of new
tcachrz; -it airms te, lirit its CCutuLua:L LQ Lv"hirWk ;ho replace costly fbreirgT
teachers aand to disciplines in which there is a shortage. To realize efficiency gains
within MOE, staff are being reassigned to teaching positions in rural areas.
Govemment realizes that teacher redeployment will take time and is committed to
_7.Adially e-xp;ind the coverage of the reform, sL-ating with implcmcating a.
detaied teacher redeployment-planr for Sara- a Goven-orater(arsed) Irr-:001



:::::* : :       ::.: : f;J - -Lm
* i   # jfjI-l,                                                                   
14. Equipment The teaching and leaming facilities are essential components in the
education process that feature amongst the priorities of MOE to ensure quality
teaching and learning. Beside 1he need for adequate buildings, MOE shall also set
up standard requirements for the provision of furniture, text books, and other
teaching aids. The objective of this action is to fulfill MOE's policy in providing
all schools with the facilities needed to ensure quality teaching.
I S.Mainkcnapce. Based or. -the ongoinlg study on operatioias         a' t.1rntcu c   1tih:
school level, MOE is commirzed to developing a mechanism for routine school
maintenance developed and operational in the pilot districts by 2002. The
mechanism will involve the local communities in thc maintenance and repair of
their schools. The Ministry of Rinanme has agreed that schools rerain the school
fees which will be used for imiiproving conditions of the schools. The parents'
comnilttees shall be involved in authorizing spending from the fLund. Concerning
allocation of MOE budget resc,urces for maintenance, MOE shall adopt a greater
equity in allocation of funids anti develop the mechanism and basis on which such
allocations shall be made, considering the size of schools, their student population
and location.
D. Community Participation
A V.MOE has already created a Cnommunity Participation Unit at the central MOE as
welI as branch units in the Governorates in December 1999. The bylaws for the
CPU arc bclag pidpCued. ILN fLULcioIis ixicludc promoting the involvement of
communities in site selection  For schools, construction and management of
schools.
E. Supporting Arrangemnents - Capacity Building
I 7.Many of the problems of MOE's policy implementation, quality assurance in the
educatioii system  and wastage of resources, including poor and underused
facilities, misdistribution of teachers and other personnel and the under-
qualifications of many MOF. staff has been the result of poor planning and
management, at almost all level.s at the Central MOE and the Directorates of
irdimmtinn of xGc    rames l'h  MOE will direct attention, provide r.cou-0e
from its own budget and from IDA Credits to a careful planned program of
training and retraining of its personnel to improve their capacity to planand
manage the education system more effectively and efficiently. During the first
phase of the reform proaram and the BEEP project, irnpleme.ntatiion will focus on
the Central MOE personnel and the Directorates of Education in the four targCt
Governorates and Districts selected for BEEP implementation. to be followcd by
capacity building programn for the other Govemorates and Districts in the future.
5



ILJ.WIS>                                                        -
... .                                     '                                        UJ4U          ............4
.    ........ .,,,:X,1S  . j ;
............................  
F. 1Requestfor IDA Suipport
18-Ta  be arblet!raJevc  diC dbuavc au  iIIIp?emerrL itd   Ciu     =}t     , i
Ministry of Education is requestinrg IDA's support through the Basic Education
Expansion Project which will not expand education facilities and school buildings
only, but will seek to overcome the weaknesses in the system for planning,
mnancgement cand monitorixg and tho lack of capcLcity dIuc to qualification and
training of rmost personnel in the key posts at Central, Governorate and District
levels which will lead to better and improved planning and management, better
utilization of resources, improved supervision and quality of the systerm.
Dr. Acbaaiar-im
6              m      e   Minifer
6






IERD 31070
42                             44                              46                             4b'                             50'                              52' ..                          04
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                                                  SAUDI ARABIA
BASIC EDUCATION EXPANSION PROJECT                                                             _---                                                    A ^ Sh- oh  Q
PROJECT GOVERNORATES
o  TOWNS AND VILLAGES                 PRIMARY ROADS                                            _                                                   \      .             /       y               I8
(3 GOVERNORATE CAPITALS                SECONDARY ROADS                                      /                                          ' ,           \.
N NATIONAL CAPITAL              _      WADIS                                                                                    0 ,,
ISa                        AIRPORTS                            GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES
PORTS              _               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
00/                  Tho,oo~~                      /       ~        HTh..ot
,_, _ lo Zabr n ob ~~~~/     ,                                                                                                                                     ( 0,/',", ..{\- 
)AL-
v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ S    Al  ] 0f 
,,old,                                             ---- DJIEOUTI    Pi
jr.~~~~~~~~~~~  ~/H A VRkAM(                                                                    Moo opI
A-JOWF
A L                                                                                                       Tbw~~~~
H    AM' R H
Wh.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wo
Al~~~~~~~~~~~~lMq.i                        ~          A h
Al                   01           8$H.d.io                                              l do.ph                  
TA)Z  1                                                                                                               , 0%U,  E
'1    \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~Socotra
ETHIOPI                                             ASN                               d0coRT0M1SOTOoeE                           5      DR    55      7     toatAw$5     AT --W-.-              '- 2,
DJIBOUTI                                                                                r~-  /IP-l--  -~ 
OJIBOUTI  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~,                                                                             I---- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---->   04'SEPTEMIRE 2DD.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EPEBE 20



