Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3422-YEM
Development Credit Agreement
(Basic Education Expansion Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated November 29, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3422-YEM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 29, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility 
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has 
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Association has received a letter dated September 6, 2000, from 
the Borrower describing the Borrower’s basic education program (the Program), 
setting out certain measures required to carry out the Program and declaring the 
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
Page  2
October 6, 1999) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth 
below, and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are 
accordingly renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the 
Association determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of 
Resolution No. 194 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted 
on April 18, 1999; and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all 
such countries.”
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not a Participating Country or for 
goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for 
the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of 
goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is 
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the 
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have 
the following meanings:
(a)
“CAU” means the Credit Administration Unit to be maintained in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph A.3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(b)
“CIT” means the Central Implementation Team within MOE (as this 
term is hereinafter defined) to be maintained in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph A.2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(c)
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) and 
(6) set forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(d)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the Special 
Account;
(e)
“Environmental Management Plan” means the Borrower’s plan, dated 
May 31, 2000, as such plan may be updated from time to time by agreement of the 
Borrower and the Association, for implementation of the Project in accordance 
with certain institutional, mitigating and monitoring measures to offset or 
reduce adverse environmental impacts to acceptable levels;
(f)
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower commencing on 
January 1
and ending on December 31;
(g)
“GIT” means the Governorate Implementation Team within a given 
Governorate (as this term is hereinafter defined) to be maintained in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph A.2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(h)
“Governorate” means an administrative division of the Republic of 
Yemen;
(i)
“IAPSO” means the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office of the 
United Nations; 
(j)
“MOE” means the Ministry of Education of the Borrower;
(k)
“Project Area” means the Governorates of Amran, Al-Daleh, 
Page  3
Al-Mahweet and Sana’a;
(l)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in 
accordance with
the provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(m)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the Project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement 
signed on behalf of the Association on January 28, 1998 and on behalf of the 
Borrower on February 5, 1998;
(n)
“Steering Committee” means the committee to be maintained in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph A.4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(o)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(p)
“UNICEF” means the United Nations Children's Fund.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to forty two million four hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 42,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay itself the amount 
required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance 
withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. 
The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation 
Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006, or such later date 
as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at 
a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to 
exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days 
(60) after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates 
on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or 
canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the 
accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter 
pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall 
be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind 
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency 
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Page  4
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge 
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing April 1, 2011, and 
ending October 1, 2040.  Each installment to and including the installment 
payable on October 1, 2020, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, 
and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal 
amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product 
(GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) 
consecutive years the level established annually by the Association for 
determining eligibility to access the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank 
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, 
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the 
Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) 
above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of 
the Credit shall have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six 
(6) months or more after the date on which the Association 
notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there 
shall be a grace period of a minimum of five (5) years on 
such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or 
all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest 
at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element 
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph 
(b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the 
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of 
installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, technical, engineering and 
environmental standards and practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Page  5
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement and the provisions of the 
Environmental Management Plan.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions 
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions 
and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower 
and the Association, a plan for the continued achievement of the objectives of 
the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a 
format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements referred 
to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and 
accounts for the Special Account for 
each Fiscal Year audited, 
in accordance with appropriate auditing standards 
acceptable to 
the Association, consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of 
each such year, (A) certified copies of 
the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, for 
such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statement and 
report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
said records, 
accounts and financial statements, and 
the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the 
Association may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure or Project 
Management Reports, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Association 
has received the 
audit report for the Fiscal Year in 
Page  6
which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, 
all records and documents (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records and 
documents; and
(iv)
ensure that such records, documents and accounts are 
included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can 
be relied 
upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan 
acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of its financial management 
system for the Project in order to enable the Borrower, not later than November 
15, 2001, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare 
quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of 
which shall:
(i)
(A)
set forth actual sources and applications of funds for 
the Project,  both cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and 
projected sources and applications of 
funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following 
the period covered by said report, and (B) show separately 
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
during the period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
during the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report;
(ii)
(A) describe progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
(B) explain variances between actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
set forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said 
report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 
forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management 
Report for such period.
Section 4.03. Without prejudice to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall ensure that, annually, and commencing Fiscal Year 
2001 until completion of the Project, counterpart funds, in amounts sufficient 
to pay for the costs of operating and maintaining the schools to be constructed, 
extended, rehabilitated and maintained under Part A of the Project, shall be 
allocated in the relevant budget or budgets of MOE.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation shall have 
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program or a significant part 
thereof will be carried out.
ARTICLE VI
Page  7
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition 
to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) 
of the General Conditions, namely, that the financial management system referred 
to under Section 4.01 (a) of this Agreement has been established.
Section 6.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of 
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning and Development of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 
of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning and Development
P.O. Box 175
Sana'a
Republic of Yemen
Cable address:
Telex:
CENPLAN
2266
Sana'a
CENPLAN YE
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or  
202.477.6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of 
the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
By /s/ Abdulwahab Al-Hajjri
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  8
By /s/ Inder K. Sud
Acting Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
 Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
 (Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
   23,540,000
90%
(2)
Goods
    3,790,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost);
and 90% of local
expenditures for 
other items procured
locally
(3)
Training
    5,840,000
100%
(4)
Consultants' services
    2,120,000
100%
(5)
Maintenance and
    2,730,000
60%
repair of buildings,
furniture and
equipment
(6)
Incremental
    1,270,000
90%
Operating
Expenditures
(7)
Refunding of Project
    1,140,000
Amount due pursuant
Preparation Advance
to Section 2.02 (b)
of this Agreement
(8)
Unallocated
    1,970,000
TOTAL
   42,400,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency 
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of 
the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the 
Borrower; and
(c)
the term "Incremental Operating Expenditures" means expenditures 
incurred by: (i) CAU on account of utility charges, rent for office space, 
Page  9
maintenance and insurance of vehicles, fuel, office supplies, banking charges, 
communication services, translation charges, audit costs, travel costs 
(including transport and per diem), salaries and labor costs and other 
consumables; and (ii) MOE on account of travel costs (including transport and 
per diem), but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall 
be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under 
contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent; (b) works under contracts 
costing less than $200,000 equivalent; (c) services under contracts for 
consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent; (d) services under 
contracts for individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent; (e) 
training; and (f) Incremental Operating Expenditures, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a separate special deposit account in the Borrower’s Central bank, on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts 
to be deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, and (ii) a 
request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management 
Reports, withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A 
to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report 
pursuant to Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from 
the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all 
further withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B 
to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such 
payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project 
Management Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant 
to Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, 
any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to 
said Section in respect of the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the 
Special Account, or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with 
respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of Project Management 
Reports.
Page  10
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Association shall determine, in its 
sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made 
and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible 
Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, 
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such 
additional evidence as the Association may request, or deposit into the Special 
Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit 
or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following such determination, 
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the 
Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) 
or (c) of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of 
the Credit Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means an 
amount equivalent to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and 
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; 
provided, however, that, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account, plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or 
exceed the equivalent of $4,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such 
request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Page  11
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible 
Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Credit 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from 
the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated 
to said Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after 
and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, 
all withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association 
into the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the 
Credit from the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into 
the Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Credit, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the 
lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Association 
has determined, based on the Project Management Report accompanying said 
application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount 
indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $4,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to increase enrollment of rural children, 
particularly girls, in the first six (6) years of basic education.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Expansion of Access to Basic Education
Carrying out of a program, to construct new schools for grades one (1) 
through six (6) of basic education, extend, rehabilitate and maintain existing 
schools for grades one (1) through six (6) of basic education, and strengthen 
MOE’s capacity to implement education access programs through the provision of 
goods and consultants’ services, and the execution of civil works.
Part B:
Education Quality Improvement
Carrying out of a program, to improve the learning environment in basic 
schools in rural areas through the provision of goods, training and consultants’ 
services.
Page  12
Part C:
Capacity Building
Carrying out of a program, to support MOE’s efforts to implement the 
project and carry out reforms in the basic education sector in an efficient and 
sustainable manner through the provision of goods, training and consultants’ 
services.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits”, 
published by the Association in January 1995 and revised in January and August 
1996, in September 1997 and in January 1999, subject to the modifications 
thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Guidelines), and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank 
member countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, 
respectively, to “Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II 
of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part 
B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 
2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $200,000 
equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $350,000 per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000,000 equivalent may, and works 
shall, be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International and National Shopping
Page  13
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Classroom kits, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 may be 
procured from UNICEF, and vehicles, up to aggregate amount not to exceed 
$100,000 may be procured from IAPSO, all in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to pre-qualify for bidding or to 
bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all 
goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as 
shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to the first three (3) contracts for works in each 
Governorate and the first three (3) contracts for goods, and each contract for 
works and goods estimated to cost more than $200,000 equivalent, the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment 
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", published by the Association in January 
1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) 
and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ 
services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 
thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 
thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-Cost Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may 
Page  14
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 
of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the 
proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection 
of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting 
firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting 
firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the 
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the 
consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and 
approval. The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been 
given.
(d)
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (c) above, with 
respect to each contract for the employment of a consulting firm or an 
individual consultant, the terms of reference of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract 
shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A.
Overall Project Implementation and Coordination
1.
The Borrower shall vest the overall responsibility for the implementation 
of the Project in MOE. To that end, MOE shall carry out: (a) Part A of the 
Page  15
Project through MOE’s Department of Project Design and Implementation; (b) Part 
B of the Project through MOE’s Division of Curriculum and Education Inspection 
and MOE’s Division of General Education; and (c) Part C of the Project through 
MOE’s Technical Office and Community Participation Unit.
2.
The day-to-day responsibility for implementation of the Project at the 
central level shall be vested in CIT, which shall be maintained within MOE with 
experienced staff in adequate numbers.  Key staff of CIT shall include the 
Managers of each of the three (3) MOE Divisions, the Manager of the Community 
Participation Unit within MOE and the Manager of the Technical Office within 
MOE.  The responsibility for implementation of the Project at the Governorate 
level shall be vested in the GITs, each of which to be established in the 
respective Governorate not later than January 1, 2001.  Each GIT shall be 
assisted in the carrying out of its functions by the DEO in the respective 
Governorate. Each GIT shall prepare an annual work program and related budget 
for submission to CIT and subsequent consolidation into the reports referred to 
under paragraph B (b) (i) of this Schedule.
3.
For purposes of assisting CIT in the implementation of the Project and in 
order to ensure proper coordination of the carrying out of the Project, the 
Borrower shall maintain CAU, within MOE, with professional staff in adequate 
numbers whose qualifications, experience and terms of reference shall be 
acceptable to the Association.  CAU shall be responsible, inter alia, for: (i) 
the procurement and disbursement processes under the Project; (ii) monitoring 
Project performance and implementation progress in accordance with the targets 
and indicators agreed upon with the Association; (iii) preparation, for 
submission to the Association, of annual work programs and annual budgets; and 
(iv) preparation, for submission to the Association, of the reports referred to 
under paragraph B (b) (i) of this Schedule.  Key staff of CAU shall consist of a 
Project director, a financial officer, an accountant, a procurement officer, a 
monitoring and evaluation officer and an executive secretary.
4.
Overall Project implementation shall take place under the auspices of the 
Steering Committee to be maintained with membership from MOE and representatives 
from the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Planning and Development 
and Ministry of Civil Services and Administration Reform. The main 
responsibility for the Steering Committee shall be to oversee the implementation 
of the Project. The Steering Committee shall also be responsible, inter alia, 
for approving the work programs and budgets referred to under paragraph 3 (iii) 
above and the reports referred to under paragraph 3 (iv) above.
B.
Progress Reports and Mid-Term Review
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon 
between the Borrower and the Association, the carrying out of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association: (i) on a quarterly basis, commencing March 31, 
2001, a report on the progress achieved in the implementation of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof; and (ii) on or about July 31, 2003, a 
report, to constitute the basis upon which the mid-term review shall take place, 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph and consolidating the results of 
the reports referred to under sub-paragraph (b) (i) of this paragraph, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding 
the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by September 30, 2003, or such later 
date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in sub-paragraph 
(b) (ii) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
Page  16
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said 
report and the Association’s views on the matter.
C.
Annual Reviews
Without prejudice to the provisions of paragraph B above, the Borrower 
shall, commencing September  30,  2001, until completion of the Project, 
conduct, jointly with the Association, annual reviews to assess the progress 
made in implementing the Project during the twelve (12) months period preceding 
the date of said review and to formulate the measures required to be carried out 
in order to ensure the efficient implementation of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the twelve (12) months period 
following the date of the said annual review.
