Page  1
September 27, 1996
H.E. Abdulkader Ba-Ja'amal
Deputy Prime Minister and 
Minister of Planning and Development
P.O. Box 175
Sana'a, Republic of Yemen
Re:
Japanese Grant for Education Management
Grant Number TF 029658 YEM                
Your Excellency:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (the 
Association) to indicate the Association’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds 
provided by Japan, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding two hundred ninety-nine 
thousand Dollars ($299,000) (the Grant) to the Republic of Yemen (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement. The Recipient hereby confirms its request that the 
Association carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to this 
Letter Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the 
said purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. Upon 
receipt by the Association of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, 
this Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Inder K.  Sud
Country Director
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
By /s/ Abdulkader Ba-Ja’amal
Authorized Representative
Date: January 10, 1997          
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The technical assistance activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is 
given are as follows:
To assist the Recipient in preparing a proposed project which has the objective of 
improving the manner in of planning, funding and managing the provision of education 
by the Recipient, in collaboration with other key donors. The proposed project would 
consist of two main components: (a) improvements in the planning and management of the 
education sector, at the central, regional, and school levels; and (b) reforms to 
mobilize and better utilize resources in the sector. The proposed project is expected 
Page  2
to address the technical and managerial problems that have been constraining the 
implementation of the Association’s ongoing projects in the education sector.
To analyze the managerial and administrative problems associated with ongoing 
Recipient and donor projects and suggest strategies for reform. The Activities will 
support the following project preparation activities: 
·
facilitation of participatory workshops and related activities with donors and 
local counterparts for project design and preparation; 
·
baseline assessment and analysis of the planning, organizational and management 
capacities of the sector institutions, including the status of their management 
information systems (MIS) and proposals for reform; 
·
examination of sector financing and options for diversification; development of 
training curricula and materials for project preparation and implementation; and 
·
facilities planning and efficiency. 
The Activities would produce a detailed project feasibility study and implementation 
plan prepared by the Recipient in collaboration with the Association, other key donors 
and local stakeholders.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services required for the 
Activities.
3.
The Association shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient. The 
Recipient shall cooperate with the Association to the extent necessary to permit the 
Association to carry out the Activities promptly and effectively and to evaluate the 
results of the Activities.  The Recipient shall indemnify the Association against any 
costs or liabilities incurred by the Association as a result of claims against the 
Association in connection with the Activities, except those resulting from the gross 
negligence or willful misconduct of its staff or external consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by September 30, 1997.  
After that date, the Association may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the 
Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to 
assist in the carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of the 
Association and shall be done according to the Association’s applicable procedures.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in 
the territory of, the Republic of Yemen on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ 
personnel (other than nationals or permanent residents thereof) in connection with the 
Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Association in writing to terminate 
the Activities. Whether or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Association 
may at any time suspend or, after consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right 
of the Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of the following 
events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of 
its obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals under any loan agreement with the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development or any development credit agreement with the Association shall have 
been suspended.
8.
The Association is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient and shall not 
have any fiduciary relationship with the Recipient. The Recipient shall have no right 
to any portion of the Grant that is not expended by the Association pursuant to this 
Agreement.
