                                        Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                                  Report No: 29172




                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                   (IDA-28340 TF-29222)

                                            ON A

                                          CREDIT

          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 67.3 MILLION (US$100 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                          TO THE

                              PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                           FOR A

                          SHANXI POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT




                                        June 25, 2004




Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

       (Exchange Rate Effective May 2004)

            Currency Unit = Renminbi(RMB) Yuan(Y)
                    Y 1.0 = US$ 0.12
                 US$ 1.0 = Y 8.3



                 FISCAL YEAR
           January 1   -   December 31


      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ACWF         All China Women's Federation
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
ERR          Economic Rate of Return
FAO/CP       FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
FRR          Financial Rate of Return
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
IDA          International Development Association
MOF          Ministry of Finance
MWR          Ministry of Water Resources
N.B.F        Non-Bank Financed
NCB          National Competitive Bidding
NPV          Net Present Value
O&M          Operation and Maintenance
PCD          Project Concept Document
PLG          Project Leading Group
PMO          Project Management Office
PPMO         Provincial Project Management Office
PRC          People's Republic of China
PSR          Project Status Report
QAG          Quality Assurance Group
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SDR          Special Drawing Right
TOR          Terms of Reference
YIS          Yuncheng Irrigation System
YRCC         Yellow River Conservancy Commission
WTO          World Trade Organization




          Vice President:    Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
        Country Director:    Yukon Huang, EACCF
         Sector Director:    Mark D. Wilson, EASRD
       Task Team Leader:     Juergen M. Voegele, EASRD

                                             CHINA
                     SHANXI POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT


                                          CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            26
Annex 8. Borrowers Comments and Assessment                                       27
Annex 9. Pictorial Overview of Selected Project Achievements                     28

Project ID: P003649                                                  Project Name: Shanxi Poverty Alleviation Project
Team Leader: Juergen Voegele                                         TL Unit: EASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 25, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Shanxi Poverty Alleviation Project                       L/C/TF Number: IDA-28340; TF-29222
   Country/Department: CHINA                                                              Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (68%); Flood
                            protection (11%); Roads and highways (10%); Water supply (10%);
                            Agro-industry (1%)
                  Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P); Gender (S); Land management
                            (S); Water resource management (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/31/1994                                     Effective: 09/05/1996                09/05/1996
     Appraisal: 06/18/1995                                         MTR: 09/22/1999                  09/22/1999
      Approval: 03/26/1996                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          CHINA/SHANXI PROVINCE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Gautam S. Kaji
Country Director:               Yukon Huang                                    Nikolas Hope
Sector Director:                Mark D. Wilson                                 Joseph R. Goldberg
Team Leader at ICR:             Juergen M. Voegele                             Juergen M. Voegele
ICR Primary Author:             Josef Ernstberger


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Project's main objective was to help alleviate poverty in 20 of the poorest counties of Yuncheng and
Luliang Prefectures in Shanxi Province. The Project included a range of activities aimed at raising incomes
for about 3 million poor through rehabilitation of an existing irrigation system, improvements of rural roads
and construction of village water supplies, land development, expansion of livestock raising and
horticulture, and expansion of primary agricultural processing capacity.


3.2 Revised Objective:
There was no change in the Project's objective.

3.3 Original Components:
The original components included: a) the improvement of the Yuncheng Irrigation System commanding an
area of 123,000ha, b) the development of some 13,000ha river beach-land along the Yellow River, c) the
construction of village water supply schemes, d) rural roads, e) soil and water conservation including
terracing, afforestation and check dam construction, f) horticulture development, g) livestock raising, h)
expansion of agro-processing, i) targeted support to women households, and j) project management support
and training.

This relatively broad mix of components was designed to address short-, medium- and long-term income
generating options to achieve the Project objective, and the mix of components took into account the
differences in natural resource endowment between the two project areas. Yuncheng prefecture has large
areas of flat, fertile land, whereas Luliang prefecture is hilly with few tracts of flat irrigated land. Thus the
irrigation and river beach-land development were appropriate for Yuncheng only, while the soil and water
conservation component was suited to the upland areas of Luliang.

3.4 Revised Components:
No components were dropped or added, however, the relative importance of components was adjusted in
response to emerging economic opportunities during the project implementation. When the Project started
national food security and grain production was still high on the political agenda, while over time concerns
over farm income gained overriding importance. Consequently higher value cash commodities gained
importance over irrigated wheat and corn and the respective Yuncheng irrigation component was reduced in
favor of the horticulture and livestock components. This process was accelerated by significant
improvements in communication infrastructure (such as information systems and roads including a new
expressway system), which greatly enhanced the market prospects for high value farm products. This also
led to the inclusion of a large number of greenhouses in the horticulture component for production of fresh
vegetables.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at Entry was satisfactory. The Project objectives were consistent with the Bank's CAS in China,
which called for sustainable agricultural development in impoverished and environmentally vulnerable
areas and for diversified agricultural production; and with the Government's long term policies which focus
on increased production, income generation and employment creation in rural areas. Project design
incorporated valuable experience and lessons learned from other Bank- and non-Bank financed land and
water development projects in Shanxi Province. The Project also fully addressed the Bank's safeguard
policies in project design.




                                                      - 2 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall outcome of the Project is rated satisfactory. Most components were completed ahead of the
schedule envisaged in the SAR with the main physical targets of many components being exceeded. An
estimated 4.1 million people1directly benefited from the Project as compared to an SAR expectation of 3
million beneficiaries. Farmers' incomes per capita in constant 1995 prices increased from Y 480 to Y
1,217, which also exceeds the SAR expectation of Y 700 by far. The development objective of the Project
is clearly achieved.

The success of the Project was supported by the favorable economic development in the country. However,
the broad mix of components in the Project that addressed both short and medium-term income
opportunities have proved to be the right choice to take advantage of this supportive overall economic
environment. The priority areas such as livestock, high value fruit and vegetable crops, and value added
processing together with improved rural infrastructure, proved to be forward looking at the time when this
Project was designed ten years ago. It was only much later, when these became priority areas in the
restructuring and reorganization of the agricultural sector in China. The Project has timely and flexibly
addressed emerging opportunities and challenges from the opening of the Chinese markets and the changing
food consumption pattern of a wealthier urban population. Adjustments made during the Mid-term Review
have further focused the Project in this direction. The horticulture component was significantly increased,
new elements such as greenhouses for fresh vegetable production and new livestock activities like dairy
production and deer raising were included in the Project. This made this Project not only valuable by its
direct poverty reduction impact in the 20 poor project counties, but the Project also provides lessons for
agricultural restructuring and farm income generation in general. The Project demonstrates successful
investment opportunities in agriculture using medium- to long-term loans, which can easily be scaled up in
other areas.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Yuncheng Irrigation System (US$ 17.1 million). This component is rated unsatisfactory, because it was
significantly delayed and scaled down due to a lack of counterpart funds. However, the reduced investment
effectively solved the irrigation problems of two of the three irrigation districts.

The aim of this component was to improve irrigation of some 123,000ha and to reduce pressure on
groundwater by providing a reliable water supply from the Yellow River to the existing Yuncheng
Irrigation System (YIS). In the 1970s, three pumping stations Jiamakou, Xiaofan, and Zuncun were built to
lift water from the Yellow River. These stations serve three independent irrigations areas of 18,400ha,
11,600 ha, and 93,000 ha respectively. The move of the river channel and the high sediment contents
caused serious disruption in the water supply. Xiaofan was completely cut off from its water source; the
other stations also lost frequently access to the water source and got choked up by sediment and entire
sand-banks. This resulted in significant losses by farms incomes, which turned to the use of groundwater
causing an over-exploitation of the valuable groundwater resources. The Project was to address these
problems by: a) providing a reliable new water intake at Langdian, which is considered a stable site
up-stream of the three existing stations and connecting all three stations though a lined and protected feeder
canal, b) reducing the costs of sediment clearing by the construction of large-scale sediment ponds along
the feeder canal, and c) rehabilitating and expanding parts of the up-stream distribution system.

_________________________
1
 The number includes double-counting of people, which benefited from several components. Data about people
benefiting from several project components are however not available.



                                                      - 3 -

The implantation of this component has suffered from a severe shortage of counterpart funds throughout
implementation, which has led to the elimination of some elements of the Langdian Complex and several
years delay in its execution. The Project has nevertheless achieved to provide reliable water to Jiamakou
and Xiaofan with the option to eventually connect Zuncun. A 28 cms pumping station (12, 1.25 cms
pumps) and the 13.5 km feeder canal was put in operation in 2002, just in time to take the place of a
temporary pumping plant that was no longer operable because of a shift in the river channel. The feeder
channel was a major undertaking, since it was built along the active river channel and had to be protected
from erosion by heavy revetment. The site of the Langdian station is at a point where satellite images show
that the river channel has been stable since 1980. In the case of a major flood event there is a possibility
that the main channel could move away from this site. The five amphibious dredges procured for use in
sediment basin pond would then be used to maintain an intake channel to the pumps. Furthermore, the new
pumps are mounted on floating platforms that can be moved to a new site along the feeder channel if
necessary.

The sediment basin to protect Jiamakou and Xiaofan was not built because of a shortage of counterpart
funds, but there is now a plan to complete this feature by 2005. The 10 km section of the feeder channel
from Xiaofan to Zuncun to supply the Zuncun area in part from the Langdian Pumping station has also
been deferred because of a shortage of funds. Much of the area served by Zuncun continues to rely on
tube-wells.

Although the Langdian Complex was subject to protracted delays due to design changes, and a lack of
funds, it is now a secure source of surface water for the Jiamakou and Xiaofan units of the YIS, and
eventually the Zuncun unit. The main pumping stations for the Jiamakou and Xiaofan units were
rehabilitated as planned and the 18,400 ha of Jiamakou and about 6,000 ha of the Xiaofan are adequately
supplied with irrigation water. Both systems are also well managed and grow a large proportion of high
value crops, such as cotton, or fruit trees. Grain production there takes currently only 8% of the land in
Jiamakou and 22% in Xiaofan.

A key problem with the implementation of this component was a decreasing political commitment during
project implementation, which was clearly related to the overall developments in the agricultural sector in
China. In the past, the Yuncheng plain was an important grain basket. This strategic role was still very
much seen when the Project was appraised. However, during the mid- and late-1990s concerns over
China's national level grain production lost importance. With a high self-sufficiency or even surplus
production causing a depression in grain prices, political interest in investment in the irrigation scheme
became low. Questions were raised about the appropriateness of using scarce and valuable water resources
in a water deficient area for grain production in a country, which had become member of the WTO. These
factors have contributed to the difficulties in the mobilization of counterpart funds. Understandably,
investment was reduced and focused in those areas, which offered the highest farm incomes producing
higher value crops, which was the case in Jiamakou and Xiaofan, but to a lesser extent in the Zuncun area,
which is still much more grain oriented. A further concern for the future remains and this is the growing
demand for water at all points along the Yellow River. This might in some years cause the Yellow River
Conservancy Commission to require Yuncheng and other users to cut back diversions at certain times of
the year.

River beach development (US$ 16.9 million). This component is rated highly satisfactory.
The Project developed some 16,820 ha (SAR target was 13,000 ha) of highly fertile land along the Yellow
River (river beach land) in eight counties of Yuncheng. Much of this land did not exist until the 1950's
when a change in the river's course left behind flood plains where the sediment gradually accumulated to
form new land that was farmed by the nearby villages. Creation and erosion of land is a feature of the


                                                     - 4 -

Yellow River. This land was eventually protected by flood embankments and about 80 percent of the land
is now under crops and plantations, but only 20 percent was originally irrigated mainly by tubewells (the
area has ample groundwater resources). The land is leased to the villages on the high ground bordering the
river.

The Project has provided 1,682 tube-wells and associated electrification and constructed 318 km of roads.
This investment yields significant incremental income for some 40,117 farm families. The formerly
drought-prone land producing single crops is now double cropped and the cropping intensity is as high as
180% with a large proportion of land also used for high value crops (such as asparagus, or fruit trees).
The component also included fishpond improvement and aquaculture supporting activities. The significant
wealth generated by this component can be seen in the villages on the high ground bordering the
beach-lands, where many new farm houses have been constructed and the local economy is particularly
vibrant.

Village Water Supply (US$ 11.4 million). This component is rated highly satisfactory.
The component addressed the severe shortage of water in many villages in both prefectures. In Yuncheng,
wells to produce a reliable supply of good quality water (20-30 m3 /hour) have to be between 150 and 300
meters deep. In Luliang, groundwater can be found in shallow aquifers (10-15 m deep) in the beds of
gullies, but these can only be pumped for a few hours at 5-10 m3 /hour. Most villages got their water from
pits in the ground (cisterns) filled with storm runoff, and from shallow wells in the beds of gullies. The
latter are very low yielding and in the dry season people had to wait for hours for the wells to recharge after
the first villagers had filled their buckets. With the villages located at higher elevations close to the plateau
the time spent to fetch daily water was often several hours per family. Particularly in Yuncheng water was
often sold in the villages by people who had access to a well in their own village. The average family in
water-short areas had to spend around Yuan 100 in a year on drinking water - this is about 10 percent of
the average family income.

The Project successfully addressed the problem of water supply in many villages. In Yuncheng, 79
systems were built supplying water for 350,000 people, 45,000 animals, and 202 enterprises. In Luliang,
307 project built systems supply 120,000 people, 15,000 animals and 150 ha of land is irrigated. The
better water supply had far reaching positive implications such as: (a) expanding possibilities for villagers
to own draft animals for farming and transportation; (b) reducing the incidence of water-borne diseases;
and (c) allowing for watering of seedlings in orchard establishment.

Adjustments were made to the original design of this component in terms of: (a) replacing three large
systems, financed from other sources, with three smaller systems in more poor and difficult areas in
Yuncheng, and (b) including a larger number of smaller systems because of other programs financing the
larger systems in Luliang. This has resulted in a cost increase of 24%, while the number of beneficiaries
was reduced from an expected 684,000 to 470,000. However, this adjustment was well justified as it took
advantage of other financial resources, which only became available during project implementation and
focused the project funds in more difficult and very needy areas inhabited by particularly poor people. This
adjustment had no negative implications on the economic rate of return. Both, people's willingness to pay
and their time spent to fetch water was much higher in the difficult supply areas.

Concerns raised by various IDA missions about appropriate O&M arrangements have been addressed by
the local PMOs. Most schemes have management boards and collect water fees sufficient to operate and
maintain the systems. The total annual fee collection is Y 3.0 million in Luliang, and Y 4.26 million in
Yuncheng, which is enough to maintain the systems. In 2003, a full survey was made of all water supply
schemes, which showed that over 90% of the schemes are very well managed and maintained.


                                                       - 5 -

Rural Roads (US$ 27.2 million). This component is rated satisfactory.
The component planned to upgrade existing rural roads and tracks to Class 4 Standard for Rural Roads
(7.5 meters wide, a 6 m pavement of 20 cm of compacted gravel, and 0.75 m shoulders). The project plan
was to upgrade six roads with a total length of 208 km in Yuncheng and five roads totaling 118 km in
Luliang.

All of the roads planned under this component were built already in the first three years of the Project. The
design and construction of the roads was entrusted to the Shanxi Highway Department. The original plan
was to build the roads to Class 4 standards. But in view of the expected heavy traffic they were provided
with an asphalt surface, and in some cases they were built to higher standards than Class 4. The related
cost increase of some 59% was fully covered by additional counterpart resources.

The improved roads have: (a) lowered transport costs of inputs and outputs for farmers and the primary
and secondary industries; (b) attracted more buyers for farm produce; (c) allowed local products (such as
medicinal herbs) access to markets, (d) attracted new bus services, or more frequent services, that expanded
access to education, health centers, and opportunities for off-farm employment and education. Road access
has led to better market information and cash inflows in the rural areas served. The benefits of the road
component have been substantial as revealed by interviews carried out by the monitoring unit as well as the
ICR mission. Agriculture has become increasingly mechanized and sideline businesses have increased
substantially. Many households own three wheel tractors, and motorcycles are common. A survey shows
that the number of cars and small trucks owned by residents along the roads has increased by 3,671.

Shanxi Province is rich in mineral resources and coal and ore mines are common in rural areas. Therefore,
some roads have attracted frequent trips of heavily loaded trucks. For example the road in Pinglu county
carries bauxite trucks that have damaged the surface. In March 2004, the road was closed to trucks to
allow the county to repair and resurface the road by June 2004. The burden of road repair apparently falls
on the county budget, but taxes on the bauxite mine are a significant contributor to the budget. This road
connects 50,000 people to the county town by a short bus trip compared to a 10 hour trip on a dangerous
road served by an infrequent bus service.

There is a need for the counties to enlist the support in periodic repair and maintenance of those companies
whose vehicles make frequent and heavy use of the roads. The original plan was to levy tolls, but that has
not so far been implemented. A possibility would be a tax surcharge on the enterprises that already pay
county taxes on their output.

Soil and Water Conservation (US$ 23.3 million).          This component is rated satisfactory.
The component was limited to Luliang Prefecture and aimed to implement integrated watershed
management on about 20,000 ha. It included terracing on slope land, afforestation on slope land that is too
steep for terracing or crop cultivation, and construction of sediment control dams.

The terraces were built on 16,107 ha compared to the target of 13,400 ha. The conversion of slopelands to
level fields virtually eliminated erosion and helped maintain soil moisture, allowing higher crop yields and
more diversified cropping patterns. Most of the terraces were constructed by local bulldozer operators, with
some manual labor for shaping the riser and terrace lips. Roads built by the bulldozer operators to reach
the areas that they terraced have proved of value to farmers. With better access mechanized soil
preparation became possible and transport of inputs and outputs became easier. The standard of terrace
construction was very high. The benefits of the terraces were highlighted in a dramatic way during the
drought which affected the area in 1999, 2000 and the first half of 2001. On the terraces farmers obtained


                                                      - 6 -

good yields while non-treated lands suffered complete crop failures. Over 100,000 poor farm households
living in some of the most difficult natural environments in Luliang have benefited from project terraces.

Afforestation (Chinese pine, larch and poplar) was planned for 4,200 ha of steep slopes and wasteland.
This sub-component was particularly adversely affected by prolonged droughts during the course of the
Project that caused low survival rates for seedlings. Although replanting took place, the area of
afforestation was 1,677 ha compared to the target of 4,200 ha.

This component also included plans for the construction of 56 sediment control dams. These are earth dams
with heights between 10 and 25 meters built in the gullies. Gross initial storage capacities range between
100,000 m and 1,000,000 m The dams reduce flooding and sediment loads in the downstream rivers, and
            3                 3


the sediment deposits behind the dams create high quality agricultural land. The reservoir sites are in deeply
eroded gullies and are devoid of agriculture and human habitation. During the first few years after
construction, the water stored behind the dams can be used for irrigation and village water supplies. The
number of check dams was reduced to 18 from the target of 56, because the villagers took the view that
they should not be asked to pay for the significant downstream benefits in the Yellow River. Instead, it was
decided, to repair 123 existing dams that had good local benefits.

Horticulture (US$ 53.7 million) This component is rated highly satisfactory.
The component has been the most successful component of this Project with the by far largest contribution
to income generation. The original plan was to plant 69,200 ha of fruit and nut trees mainly Chinese date,
kernel apricot, prickly ash, chestnut and walnut trees. In Luliang, trees were generally planted on slope land
on narrow terraces 1 m wide. In Yuncheng, large quantities of date trees were inter-planted with field crops
on flat land. Depending on the tree crop planted, farmers were able to intercrop for 3-7 years before the
trees reach maturity allowing for a smooth transition period from low-value grain to high-value fruit
production. The choice of varieties and the establishment and management of the plantations drew on
successful experience in the past.

During project implementation there have been significant changes on the original design. Plantings of fruit
and nut crop varieties has been reduced and replaced by large areas of grafted dates on wild date rootstock.
The total area reached 73,914 ha compared to the target of 69,200 ha. Much of the intercropped date
planting took place in the first two years of the Project. These seedling trees have been planted out in wheat
fields where they do not compete much with the grain crop. The introduction of grafting improved scion
wood on to wild date rootstock has led to the significant expansion of the date sub-component. Although
not introduced into the Project until 1996-97, farmers have been quick to learn the grafting technique and
this has allowed for the rapid growth of the date area. Grafted dates did not displace other crops (they
usually grown on waste land) and produce fruit from the first year. Their success has led to a sharp
reduction in the planned areas for prickly ash, walnut and chestnut as farmers chose a more easily
established, managed and faster producing crop.

At the mid-term review it was decided to support investment for the construction of greenhouses. By the
end of the Project 19,344 greenhouses have been built. The greenhouses are typically constructed with
mud walls surrounding three sides and covering an area of about 5 m width and 100 to 120 m length with
one of the long sides open to the south direction. Concrete or steel frames support a roof made with plastic
cover. Access to the house is through a sidewall that usually has a small living/sleeping/storage area built
on to it. Construction costs including labor for a 1 mu house are about Y13,000. The average yearly net
profit from a 1 mu greenhouse growing vegetables ranges between Y5,000-10,000. There are risks
involved: for example some of the greenhouses were damaged by the torrential rains in 2003 and needed



                                                      - 7 -

significant investment in repair. Nevertheless, intensive use of land and labor provides farmers with highly
attractive financial returns.

Greenhouses are usually sited in blocks with as many as 300 in one place. This allows the owners to share
the cost of a reliable water supply, usually a deep tubewell, and to benefit from a collective marketing point
and extension services. Irrigation is essential for maximizing crop yields and the greenhouses provide an
environment for highly efficient water use. Marketing during the main growing season is done on a daily
basis with numerous traders directly purchasing crops from individual farmers benefiting from better roads
and telecommunications with the markets in surrounding cities in Shanxi and other provinces.

Livestock (US$ 23.6 million) This component is rated highly satisfactory.
The component includes a beef cattle component (mainly two animals per household) and components for
deer and dairy cattle added during the mid-term review. The Project basically helped financing the initial
breeding stock, while the farmers themselves constructed the livestock shelter, water trough, silage pits, and
other needed facilities.

Beef cattle raising proved popular with farm families in both prefectures. The model of one or two
breeding cows was adopted by 17,171 families in Yuncheng compared to the appraisal target of 9,400. In
Luliang, 4,187 families participated compared to the target of 2,100. The Project also provided for
improvements to the facilities and the equipment of about 148 existing veterinary service stations, support
for the Shanxi Frozen Semen Center in Taiyuan, and a frozen semen and liquid nitrogen production center
in Lishi.

The opening of a new dairy processing plant in Yuncheng created an opportunity for the Project to finance
1,000 farm families to purchase dairy cows. This sub-component has been an outstanding success.
Household units have been established with in-calf Holstein cows that were within 3-4 months of calving.
High quality cows have been procured from sources within and outside Shanxi at Y6,000-9,000 per head.
The cows are managed at the household with feed provided on a cut and carry basis. Milking is done three
times a day and processed concentrate feed is provided to maximize production. Individual cow production
is reported to average between 3,000 - 5,000 kg per lactation. Farmers report a net profit of Y4,000­5,000
per cow. One of the reasons for the high success of this component was that an emerging opportunity was
picked up by the Project early and very quickly. By now, milk production in China is booming and prices
for good Holstein cows are now between Y15,000 and 20,000 with much higher risk and lower profit
prospects, when compared to the early producers supported under the Project.

Some 1,245 families were provided financing for deer raising. This sub-component is limited to farmers in
Jiangxian County in Yuncheng who have local experience in deer raising. Deer are kept in pens within the
house enclosure and fed crop residues and dried grass together with pruned poplar branches. This fodder is
supplemented by processed feed with a higher protein content. The targeting of farmer households for this
component appears to have captured a significant number of low-income families. Deer raising is feasible
for families with no land or small areas of cropland, because the quantity of crop residues needed for
feeding is small. The local technical and market intelligence support services are particularly impressive
and the farmers interviewed were confident that the service could help any future management problems.
The component has made a significant economic impact for the participating low-income households.

The targeting and support of the livestock sub-components in general was done particularly well.
Households participated in the selection of animals, received training and technical support by the local
animal husbandry bureaus. In many places farmers proudly showed documentation and contracts provided



                                                      - 8 -

under the Project with photographs from the initial animals received. Some earlier mistakes in the planning
of this component were corrected immediately. For example in some of the higher income counties, farmers
have sold some of their animals because of other business and farming opportunities. The Project
responded quickly in targeting livestock to the poorer areas, where the two animal model that relies on crop
residues was most profitable and a good source of income for poor farmers.

Agroprocessing (US$ 18.0 million) Despite some outstandingly successful operations, the results of this
component are rated unsatisfactory.

The aim of this component was to provide value added to commodities and provide direct and indirect
income opportunities for people in remote rural areas. The individual investments were relatively small
(less than $1 million per enterprise).

A total of 22 enterprises (14 in Yuncheng and 8 in Luliang) were included in the Project and only 5 can be
rated as commercially successful; three were dropped before any investment was made. The principal
reasons for enterprise failure were poor management skills and an inability to adjust to the rapidly changing
commercial environment that developed during the project period. Early in the Project there was a
significant improvement in communications infrastructure with new road, rail and telecommunication links
becoming operational throughout the province. These improvements quickly brought in commercial
competition from neighboring provinces and the project enterprises were forced to compete both for their
raw materials and for a market share for their outputs. Much of the competition came from efficiently
operated and established companies that were able to not only offer better prices to the farmers but better
and lower priced commodities to the consumer. Most of the project enterprises had been originally
state-owned operations that had not previously faced competition. They were characterized by poorly
trained managers with limited business experience, large unproductive workforces and ownership structures
with considerable public sector involvement that was slow to respond to commercial realities. These
problems became apparent early in the Project, and IDA missions pressed the PMOs and local governments
to look closely at the portfolio of enterprises with a view to eliminating those with poor prospects and
seeking out suitable amalgamations with larger companies. The use of IDA funds for failed enterprises was
about US$ 3.0 million.

However, an exceptionally successful enterprise was the Shanxi Weizhiwang Food Company Ltd. in
Jiangxian County. This privately owned company has outstanding management that has developed unique
fruit-based products that now sell throughout China with exports to U.S.A., Korea and Japan. Its success
was built around identifying what type of products the market required and producing these items under a
rigorous quality control system that allowed it access to the most profitable domestic and export outlets.
The Weizhiwang Company started from zero and the project funds were instrumental to build up this
enterprise. After its initial success the Project financed a second phase expansion with total investment of
the two phases of close to US$ 1.5 million. By now the company has reached annual sales close to US$ 10
million employing over 300 mainly local labors from the surrounding rural areas. The main raw material ­
hawthorn had virtually no market value before the company started. The company buys now annually
30,000 tons of fruits from 2,000 ha production area at a price of nearly Y 2 per kg benefiting some 10,000
households in 4-5 counties with a rapidly growing demand. The company is in the process of establishing a
separate fruit production shareholding company partly owned by farmers to produce high quality raw
material adhering to organic food production standards. These innovative arrangements in the
farmer-company relationship could evolve into a model for other companies, too. A large number of
visitors including other company managers and political leaders are regularly visiting this company
learning from its success.




                                                       - 9 -

Similarly, the Xiaxian Flour Mill had a highly competent management team that quickly upgraded its
installation with project-financed equipment and produced a range of quality flour and other wheat
products. Given the narrow margins in producing flour alone, the company has successfully entered into
production of dried bread in various shapes for festivals and different kinds of biscuits. The mill is a major
consumer of the output of local wheat farmers but also purchases imported wheat if it is attractively priced.
Other successful examples include the dehydrated vegetables plants in Yuncheng producing high quality
products with supply contracts with thousands of farmers.

All China Women's Federation (ACWF) (US$ 4.5 million) This component implemented by the All
China Women's Federation (ACWF) is rated highly satisfactory.

In Luliang the Project started helping 2,460 households in establishing poultry, rabbit and pig enterprises
and in the building of 44 greenhouses. The financial returns generated by this component were particularly
fast in increasing household incomes, often by 100% within one year. More than 11,000 women were
trained under the component and each trainee would be expected to conduct outreach training in another
8-10 households. The impact of this component was thus amongst the most successful in the Project. The
All China Women's Federation (ACWF) was a highly effective implementing institution with excellent
administrative and technical support systems. Because of these attributes the Project increased the
component's funding to 7.5 times of the original appraisal estimate allowing the ACWF to expand its
program in Luliang and also include households in Yuncheng. There some of the funds that became
available due to the down-scaling of the irrigation component were used to transfer the positive experiences
of the Luliang Women's component to the Yuncheng area. The project was extended by one year to
provide sufficient time for the implementation of this component in Yuncheng, where a total of 2,600
women acquired breeding cows and sheep.

The component created resilience in household income in an environment affected by regular shocks.
Individual household benefits were neither influenced by the size of land holding nor seriously affected by
the droughts. All enterprises were located at the homestead and managed by women. The ACWF training
model not only created competence in the direct recipients but it trained the recipients to train other
households in enterprise management. All participating households received regular ACWF professional
support. A particularly positive feature about this component is the revolving nature of fund use. By now
some of the initial funds are already used up to three times increasing the benefiting women from 2,460 to
4,384 by now with the number still growing.

Project Management Support (US$ 8.6 million) This component is rated satisfactory. The component
aimed to provide equipment and facilities for project management, project monitoring and training, and
field vehicles. In Luliang, Yuncheng, and Taiyuan, this included upgrading of office buildings. Vehicles
and office equipment were provided for supervision, monitoring and evaluation of the impact of project
activities.

The Project includes 21 staff months of overseas study tours, 16 staff months of overseas training, and 70
staff months of domestic study tours covering all aspects of project management, monitoring, and technical
training and management expertise. Thereby a total of 76 managers and technicians had an opportunity
visiting numerous foreign countries to study livestock, forestry, agro-processing, and water management.
Also, 289 staff and technicians visited ongoing World Bank supported projects in China to compare
monitoring reporting and procurement methods. There were over 112,000 trainees who attended courses in
the Project area on subjects such as cattle and deer raising, horticulture techniques, greenhouses, and
integrated crop and pest management. The Prefecture PMOs also held numerous courses in project
management and monitoring for county and township officials.


                                                     - 10 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
A recalculation of the economic returns of the project investment shows an Economic Rate of the Return
(ERR) of the Project of 27%, which is close to the SAR estimate of 28%. Returns for most components
met or exceeded SAR estimates, and in particular returns generated by the horticulture (fruit and nut trees,
and greenhouses) and livestock component have far exceeded SAR expectations. Horticulture became due
to its financial attractiveness to farmers the by far largest component under the Project. Its high economic
returns particularly from greenhouses drive the overall return of the Project. A notable difference to the
SAR projection is the lower IRR for the investment in the irrigation system due to its major downscaling.
However the IRR of 23% still makes this an attractive investment.

                      Component                      SAR              ICR
     Irrigation system                                40               23
     Soil and water conservation
         Terraces                                      18               19
         Dam structures                                14               10
         Afforestation                                 13               13
     River beach development                           29               31
     Rural Roads                                       25               26
     Rural water supply                                22               21
     Horticulture                                      25               33
     Livestock                                         20               25
     Women livestock raising                         N/A               28
     Total Project                                    28               27



4.4 Financial rate of return:
As per the SAR approach, the calculation of a financial rate of return for the Project is not considered
applicable. The financial impact on individual farms and households was directly measured in field surveys
showing a significant increase in per capita income (from Yuan 480 at baseline to current Yuan 1,217
against SAR target of Yuan 700, see Annex 1).

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Project implementation and management involved a large number of government offices and staff at all
levels. Extensive training and study tours both locally and abroad were provided in such areas as general
project management, monitoring and evaluation, procurement, financial management, and technical
subjects such as water resource management, forestry, horticulture and livestock, marketing, etc. A lot of
this knowledge and skills were applied in various aspects of the Project, as demonstrated by the following
examples: i) the tight management and control system introduced by the Project in the form of detailed
recording of project progress on maps and tables (see section 5.3 below) has been further developed by the
PMOs. The PMO staff in the two project areas mutually controlled physical implementation, quality of
works and lessons learned in the Project by exchanging staff between the areas; ii) to better manage and
identify the beneficiaries and avoid misuse of funds under the livestock component photographs of the
purchased animals were made part of the contract between farmers and PMOs; and iii) the PMOs
constantly were looking for new or improved investment activities under the various components to better
achieve the Project objective. Almost at every mission the IDA team was presented with new ideas. Most
of them have been included in the Project and turned out to be most successful such as the grafting of dates
on wild rootstock, the construction of simple greenhouses, deer raising, and dairy cattle.




                                                       - 11 -

Some of the PMO staff will return to regular government services and will inject their skills and
experiences into the Government and public administration, other PMO staff will continue to work for the
Project in post-management. Most of the project funds are on-lent to the farmers and re-payment for
several components has started already with the PMOs playing a key role. The maturity of the IDA credit
is 35 years and the PMO together with the finance offices are currently working on options to re-use the
IDA funds for a second- or third-round investment broadening the impact of the Project to more farmers.
In one component the All-China-Women's Federations has already successfully demonstrated a way to
revolve the funds. It would be a great success, if such arrangements could be implemented in other
components as well.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
From 1999 to 2001 consecutive droughts over three years have significantly impacted the afforestation and
horticulture components particularly in Luliang. Efforts have been made to replant some of the drought
affected areas. However, the wide range of project components allowed for a shift in project investment
towards less drought sensitive activities such as livestock development. Also productivity of terraces
showed remarkable resilience in these stressful years.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Macroeconomic and sector policies have been generally supportive of the aims of the Project. Since the
Government allowed prices to be determined by the free market, the farmers are able to enhance their
income by responding to price signals. Also, Government financing of the dramatic growth of new
highways has opened new markets for the farmers in the project area. The administrative arrangements
made at each level from province to county have been proved efficient and effective.

While the general market liberalization has been supportive for most project components, two components
were less flexible in adjusting: a) the agro-processing component faced a situation of changing policy
support and protection for smaller state owned enterprises. In addition new environmental restrictions were
introduced preventing small enterprises, which generally couldn't meet the standards (e.g. the leather
tannery in Luliang) from receiving approvals. Low flexibility of local government in responding to these
policy changes caused failures of several agro-processing plants; and b) the irrigation component was
confronted with a gradual departure from a policy giving high priority to national grain production. This
lowered the political commitment to mobilize and provide adequate counterpart funds for the irrigation
component.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Project Management: The Project was managed by Project Management Offices at the provincial,
prefecture, county and township levels. The project management was effective and contributed to the
successful project implementation. The accountability of the project management system adopted by the
PMOs at different levels ensured discipline in the use of project funds, guaranteed the strict monitoring of
project activities and achievements, and ensured the beneficiary involvement. The training component was
effectively used to acquire modern data processing tools that significantly contributed to project
management efficiency.

Procurement and Disbursement: Civil works for the irrigation facilities, rural roads, water supply,
project buildings, and the beach-land were awarded in accordance with National Competitive Bidding
procedures. ICB was followed for materials and equipment. The largest item to be procured by ICB was a
contract for US$ 7 million of fertilizer. It became apparent that it was a mistake to procure in bulk so much
fertilizer that had to be used by tens of thousands of individual farmers over a period of seven years. None


                                                     - 12 -

of the project offices had the storage and distribution facilities to allow them to act, in effect, as fertilizer
merchants. This was soon realized and the fertilizer was sold and the funds returned to the Project
accounts for use on other components. Bulk procurement is a problem not only for fertilizer but also for
items such as pipes, small pumps, and electrical goods that have to be used over years in widespread
locations. It is far better for such goods to be procured by the direct users as and when needed on the local
market. The users have a strong interest in quality and price. Thus, IDA staff made decisions during the
Project to waive bulk procurement under NCB for some items. The soil and water conservation and
horticulture components were executed by individual farmers or by specialists that they employed. The
farmers procured animals themselves from nearby villages. Unit prices for each activity were agreed with
the Bank and used a basis for disbursement.

Quality Control and Physical Checking: The Project applied a tight system of quality control and
physical checking with clearly assigned responsibilities within the PMOs management structure. Standards
were set for all works such as plant densities of trees and shrubs, survival rates in relation to planting time,
size and depth of water harvesting pits, height and width of terrace lips, maximum slope tolerance.
Frequent and well recorded checking systems which also carried the names of the responsible officers were
defined for each management level and each disbursement was subject to following those rules.

Compliance with Credit Agreements: The Borrower and the Project Executing Agencies and
Management Offices essentially complied with all the credit agreements and recommendations, except for
the timely and adequate provision of counterpart funds for the Yuncheng Irrigation Component.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The SAR projected total project costs at US$ 182.8 million with IDA's contribution at US$ 100 million.
The actual project costs were US$ 204 million, thus about 12% over the SAR estimates. However, due to a
significant devaluation of the SDR against the US$, IDA disbursements amounted to only US$ 91 million
(91% of SAR estimates), while the counterpart funds including farmers' contribution totaled US$113
million (137% of SAR estimates). Counterpart funds had to cover for the lower than expected IDA
contribution. These incremental funds mainly came from higher farmers' contributions. Overall
Government financing was somewhat less than appraised. The Government's increased contribution to the
Rural Roads component was outweighed by reductions in the Irrigation and Support Service components.
Detailed project costs and financing are contained in the Annex 2. As of April 4, 2004, the full amount of
the Credit of SDR 67.3 was disbursed from the various categories of the credit agreement.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the Project is rated highly likely. The horticulture and livestock components involve
techniques well established in the farming communities, and the buoyant markets provide strong prices
incentives. All farm based components are financially attractive to the local farmers as well as
economically viable (to the society as a whole). Cost are to be recovered from the households whose
productive activities were financed by the Project, in line with the usual practice in China, and the
households signed loan agreements for their portion of the IDA Credit. Signals of growth and a
continuation of investment after the Project for such investments as greenhouses, livestock raising (in
particular beef cattle and dairy), and new fruit orchards can be observed all over in the project areas. These
investments have substantially improved the livelihood of farmers and are very likely to be maintained.
Cost recovery is not considered problematic, and if a similar source of medium- to long-term funding
becomes available, they could be expanded.




                                                      - 13 -

Components of a public or common good nature involving specific O&M arrangement include the
irrigation and drinking water supply schemes, and the rural roads. The Jiamakou and Xiaofan irrigation
units have a well established water management system with strong participatory arrangements of water
users. During project implementation special studies and irrigation system management reform
arrangements have been carried out also involving an exchange with experts from the neighboring irrigation
systems in Shaanxi Province. In Yuncheng a special management system has been introduced with a close
working relationship between operators and the farmers, who pay for water often in advance of delivery.
The drinking water supply schemes have been recently surveyed showing that water fee collection and
O&M arrangements are adequate to maintain the benefits from the project schemes. Some of the roads
have been damaged by heavy vehicles, but complete repair is well under way on one road and is planned for
other roads subject to heavy traffic.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
All Project components are in regular operation.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in identification, assistance in preparation, and appraisal is rated as satisfactory.
The Project identified was consistent with the Government's and the Bank's strategies to develop
environmentally sustainable agriculture, increase employment and income, and help alleviate poverty. The
Project was well prepared in terms of technical specifications. The project preparation process was highly
participatory and the borrower took the lead in the preparation process. The Bank's inputs in terms of
staffing and skill-mix were adequate for the preparation. The combined FAO/CP and IDA preparation team
was presented with a large number of components to consider. The livestock proposal involving large
flocks grazing communal pasture was ruled out as socially and financially impractical. The two breeding
cattle model was proposed by the team, and this has proved to be a success providing income for a large
number of individual households. The idea of integrated watershed management for some poor areas in
Luliang was based on models adopted successfully in other parts of Shanxi Province in the IDA- financed
Loess Plateau Watershed Rehabilitation Project.
In retrospect, some of the problems of the county-owned agro-processing plants might have been foreseen
earlier in project preparation.

7.2 Supervision:
IDA supervision is rated highly satisfactory. The supervision missions were composed of a broad mix of
international and local professionals, who were not only technically competent but also responsive to the
client's views and needs. The core supervision team was maintained throughout project implementation
and an excellent working relationship was maintained with their counterparts. Implementation progress was
adequately reported and problems were identified early and addressed proactively. IDA missions gave
prompt attention to requests for changes within components and decisions were made without delay. Two
major issues related to: a) the delay and lack of counterpart funding for the Yuncheng irrigation scheme,
and b) the management problems of several agro-processing plants, were identified by the IDA supervision
missions early on and realistic proposals were made to overcome these issues, albeit with a limited success.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall IDA performance is rated satisfactory.




                                                    - 14 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Project preparation by the borrower is rated highly satisfactory. The Langdian Pumping Complex presented
the challenge of finding a solution to the migration of the Yellow River channel from the irrigation pumping
stations. This involved numerous technical discussions with experts from the Yellow River Conservancy
Commission and the mission's experts, including a consultant from the Mississippi River Commission.
The site selected has been stable for many years, and the operators could if necessary move the pumps to a
new location. Also, the large amphibious dredgers provided by the Project could be used to excavate an
approach channel even if it has to extend several kilometers.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government implementation performance is rated satisfactory. As stated above the government's
macro-economic and sector policies have been highly conducive to the development objectives and
significantly supported implementation and outcome of most components. The performance of the
agro-processing component would have benefited from a higher flexibility of local government in
privatizing some of the state owned project enterprises. A shortcoming was also the inability to provide
timely and adequate counterpart funds for the Irrigation Component. As of April 2004, an amount of RMB
18 million was still owed to contractors.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agency is rated satisfactory. As discussed in Section 5.3, the PMOs
at all levels are well staffed and highly effective. The transparency and accountability of project
management ensured rigorous monitoring and evaluation, and strict compliance with disbursement and
procurement rules and regulations. The management and institutional capacity of PMOs has been
progressively strengthened through the technical assistance and interaction with the Bank's supervision
missions. This enabled the implementation of such a technically complex and geographically wide project
slightly ahead of SAR projection, and allowed the Bank to reduce its inputs for supervision.

A particularly positive feature was the remarkable awareness of the PMOs of emerging market
opportunities and their flexibility in responding to these opportunities by making proposals for new project
activities such as greenhouses, diary cattle, deer raising or new fruit and nut tree varieties or production
techniques. All of these activities have proven highly successful.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall borrower's performance is rated overall as satisfactory. If it were not for the failure to provide
enough counterparts funding for the irrigation component, a higher rating would be justified.

8. Lessons Learned

On the basis of the above review and assessments of the Project, the following lessons can be drawn for
similar projects:

(1) Flexibility in addressing emerging market opportunities is a key success factor. The Project design
provided a framework for each project component with clear principles in terms of targeting, ownership
and implementation arrangements. Related to its specific contents much flexibility was applied. At the
design stage many of the emerging market opportunities could not be anticipated. Over the relatively long
implementation period of 7.5 years significant market challenges and opportunities emerged, such as a
strong growth in demand for high quality livestock, fruit and vegetable products accelerated in the project



                                                      - 15 -

areas by improved physical and information access. Even external markets opened up by China's access to
the WTO had a significant impact on the Project and were addressed well. The PMOs together with the
IDA team took advantage of such changes and designed new project investment activities that became some
of the most successful components under the Project.

(2) Multiple objectives of components carry a potential risk of conflict. In such case objectives should
be sharply defined and priorities agreed upon. While the primary objective of the Project was poverty
alleviation with most components exclusively focused on this objective, the irrigation component was at the
same time designed for its contribution to the overall grain output and a positive impact on the protection of
valuable groundwater resources. During the design of the Project these multiple objectives seemed to be
achievable at the same time. However the country moved towards a grain surplus situation and grain prices
dropped. Increased grain production thus would have contributed little to poverty alleviation. Also the use
of surface water for protection of groundwater was not in the immediate financial interest of many farmers
as many of the financially most attractive crops needed to be supplied with groundwater. E.g. greenhouses
or vegetables need regular irrigation all around the year for which surface water is less suitable.

(3) Investment in agro-processing can only be successful, if management and ownership structures
are equipped to commercially compete in today's business environment. The Project supported highly
successful privately owned and managed processing enterprises, while all the state-owned enterprises failed
to enter into commercial operation. Those difficulties were foreseen and pointed out both by the IDA team
as well as the PMOs and higher level Government offices early in the Project. However, at the county
level, where most of these enterprises were owned, the understanding and commitment to change ownership
and management came in many cases too late.

(4) Effective project management with rigorous monitoring and evaluation contributes to the
successful project implementation. Despite its large scale and scattered nature this Project remained well
managed. The key elements for successful project management include: (i) making use and developing local
capacity and institutions for implementation, (ii) applying simple but strict and transparent procurement
and disbursement mechanisms with a high degree of beneficiaries self-control, and (iii) imposing a strong
and transparent monitoring system that allows efficient and cost-effective internal and external control like
the system of `maps and tables' introduced in this Project. Physical progress was checked against maps
provided for each project area showing the project plan and completed areas, with a table for each map
listing all completed investments with their location, sizes and dates of implementation. The IDA team
helped to introduce and maintain a strict project management system and supervision in the field with
random spot-checking at all levels. The rules were rigorously enforced at the beginning to establish a
precedent, and were maintained throughout project implementation.

(5) Consistency in the composition of a competent core Task Team greatly enhances Bank-Client
cooperation. The core task team that was composed of a small but committed, and productive team of
experts was maintained thought the Project. It worked closely with the Project management, and its
working style and commitment stimulated the same spirit on the Borrower's side and has resulted in an
open, cooperative and mutually respective working relationship between the Bank and Borrower with a
high level of mutual trust. This working relationship made possible the necessary flexibility and rapid
decision making described above.




                                                    - 16 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
`After carefully reading the whole report and discussing the relative problems, we concluded that this
contents-detailed and simply-structured ICR made an apt and proper evaluation to the project, and reflected
the achievements made by the people in the project areas over ten years efforts in an all-round way. The
report also gave an objective and fair evaluation to the performance of the Bank and the Implementing
agencies. We also noticed that the report pointed out some difficulties and problems existed in the project,
which required our special attentions. Therefore, our evaluation to the ICR is satisfactory.'
(For more detailed comments see Annex 8.)

(b) Cofinanciers:

N.A.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N.A.

10. Additional Information




                                                     - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                          1
                 Indicator/Matrix                                Projected in last PSR                             Actual/Latest Estimate
Increase in per capita income (Y480)1'2'            Y 700                                               Y 1,217
Per capita grain production (320kg)3'               400 kg                                              287 kg
Improved cropland irrigation                        125,000 ha                                          24,400 ha
Diversified production (non-grain area)             70,000 ha                                           90,500 ha
People served by safe drinking water                684,000                                             470,000
People served by road access                        355,000                                             443,000
Number of direct beneficiaries                      3 million                                           4.1 million

1' Expressed in constant 1995 prices.
2'. Numbers in parenthesis indicate actual estimate at project appraisal.
3'.At appraisal increased grain production was seen as a positive indicator. However, as grain prices dropped non-grain based income became much
more effective in generating household income.


Output Indicators:
                                                                                          1
                 Indicator/Matrix                                Projected in last PSR                             Actual/Latest Estimate
Yuncheng
Horticulture                                        47,900 ha                                           61,148 ha
Animal Husbandry                                    9,400 households                                    17,171 households
Dairy Households*                                   -                                                   1,000 households
Deer Raising*                                       -                                                   1,245 households
Greenhouses*                                        -                                                   19,344
Water Supply                                        78                                                  79
Rural Roads                                         208 km                                              204 km
Beachland
    Wells                                           1,603                                               1,682
    Roads                                           90 km                                               318 km
    Canals                                          1,603 km                                            1,682 km
    Land Leveling                                   13,000 ha                                           16,820 ha
    Fish Ponds                                      533 ha                                              533 ha
Women Livestock Raising*                            -                                                   2600 households
Luliang
Terracing                                           13,400 ha                                           16,107 ha
Horticulture                                        21,300 ha                                           12,766 ha
Afforestation                                       4,200 ha                                            1,677 ha
Animal Husbandry                                    2,100 households                                    4,187 households
Sediment Control Dams                               56 new                                              18 new, 123 improved
Water Supply                                        141                                                 307
Rural Roads                                         118 km                                              114 km
Women Livestock Raising                             2,460 households                                    4,384 households

1 End of project
      *Activity was newly introduced during project implementation.




                                                                         - 18 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Yuncheng Irrigation System                                  35.10          17.10             0.49
River Beachland Development                                 15.40          16.90              1.1
Rural Water Supply                                           9.20          11.40             1.24
Rural Roads                                                 17.10          27.20             1.59
Soil & Water Conservation                                   14.70          23.30             1.59
Horticulture                                                26.70          53.70             2.01
Livestock                                                   14.50          23.60             1.63
Agricultural Processing                                     17.30          18.00             1.04
All China Women's Federation                                 0.60            4.50            7.52
Support Services                                            13.50            8.60            0.64



Total Baseline Cost                                        164.10         204.30
 Physical Contingencies                                      9.00
 Price Contingencies                                         9.70                            1.12
                        Total Project Costs                182.80         204.30
                  Total Financing Required                 182.80         204.30


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             11.44        56.84         0.27         68.55
                                  (0.00)           (5.77)      (28.42)        (0.00)      (34.19)
2. Goods                          20.36             0.00        12.13         0.00         32.49
                                 (20.36)           (0.00)      (12.13)        (0.00)      (32.49)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         2.15         14.09        16.24
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (2.15)         (0.00)       (2.15)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00        57.65         7.91         65.56
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (31.17)        (0.00)      (31.17)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          20.36            11.44       128.77         22.27        182.84
                                 (20.36)           (5.77)      (73.87)        (0.00)      (100.00)




                                                - 19 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 0.00              18.88             20.38             0.00             39.26
                                           (0.00)             (9.44)           (10.19)            (0.00)           (19.63)
   2. Goods                                 9.55               0.00             16.11             0.00             25.66
                                           (9.55)             (0.00)           (16.11)            (0.00)           (25.66)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00              1.97             6.61              8.58
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.97)            (0.00)           (1.97)
   4. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00             84.44             46.43            130.87
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)           (43.65)            (0.00)           (43.65)
   5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                9.55              18.88            122.90             53.04            204.37
                                           (9.55)             (9.44)           (71.92)            (0.00)           (90.91)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Yuncheng Irrigation            23.22        12.84                     7.35         9.73                  31.7      75.8
System
River Beachland                11.16         6.70                     7.76         9.17                  69.5     136.9
Development
Rural Water Supply              5.27         5.22                     4.35         7.07                  82.5     135.4
Rural Roads                     6.95        11.01                     9.36         17.83                 134.7    161.9
Soil & Water Conservation       9.19         7.81                    15.38         7.95                  167.4    101.8
Horticulture                   15.36        13.43                    19.46         34.23                 126.7    254.9
Livestock                      12.45         7.47                    13.78         9.81                  110.7    131.3
Agricultural Processing        11.85         7.02                     8.18         9.86                  69.0     140.5
All China Women's               0.39         0.39                     2.14         2.38                  548.7    610.3
Federation
Support Services                4.17        10.92                     3.16         5.42                  75.8      49.6
Total Costs                    100.00       82.80                    90.92        113.46                 90.9     137.0




                                                           - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

A recalculation of the economic returns of the project investment shows an Economic Rate of the Return
(ERR) of the Project of 27%, which is close to the SAR estimate of 28%. Details are shown in the table
below.

The calculation is based on the economic net returns for all main components. For the land based
production components such as irrigation, beachland, horticulture, and soil conservation crop models have
been estimated comparing the `with' and `without' project situation. Together with the estimated cropping
pattern the total cash flow was calculated. For the livestock activities household models were used and
aggregated to the overall cash flow. The benefits from the drinking water are based on an average
willingness to pay of Y 5 per m . The benefits from rural roads are based on transport cost saving of Y
                                 3


0.75 per ton per km.

While prices and technical parameters about inputs, outputs and other operational costs are based on the
recent monitoring information, the methodology applied in the ICR is very close to the method used in the
SAR to make the results comparable. However, the following differences have been used:

l In contrast to the SAR no world market price adjustments have been made and financial prices for all
    inputs and outputs are considered to be a fairly good reflection of economic costs and returns of goods
    and products in China.

l Economic opportunity costs of labor are estimated at Y 10 per day in the SAR it was Y 8.

l The economic benefit of rural road construction in the SAR was based on three elements: a) transport
    cost saving, b) efficiency improvement in the local economy, and d) a development impact. Lacking
    adequate data the ICR calculation is limited to the transport cost saving effect, which however
    underestimates the true impact of rural roads for the development of the local economy.




                                                    - 21 -

- 22 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)           Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                          Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               03/10/1995


 Appraisal/Negotiation
               01/16/1996


 Supervision

               12/02/1996                 4   Water Resources Specialist (1);         S               S
                                              Agronomist (1); Senior
                                              Economist (1); Agricultural
                                              Economist (1)
               08/29/1997                 4   Water Resources Specialist (1);         S               S
                                              Agronomist (1); Senior
                                              Economist (1); Monitoring/
                                              Financial Analyst (1)
               06/01/1998                 8   TTL (1); Senior Livestock               S               S
                                              Specialist (1); Economist (1);
                                              Monitoring/ Financial Analyst
                                              (1); Water Resources Specialist
                                              (1); Agronomist (3)
               09/22/1999                 4   TTL (1); Consultants (3)                S               S
               05/19/2001                 4   TTL (1); Agronomist (1);                S               S
                                              Engineer/Procurement Specialist
                                              (1); Horticulture Specialist (1)
               09/07/2003                 4   TTL (1); Consultants (3)                S               S


 ICR
               06/04/2004                2     Economist (1); Water                   S               S
                                               Resources Specialist (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                               699.28
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                                                              366.42
  ICR                                                                        13.6
  Total                                                                 1,079.30




                                               - 23 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

  Detailed ERR Calculations (Farmod and Spreadsheet Files)
  Borrower's ICR




                                         - 26 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrowers Comments and Assessment

1. Assessment of the project objective, design, implementation and operation experience

The design for the project objective, construction contents and adjustment thinking has fully reflected the
principle of poverty alleviation, and full consideration for the existing resources, markets, the optimized
structure, the needs of conforming to market changes and the project construction. The mid-term review
reduced those unprofitable contents, and added some reasonably designed contents with good prospects and
potential market development, thus ensured the integration of the realization of the project construction
targets and economic, social, and ecological efficiency.

The project implementation collectively input various agricultural development elements such as funds,
technology and management to the project areas, improved the backward agricultural infrastructure and
agricultural production conditions, promoted the reasonable utilization of the agricultural natural resources
and good circulation of the agricultural ecological environment, pushed forward the rural industrial
structure adjustment in the project areas, updated the local farmers' production concept and enhanced the
overall social and economic development level in the project areas. Therefore, the project implementation is
of very importance to the promotion of poverty alleviation work and the social and economic development
in rural areas of the whole province.

The project has produced a positive and widespread influence to the ability construction. 1) The
management technology training provided by the project has improved the quality and ability of the
management teams at the different levels, which has laid a solid foundation for the project follow-up
operation; 2) the improvement of the infrastructure and agricultural production conditions in the project
areas has enhanced the economic developing ability in the project areas. Meanwhile, the ability of the
officials at the grass level has been intensified. These have ensured the social and economic sustainable
development in the project areas; 3) The farmers in the project areas have improved their production
operation ability through the project implementation, and absorbed the modern market economic awareness
and advanced production concept, thus laid a solid foundation for realization of shaking off poverty at the
root level.

During the project implementation, some sub-projects suffered the delay of the engineering design and
approval, the difficulty of the counterpart funds allocation, the imperfect system of construction and
operation not conforming to the market changes etc. and these have directly impacted the project
construction progress and project efficiency. Moreover, part of sub-projects with obvious social benefit and
unoptimistic economic benefit has to face the risk of loan repayment. In addition, with the end of the project
construction period, obvious increase of the unstable factors in the project management departments has
brought some potential impact to the project follow-up management and project roles, which requires the
high attention from the governments at different levels.

2. Evaluation of the performance of the Bank

The Bank' performance in identification, assistance in preparation, appraisal and implementation stages is
rated as highly satisfactory.Based on the Bank's "Country Assistance Policy" and the Chinese
government's supportive priority, the Bank made a scientific and correct decision---choosing Shanxi
Poverty Alleviation Project to be financed, realizing the effective integration of the Bank's "Country
Assistance Policy" and Chinese government's economic development priority, making the project
implementation a successful sample.



                                                    - 27 -

During the stages of the project identification, preparation, appraisal and implementation, the Bank had
conducted a lot of arduous but effective work, which played a key role to the project successful
implementation. In the work of the field supervision and follow-up guidance, the Bank paid much attention
to the consultants' skill-mix and continuity, thus providing to the borrowers high quality technological
guidance and assistance. Particularly worth to be mentioned is the project manager---Mr. Voegele, who had
given intensive attention and strong assistance to the project whole implementation process, played a very
important role in addressing those key problems.

The Bank's strict and standard project management procedure, flexible and practical working style has not
only ensured the realization of the project objectives, but also provided a very important and valued model
for us to organize and implement other projects in the future. In addressing the concrete problems existed in
the project implementation, the Bank demonstrated their high combination of principle and flexibility by
proposing positive and practical measures based on full consideration of the actual situation and good
communications with their partner, thus promoted the project smooth progress.

The supports from the Bank to human resource nurturing and the project management team construction
have not only improved the quality of the project management team and their working efficiency, but also
helped the farmers in the project areas mastering agricultural production practical technology, updating the
production operation concept, thus laying a solid foundation for the sustainable operation of the project.
We suggest that the Bank intensify supervision to the whole course of the study tour and training tour in the
future so as to guarantee the expected outcome.

During the project implementation, the positive attention to the weakness group in the project areas from
the Bank has made obvious social benefits. Particularly, the successful implementation of women project
has greatly improved their social and economic status and brought their positive role into full play in the
social and economic life.

3. Evaluation of the performance of the borrower

Performance of the borrower and the project implementation agency is rated as satisfactory. At the stage of
the project preparation, with the governments' strong support and the relative departments' active
cooperation, in accordance with the requirements from the Bank, the borrower/ the implementing agency
finished a series arduous preparation work like the project Feasibility Study, the Environmental Impact
Assessment and the project design, thus ensuring a successful preparation work for the project. In
combination with the actual situation in Shanxi province, the management model of making the Project
Management Office system as main managing body coordinated and cooperated by other related
departments was adopted, thus realizing the vertical management model from province to county, ensuring
the horizontal cooperation between the relative departments at the same level, and maintaining the
consistency of the project objectives and the overall progress of the project construction.

After the project initiated, at the requirements of the Bank, the borrower, by learning from the domestic
similar projects' experience, mapped out a series effective engineering implementation management
regulations, making the project to be implemented by following the rules, thus effectively regulated the
project management and engineering implementation.

The PMOs at the different levels and the project construction agencies had established a strong awareness
to the quality, with a special focus on the engineering quality in terms of engineering plan, design,



                                                      - 28 -

implementation and acceptance, meanwhile, intensified the supervision and inspection methods, thus
ensuring improvement of the engineering quality and the project efficiency, resulting in many contents
becoming the model of the local production activities.
The borrower had been focusing on the allocation of the domestic counterpart funds. The proper increase of
the proportion of the domestic counterpart funds made up for a loss of the Bank loan due to changes of
foreign exchange rate, thus guaranteeing realization of the project construction targets with the maximum
limit. However, problems still existed albeit with so much strenuous efforts, most obvious problem was
imperfect counterpart funds raising system, leading to untimely or not fully allocation of part of the project
counterpart funds.




                                                    - 29 -

   Additional Annex 9. Pictorial Overview of Selected Project Achievements




Picture 1: Picture taken in May 2002 shows a temporary pumping facility, which fell dry because of a shift in the
Yellow
River channel.




Picture 2: Project invested in mobile floating pumping units at Langdian located at a site with stable water supply.
Picture taken during installation in May 2002.




                                                         - 30 -

Picture 3: Over 19,000 simple greenhouses have been constructed by the project. Without heating these greenhouses
allow year-round production.




Picture 4: Off-season production of strawberries offers attractive prices. Prices are highest at the Chinese New Year.




                                                           - 31 -

Picture 5: Intercropped date trees in Yuncheng allowed for a smooth transition from field crops to tree crops without
cashflow interruption for the farm households.




Picture 6: The Weizhiwang Candy Fruit Company is an engine for the local economy; it provides jobs for some 300
rural
people, is a major tax payer to the county and adds value to locally produced hawthorn, which had no value before the
processing company was operating.




                                                           - 32 -

- 33 -

