Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15079-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
SHANXI POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
FEBRUARY 21, 1996
Rural and Social Development Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of October 1995)
Currency Unit  =       Yuan (Y)
$1.00       =     Y 8.4
Y 1.00       =     $0.119
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter (m)    =    3.28 feet (ft)
I kilometer (km)    =    0.62 miles
I square kilometer (km2)    =       100 ha
I hectare (ha)    =    2.47 acres
=   lSmu
I ton (t)    =    1,000 kg
=    2,205 pounds
I kilogram (kg)    =    2.2 pounds
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ACWF   -   All China Women's Federation
CAAS    -   Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences
CPMO    -   Central Project Management Office
cms      -   cubic meter per second
EIA      -   Environmental Impact Assessment
FAO      -   Food and Agriculture Organization
GIS      -   Geographical Information System
IBRD     -   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA      -   International Development Association
IPM      -   Integrated Pest Management
ITC      -   International Tendering Company
mcm      -   million cubic meters
MOF      -   Ministry of Finance
MWR      -   Ministry of Water Resources
NEPA    -   National Environmental Protection Agency
PLG      -   Project Leading Group
PMO      -   Project Management Office
PRC      -   People's Republic of China
SPC      -   State Planning Commission
TVE      -   Township-Village Enterprise
WFP      -   World Food Program
WHO      -   World Health Organization
YIS      -   Yuncheng Irrigation System
YRCC    -   Yellow River Conservancy Commission



CHINA
SHANXI POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                      People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:                   Shanxi Province
Poverty:                       Program of Targeted Interventions
Amount:                        SDR 67.3 million ($100 million equivalent)
Terms:                         Standard, with 35 years' maturity
Commitment Fee:                0.50 percent on undisbursed credit balances,
beginning 60 days after signing, less any waiver.
Financing Plan:                See para. 3.28.
Economic Rate of Return:       28 percent
Maps:                          IBRD 27654; IBRD 27655; IBRD 27656
Project Identification Number:    CN-PE-3649



CONTENTS
1. BACKGROUND ........................................1
A. Introduction ........................................1
B. Rural Poverty in China .......................................lI
C. Project Rationale ........................................4
D. Lessons from   Previous Bank  3roup Operations ........................................5
E. Rationale for Bank Group  Involvement .........................................6
2. THE PROJECT AREAS ........................................7
A. Location ........................................7
B. Yuncheng Prefecture ........................................7
C. Luliang Prefecture .......................................                                                   11
3. THE PROJECT ........................................                                                                    15
A. Project Objectives ........................................                                                  15
B. Project Description .......................................                                                  15
C. Project Components .......................................                                                   16
D. Status of Designs .......................................                                                    23
E. Implementation Schedule .......................................                                              23
F. Cost Estimates and Financing Plan ........................................                                   24
G. Procurement .......................................                                                         25
H. Disbursements .......................................                                                        29
i. Accounts and Audits .......................................                                                 30
J. Environmental and Social Impacts .......................................                                     30
K. Resettlement .......................................                                                         31
L. Consultation, Participation and Targeting .......................................                            33
4. MANAGEMENT AND ORGANIZATION .                                                     ...................................... 36
A. Project Organization .......................................                                                 36
B. Financial Management .......................................                                                 37
C. Operation and Maintenance .......................................                                            39
D. Land Contracts .......................................                                                      40
E. Monitoring, Evaluation, and Reporting ........................................                              40
This report is based on findings of an appraisal mission in July 1995. Members of the
appraisal team included J.M. Voegele (Mission Leader, IDA), G. Morgan (IDA),
W.T. Smith, Liang Heng and R. Wallace (Consultants). Substantial inputs were
provided earlier by R. Zweig and E. Chobanian (IDA), John Weatherhogg, F. Cossio,
J. Kirk, J. Ernstberger and S. Sugimura (FAO/CP), H. Ochs, S. Ferguson, L. Stafford,
M. Lamb and B. Wakelin (Consultants). Peer reviewers comprised Messrs. N. Jones,
W. Ochs, B. Trembath, W. Magrath (IDA) and R. Grimshaw (Consultant). The
Division Chief is Joseph Goldberg and the Department Director is Nicholas Hope.



- 11 -
5. BENEFITS  AND   JUSTIFICATION                                                 ....................................................... 44
A. Benefits .......................................................                                                          44
B. Markets and Prices .......................................................                                                44
C. Economic  and  Financial Analyses .......................................................                                  46
D. Project Risks .......................................................                                                     52
6. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION .................................................. 54
ANNEXES
Annex 1: Financial And Economic Prices .......................................................                                             57
Annex 2: Cost Summary. Procurement And Expenditure Schedule .......................... 59
Annex  3:  Yuncheng  Irrigation  System  ........................................................                                        65
Annex 4: River Beach Land .......................................................                                                        79
Annex 5: Land Development And Erosion Control ................................................... 89
Annex 6: Rural Roads .......................................................                                                           107
Annex 7: Rural Water Supply .......................................................                                                    120
Annex 8: Livestock ........................................................                                                            131
Annex 9: Horticulture ........................................................                                                          140
Annex  10:  All China  Women's Federation .......................................................                                        161
Annex  11: Agricultural Processing .......................................................                                             165
Annex 12: Social Assessment .......................................................                                                    176
Annex 13: Status Of Environmental Impact Assessment ......................................... 188
Annex 14: Supervision Schedule .......................................................                                                 196
Annex 15: Project Planning Matrix, Indicators And Implementation Schedule ....... 197
Annex 16: Disbursement Profile .......................................................                                                 201
Annex 17: Selected Documents And Data Available In The Project File ................ 202
MAPS
IBRD 27654  -  Participating Prefectures
IBRD 27655 - Luliang Prefecture
IBRD 27656 - Yuncheng Prefecture



- 1 -
1. BACKGROUND
A. INTRODUCTION
1.1   The Governnent of China has requested the International Development
Association (IDA) to assist in financing a poverty alleviation project in Shanxi Province.
The proposed project would raise incomes and living standards in some of the poorest
counties of one of China's less prosperous provinces. This would be achieved by
improvements to irrigation systems, land development, expansion of household livestock
and horticulture, and modernization of agricultural processing. The project was prepared
by the Yuncheng and Luliang prefectures under the direction of the Shanxi Provincial
Planning Commission with assistance from the Food and Agriculture Organization. The
project was preappraised in March 1995 and appraised in June 1995.
B. RURAL POVERTY IN CHINA
1.2   China's economic reforms, begun in 1978, sharply reduced poverty in the period
1978-85. In 1978, 270 million (one third of the population) lived below the absolute
poverty line compared to 100 million (one tenth of the population) in 1985. But, since
1985 there has only been a small decline in the incidence of absolute poverty. This is
because gains in farn incomes have come mainly in areas with favorable natural
resources, where farmers could benefit from market-oriented reforms. Gains in poverty
alleviation have been harder to make in remote mountainous areas, where the area of
farmland per family is small and irrigation potential is limited. In these areas, per capita
output of grain and subsistence foods failed to show any significant increase in the 1980s,
and rural enterprises employ only 4 percent of the rural labor force in the poorest counties
in contrast to the 22 percent national average. China's poverty reduction strategy is now
focused on raising living standards and incomes in the poorer areas through investments
in land development, rural works, and rural enterprises.
1.3   The Government's first poverty-focused program was initiated in 1986, when 18
priority areas throughout China, including two in Shanxi Province, were targeted for
assistance. Recognizing the necessity for a stepped-up redirected effort, in 1993 the State
Council endorsed a new program to focus on the poorest counties throughout China.
Called the "Eight-Seven Poverty Alleviation Plan (8-7 Plan)", its objective is to raise the
estimated 80 million people in absolute poverty to above the poverty line by the end of
the century. Counties included in the plan had incomes below Y 400 per head (1992
prices), or incomes below Y 700 per head despite involvement in the previous poverty
program. The 592 nationally designated poor counties include over 70 percent of the 80
million poor. The budget for the prograrn is about Y 4 billion per year, of which 70-80



- 2 -
percent is provided by the central government, 10 percent by local governments and
10-20 percent by intemational donor agencies.
1.4   Shanxi Province, one of the poorest provinces in China, has 118 counties, of
which 50 have been identified as poverty stricken. Thirty-five of these counties were
identified by the national poverty alleviation program and 15 classified by the province.
The total population of the 50 counties is 8.4 million, of whom 7.5 million are rural.
Average rural per capita income in 1993, which was a good year for agriculture, was
Y 509 per head, about 29 percent less than the Y 718 average rural income for the
province and just over half the national average rural per capita income of Y 921. Within
the 50 counties, some 492 townships with a population of 3.8 million have been classified
as areas of absolute poverty with incomes of below Y 400 per head.
1.5   The poverty alleviation strategy of the Shanxi Government aims to raise
cultivable land from the present 1.3 mu (0.09 ha) per head to 2 mu (0.13 ha) per head, to
develop agroindustries. to improve rural infrastructure, and to encourage integrated
development of orchards, forests and ruminant livestock.
1.6   Since 1985, a program to increase the high-quality cultivated land area through
comprehensive rehabilitation of small watersheds, including terracing of slope lands, has
been pursued in Shanxi. The program is an important means of tackling poverty through
the development of unused land in poor areas. Over the next five years, the plan is to
terrace around 293,000 ha of land in the 50 poor counties.
1.7   To encourage land development, the Province published a regulation in 1994 that
sets out arrangements to extend the period for which land can be contracted to farn
households. Normal land contracts, previously maximum of 15 years, are now extended
to 30 years, except in poverty and marginal areas where they are for 50 years. In areas of
uncultivated slopes, gullies and river beach land, the tenure can be extended to 100 years.
1.8   These new regulations aim to encourage farmers to practice sound soil and water
conservation measures. As a further incentive, farmers on uncultivated slopes and gullies
will be exempted from payment of agricultural taxes for the first 10 years of occupancy.
The method of land allocation would be by auction among farmers in nearby villages. In
order to protect the interests of poorer families in the community, payment for the land
can be by installments over a period of years. The main objective of the auction system is
to give farmers security in the use of their land, provided their farming practices meet the
standards laid down for land management by the province.
1.9   Poverty alleviation activities in the province are coordinated by the Shanxi
Poverty Alleviation Office. Two nongovernmental organizations, the Laucu Promotion
Association and the Shanxi Poverty Alleviation Association, are also active in the
province.



- 3 -
1.10  The following ongoing programs for poverty alleviation in the poverty (and
proposed project) areas, Luliang and Yuncheng prefectures, are currently being supported
by IDA and other international organizations:
(a)   Education Development in Poor Provinces Project (Cr. 2336-CHA,
FY92). The project covers Shanxi and five other provinces. In Luliang
the project counties are Linxian, Xinxian, Lishi, Zhongyang, Lanxian,
Fangshan and Shilou. The project objectives are: (i) to improve the
efficiency and quality of primary and lower secondary school education
and support the establishment of a nine-year compulsory education
system; and (ii) to support the development and restructuring of higher
level education and the efficient use of resources by colleges and
universities and improve provincial and county-level education planning.
(b)   Rural Health Workers Development Project (Cr. 2539-CHA, FY94).
This project covers six provinces and includes Yuncheng and Luliang
among the six prefectures in Shanxi Province. It provides for medical
colleges, township hospitals and training centers.
(c)   Forest Resource Development and Protection Project (Cr. 2623,
FY94). The project is designed to enhance the productivity of forest
resources, the efficiency of resource use, and the institutional capacity for
sustainable management in 16 provinces of China including 15 counties in
Shanxi Province. Pinglu county in Yuncheng is covered by the project.
(d)   China-3923 Project (World Food Programme, 1992-97). The project
aims to increase farmers' incomes and improve their living conditions
through a comprehensive program of soil and water conservation in Lishi,
Linxian and Zhongyang counties of Luliang Prefecture. The project
covers an area of 1,846 square kilometers in 568 administrative villages
under 31 townships and will benefit 248,000 farmers.
1.11  Local Programs. In Luliang, an "Experimental Special Zone Implementation
Plan for Poverty Alleviation Development" has been formulated based on the outlines
provided by the provincial government.  The prefecture has also prepared a
comprehensive program for poverty alleviation known as the "Eight-Seven Poverty
Program" consisting of: (a) farmland and water conservancy construction; (b) pasture
and livestock development with emphasis on runinants; (c) creation of four fruit
production bases; (d) construction of roads and highways; (e) water supply for rural
residents and livestock; and (f) training.
1.12 Chen Poverty Alleviation Program. This is a new Chinese program which
draws funding from wealthier areas and provides credit for poverty alleviation projects.
The program involves the nine poorest provinces and autonomous regions. Luliang
Prefecture is being used as the pilot area for this project in Shanxi. The four aims of this
program include: (a) elimination of illiteracy; (b) technical and occupational training;



- 4 -
(c) health and hygiene education; and (d) reduction of the school dropout rate for older
children. The All China Women's Federation (ACWF) is one of the lead agencies for
project implementation.  Training and education provided under the program  will
complement projects that focus on economic development.
1.13  All China Women's Federation.   The ACWF, through local women's
federations, is active at the county level throughout China.  Its main focus is on
improving the status of women in the home and the workplace. As a nongovernmental
organization, it involves women in local or national issues. It can also assist in the
dissemination of information to grass root levels. In Luliang Prefecture, the ACWF has
been active within the WFP 3923 Project. Their trainers have helped to organize and
deliver technical training in health education, child care and adult literacy courses for
women in the project villages. Also, with financing from the Agricultural Bank of China
and the Chen Poverty Alleviation Project, the ACWF has organized female trainers in
groups of three or four to provide technical training (6,800 women have participated to
date) in livestock, greenhouses, cotton, and fruit trees.
1.14  Project Hope. This is a nationwide educational program for school dropouts in
poor areas. It helps to finance the cost of building and operating schools, school
textbooks, and provides a source of financing for adult education.
i.15  Green Certificate Training Project. This national project was initiated in 1990
to promote training of farmers to apply modern scientific and technological methods. To
date, the project has been extended to 516 (25 percent) of the counties in China. There
have been 600,000 trainees of which 120,000 have obtained Green Certificates (two years
of theory and practical study). The education program includes tree planting, fisheries,
animal husbandry, agricultural machinery, rural enterprises and environmental protection.
Certificate holders are given preference for land contracts, loans, technical instruction,
and extension services. The target is to train 10 million farmers by the year 2000-one
farmer for every 20 rural households.  This project was introduced to Yuncheng
Prefecture in 1994, which includes a pilot programn in Wanrong County and Yuncheng
City. The work is being implemented by the Agricultural Broadcasting School. As of
March 1995, about 2,000 trainees were participating in the program.
C. PROJECT RATIONALE
1.16 The proposed project would complement the ongoing activities described above,
and support the Government's policy to reduce the imbalance in economic development
between the increasingly prosperous eastern provinces and the poorer central and western
regions. Not only is Shanxi poor relative to other provinces, but some poor, remote and
backward rural areas have much lower living standards than industrial areas within the
province.
1.17  Some of the reasons for poverty are to be found in the climate, the small farm
size, the difficulties in farming the steep slopes and easily erodible loess soils, inadequate
irrigation and relative isolation in terms of new technology and markets. Poor farmers



- 5 -
have limited access to credit and lack the funds to make the investments needed to
improve the situation. Nor has the land tenure system in the past provided sufficient
incentives and security for farmers to engage in land improvement activities that
generally make heavy demands on their labor and pay back only in the medium or long
term.
1.18  These factors are addressed by the Province's poverty alleviation plan and by the
proposed project's support for the plan. Terracing and improvement in irrigation are
likely to increase agricultural production and hence raise subsistence levels or increase
cash income. A better supply of drinking water saves time that can be more productively
used, reduces water-borne diseases, and tends to benefit the poorer and remote villages.
Rural roads in remote areas improve market access and encourage farmers to grow cash
crops. Livestock offers ways to raise farm incomes in many villages, provided the
farmers can be given financial assistance to buy animals. Crop residues, and communal
and individual grazing on better managed natural and improved pasture could support
more animals than at present.
1.19  Improvement of the irrigation system in the proposed project area-Yuncheng
Prefecture-will have a major impact on poverty alleviation. At present, because of
small farm sizes and unreliable irrigation, farm families live in considerable insecurity.
Even if a family manages to escape poverty in one year, it often returns to poverty the
next.  The project would also have significant environmental benefits, since past
problems in diverting water from the Yellow River have led to sinking of large numbers
of tubewells and overexploitation of the aquifer. The irrigation system to be constructed
under the project would help to replenish the groundwater resource.
1.20  There will be no investment in social services such as education or health because
these sectors are covered by existing programs; however, an indirect benefit is anticipated
because higher incomes can lead to a marked improvement in living standards, housing,
nutrition, health care and education. In this manner, the project should help to alleviate
poverty by directly raising incomes and improving living standards, and by indirectly
benefiting social services which have been targeted by other programs. Therefore, instead
of a fully integrated project targeted at specific villages, this project aims to augment an
existing programs for poverty alleviation that has identified subprojects that can greatly
benefit a large number of poor people.
D. LESSONS FROM PREvious BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
1.21   The Bank Group has helped to finance numerous projects designed to raise living
standards and incomes and reduce poverty in the rural areas of China. Overall, these
projects have been implemented efficiently, time and cost overruns have been moderate,
despite periods of sharp price escalation, and rates of return have generally equaled or
exceeded appraisal estimates.  A notable feature of these projects has been the
involvement of local communities in their planning, design, and implementation. The
agricultural and water conservancy bureaus of the counties and townships have played a



-6 -
leading role in the projects, under the overall supervision of the provinces, and several
projects, such as the Red Soils I and II Projects, the Gansu Agricultural Development
Project, and the Loess Plateau Project, carried out in relatively resource-poor areas are or
have been notably successful.
1.22  Worldwide, the lessons derived from a recent review by the Bank's Operations
Evaluation Department of nearly 300 projects of similar nature point to the importance
of: (a) concentrating on geographical areas where the poor live, products and services the
poor produce and consume, and assets the poor hold; (b) commitment to and ownership
of the project objectives and components by the people directly affected, which in turn
requires active beneficiary participation during planning and design of the components;
(c) an enabling policy environment providing sufficient incentives for the farmners to
respond to the opportunities offered by the project; (d) flexibility to react to unforeseen or
unforeseeable events by adopting a process approach for components with higher risk;
and (e) design simplicity and replicability.  These lessons have been explicitly
incorporated into the design of the individual components of the project. Careful
selection of the project areas and targeting of beneficiaries, active participation of
shareholders throughout the design phase, focus on the policy environment through
guaranteed long-term land contracts, flexibility and process approach in components with
higher risk, such as livestock, and design simplicity where appropriate, for exarnple,
horticulture and watershed rehabilitation, were integral parts of project preparation.
1.23  To succeed, past experience clearly indicates that poverty alleviation projects need
strong government commitment, broad based beneficiary participation, incentives for the
rural poor to complement project investments with their own efforts, a capable institution
to implement the program, and proven technologies backed by functioning support
services. These are present in the project areas.
E. RATIONALE FOR BANK GROUP INVOLVEMENT
1.24  The project is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy being presented
today. Under this strategy two of the Bank Group's operational priorities in China are
poverty alleviation and environmental enhancement and protection. The Bank's 1992
report: "China: Strategies for Reducing Poverty in the 1990s" and the subsequent
International Conference on Poverty Issues in China held in Beijing in November 1992,
led to a substantial level of agreement between the Chinese authorities and the Bank on
the nature of the poverty problem and approaches to its alleviation. The project design
reflects those approaches and the strategy of the Government's "8-7 Plan" by addressing
two of the key challenges facing rural development in China-slow income growth and
limited entrepreneurial development as well as the need for greater government
investrnent in rural areas. The project attacks poverty at its core and will improve the
lives of many of the rural poor in the project areas.



-7 -
2. THE PROJECT AREAS
A. LOCATION
2.1   Shanxi covers 156,000 km2 along the east bank of the Yellow River and has a
population of 30.3 million. Agriculture in Shanxi in 1993 accounted for about 15 percent
of the province's gross product compared to 57 percent from industry and construction
(particularly coal mining and mineral processing) and 28 percent from other sectors
(transportation, commerce, communication and service industries).  Agriculture has
declined over time as the industrial and other sectors have developed, but the sector
continues to employ almost half of Shanxi's labor force and provides the bulk of its food
requirements. About 3.7 million ha, or 23 percent, of Shanxi's 15.6 million ha total land
area is cultivated. Of this, about 1.2 million ha, or 32 percent, have some forn of
irrigation. The main crops grown are wheat (about one million ha), maize (0.65 million
ha), millet (0.35 million ha), oil crops (0.34 million ha), soybean (0.28 million ha) and
cotton (0.09 million ha). The area devoted to orchards, notably apples, Chinese dates and
pears, has expanded quite rapidly in recent years to around 0.24 million ha, mostly
interplanted with grain. The mountains and hilly areas contain some good forest stands,
and the area of forest of 2.6 million ha takes up 17 percent of Shanxi's land area.
Livestock in Shanxi consists of around 2 million head of cattle, 7 million sheep and
goats, and 4 million pigs.
2.2   Shanxi Province comprises 12 prefectures with 32,000 villages under 1,510
townships in 118 counties. More than 80 percent of the province is located in hilly and
mountainous terrain on the Loess Plateau. Rural per capita incomes are 80 percent of the
national average. Poverty in rural areas is acute. While in 1985 only 35 counties in the
province were recognized as poor counties, this number has now risen to 50. The project
prefectures of Luliang and Yuncheng are the two poorest prefectures in Shanxi with an
annual rural per capita income of only 75 percent of the provincial average. They cover
2
25,000 km., 16 percent of Shanxi's land area.
B. YUNCHENG PREFECTURE
2.3   Geographic Location. Yuncheng Prefecture lies in the southern tip of Shanxi
Province, and is bounded to the west and south by the Yellow River and to the north by
the Fen River. Altitudes range from 180 to 2,300 meters, with mountainous areas along
the northeast part of the project area. About 70 percent of the area has loess soils, with
the remainder being alluvial soils along the river valley and in the floodplain. Erosion is
less of a problem than in the Luliang area and is mainly concentrated in the loess terraces
bounding the Yellow and Fen Rivers. Yuncheng has a monsoon continental climate.
Annual precipitation averages 530 mm, mostly in the form of rain in the months of May



- 8 -
to September. Average monthly temperatures can exceed 300C in the summer and can
fall as low as -50C in the winter. The frost-free period is between 185 and 235 days.
2.4   Population Characteristics. The 13 project counties cover an area of 14,000
km  and have a population of 4.4 million (1.1 million households), of which 3.8 million
(88 percent) hold a rural registration. Migration in and out of the prefecture is quite
small, representing about one percent of the total population annually. Immigration
exceeded outmigration by 12,000 people in 1992. The natural population growth rate
was 1.14 percent in 1992, significantly below the national average of 1.5 percent. Among
the 13 counties, annual birth rates range from 1.43 percent to 2.14 percent whereas death
rates range from 0.41 percent to 0.60 percent. The death rates are average for China but
the birth rates are quite low. This may be attributed to the poor economic conditions and
successful fanily planning. Many farmers in poor villages recognize that they simply
cannot raise more children on their small plot of land. Ethnic minorities account for only
0.2 percent of Yuncheng's population; they are mainly Hui residing mostly in urban areas
and will be unaffected by the project. Located at the confluence of the Yellow and Wei
Rivers, Yuncheng was the ancestral birthplace of the Han culture, and the region has
retained its strong Han dominated characteristics over the centuries.
2.5   Social Organization and Diversity.  Although the household responsibility
system has been in place for 10-15 years, the social structure of the previous commune
system is still evident in the poorer areas of Yuncheng Prefecture. In the lowlard areas,
households are arranged in compact housing settlements surrounded by farrnland
allocated on a per capita basis. Most of the villages contain 1,000 to 1,500 people and
serve as administrative centers. Despite the shift towards free market mechanisms, many
areas have not modernized due to the lack of investment funds. In addition, the high
population density and carrying capacity of the land offer few cash income options other
than horticulture and livestock.  Local governments still maintain a mandatory
procurement system for cotton and grain, thus effectively reducing the maximum
cultivated land area that can be converted to orchards to about 20 percent. This is in
contrast to mountain areas where isolated villages are smaller (<500 people) and housing
is often scattered. Here the local economy is based on subsistence agriculture and the
social networks are still closely tied to work groups.
2.6   Within a village, households share similar livelihoods, assets, and living
standards.  Outmigration of the better educated villagers often tends to leave the
remainder of the village stagnant in terms of economic development. Socially, many
villages change little with time due to the tradition for men to stay in the village and
women to marry outside the village. Some villagers have gained higher economic and
social status by heading specialized households (e.g. they own a fruit orchard, or raise
cattle), but they represent a small proportion of households in most rural areas. Although
the region is still relatively poor, there has been a general improvement in living
standards and mobility since the 1 980s. Improved roads and the use of small tractors to
move people and goods have increased contacts between villages, as well as between
villages and larger towns and cities. This has helped to promote education, job



-9 -
opportunities and social interaction. Since there is little ethnic diversity, most villages
appear quite similar in terms of social and economic structures/networks. There are,
however, some differences between lowland (market farm) villages and mountain area
(subsistence) villages. In the latter, physical isolation and low living standards have
slowed the rate of modernization. Traditional cultures and values are quite dominant in
these areas.
2.7   Agriculture. The cultivated area is about 610,000 ha, mainly planted with grain
crops. The most important crops are wheat (380,000 ha), maize and other grains (73,000
ha), soybeans and other oilseeds (68,000 ha), cotton (70,000 ha), vegetables and other
crops (19,000 ha). Double cropping is possible in the lower altitudes with winter wheat
followed by maize or some other grain crops. Cotton is planted too early and harvested
too late to allow combination with another crop in the same year. The cropping intensity
for field crops is about 105 percent. In recent years greenhouse production of fruit and
vegetables has grown rapidly. Interplanting of Chinese dates, walnuts, apple and pears is
a common practice. The average farm size is about 0.6 ha. There are about 720,000 large
animals, mostly cattle, and about 320,000 sheep and goats. There is potential for
improved irrigation, expansion of fruit and nut trees, and livestock raising. Forest cover
is about 19 percent.
2.8   Irrigation. About 200,000 ha in the project area are currently, or have until
recently, been irrigated to some degree. The largest area of irrigation, the 123,000 ha
Yuncheng Irrigation Project (YIP), suffers from a shortage of water. This is because a
shift in the course of the Yellow River has greatly reduced the water supply to pumping
stations that serve the area. As a result, within the YIP and in other parts of the
prefecture, there is extensive exploitation of groundwater. This is causing a steady
decline in pressure in the main deep aquifer, and on many farms the lift in the tubewells is
over 200 m.
2.9   Rural Incomes. The average annual income for the rural population was Y 480
per capita in 1992. This ranged from a low of Y 379 in Pinglu County to a high of Y 574
in Yongji County. The higher incomes tend to reflect proximity to urban centers or
mining districts. There appears to be a positive correlation between incomes and grain
output although nonagricultural sideline production is the key factor in high incomes.
Since only a small proportion of households benefit directly from township and village
enterprises (TVEs), the majority of farmers have much lower incomes than the averages
would suggest. There is little correlation between land area and incomes because the
traditional commune system had allocated land equitably based on the quality of land.
2.10  In 1993, income levels rose by an average rate of 22 percent but the real increase
after inflation was only 8 percent. This was considered a good crop year because the
rains came at the right time, and yields increased by 27 percent. Profits, however, were
depressed because crop prices remained low while input costs rose quickly. In 1994,
incomes rose again by an average rate of 28 percent, but since inflation was very high, the
real increase was only 4 percent. Fortunately, the farmers benefited from significant



-10-
gains in crop prices which enabled them to keep pace with the general cost of living
increases. In real terms (1992 prices), the 1994 per capita rural income for Yuncheng was
Y 540 and ranged from Y 415 in Yuanqu County to Y 636 in Yongji City.
2.11  Income Distribution. The difference in incomes between 1992 (a normal year)
and 1993 (a very good year) demonstrates the vulnerability of farmers to weather,
especially the arnount and timing of rainfall. In 1992, only 2 percent of rural households
had incomes less than Y 200 per capita but 10 percent were between Y 200 and Y 300
and 57 percent were between Y 300 and Y 500; 30 percent of households eamed more
than Y 500 although most of them earned less than Y 800 per capita. In 1993, one of the
best years for crop output, almost 60 percent of the households earned more than Y 500
per capita. In 1992, 40 percent of the townships were below the poverty line and 15
percent of townships were still below the poverty line in 1994. In a year with a serious
drought, 70 percent of the townships and 80 percent of rural households could fall below
the poverty line.
2.12  Education and Health. Yuncheng Prefecture ranks average compared with
national education levels. Within the adult population (urban and rural), 10 percent are
classified as illiterate, 43 percent of the adult rural population has only primary school
education, 46 percent has reached middle school and only 1 percent has achieved higher
education. Yuncheng Prefecture has good basic facilities for primary education. The
enrollment in primary school is reported above 98 percent and the dropout rate is only 3
percent to 5 percent. These good results stem from the fact that primary education is
mandatory, education is highly valued by villagers and school facilities are available in
every administrative village and some natural villages. However, the rural facilities are
limited to essentials, the levels of teacher qualifications are fairly low and the cost of
education is relatively high for farm families (a typical rural family spends around 30
percent of its available cash on education). As a consequence, the enrollment rate drops
to 80 percent for junior middle school and the average dropout rate rises to 40 percent. It
tends to be much higher in poor and mountain areas where poor access and high costs
combined with poorly educated students lead to very high dropout rates. The cost of
junior middle school can be Y 1,200 per child annually if room and board are provided.
In many cases, the costs of continuing education appear very high compared to the
perceived opportunities for students.
2.13  Survey results from villages located closer to the county seats indicate that when
facilities are available and income levels are higher than average, households place a
strong emphasis on keeping their children (male and female) in school. Junior middle
school graduation is a minimum requirement for employment in industrial enterprises.
There are a number of good upper middle schools and technical schools that provided
opportunities to good students with adequate financing. The priorities for education are:
(a) to improve schools and classroom facilities; and (b) to improve the quality of teachers.
Half of the primary school teachers are paid by the State but the remainder are paid lower
salaries by local government. The best teachers go to villages that can afford to pay
higher salaries and bonuses. Therefore, income levels within a village have high positive



correlation with the quality of education provided. Local communities have also invested
in school improvements.
2.14  Health facilities in the rural areas are basic. Generally each administrative village
has a three room health clinic with a doctor, pharmacist and nurse. In rural areas, there
are 2.2 doctors and 2.4 beds per thousand people. On average each township (20,000
people) maintains only 50 hospital beds. Villagers can get good medical care in larger
towns and cities but the cost and time required often prevent them from using these
services. The quality of medical staff is related to the ability of patients to pay for
services.
2.15  The health of the rural population is reasonably good considering the standard of
living.  Basic health education is taught in the schools, and health clinics provide
education  and  advice  to  adults.    All  children  are  vaccinated  against
diphtheria/polio/tetanus, smallpox, and  whooping  cough.   The  World  Health
Organization (WVHO) estimates coverage to be more than 80 percent, with only the most
isolated areas lacking good programs and facilities. The death rate of children up to age 3
years is 30 per thousand. The death rate for childbearing women is 0.4 per thousand.
Endemic diseases in Yuncheng Prefecture include goiter due to a lack of iodine, and bone
problems caused by high fluoride content in the groundwater supply. Another concern is
undulant fever (brucellosis) which is transmitted from sheep during milking and birthing.
Although not reported, there is some evidence of malnutrition due to a lack of protein and
calories in the local diet of people in poor villages. There are programs to eliminate
goiter by added iodized salt to food. This is reported to have already been successful and
most goiter cases are limited to older people. The problem of high fluoride is more
serious and persistent. The only solution is to provide a better source of drinking water,
but this is not always affordable. The problem of brucellosis is being tackled by training
herdsmen how to avoid the disease.
C. LULIANG PREFECTURE
2.16  Geographic Location. The seven project counties in Luliang Prefecture cover an
area of 11,000 kM2 with a population of 1.2 million, of which 93 percent is rural. The
project area is in the west central part of Shanxi and is bounded on the west by the
Yellow River. Almost all of the land is mountainous or hilly at an altitude between 1,000
and 2,000 meters. The topography shows a landform common in the loess plateau, with
steep slopes and numerous deeply eroded gullies. More than 50 percent of the area has
slopes over 15 degrees, and the gully area amounts to more than 40 percent with a density
of 3 kilometers of gully per square kilometer. Large areas of the slope lands have been
terraced to conserve moisture for crops and to prevent soil erosion. Luliang has a
temperate continental climate. Annual precipitation averages 500 mm, mostly in the
form of rain in the months of May to September. Temperatures reach 350C in the
summner and can fall as low as -1 0°C in the winter. The frost-free period is between 150
and 170 days. Climate and topography impose limitations on agriculture, but over 85
percent of the population in this remote prefecture depend on farming for their livelihood.



- 12 -
Over 75 percent of the villages in Luliang have no telephone service, and 490 villages
have no roads suitable for motor vehicles.
2.17  Luliang Prefecture is comprised of 13 counties, but only the seven poorest
counties are included in the project. The project counties include 117 townships (xiang)
and 2,515 administrative villages. The average size of villages in Luliang is only 450
people compared to 1,1 50 in Yuncheng. Some townships in the seven counties are not
included in the proposed project since they are already being assisted under other projects
financed by the Bank Group and other agencies.
2.18  Population Characteristics. In the project area, 884,000 people have poverty
status. The project area represents 39 percent of the total prefecture population but
comprises 61 percent of the households below the poverty line. Migration in and out of
the prefecture is quite small and balanced, representing about 1.4 percent of the total
population annually. The natural population growth rate was 1.01 percent in 1992, well
below the national average of 1.5 percent. Amongst the seven project counties, annual
birth rates range from 1.34 percent to 1.70 percent and death rates range from 0.39
percent to 0.62 percent. The death rates are slightly below the national average for China
whereas the birth rates are considerably lower, particularly in rural areas. There are only
404 ethnic minority people residing in Luliang Prefecture and only about 70 are
registered in the project area.
2.19 Social Organization and Diversity. Villages on the loess plateau in Luliang can
be characterized as typical mountain villages. These are small and isolated with houses
commonly scattered. The focus is on subsistence agriculture, and social networks are still
closely tied to work groups and kinship. The better educated villagers have been
migrating to towns and cities leaving the remainder of the village stagnant in terms of
economic development. There is also a pronounced outmigration of young women from
poor villages to marry men in wealthier villages. This has a significant impact on the
socioeconomic system of poor villages (e.g., fewer children, fewer nuclear families, more
laborers per household).  Physical isolation, low education levels and poor living
standards have slowed uiie rate of modernization. Traditional cultures and values are
quite dominant in these areas.
2.20  Agriculture. The area under crops is about 198,000 ha. The main crops are millet
and sorghurn (70,000 ha), maize (23,000 ha), soybeans and other oilseeds (95,000 ha),
vegetables and other crops (10,000 ha). The area is generally single cropped since the
growing season is too short to permnit double cropping. Irrigation is limited to an area of
17,000 ha with limited scope for expansion. Fruit and nut trees are beginning to be more
widely grown on the terraces and the project area is a major producer of Chinese dates.
The average farm size is about 1.0 ha. Draft animals, mainly cattle, number about
150,000, and there are about 900,000 sheep and goats. There is considerable scope for
expansion of fruit and nut trees, livestock raising and further increases in terracing.



- 13 -
2.21   Rural Incomes. The rural population is primarily employed in the production of
field crops, orchard management and animal husbandry for domestic needs. Agricultural
conditions are constrained and income levels are low unless there are mining activities in
the township. Closer to the urban centers, the rural population has good opportunities for
sideline activities and nonagricultural employment. The commercial sector is not well
developed except in the county seats. Good road transportation is limited to the main
river valleys where paved county roads connect the major centers. In other areas,
transportation is poor and roads that do exist become impassable during rains.
2.22  The average annual income for the rural population was Y 318 per capita in 1992.
This ranged from a low of Y 272 in Xingxian County to Y 372 in Liulin County. In
1992, 104 (89 percent) of the 117 townships had incomes below the poverty level of
Y 400. In 1993, income levels rose by an average of 24 percent but the real increase was
10 percent. In 1994, income levels rose another 45 percent due to higher grain prices. In
real terms (1992 prices), the 1994 per capita rural income for the Luliang project area was
Y 398 and ranged from Y 316 in the four project townships of Lishi City to Y 435 in
Liulin County. Although this has been an impressive 25 percent real increase since 1992,
there were still 82 townships (70 percent) below the poverty line and only 9 townships
with more than Y 500 per capita in 1992 prices. However, in a bad year, 95 percent of
the townships are likely to fall below the poverty line.
2.23  Income Distribution. Seven percent of rural households had incomes less than
Y 200 per capita but 32.3 percent were between Y 200 and Y 300 and 52.6 percent were
between Y 300 and Y 500. Roughly 70 percent of the households fell below the poverty
line (Y 400 per capita). Only 8 percent of households earned more than Y 500. When
incomes rose by 24 percent in 1993, 82 percent of the households still earned less than
Y 500 per capita.
2.24  Education and Health The Luliang project area has below-average education
levels. Within the adult rural population, 20 percent are classified as illiterate. An
estimated 49 percent of the adult rural population has only primary school education, 30
percent has reached middle school and less than 1 percent has achieved higher education.
Luliang is a poverty stricken prefecture and consequently primary education facilities are
quite limited. Despite the poor quality of schools, teachers and materials, the total
enrollment in primary school is reported to be above 98 percent and the dropout rate is
low. Although primary education is mandatory and education is highly valued by
villagers, the schools are limited in buildings and facilities, and this tends to reduce the
effectiveness of education. Primary schools are available in most administrative villages.
However, due to the isolation of numerous natural villages, it is difficult to provide good
quality and affordable primary education to every household.
2.25  Health facilities in the rural areas are quite limited. Many villages have makeshift
clinics managed by "barefoot doctors". The conditions of facilities and staff are well
below national standards but programs are now underway to improve the situation. In
rural areas, there are only 1.4 doctors and 2.7 hospital beds per thousand people.



- 14 -
Villagers can get adequate medical care in larger towns and county seats but the costs are
often beyond their means. Health problems in rural areas are relatively moderate
considering the standard of living. Basic health education is taught in the schools and
health clinics provides education and advice to adults. Most children are vaccinated for
the prevention of diphtheria/polio/tetanus, smallpox, and whooping cough. The infant
mortality rate is 58 per thousand (high due to TB and stillbirths) while the death rate of
children up to age 5 years is 74 per thousand. The death rate for childbearing women is
2.2 per thousand. The endemic disease situation is similar to that of Yuncheng.



- 15-
3. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.1   The project's main objective is to help alleviate poverty in the 20 poorest counties
of Yuncheng and Luliang Prefectures in Shanxi Province. The project will include a
range of activities aimed at raising incomes for about 3 million poor through
rehabilitation of an existing irrigation system, improvements of rural roads and
construction of village water supplies, land development, expansion of livestock raising
and horticulture, and expansion of primary agricultural processing capacity. The project,
prepared in detail by the Poverty Alleviation Bureaus at the provincial and prefecture
levels, draws on their considerable experience in similar poverty alleviation projects and
programs, and complements ongoing activities under the national 8-7 Poverty Alleviation
Program.
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3.2   The main features of the project are:
(a)   construction of a new pumping complex and associated structures in
Yuncheng located on the bank of the Yellow River at Langdian to supply
water to three existing pumping stations; and provision of 14 floating
pumps at the existing station at Zuncun;
(b)   improvement and expansion of the 123,000 ha Yuncheng Irrigation
System;
(c)   river beach  development, including  land  leveling, electrification,
upgrading of rural roads, aquaculture development and construction of
tubewells on 13,000 ha of presently cultivated river beach land in
Yuncheng;
(d)   construction of 78 village water supply schemes to serve 620,000 people
in Yuncheng, and 204 smaller village water supply systems to serve
64,000 people in Luliang;
(e)   improvement of existing rural roads with a total length of 209 km in
Yuncheng and 118 km in Luliang;
(f)   soil and water conservation works in small watersheds in Luliang
consisting of terraces on 13,400 ha of land, construction of 56 check dams,
and afforestation on 4,200 ha of slope land;



- 16-
(g)   expansion of the area under fruit and nut trees;
(h)   expansion of livestock raising by individual farmers;
(i)   expansion and improvement of agricultural processing facilities;
(j)   support for a program targeted at poor and disadvantaged women managed
by local women's federations operating under the aegis of the All China
Women's Federation (ACWF); and
(k)   facilities for project management and training and overseas study tours.
C. PROJECT COMPONENTS
3.3   Langdian Pumping Complex. The Langdian Pumping Complex will increase
the supply of water to the Yuncheng Irrigation System in the southern part of Yuncheng
Prefecture. In the past. three pumping stations were built to lift water from the Yellow
River to this system. But the river channel, which was close to the left bank when the
pumping stations were built, has moved away from the river bank. Now, every year
channels are excavated from the active channel to the pumps but these fill with sediment
when the river is in flood and sometimes the channels have to be excavated several times
a year during the flood season. The details of the pumping stations are summarized
below:
Design                               Date of      Present
Capacity     Head        Date         River       Capacity
Station          (cms)       (m)         Built         Shift       (cms)
Jiamakou          9.5         10         1960          1976           7
Xiaofan           6.0         18         1961          1969           0
Zuncun           46.5          7         1978          1987          15
3.4   The current water delivery capacity is only 22 cms compared to the design
capacity of 62 cms. This problem is to be overcome by building the new Langdian
pumping station upstream of the three existing stations and connecting it to them through
a 13.5 km canal. The capacity of the pumping station will be 43 cms. In addition,
floating pumps with a capacity of 18 cms will be placed near the Zuncun station. A 1.5
km long channel between the river and the Zuncun station will require annual
maintenance dredging.
3.5   The site of the Langdian station is at a point in the river where the channel is close
to the left bank and is believed to be stable. Satellite images show that the site has been
free from sediment accretion since 1980, the date of the earliest images. Flow patterns



- 17-
during this period have been superimposed on the imagery, and these show that the bulk
of the flow stayed close to the left bank, except in 1984. In that year, the main flow
shifted away but pumping would still have been possible at the proposed site. Local
people at the site report that the channel has been stable in its present location for more
than 30 years. From a review of all the available data, a team of river training experts
from the Yellow River Conservancy Commission (YRCC) and IDA has concluded that
the river channel at the site is stable and is likely to remain so. In the case of a major
flood event there is a possibility that the main channel could shift further to the right
bank. The dredges operating in the desilting pond would then be used to maintain an
intake channel on the left bank. Further details are given in Annex 3.
3.6   Yuncheng Irrigation System. The Yuncheng Irrigation System in the southern
part of Yuncheng Prefecture was planned to serve an area of about 123,000 ha. Works
built to date command an area of about 90,000 ha. The project provides for rehabilitation
of the existing stations, canals and other structures, and completion of the Yuncheng
irrigation system, except for 10,000 ha in the upper part that have been excluded because
of difficult topography. The completion works consist mainly of constructing lateral
canals (and sublaterals), each of which serves about 60 ha, over an area of 33,000 ha.
Because of the loss of pumping capacity, most of this area has for years depended on
tubewells; this has led to a fall in the groundwater level to nearly 100 meters in some
areas and the level continues to fall by 2 meters a year. This situation is not sustainable,
and there is a need to greatly increase the input of surface water to the area to avoid
further depletion of the aquifer and conserve the groundwater resource for domestic use.
The combined capacity of Langdian and the floating pumps will be sufficient to meet
virtually all of the irrigation demands from surface water. In the months of July and
August the sediment load in the Yellow River is high and the pumping will be reduced to
avoid silting up of the canals. During these months, surface water will be supplemented
by groundwater to meet the relatively low wet-season demands of the irrigated area.
3.7   River Beach Development. About 13,000 ha of protected land along the river
(river beach land) in eight counties of Yuncheng is proposed for development. Much of
this land did not exist until the 1950's when a change in the river's course left behind
flood plains where the sediment gradually accumulated to form new land. About 80
percent of the land is now under crops and plantations, but only 20 percent is irrigated
mainly by 690 tubewells (the area has ample groundwater resources). The land is leased
to the villages on the high ground bordering the river. These lands can be made highly
productive at a relatively low cost. The component includes installation of 1,300
tubewells and associated electrification, light land leveling on 13,000 ha, and upgrading
of 175 km of rural road. It further includes an aquaculture component consisting of the
rehabilitation of 330 ha existing but badly deteriorated fish ponds, and construction of
200 ha new fish ponds. A new fish hatchery covering 5.3 ha will supply the necessary
fry. Furthermore a fish farmers' association will be established to provide market
intelligence and technical advice, and conduct applied research. An area of about 1,300
ha of undeveloped beach land which attracts large numbers of migratory waterfowl has
been designated by the province as a nature reserve. The project will establish necessary



- 18-
infrastructure for the reserve, such as a forest protection belt and observation points for
visitors.
3.8   Rural Water Supply. There is a severe shortage of water in many villages in
both prefectures. In Yuncheng, wells to produce a reliable supply of good quality water
(20-30 m3/hour) have to be between 150 and 300 meters deep. In Luliang, groundwater
can be found in shallow aquifers (10-15 m deep) in the beds of gullies, but these can only
be pumped for a few hours at 5-10 m3/hour. Most villages get their water from pits in the
ground (cisterns) filled with storm runoff, and from shallow wells in the beds of gullies.
The latter are very low yielding and in the dry season people have to wait for hours for
the wells to recharge after the first villagers have filled their buckets. Water is often sold
in the villages by people who have access to a well in their own village. The average
family in water-short areas spends around Y' 100 in a year on drinking water-this is
about 10 percent of the average family income. In addition to the cash cost, the water
shortage also causes many hours to be spent hauling water which could be spent on more
productive activities. In most cases, the source provided by the project will be a well
which feeds one or more storage tanks. Water is piped to the villages' distribution
systems from the storage tanks. Cisterns will be built in small villages where the people
cannot afford the investment and operating cost of a pumped system. A better water
supply will also: (a) expand possibilities for villagers to own draft animals for farming
and transportation; (b) reduce the incidence of water-borne diseases; and (c) allow for
watering of seedlings in orchard establishment. Operation and maintenance of the system
will be the responsibility of the village, and is usually contracted out to an individual
household.
3.9   In Yuncheng, the plan covers 78 comparatively large systems including 59 deep
well systems and 19 diversion schemes serving 516 villages, 620,000 people and 120,000
draft animals.  Luliang plans to construct water supply facilities for 204 villages,
including 77 deep well systems, 65 schemes based on springs, and 1,179 household
cisterns in the remaining 62 villages. The schemes will serve 64,000 people or about 50
percent of the remaining population of 135,000 in Luliang without access to reliable
drinking water. The other 50 percent of the villages will receive water supply systems
using local poverty alleviation funds during the same period.
3.10  Rural Roads. The existing highway systems in the prefectures are in reasonable
condition and well maintained, but there is considerable scope to improve and extend
existing rural roads to provide all-weather access to some of the townships. Both the
provincial government and the local population attach great importance to extending the
rural road network to remote communities as a way to reduce poverty. The project will
support this policy in both prefectures. The component will upgrade existing roads and
tracks to Class 4 Standard (Rural Roads). The roads will be 7.5 meters wide (a 6 m
pavement of 20 cm of compacted gravel, and 0.75 m shoulders). The improved roads
will: (a) lower transport costs of inputs and outputs for farmers and small mines;
(b) attract buyers for farm produce; and (c) lead to new bus services, or more frequent
services, that will expand opportunities for off-farm employment and education. The



- 19 -
project includes upgrading six roads with a total length of 209 km in Yuncheng and five
roads totaling II 8 km in Luliang.
3.11   Soil and Water Conservation. This component in Luliang Prefecture includes
terracing on slope land, construction of sediment control dams, and afforestation on slope
land that is too steep for terracing or crop cultivation. Terracing is planned for 13,400 ha.
The conversion of slope lands to terraces serves a number of purposes. First, it creates a
better environment for crop production through moisture conservation; in a year of
average rainfall, grain yields on terraces are two to three times higher than on slope lands.
Second, terraced land is more resistant to damaging soil erosion during intense storms
than slope land. And third. sediment runoff is much lower from terraces than from sloped
land. Generally, terraces are confined to lands where slopes are less than 200. But where
there is a shortage of crop land, terraces are built on slopes up to 250. Soils are deep in
Luliang and the area is therefore well suited to terracing, but the topsoil is often set aside
and replaced upon completion of the terrace. About 7,600 ha will be wide terraces of
13-16 m built on slopes of 5°-10°, and 5,800 ha will be narrower terraces of 10-13m built
on slopes of 10°-15°. The terraces will be level and the lower parts of the risers vertical,
with a sloping top to allow for establishment of grasses and other vegetative cover plants
to protect the riser from erosion. After terracing, the fields will be deep plowed, fertilized
with 150 kg of urea and 300 kg of superphosphate. The main crops will be sorghum,
maize, millet, beans, potatoes and sunflower.
3.12   The works also include the construction of 56 sediment control dams. These are
earth dams with heights between 10 and 25 meters built in the gullies. Gross initial
storage capacities range between 100,000 m3 and 1,000,000 mi3.  The dams reduce
flooding and sediment loads in the downstream rivers, and the sediment deposits behind
the dams create high quality agricultural land, estimated for these dams to amount to 270
ha. Numerous similar dams have been built in Luliang. The procedures for design
review and supervision will be the same as those adopted for the dams financed under the
Loess Plateau Project (para. 3.25). These procedures are fully consistent with Bank
Group standards. The reservoir sites are in deeply eroded gullies and are devoid of
agriculture and human habitation. During the first few years after construction, the water
stored behind the dams can be used for irrigation and village water supplies.
3.13   Afforestation  is another important component of the integrated watershed
development. Tree planting is planned for 4,200 ha of steep slopes and wasteland.
Chinese pine, larch and poplar are the main species suited to the area. Trees will be
planted on land where the steep slope or poor soils render it unsuitable for crops or
orchards. This increases the supply of fuel wood and lumber, and improves soil and
water conservation. Poplar will mainly be planted on gentle slopes without terraces.
Pine and larch will be planted on narrow terraces on land with steep slopes (20°-30°).
Participating households will tend I ha of plantings. The area planted will be 1,400 ha of
each of the three species giving a total plantation area of 4,200 ha. In practice, the three
species, together with other suitable tree and shrub species, will be established as mixed
plantations.



- 20 -
3.14  Horticulture. The prefectures specialize in Chinese dates and prickly ash (a
source of spices) and other fruits and nuts. In Luliang, the fruit trees selected for planting
are Chinese date (Zizyphus jujuba), kernel apricot (Prunus armeniaca), walnut (Juglans
regia) and apples and pears. Generally, plantation will be on low-yielding hilly or
mountainous areas with slopes of 150-20°. In Yuncheng, fiuit and nut trees to be planted
are Chinese date, Chinese prickly ash (Xanthoxylum bungaenum), walnut and chestnut
(Castanea mollissima). Fruit trees are normally interplanted with field crops such as
wheat and soybean in Yuncheng and millet and soybean in Luliang. The choice of
varieties and the establishment and management of the plantations draws on successful
experience in the past. The total proposed fruit tree area to be intercropped is 69,240 ha
distributed as follows:
Yuncheng (ha)                   Luliang (ha)
Dates                                23,270                          15,000
Prickly Ash                           12,500
Apricots (kernel)                                                     2,800
Walnuts                               8,870                           2,800
Chestnut                               3,300
Apples and Pears                           -                            700
Total (ha)                         47,940                          21,300
3.15  In Luliang, trees will generally be planted on slope land on narrow terraces I m
wide. Depending on the tree crop planted, farmers will be able to intercrop for 3-7 years
before the trees reach maturity. In contrast with the system to be adopted in Luliang, the
Chinese dates in Yuncheng will be planted at wide interrow spacings (15 m) in lowland
cereal fields, and grain cropping will continue over the whole life of the tree. In Luliang,
the present nursery capacity is inadequate for a program of this size. Accordingly, the
project will finance material inputs for 250 small household nurseries each of 0.1 ha. The
project will also provide for the construction of a tissue culture laboratory at the Forestry
Research Station at Lishi with an initial annual capacity of around 50,000 plantlets per
year. This technique is well established in China and is successfully used for Chinese
date propagation in Henan Province. Chinese dates are somewhat difficult to multiply
with traditional techniques, thus a rapid multiplication technique is appropriate to ensure
that sufficient high quality seedlings of high value varieties are available.
3.16  Livestock.  The provincial poverty alleviation program already includes the
distribution of cattle to some poor households. Demand is strong, and rural households,
especially the women, rank the ownership of a large animal among the highest priorities
to improve their incomes. All livestock are valued, not only for their directly saleable
products, but also for their manure, as a form of savings, and, in the case of cattle, as
draught animals. Technically, ruminant livestock also fit in well to the farming systems,
which in many areas have abundant unused crop residues, and there is a potential for



- 21 -
increased fodder production from wasteland too steep or too poor to be brought into
arable cultivation.
3.17  The main feature of the livestock component will be the introduction of large
animals to new households selected from amongst small farmers with limited financial
resources. This will provide the opportunity for immediate cash savings and new income
generation. In addition, acquisition of animals will increase the security of households
and their ability to cope with unexpected crises. All these benefits meet the fundamental
criteria of poverty alleviation and give the component a strong justification. However,
livestock keeping is not without risk and the design of the component will recognize the
limited technical and management knowledge and financial vulnerability of new project
livestock farmers. Supporting this primary initiative will be investments to improve
veterinary services, the existing artificial insemination program, research activities and
the development and expansion of new technology. The component consists of: (a) the
introduction of livestock to poor and marginal farmers who have access to adequate crop
residues and/or large areas of unimproved natural pasture; (b) the improvement of
veterinary and artificial insemination services; (c) the introduction of better techniques
for silage making and the upgrading of artificial and natural pastures amongst existing
livestock owners; and (d) the development of research topics which will assist small
livestock farmers, as well as training for project officials and farmers.
3.18  New project livestock farmers will be provided with one or two breeding cows,
depending on resource availability. In the river beach land areas, some farmers will be
provided with a nucleus flock of sheep. The farmers themselves will construct the
necessary livestock shelter, water trough and silage pits. Repayment will be scheduled
over 6-12 years and farmers will be required to take out an insurance policy against the
death of their foundation animals. Simple low-cost fodder conservation techniques such
as ammoniated straw silage will be promoted and farmers will be encouraged to keep
their operational cash commitments to a minimum. Up to 13,000 farmers will receive
assistance under this component.
3.19  Improvements to the facilities and the equipment of about 220 existing veterinary
service stations will take place, and support will be provided for the Shanxi Frozen
Semen Center in Taiyuan, the Jinan Yellow Cattle Breeding Center in Yuncheng and a
frozen semen and liquid nitrogen production center in Lishi. To promote better quality
silage making, grass/straw choppers will be procured and sold to existing livestock
owners. Crop residues from a number of farmers will be handled by a single chopping
machine and every effort will be made to locate machines in villages where new livestock
farmers are to be established.
3.20  Agricultural Processing. Agroprocessing plants provide markets for farmers'
outputs, add value to commodities close to their point of production, and provide
employment. The proposed agroindustries are unlikely to face input shortages as they
will make use of additional agricultural production as raw material for their operations.
The selected enterprises consist of a mix of TVEs and county-operated companies. The



- 22 -
individual investments will be relatively small (less than $1 million in each case). The
key criteria for their inclusion into the project included considerations of comparative
advantage, market opportunities and management expertise.  The companies will
participate in a pilot program which will involve submission of an enterprise reform plan,
and they will experiment with various incentive systems and reforms of their ownership
structure towards a shareholder system   during implementation.  The following
enterprises will be included in the project. They involve expansion and improvement of
existing small plants except where noted. Each plant is briefly described in Annex I1.
Yuncheng                                   Luliang
Jishan Guangong Distillerv                  Linxian Paper Board Mill
Wenxi Dehydrated Vegetables                 Fangshan Cooking Oil Refinery (new)
Jishan Date Processing                      Xinxian Cereals Mill (new)
Jiangxian Food Products                     Shilou Leather Factory
Wanrong Dehydrated Vegetables               Liulin Liuyu Distillery
Guanghua Food Processing                    Shilou Feed Mill
Yuanqu Silk Reeling                         Liulin Date Processing (new)
Xiaxian Feed Mill                           Lishi Date Processing (new)
Xiaxian Flour Mill
Wenxi Biscuit Factory
Xingjian Dehydrated Vegetables
Yuncheng Flour Mill
Pinglu Fruit Packing
3.21 All China Women's Federation. The All China Women's Federation (ACWF)
through local women's federations, manages a number of active programs in the project
areas to support women in income-producing enterprises and activities.' Among these
are skill training in handicrafts, rabbit, poultry and pig production and a range of sideline
activities. The ACWF programs specifically target poor and disadvantaged women, and
their activities will complement many of the project's other components.  Under the
project the ACWF will identify small and focused subprojects to generate cash income
for women in remote villages. These will mainly consist of small livestock raising (pigs,
poultry, rabbits), combined with training programns. The ACWF has adequate training
facilities in Luliang, which will be supplemented with selected equipment and training
materials. Larger individual credits offered to women for commercial activities will first
be appraised by local branches of the Agricultural Bank of China (ABC), following
standard credit procedures before approval by the Project Management Offices (PMOs).
l The Luliang Branch of the ACWF has received national recognition for its innovative approach to help poor women.



- 23 -
The IDA credit will fund the part of the costs of the ACWF component, amounting to
some $0.3 million. This would include the weaner pig production farm (about Y 182,000
for works, Y 110,000 for equipment, Y 500,000 for livestock purchase, feed and
veterinary services), small livestock enterprises (about Y 3.0 million), and training (about
Y 750,000). The component is described in more detail in Annex 10.
3.22  Project Management Support Services. The prefectures will provide equipment
and facilities for project management, project monitoring and training. In Luliang,
Yuncheng, and Taiyuan. this includes upgrading of office buildings, provision of
vehicles, and office equipment. Training centers will be updated in both prefectures and
equipped with furniture and audiovisual equipment.  Extension services will be
strengthened in each county. including renovation of buildings and supply of equipment
and vehicles. Monitoring and evaluation of the impact of project activities will be
supported through upgrading of observation stations and provision of equipment.
3.23  Training and Overseas Study Tours. The project includes 21 staff months of
overseas study tours, 16 staff months of overseas training, and 70 staff months of
domestic study tours covering all aspects of project management, monitoring, and
technical training. At negotiations assurances were obtained that Shanxi will prepare
and furnish to the Association hy November 30 of each year, a proposed program of
training activities to be carried out during the following calendar year and thereafter,
implement such program as approved by the Association (see para. 4. 1).
D. STATUS OF DESIGNS
3.24  Designs are virtually complete for the irrigation components, beach land, roads,
water supplies, and soil conservation works, and for most of the agroprocessing
enterprises. Preparation of construction drawings and bid documents for the irrigation
works will be completed by early 1996.
3.25  Current procedures require multilevel technical reviews and approval of the
design and construction of sediment control dams. Preliminary designs are carried out by
county water and soil conservation bureaus. Initial review and approval of structural
design and siting are carried out by provincial water and soil conservation authorities who
are responsible for ensuring compliance with design procedures and technical
specifications. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that all dams (a) which
will either exceed 10 m in height or create a reservoir with a gross storage volume of
2,500, 000 cubic meters or more, or (b) which possess unusual design features, involve
difficult geological conditions, or are situated so as to be significantly destructive in the
event of a failure, will be (i) subject to independent reviews as to their designs and
construction by a panel, whose membership and TORs are acceptable to the Association,
and (ii) periodically inspected by the panel in accordance with sound engineering
practices in order to determine whether there are any deficiencies which may endanger
their safety.



- 24 -
E. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
3.26  The project will be implemented over a period of six years. Project completion is
expected by December 31, 2001, and the credit closing by December 31, 2002. Most of
the construction for the irrigation system and beach land will be by manual labor,
employing farmers in the project area. The peak periods for labor availability are after
the wheat harvest in July/August, and in the winter until the planting season in
April/May. During this period there will be long spells when it is too cold for concrete
work and the ground is too hard for manual excavation. Thus, for manual labor the
construction season lasts for about 180 days. For work carried out with equipment,
construction can proceed for most of the year except for the coldest months. An
implementation schedule is shown in Annex 15.
F. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING PLAN
3.27 The project has an estimated cost of $182.8 million, including $26.6 million of
foreign exchange ( 15 percent of the total). Cost estimates are summarized in Table 3. 1.
A more detailed summary with an expenditure schedule is given in Annex2, and cost
estimates for individual components are given in the relevant annexes. Project cost
estimates reflect end- 1995 prices using a unit cost approach in which unit prices are
applied to detailed quantity estimates. The unit prices are based on experience with
similar works and projects in the prefectures. Where unit prices were not available, they
were derived by estimating labor, material and equipment inputs. Since there are no large
physical uncertainties, a physical contingency of 5 percent has been applied to the
construction costs. Project works are labor-intensive, and labor rates for off-season
employment are not likely to be subject to the sharp escalation now being experienced in
more prosperous parts of China. Also, many of the villagers employed on the project will
stand to benefit from the improvements in land productivity and, therefore, the counties
will have some leverage in setting rates. Expected price increases for the total project
cost expressed in Yuan were derived by applying price escalation of 10.5 percent for
1996, 8.5 percent for 1997, and 7.0 percent for 1998, 6.5 percent for 1999 and 6.2 percent
for the following years. For the total cost expressed in US dollars, the escalation factors
are 1.8 percent for 1996, 2.6 percent for 1997 and 2.5 percent after 1997.



- 25 -
Table 3.1: COST SUMMARY
Local   Foreign    Total          Local   Foreign      Total      %
--------Yuan Million--------      --------US$ Million--------   Foreign
Yuncheng Irrigation System       255.7      39.3      295.0           30.4      4.7      35.1         14
River Beach Development           92.5      37.1      129.6           11.0      4.4      15.4         29
Rural Water Supply                55.7      21.6       77.4            6.6       2.6      9.2         28
Rural Roads                      143,2        0.6     143.8           17.1      0.1      17.1          1
Soil & Water Conservation        114.6       8.8      123.4           13.6       1.0     14.7          7
Horticulture                     174.0      50.1      224.1           20.8      6.0      26.7         22
Livestock                        117.8       4.1      122.0           14.0      0.5      14.5          3
Agricultural Processing          114.9      30.2      145.1           13.7      3.6      17.3         21
All China Womens' Federation       5.0        -         5.0            0.6       -        0.6          -
Support Services                  92.6      21.0      113.4           11.0      2.6      13.5         19
Base Cost                       1.166.0    212.7    1,378.7          138.8     25.3    164.1          15
Physical Contingencies            75.9        -        75.9            9.0       -        9.0          -
Expected Price Increase          286.1      44.3      330.5            8.4       1.3      9.7         13
Total Proiect Cost           1,528.0    251 1 .1785.1             112        2k      .1125
3.28    The proposed IDA  Credit of SDR  67.3 million ($100 million equivalent) will
finance 55 percent of the project cost, Shanxi Province will finance 25 percent, the
prefectures/counties 4 percent, and the farmers 16 percent. The province will receive an
allocation of funds from the Central Government under the 8-7 Poverty Alleviation
Program over the project period that will make up about one-third of the province's
contribution (Table 3.2). Shanxi Province has a strong track record of implementing
foreign funded projects and past performance has been highly satisfactory.
Table 3.2: FINANCING PLAN
LQa11                     Foreign                     IQTal
-----------------------------($ million)--------------------
IDA                                       73.4                        26.6                     100.0
Shanxi Province                           45.7                          -                       45.7
Prefectures/Counties                       7.3                                                   7.3
Farmers                                   2.                            -                       22.m
156.2                        26.6                     182.8
G. PROCUREMENT
Works
3.29 Civil Works worth $73.4 million would be required for the project comprising
Yuncheng irrigation system infrastructure ($30.9 million), beach land development
infrastructure ($10.3 million), water supply ($6.7 million), rural roads ($18 million), and
buildings ($7.5 million). Except for the Langdian pumping complex in the Yuncheng



- 26 -
irrigation system, the civil works for this component consist of many small undertakings
spread throughout the project areas ($21.0 million) and to be built under force account by
experienced country teams in cooperation with the beneficiaries over a period of five to
six years. Structures costing about $9.9 million at Langdian pumping complex would be
procured through national competitive bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to the
Association. The beach land works include a variety of activities such as well-drilling,
leveling, earth roads, irrigation canals, and electrification. These works ($10.3 million)
would also be carried out under force account. Supervision of these works will be the
responsibility of the Yuncheng Water Conservancy Bureau.  Rural roads involve
improvement of the existing roads and some new bridges and culverts. The sites are
widely separated and it is difficult to quantify the work in advance. With the exception of
some large structures ($2.5 million), that will be contracted out through NCB procedures
acceptable to IDA, these will be built as force account operations ($15.5 million) by the
county road construction teams employing the villagers living along the roads. The water
supply works consist of well-drilling, construction of pumping stations and storage tanks,
and laying of distribution pipes. These will be executed by county water conservancy
bureaus under the direction of the prefecture water conservancy staff ($6.7 million).
Villagers will assist in installing the distribution systems. Buildings for project offices
and agroprocessing enterprises ($6.1 million) will be procured through NCB procedures
acceptable to IDA.
3.30 Soil and water conservation works in Luliang ($15.9 million) will be carried out
under force account by the villages with assistance from equipment deployed by the
county and township soil conservation teams. The horticulture component would be
carried out under force account by the villages ($22.5 million for the establishment and
tending of fruit orchards), under the supervision of the local agriculture bureaus. In total,
works costing $92 million equivalent or less in aggregate, may, with the Association's
prior agreement, be carried out under force account by experienced country teams in close
cooperation with the project beneficiaries. The above force account works are justified
due to the labor-intensive and scattered nature of the works to be carried out over a span
of time, and are considered unsuitable for competitive bidding.
Goods
3.31 Equipment and materials worth $34 million would be required for the project
comprising equipment for agroprocessing ($7 million), pumps and motors ($3.8 million),
electrical equipment ($7.1 million), dredgers and excavators ($2.4 million), PVC pipes
($2 million), fertilizers ($7.4 million), vehicles ($2 million) and miscellaneous equipment
($2.3 million). ICB procurement procedures would apply to most pumps and motors
($3.4 million), electrical transformers ($4.0 million), dredges and excavators ($2.4
million), PVC pipe ($1.8 million), fertilizer ($7.4 million), and most vehicles ($1.7
million) for a total of $20.7 million. To the extent practicable, contracts for goods would
be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more for
each. A margin of preference equal to 15 percent of the CIF price of imported goods or
the actual customs duties and import taxes, whichever is less, will be allowed to domestic



- 27 -
manufacturers bidding under ICB procedures. Equipment for agroprocessing ($7 million)
includes numerous items of processing equipment of many different types for 21
enterprises. These will be procured and installed over a period of three to four years and
cannot be packaged for ICB; therefore, they will be procured through national and
international shopping.  Some pumps and motors ($0.4 million), conductors and
insulators ($3.1 million), a small portion of the PVC pipes ($0.2 million), some vehicles
($0.3 million), and other small equipment ($2.3 million) would be procured through
national and international shopping. In summary, equipment, vehicles and materials
costing $250,000 or less per contract, and $13,300,000 or less in the aggregate, may be
procured through shopping.
3.32 In addition, animals for the livestock component ($11.9 million) would be procured
through national shopping procedures at regional or local markets by teams comprising
representatives from the beneficiary villages and the local animal husbandry bureaus.
Consultancy Services and Training
3.33  Services worth $17.3 million would be required for the project and comprise
training services ($2.2 million), project management ($14 million) and various services
for the livestock and horticulture components ($1.1 million).  Consultants will be
employed in accordance with Bank Group guidelines for the use of consultants and the
use of the Bank's standard form of contract for consultants' services. Miscellaneous
expenditures amounting to $7.2 million and comprising mainly recurrent operating
expenditures will not be financed by the Bank/IDA, including project management of $14
million.
3.34 IDA Approval and Review. All contracts for goods would be grouped into bid
packages whenever possible to attract competition and permit bulk purchasing. Standard
bidding documents approved by IDA would be used. All contracts for goods of $250,000
or more would be subject to prior review by IDA, which would cover about 80 percent of
the total goods by value. All contracts for works of $1 million equivalent or more would
be subject to prior review. All contracts for consultant services in excess of $100,000 for
engagement of firms, and $50,000 for engagement of individuals would be subject to
prior review by IDA, which would cover about 75 percent of the total consultant services
by value. For consultants' contracts below these thresholds, prior review will apply to
terms of reference, single source selection, assignments of a critical nature and any
amendments that would raise contract value above the prior review threshold. Other
contracts for goods would be subject to ex-post review by IDA supervision missions.
The procurement profile is shown in Table 3.3. The International Tendering Company
(ITC) of the China International Trust & Investment Corporation has been chosen to
represent Shanxi Province in procurement matters.



- 28 -
Table 3.3: PROCUREMENT PROFILE
Item                               Procurement Method
ICB        NCB           Other /a       NIF /b    Total
Civil Works and Buildings
Yuncheng Irrigation                       9.9            21.0                    30.9
Beach Land                                               10.3                    10.3
Water Supply                                              6.7                     6.7
Rural Roads                               2.5            15.5                    18.0
Buildings                                 6.1                           1.4       7.5
Total                                  18.5            53.5            1.4      73.4
(9.2)          (26.8)                  (36.0)
Soil and Water Conservation
Terracing                                                12.6                    12.6
Check Dams                                                2.0                     2.0
Afforestation                                             1.3                      1.3
Total                                                  15.9                     15.9
(9.5)                   (9.5)
Livestock
Animals                                                  11.9                    11.9
Support Services                                          0.6                     0.6
Total                                                  12.5                     12.5
(9.0)                   (9.0)
Horticulture
Establishment and Tending                                22.5                    22.5
Support Services                                          0.5                     0.5
Total                                                  23.0                     23.0
(9.0)                   (9.0)
Equipment/Goods
Agroprocessing                                            7.0                     7.0
Pumps and Motors               3.4                        0.4                     3.8
Electrical                    4.0                         3.1                     7.1
Dredgers and Excavators       2.4                                                 2.4
PVC Pipes                      1.8                        0.2                     2.0
Fertilizer                     7.4                                                7.4
Vehicles                       1.7                        0.3                     2.0
Miscellaneous                                             2.3                     2.3
Total                       20.7                       13.3                     34.0
(20.7)                     (13.2)                  (34.0)
ACWF Component                                            0.6                     0.6
(Goods, works and training)                            (0.3)                    (0.3)
Training and Study Tours                                  2.2                     2.2
(2.2)                   (2.2)
Project Management                                                     14.0      14.0
(0)       (0)
Miscellaneous                                                           7.2       7.2
(0)       (0)
TOTAL                     20.7        18.5           121.0          22.6     182.8
(20.7)      (9.2)          (70.1)         (0)     (100)
/a Other includes force account, community participation and shopping, and training.
Lb NIF: Not IDA-financed.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank Group.



- 29 -
H. DISBURSEMENTS
3.35   The proceeds of the IDA Credit will be disbursed as follows:
Amount
Category                ($ mn)            Percent Disbursement
1.  Civil Works and Buildings            36.0      50 percent of expenditures.
11. Goods/Equipment                      34.0      100 percent of foreign expenditures;
100 percent of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost); and 75 percent for
other goods procured locally.
111. Soil and Water Conser-vation         9.5     60 percent of expenditures.
IV. Livestock                             9.0     80 percent of expenditures.
V.  Horticulture                          9.0     40 percent of expenditures.
VI. ACWF Component                        0.3     50 percent of expenditures.
VII. Consultants' Services. Training      2.2      100 percent of expenditures.
and Study Tours
Iotai                       IQ°°Q
3.36   Retroactive financing is recommended for payments made between August 1,
1995 and the date of signing of the Credit Agreement. The construction season in the
project areas depends on the climate and the farmers' cropping cycle. Therefore, the
prefectures must begin construction in the winter of 1995 to ensure a full working season.
Retroactive financing will also cover the necessary funds for completion of detailed
designs for several components. The total amount of retroactive financing will be SDR
6.73 million ($10.0 million equivalent) based on work programs reviewed by IDA.
3.37   Statements of expenditure (SOEs) will be required for disbursement to be made
against (a) contracts for goods costing less than $250,000, (b) study tours and training,
(c) civil works costing less than $1 million, and (d) consultants' services costing less than
$100,000 for firms, and less than $50,000 for individuals. For force account works, unit
prices were decided by the CPMO and IDA at negotiations, and will be updated annually
at the end of each calendar year thereafter, with IDA concurrence.
3.38   To facilitate disbursement, a Special Account to be operated by the Provincial
Finance Bureau will be established in a bank acceptable to IDA. The Special Account
will be set up in an arnount of $8 million, the estimated scale of disbursement over a



- 30 -
four-month period during the early implementation phase. An estimated schedule of
disbursements is provided in Annex 16.
1. ACCOUNTS AND AUDITS
3.39  The county PMOs will maintain separate accounts for all project expenditures.
These will be consolidated by the prefectural PMOs and submitted annually to the
provincial PMO. These accounts will be audited annually by independent auditors.
During negotiations assurances were obtained from the Borrower and Shanxi Province
that they will cause the project accounts, the Special Account and SOEs to be duly
audited by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA and will submit them to IDA within
six months of the close of Leach jinancial year. The State Audit Administration will be
acceptable for this purpose. In the case of SOEs, the audit report will contain a separate
opinion by the auditors as to whether SOEs submitted during the financial year, together
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon
to support the related withdrawals.
J. ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACTS
3.40  This is a Category B Project and, overall, the project is expected to have a
favorable impact. Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs) have been prepared by
each prefecture and these formed the basis for a comprehensive EIA prepared by the
Shanxi Provincial Institute for Radiation Prevention. This report, prepared in accordance
with the Bank Group' s recommended format and guidelines for EIAs, finds that the
project's environmental and social impacts are beneficial and the potentially adverse
impacts are confined to some of the agroprocessing plants. Mitigation measures are
described in detail and the report contains detailed proposals for environmental
management and monitoring. The report was approved by the National Environmental
Protection Agency (NEPA) and is satisfactory to the Association. During negotiations
assurances were obtained that Shanxi shall implement the project in accordance with an
environmental management and monitoring plan acceptable to the Association.
3.41  Positive environmental effects of the project include:
(a)   creation of a better environment on a 123,000 ha irrigated area by increasing
the input of surface water to arrest unsustainable exploitation of
groundwater;
(b)   a safer drinking water supply for nearly 700,000 people;
(c)   modernization of agroprocessing facilities to enhance efficiency and reduce
pollution;
(d)   conservation of land and reduction in sediment runoff in parts of Luliang
prefecture, and



- 31 -
(e)   support for establishment and protection of a nature reserve in Yuncheng
Prefecture.
3.42  Social benefits include:
(a)   lower production costs in the irrigated areas through less reliance on deep
tubewells;
(b)   higher farm incomes from horticulture and livestock raising;
(c)   easier access for villagers in remote areas to markets, medical services,
schools. and employment opportunities;
(d)   freedom  from hauling water long distances to allow more productive
activities: and
(e)   creation of employment opportunities for several thousand rural poor in the
processing industry.
3.43   The sediment control dams will be sited in uninhabited gullies and, therefore, no
relocation of population will be necessary in the submergence areas. The topography of
the watersheds allows considerable flexibility in siting the dams, and all will be located at
sites remote from  existing or potential settlements.  Detailed guidelines for safe
construction and operation of dams have been prepared, but in the unlikely event of
failure there would be no danger to life and limited damage to property (see Annex 5).
The agroprocessing plants will be designed and operated to meet the strict guidelines
established by NEPA.
3.44  This project directly targets poor and disadvantaged women through support of
the ACWF. Women will be the prime beneficiaries of the improved rural water supply
systems and the livestock component. Not only will the distances to water points be
dramatically reduced, but reliable water supply allows the household to keep a draft
animal and small livestock, both directly beneficial to women. In all other components,
women will be treated on an equal basis with men and the project will endeavor to
promote their increased representation at all levels of project management. Women are
fully involved in the agricultural production processes. They will benefit equally from
the increased production and income resulting from the project.
K. RESETTLEMENT
3.45  The components that require land acquisition and relocation of some houses are:
(a) agroprocessing plants; (b) rural roads; and (c) the Langdian and Zuncun Pumping
Complexes.
3.46  Agroprocessing Plants. The agroprocessing plants include expansion of existing
township enterprises. They are located in various county towns and some will require up



- 32 -
to one hectare of land for expansion of facilities. In Yuncheng, six of the 13 plants have
sufficient land area to complete the expansion without any land acquisition. Five of the
plants will require land adjacent to the present site, of which one already owns the land
(0.45 ha), one will acquire the land (0.67 ha), and three will rent the land (2.2 ha in total).
Two of the plants will build the facilities at new sites which require land acquisition (1.33
ha in total). In Luliang, four of the eight plants own sufficient land to complete the
expansion without any new land acquisition. One of the plants will purchase 0.1 hectares
adjacent to the present site. and three will rent the land (4.3 ha in total). There will be no
houses affected.
3.47  Rural Roads. rhe proposed rural road schemes will upgrade existing roads to
Grade 3 (7.5 m wide). As a result, each road will require the acquisition of a strip of land
on each side of the existing road. In some areas, the road will be realigned slightly and in
the mountain passes, new roads will extend where only footpaths existed before. The
total amount of land acquisition will be 184 ha, of which about 57 ha is farmland, 60 ha is
slopeland, and 67 ha is wasteland. The widening of roads will affect 84 households that
will be fully compensated. There will be compensation for the costs involved in moving
structures, and for the loss of farm land and economic trees owned by farmers. Also, the
construction of the roads will cause temporary impacts on farmland and these losses will
be compensated.
3.48 Langdian and Zuncun Pumping Complexes. The Langdian Complex will
require the construction of a canal along the beach land parallel to the river. The 13.5 km
long canal will have an average width of 15 m which will occupy 13.7 ha of wasteland
within the floodplain. In addition, a 2.6 km section of the canal will be widened to form a
400 m wide sedimentation basin that will occupy almost 100 ha. The floodplain belongs
to the YRCC and contains no farms or buildings. The Zuncun Complex will have a
sedimentation basin that will have a length of 1,400 m, a width of 350 m, and take up 50
ha of beach land, much of which is presently used as seasonal farmland. Farmers who
have contracted this land will receive land compensation. No houses or structures will be
affected. The other components of the Langdian schemes involve improvements to the
existing pumping stations and canal networks; these will not require any land acquisition.
Also, the construction of the Langdian scheme may cause minor temporary impacts to
nearby farmland and these losses will be compensated.
3.49  Resettlement Action Plan. The principles to be followed for land acquisition are
based on the Law of Land Management as it is applied at the provincial level. This law
stipulates the land rights and procedures for establishing compensation. Compensation of
land, crops, economic trees and houses is based on standard factors and replacement
value. Some negotiation of rates is typical before the rate is set by local government.
There is a formal appeals process if the affected party is still dissatisfied. Seasonal
farmland in the floodplain that has not been contracted, and belongs to the YRCC, is
typically compensated but at one-half the amount for contracted floodplain land. For the
land compensation, the funds are allocated to the affected village and the proceeds and/or
land will be adjusted accordingly. For crops, economic trees and houses, compensation



- 33 -
will be given to the affected household. The funds can then be used at the discretion of
the household. If houses are to be demolished, the owner is entitled to salvage any
materials. The individual will be responsible for the construction of the new house. The
village will provide support in selecting a new site and assisting with the relocation.
Each village and household will receive fair compensation and they will then be
responsible for any relocation or rehabilitation requirements. Since the quantity of land
involved is small and dispersed amongst several villages, no significant impact on
livelihoods is anticipated. Any disputes are likely to be resolved at the village or
township level. During negotiations assurances were obtained that each prefecture will
implement the Resettlement 4ction Plan agreed with IDA.
L. CONSULTATION, PARTICIPATION AND TARGETING
3.50  Public Awareness. The Poverty Alleviation Office has already been financing
projects for 10 years in Luliang and for four years in five counties of Yuncheng; thus,
many rural people are quite aware of the general poverty alleviation programs. When
IDA expressed an interest in supporting poverty alleviation activities, people recognized
that this would ensure significantly increased funding for the next six years. During the
process of project preparation-including four IDA and FAO/CP missions conducting
numerous site visits and two years of field preparation-the prefecture PMOs have
created widespread awareness of the project. Numerous meetings were held at the
township and village level to identify candidate villages and households.
3.51   The public media have been well utilized to increase awareness in the entire
project area (multiple TV  and radio coverage of preparation activities).   The
environmental assessment team has conducted an opinion survey of farmers,
administrators, technicians and intellectuals. The social assessment team has conducted
pilot surveys of 130 villages in Yuncheng and 70 villages in Luliang. Consequently, the
level of awareness is high and the local farmers are anxious to see the start of the project.
Most farrners understand that they will have the obligation to repay part of the village
investment.
3.52  Public Consultation. The Poverty Alleviation Office has directly involved all
relevant line departments, local governments and the beneficiary villages, but they have
also had consultations with the general public. In March 1994, IDA participated in an
informal symposium with heads from local democratic political parties, intellectual
societies, and the ACWF. Although the purpose was to bring diverse groups together to
become involved with the project, it became clear that all groups had already been
consulted during the past two years and strongly supported the project. Each group
described poverty alleviation activities that their members were involved with and some
expressed an interest to support the implementation of this project.
3.53  Community Participation. Successful implementation of the project requires a
high level of community participation. The larger engineering schemes will require labor
input from  the villagers as their contribution to the project investment.  Proper



- 34 -
participation, mobilization, motivation and organization will be required to ensure high
quality construction and a feeling of ownership in the project. For the livelihood
improvement schemes, a broader community approach will be taken although typically
there are few target households in each village. This will provide learning opportunities
for other villagers and will prepare the ground for future investments using local funds.
In China, introduction of the household responsibility system has developed more
individual attitudes amongst the farmers.  Now some blending of entrepreneurial
initiative and collective support is required for poverty alleviation to extend maximum
benefits to the greatest number of poor.
3.54 Targeting and Selection of Project Townships, Villages and Households. This
project will take a two-pronged approach to the alleviation of poverty. Some components
will provide direct benefits to targeted villages and households. Other components will
benefit a large area and large numbers of people. The latter components tend to be
locationally fixed and include: (a) the Langdian irrigation scheme in Yuncheng; (b) the
beach land development in Yuncheng; (c) aquaculture improvements in Yuncheng;
(d) check dams in Luliang; (e) protection forests in Luliang; and (f) agroprocessing.
3.55  A significant amount of time was spent during preparation to develop realistic
criteria to target beneficiary villages and poor households for livestock farms,
horticulture, land terracing, rural roads and rural water supply. Although there is some
variation among components, criteria typically include income levels, willingness and
commitment to participate, and availability of natural resources.  The livestock
component, as an example, includes the development of household farns for cattle or
sheep/goat raising. Initially some 9,500 households in Yuncheng and 3,100 households
in Luliang will benefit from this component. It is dispersed widely to virtually all of the
project area townships in both Yuncheng (194 of 211) and Luliang (117 of 117)
Prefectures. In Yuncheng, this component will be targeted at poor households in the hilly
areas (28 percent), in the beach land areas (8 percent), and in the farmland areas (64
percent-cattle only).  The criteria used to select project villages and beneficiary
households include:
* all townships in five poverty counties (83 townships);
* poor townships in other counties (66 townships);
* poor villages in other townships (45 townships); and
* villages that possess good natural resources (e.g., 20 to 40 ha of natural pasture
and five ha for herbage; or adequate farm residue/fodder).
Within these villages, between two and 10 households will be identified that:
* are poor (incomes below Y 500 per capita);
* have a young adult who completed junior middle school;



- 35 -
* are capable of good animal husbandry management skills but presently have no
livestock; and
*  want to participate in the prograrn.
The household livestock enterprises will be modest in scale, starting with one cow in the
first year and purchasing another cow in the second year provided the first year was
successful. This will ensure that the farmer can manage the livestock enterprise.
3.56  The Rural Drinking Water Supply component, as another exaznple, includes 78
water supply schemes to benefit 516 villages in Yuncheng and 204 schemes in Luliang.
All of the project villages have accepted the proposed schemes and their responsibility to
collect water fees from each household to repay the capital and operation costs. In
Yuncheng, the selection of villages focused on two types of conditions: (a) clusters of
villages in dry areas that could access groundwater by a deep tubewell which will serve
all villages; and (b) small isolated villages whose needs could be satisfied by nearby
streams or springs using gravity schemes. Most of the villages were selected from the
hilly or mountainous areas where access to water is limited. Gravity schemes were
targeted for villages that either use shallow wells or rainwater collection ponds, which go
dry for several months of the year. The selected villages are located in 74 townships, of
which 52 are below the poverty level. In the remaining townships, the selected villages
are below the poverty level and many have average incomes below Y 350 per capita.
Annex 12 provides further details.



- 36 -
4. MANAGEMENT AND ORGANIZATION
A. PROJECT ORGANIZATION
4.1   Project Leading Groups. Overall responsibility for the project rests with the
Shanxi Provincial Government. The planning and subsequent implementation of the
project is coordinated at the provincial level by a Project Leading Group (PLG), headed
by the Vice-Govemor responsible for agriculture, and including representatives from all
the concerned agencies. including the Poverty Alleviation Office, the departments of
planning, finance, agriculture, water conservancy, forestry, and animal husbandry. The
Provincial PLG draws on the experience of the World Bank Project Office of the Finance
Bureau which has considerable experience in dealing with Bank Group projects. At the
prefectural level, the PLG is headed by the Commissioner of Yuncheng Prefecture and
the Vice-Commissioner of Luliang Prefecture and has similar representation to that at the
provincial level. The role of the PLG at each level is to decide on policies and project
components, and coordinate the work of the relevant departments in preparing and
subsequently implementing the project. The day-to-day management of the project will
be handled by the Central Project Management Office (CPMO) which will channel
provincial and central government funds to the prefectures, operate the Special Account,
prepare progress reports and withdrawal applications, and supervise procurement in
cooperation with the ITC. The CPMO will be given the status of a line department
reporting directly to the Vice Govemor. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that
Shanxi will prepare and submit a detailed annual budget and work plan to IDA for
review by November 30 of each year in respect ofproject implementation in the following
year, and carry out such plans, as approved by the Association.
4.2   Project Management Offices.  Under the PLG at each level, a Project
Management Office (PMO) will be responsible for executing the project. The PMOs will
direct, coordinate and manage the work of the various implementing agencies such as the
water conservancy, agricultural, and animal husbandry bureaus. Prefecture PMOs will
(a) draw up annual work programs and budgets; (b) review and approve lower level PMO
work plans; (c) undertake procurement not covered by the central project office and
distribute procured materials, (d) prepare and submit to the central PMO detailed project
accounts, audits and progress reports; (e) undertake project monitoring of physical and
financial progress and evaluations of project impact; and (f) organize research, local
training, and project supervision. PMOs at lower levels have been established under the
county and township administrations with a similar structure and responsibilities. All
these PMOs have been involved in the detailed preparation of the project and will be
responsible for all aspects of implementation. The PMOs will supply procured materials
to fanners in a timely manner and organize irrigation works and terracing in such a way
that agricultural production suffers minimum disruption. For the livestock component,



- 37 -
staff will assist farmers in acquiring animals. The township PMOs have been working
closely with the villagers through village committees in developing project proposals.
They will continue to play a key role in project implementation through organizing
collective efforts at the village level which are crucial to the success of the project.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that CPMO and PMOs at prefecture, county
and township levels would he maintained with terms of references acceptable to IDA and
staffed by competent staff in adequate numbers.
4.3   Poverty Alleviation Offices. The PMOs will cooperate closely with the Poverty
Alleviation Office which has branches at the provincial, prefecture and county levels.
This office was already responsible for disbursement of funds under the Eight-Seven
Poverty Alleviation Program. The Poverty Alleviation Office is not a line department,
but rather a separate agency. that reports directly to the Provincial Planning Commission.
Its advantage is its ability to coordinate the various line departments all the way down to
the township level.
4.4   Village Committees.  The village committee will be the key to physical
implementation of the livelihood components and will mobilize village labor for the rural
works components. The village committee is normally comprised of a village chief, a
deputy, an accountant and a women s representative. Proposals from households to
participate in the project will first be vetted by the village committees. Only then will
applications be forwarded to the township office. In some villages the agreement for
village schemes will be signed by the village committee. For household schemes,
agreements will be signed by the head of the household, but the village chief will endorse
the agreement as a guarantor for the household. For project implementation, special
groups will be formed to manage the mobilization of farmers, organize training, supervise
construction and control financing. Once completed, the beneficiary households will be
fully responsible for managing the operation and maintenance of the facilities, and for
repayments for the livestock as well as paying charges to recover costs associated with
orchard, agriculture, protection forest, improved pasture, improved terraces, and
collection well components.
B. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
4.5   Flow of Funds.  The Ministry of Finance (MOF) will make available the
proceeds of the IDA credit to Shanxi Province at an annual interest rate of 3.5 percent
with a repayment period of 20 years, including a 7-year grace period. The foreign
exchange risk will be borne by the Shanxi Finance Bureau. A portion of the IDA funds
will be used directly by CPMO and the prefectures to cover the costs of research,
training, and equipment expenses. The Finance Bureau will channel the remaining funds
successively to prefecture, county and township governments. Funds will be made
available to villages only for activities that have been appraised and approved by the
PMOs.  According to Chinese practice, contracts will be signed at each level of
government operation, indicating the terms of availability of funds/equipment. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Shanxi Provincial Government that



-38 -
livestock; as well as subloans for agroprocessing and ACWF subprojects, would be made
available in accordance with procedures, terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association.
4.6   Domestic funds, which account for about 45 percent of project costs, will be
contributed by government loans and grants at provincial, prefecture and county levels, or
by project beneficiaries who will contribute in cash and/or labor. According to Chinese
practice, terms and conditions for use of govermment grants will be indicated in contracts
signed at each level of government and between project beneficiaries and relevant
governnent agencies.
4.7   Cost Recovery. Shanxi Province will recover from the prefectures all funds
disbursed from the proceeds of the IDA Credit and the Poverty Alleviation Fund which in
total amounts to about 60 percent of the project cost. The prefectures will recover costs
from the beneficiaries. The village committees will collect funds from farmers, and these
funds will be channeled through the townships and counties to the prefectures. The fees
established for cost recovery are realistic and have been deternined based on local
capacity to pay. The mode of recovery varies among components as described below:
(a)   ITigation. Farmers are charged according to the volume of water they use.
The rate of Y 0.3 per cubic meter is sufficient to cover operation and
maintenance, and loan repayment.  Offices in the townships have the
responsibility to organize measurement of water use and to collect fees from
all villages receiving irrigation water. Payments are then passed on to the
counties and then to the Yuncheng Water Conservation Bureau.
(b)   Terraces and Check Dams. Farmers will be charged an annual fee of
Y 300/ha starting three years after terrace completion; this will cover more
than 50 percent of the cost. The annual fee for land formed behind the check
dams will be Y 3,000/ha since it is new and highly productive land. The fee
will be charged from when the land becomes available about 10 years after
the dams are built.
(c)   Beach Land. A fee per ha will be charged to the farmers at a level to be
determined, that will be sufficient to recover 60 percent of the cost.
(d)   Rural Roads. Tolls will be charged for the project roads since they are
financed from external sources. The small tolls range from Y 1 to Y 3 per
vehicle depending on capacity (Annex 6). These tolls are reasonable and
unlikely to discourage road users.
(e)   Water Supply. A charge of Y 1.3 per cubic meter will cover O&M and 60
percent of the cost. In some poor villages in Luliang, the charge may be
lower and the villages will compensate with free labor on rural works.
There will also be some direct contribution to the cost of water systems
through free labor in pipe laying, etc.



- 39 -
(f)    Livestock. Animals will be purchased by the PMOs with the participation
of selected farmers. The farmers will pay 10 percent of the initial cost. The
remaining 90 percent of costs will be recovered from the farmers within 5-6
years from the proceeds of sales of offspring.
(g)   Horticulture. Fertilizer, pesticides and seedlings will be provided to the
farmers. Once the farmers have a positive cash flow, charges will be
imposed to recover 60 percent of all costs other than the farmers' own labor.
(h)   Agroprocessing. Subloans provided to agroprocessing enterprises will be
on commercial credit terms in line with comparable loans provided by ABC.
C. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
4.8   The relevant prefecture and county bureaus will be responsible for ensuring
adequate maintenance and repair of irrigation works, roads and water supplies. The cost
will be borne in part by the proceeds of user charges and in part by free labor contributed
by the beneficiaries. In rural areas, all adults are required to contribute 30 days of free
labor to communal works. The arrangements described below follow the principles and
practices already employed on existing facilities in the prefectures.
(a)    Yuncheng Irrigation System. The pumping stations will be operated and
maintained by employees of the prefecture and county water conservancy
bureaus, and will be financed through costs recovered from the
beneficiaries (para. 4.7). The canals and canal service roads will be
maintained by the villages and townships they serve with technical and
financial assistance from the county bureaus for major repairs. The canals
are all concrete-lined down to the 5 ha service units, so that maintenance
consist mainly of clearing silt from the canals, and occasional repairs to
the concrete lining. Canal maintenance will be carried out by the farmers,
under the village and township leadership, and will be credited to their free
labor contribution.
(b)   River Beach Land. Operation and maintenance of the tubewells will be
the responsibility of the farmers' groups using the wells. Roads will be
maintained by villages and townships using some free labor. Power lines
and transformers will be maintained by the county power bureaus.
(c)    Rural Roads. For maintenance, sections of the roads will be assigned to
nearby villages and enterprises. They will organize work teams to carry
out routine maintenance of the road surface, structures and drains on a
voluntary basis. Improvement and major repairs will be fimded by the
counties and townships, and work will be assigned to local construction
teams.



-40 -
(d)   Water Supplies. Materials and replacements will be provided by the
county water supply bureaus and, where necessary, labor will be supplied
by the villages.
D. LAND CONTRACTS
4.9   The reforms of the late 1970s and early 1980s introduced the household
responsibility system to China's farmers. Under this system, a household is given use of
and responsibility for specific plots of land in contrast to the former practice of collective
farming. The introduction of this system is considered the key to China's successful rural
reform program that, together with other reforms, has led to the dramatic growth in
China's agricultural production over the past 15 years. In Shanxi Province, the land
contract system has been extended beyond crop land to the areas reclaimed by
afforestation, grasslands and even wastelands. In the areas to be developed under the
project, farmer households or groups of households will be allotted land under long-term
contracts which will specify management standards. In return, the farners will have the
right to fully benefit from the output of the land for which they are responsible. The
current terms for land contracts have recently been adjusted and are now for a minimum
of 30 years. Under the project, longer terms for land contracts will be applied in all areas
covered by the project: a minimum of 50 years for steep waste land; 50 years for forestry
plots; and 30 years for orchards, terraces and land behind dams. An assurance was
obtained at negotiations that Shanxi will ensure that the land developed under the
Project is leased to farmers for terms between 30 years and 50 years under written
contracts.
E. MONITORING, EVALUATION, AND ]REPORTING
4.10   Social Impact Indicators. During project preparation a thorough assessment of
the likely social impacts of the project was conducted.  In cooperation with the
preparation team, a logic framework diagram was prepared that shows how the individual
project components are linked to poverty alleviation (Annex15). There will be direct
impacts which will be monitored early and indirect impacts which will occur at a later
stage. The following indicators (gender specific where possible) will be monitored on a
regular basis:
(a)   Per capita rural incomes.
(i)   real increase in incomes;
(ii)   percentage of households above the poverty line; and
(iii)   sources of income (income stability).



- 41 -
(b)   Rural employment:
(i)   number of labor days created and wages for local farners during
construction; and
(ii)   number of people employed in enterprises and salaries
(the indices will include a gender breakdown).
(c)   Rural living standards:
(i)   quality of housing and new house construction; and
(ii)   household assets (farm machinery and consumer items).
(d)   Specialized households:
(i)   household equity and repayment of loans; and
(ii)   number of defaults or additional loans.
(e)   Local economic growth:
(i)   new enterprises and employment in villages and townships;
(ii)    wage income (full-time, part-time); and
(iii)   local investment in social infrastructure (schools, clinics).
4.11  In addition to these indicators, the PMOs will monitor physical and financial
progress on a regular basis. For each component, the status of project implementation
will be measured in terms of percent completion of each component, costs, quality, and
number of people benefited. During negotiations an assurance was obtained from
Shanxi that it will monitor the Project in accordance with indicators acceptable to the
Association and prepare and furnish to the Association semi-annual progress reports by
January 31 and July 31 of each year.
4.12 Baseline Data and Surveys. The CPMO and the prefecture PMOs will have
overall responsibility for socioeconomic monitoring and evaluation. Work has already
commenced to collect and compile baseline data in Yuncheng and Luliang. Income
statistics and agricultural data have been collected at the county and township levels.
General statistics on income, living standards, health, education, and agricultural
production by crop have been compiled for each county. These data will form part of the
baseline information which will be updated annually with data from the Bureau of
Statistics.
4.13  In order to focus on the project villages, it was deemed essential to collect
additional data using questionnaire surveys. A survey has been designed for the village



- 42 -
level to assess the impact of the individual project components on the livelihood of the
beneficiaries. This information would be gathered annually by a special group under
contract to the CPMO. A sample size of 180 villages in Yuncheng and 140 villages in
Luliang would cover 5-6 percent of the project villages. In addition, 60 nonproject
villages would be surveyed in each prefecture as a control group.
4.14  The questions in the village survey form are designed to focus on economic and
social indicators that would be most affected by the project components. The surveys
have been field tested to ensure that the questions are both relevant and answerable. In
fact, about two thirds of the data will come from statistics maintained by the village
administration. This data is not readily obtainable from the county statistics bureau;
hence, the need for the survey approach.
4.15  To further validate the village survey information, income data would be collected
directly from households stratified by region, income group and project component. This
type of survey would be conducted using a modified survey form. The collection of
accurate income data at the household level is difficult in China. Many households tend
to overestimate revenues (e.g., yields and prices), underestimate expenditures, and omit
important categories of incomes (e.g., sidelines). The poorer families may overestimate
incomes because they do not include all expenditures. The wealthier families tend to
under report incomes to avoid taxation. Nonetheless, household surveys can be
informative when properly conducted, and are sufficiently accurate to demonstrate
income trends.
4.16  Data Evaluation and Reporting. Special attention will be given to measuring
changes in output due to investments in land development and to the new technologies
introduced by the project. At the same time household investigations will measure the
impact of the project on household wealth, and access to social services. These data will
be retained in the project's database, thus allowing close correlation between investments,
their quality and cost, and their social and economic benefits. Because investments will
be identified in detail (i.e., it will be possible to define precisely where each site is
located, the costs incurred, the management practices applied, and annual yield data), it
will be relatively easy to undertake analysis of different sites and extrapolate the data to
the project as a whole.
4.17  The PMOs will require time to set up the monitoring system databases and
reporting formats. Some training may be required but it is felt that the PMOs possess the
capability to provide training internally. The system should remain simple and user
friendly (it will consist of a database, spreadsheet and Geographic Information System
(GIS) package) to ensure transparency and access by the project supervisory staff.
4.18  Monitoring Environmental Changes and Benefits.  Both prefectures will
establish an environmnental monitoring unit. Details of the environmental monitoring
plan are given in Annex 13. The project will provide additional instrumentation to allow
effective measurement and collection of data; some automatic measuring devices will be



- 43 -
installed in remote areas. Data from collecting stations will be reinforced by the use of
satellite imagery and mobile field teams that will undertake special investigations at
selected sites.
4.19  Organization and Costs. The CPMO will have overall responsibility to ensure
that the provinces carry out effective monitoring and that standardized methodologies are
used. CPMO will prepare annually a monitoring report for the overall project. In the
prefectures monitoring will be carried out at prefecture, and county levels. Where
necessary PMOs will contract other agencies and institutions to undertake special studies,
particularly of sociological and economic impacts. Each year the Monitoring Plan and
feedback will be reviewed by the CPMO.
4.20  Project Launch Workshop. IDA and the CPMO will conduct a Project Launch
Workshop in Shanxi Province in April 1996 for staff of the PMOs at all levels. The
purpose of the workshop will be to review the program for implementation and to clarify
tasks and responsibilities at each level.  Topics will include procurement and
disbursement guidelines and procedures, financial management, supervision, monitoring,
evaluation and reporting, and other relevant subjects.
4.21   Supervision and Mid-term Review. A plan for IDA supervision is given in
Annex 14. CPMO would undertake a mid-term review of the project to assess progress
and chart remaining implementation and would also prepare an implementation
completion report for submission to IDA no later than six months following the closing
date. An assurance was obtainedfrom the government at negotiations that Shanxi would
furnish the Association with a mid-term report by September 30, 1998.



- 44 -
5. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. BENEFITS
5.1   The project will raise incomes and living standards for about 3 million people in
some of the poorest areas of Yuncheng and Lulling Prefectures in Shanxi Province.
There will be significant increases in crop production in the 123,000 ha Yuncheng
Irrigation Project through a more reliable supply of irrigation water, and on 13,000 ha of
the river beach lands of Yuncheng through irrigation and other works. Water supply
schemes will provide a safer source of water for nearly 700,000 people, and will relieve
them from the task of hauling water from long distances so that their time and energy
may be more productively used. Rural roads will help 355,000 people in remote areas to
diversify their agricultural production on about 70,000 ha through better access to
markets and input supply. and enhance employment opportunities and access to social
services. Expansion of horticulture and livestock raising will offer opportunities for tens
of thousands of families to raise their incomes. Several thousand women will benefit
from a program to increase their incomes and provide training. Finally, expansion and
improvement of agroprocessing facilities will provide more markets for agricultural
produce and create employment. Total incremental production from project activities is
summarized in Table 5.1.
5.2   The project responds to the challenge of providing sustainable improvements in
the lives of the rural poor in remote areas. Its focus is on measures to raise incomes,
primarily from crops and livestock. Other important needs of these areas such as health
and education are not directly addressed, but access to these services and their
affordability will be enhanced for many of the families affected by the project. Also,
these services are often being improved by other projects. Each component of the project
addresses a critical need, has the necessary institutional support and beneficiary
commitment and, above all, promises a satisfactory return to the farmers and the
economy.
B. MARKETS AND PRICES
5.3   The main crops and other outputs produced by the project are in demand in China
and this is likely to continue. China is currently importing from 10 to 15 million tons of
wheat annually. Wheat imports will continue in the future as land under wheat is used for
higher value crops, or taken up by factories, roads and new housing. In the 1980's, China
shifted from an importer to an exporter of maize, mainly to South Korea, Japan, and
Russia. In the long run, China is likely to become again a net importer of maize because
of the need to meet the rising demand for animal feeds. Domestic cotton production is



Table 5.1: ANNUAL INCREMENTAL PRODUCTION AND INPUT USE AFrER FULL PROJECT DEVIELOPM1ENT
Total
Yuncheng      River                  Check                                            Value
UJnit    Irrigation    Beach      Terracing    Dams    lHorticulture  l,ivestock    Total    (Yuan mln.)
Crops & Fruit Trees
Crop Production
Wheat                        ton        126,500     16,950           -           -            -            -    143.450      183.62
Cotton lint                   ton        10.670      2,000           -           -            -            -      12.67()    119 10
Colton secd                  tol         2 1340      4,000                                                        25.31)      20 27
Maize                         ton        87.000     12.000      14.125        675             -            -    I I 1.00     136 56
Soybean                      1(tn             -      1,64(0      3.070           -            -.710                            8 48
Sorghum                      tonl                        -           -        .1 1            -            -        41         0 31
Sunhllower                   toin                                  9(         138                                   228        0 27
Potato                        tol             -          -       9.200           -            -            -      9.200        3 68
Waterinclon-s                ton                    28.000           -           -            -            -      '8.)00       8.40
Frmit & Nut Production
Dates                        ton                         -           -           -      228.850            -    228.850      457,70
Prickly assh                 ton              -          -           -           -        7.500            -      7.50(      120.00
Chestnut                     ton              -          -           -           -       26.640            -     26.640       53.28
W.lnut                        ton             -          -           -           -       45.280            -     45.280      271.68
Apricot                      ton              -          -           -           -        2,800            -      2,800       56.00
Apple                        ton         79,300          -           -           -        8,400            -     87,700      140.32
Input Use
Urea                         ton         11,122      1,484        792          41        10,308            -     23,746       28.50
Ammonium bicarbonate         ton              -      1,290           -           -            -            -       1,290       0.77
Phosphate(SSP)                ton         7,637      2,238        925          61        13,456                  24,316       12.16
Agrochemicals                ton            448          -           -           -          206            -        654       13.09
Livestock & Fish Production
Calves                           No.             -          -           -           -            -       13,160     13,160       23.03
Cattle                           No.                        -           -           -            -        2,688      2,688        8.04
Fish                             ton             -      2,500           -          -             -            -      2,500       17.11
Incremental Family Labor          '000 WD      4,728      1,310        181          29        17,915         470      24,633      221.69



- 46 -
regulated by a system of quotas and a relatively low official procurement price. These
regulations may be relaxed and this might encourage further production gains. But,
China has recently bought a substantial amount of cotton on the world market and
imports may become an annual event to meet the needs of the textile and garment trade.
Outputs from the primary processing component are competitive locally and more than
half of the products have excellent prospects for export into other provinces or overseas
markets.
5.4   The project areas have a comparative advantage in fruit production. The climate
and soils are well suited to temperate zone fruits, and the farmers are skilled in their
cultivation as a sideline to grain and cotton production. At current prices, investments in
fruit trees show an attractive return. Until the fruit trees bear they are intercropped and
this tends to improve the financial returns. But even if prices should fall in the future,
fruit trees will still be a significant source of cash income to the poorer farmers. Fruits
not only provide income, but they also add variety and balance to the farmers' diet. And
in periods of seasonal drought when grain yields are low, fruit trees will still be
productive enough to provide cash income and food. In the loess area where much of the
fruit is grown, there are excellent storage sites in the form of caves; these allow farmers to
keep fruit for six to eight months without suffering a significant reduction in product
quality. Thus, there should be no problem in disposing of the project's large volume of
incremental fruit production
C. ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSES
5.5    Approach. Each component has quantifiable benefits that were measured against
the capital and operating costs.  There are also important benefits that were not
quantified, but the nature of these are described. Sensitivity tests and switching values
were derived for all components to judge their economic and financial risks, and the
impact of changes in prices, costs, or implementation delays.
5.6   Cropping patterns, yields, and economic crop budgets were estimated for all of the
main project components for the "without project" and "with project" cases. These were
used to estimate project benefits for the irrigation, beach land, rural roads, horticulture
and soil conservation components. Household models were used to derive benefits for
the livestock component. For the water supply component the economic analysis was
based on projections of future water use and the villager's willingness to pay for the
supply of drinking water to the village. The period of analysis for most of the
components was 20 years. with the exception of the protection forest and the
agroprocessing component. where it was 35 and 17 years respectively. Operating costs
for Yuncheng Irrigation. the beach land and the water supply component include
pumping costs, maintenance and replacement of pumps and other equipment, and
personnel.
5.7   Economic prices in 1995 constant terms were calculated for all traded inputs and
outputs based on the World Bank's price projections. For nontraded goods the economic



- 47 -
prices are the local market prices (Annex 1). Economic rates of return (ERRs) for all
project components and for the project as a whole are summarized in Table 5.2. The
analyses are briefly described below and supporting tables are given in each of the
technical Annexes.
5.8   Yuncheng Irrigation System.  The Langdian Pumping Complex and the
completion of the Yuncheng Irrigation System to serve an area of 123,000 ha has an ERR
of 40 percent. This high return is due to the large sunk cost and the low investment cost
per hectare. The benefits arise largely from providing a full supply of irrigation water to
lands that are presently rainfed and partly irrigated. As a result of the project works,
Yuncheng will be able to resume using the volume of water allocated to the project by the
Yellow River Conservancv Commission in the 1970's. It might be argued that areas in
the lower reaches of the Yellow River will in future be deprived of water once the
diversion capacity of Yuncheng is restored. This would be true only when the divertible
flow is zero at projects in the lower reaches; a situation that might arise for short periods
in May and early June. But, in such a situation, the flow at Langdian might be as low as
100 cubic meters per second, and much of this would be lost through seepage and
evaporation before reaching the downstream projects. Thus, it can be assumed that the
opportunity cost of the water diverted at Langdian in the low flow period would be too
small to have a material effect on the ERR.
5.9   Soil and Water Conservation Works. The conversion of slope land to terraces
conserves moisture for crop growth. It is now well established that this doubles yields
and leads to a shift towards maize from the lower value grains. The main crops grown in
Luliang on the terraces will be maize, potatoes, soybean, and some millet and sorghum
for domestic use. Crop models have been prepared for these crops (Annaxu5). They are
aggregated into an area model reflecting the change in the cropping pattern. The ERR of
18 percent is based on cropping benefits only. Benefits due to the reduction of sediment
load in the downstream river system have been included in the analysis.
5.10  The 56 check dams proposed for construction under the project will retain a
sediment load of 1.8 million tons annually. The analysis uses the sediment retention
benefit of Y I per ton of silt derived for the IDA-financed Loess Plateau Watershed
Rehabilitation Project. The land created behind the dams will be fertile and will be used
for crop production. It is expected that up to 270 ha will be available for cropping of
mainly maize, sorghum and sunflowers. Economic crop budgets have been prepared for
these. The annual incremental net value of crop production in Year 10 will reach
Y 787,000, and the ERR is 14 percent (Table 5, Annex 5).
5.11  The afforestation of 4,200 ha of steep slopes has direct benefits from forest
products and indirect benefits ranging from erosion control and downstream damage
prevention. Economic crop budgets show that the long-tenn benefits from timber and the
medium-tenn benefits from poles and firewood generate an ERR of 13 percent (Annex 5,
Table 12).



- 48 -
5.12 River Beach Land. The provision of irrigation, land leveling, roads, and
electrification will lead to irrigation of 16,000 ha of land that is now rainfed. This will
raise the cropping intensity from 100 percent to 115 percent and more than double yields
of wheat, maize, cotton, soybean, and groundnut. Improvement of 330 ha of existing
ponds and construction of 200 ha of new fish ponds will increase fish production by
2,500 ton per year. For this component all investment costs are weighed against benefits
expected from gains in crop and fish production. These are the main economic activities
in this area and will benefit most from the proposed improvements in basic infrastructure.
The model does not measure benefits from livestock and timber production, which are
difficult to estimate but could be significant. The ERR of 29 percent for this component
also reflects the sunk cost of past development, mainly in the form river training, land
clearing and rough land leveling.
5.13 Rural Roads. Approximately 355,000 people living in remote upland areas will
directly benefit from the improvement of rural roads. The benefits will consist of
(a) transport cost savings which in turn will lead to lower prices for farm inputs and
higher farmgate prices, (b) higher production efficiency expressed in higher yields due to
a better and more timely availability of inputs and a reduction of post harvest storage and
transportation losses, and (c) stimulation of economic development, because of a wider
choices for diversification and production of higher value products. All economic sectors
will benefit from the proposed roads, but the economic analysis is based only on the
agricultural benefits. Economic crop budgets have been estimated for two representative
roads in Luliang and Yuncheng. These show separately the benefits from transport cost
reduction and from the expected yield improvements (Ann=&). The ERR for the road in
Luliang was found to be 37 percent, the ERR for the Yuncheng road was 22 percent. The
weighted average rate of return for the road component is estimated at 25 percent. This
rate of return does not include other benefits which could be significant. Some of the
roads serve small-scale mining operations, others are important for transit traffic. In all
cases there will be benefits in the growth of small enterprises, access to schools,
extension services, health care, and off-farm employment.
5.14 Rural Water Supply. The economic justification of the rural water supply
component is based on the peoples' willingness to pay. In villages in Yuncheng, without
access to drinking water, and where the water is transported in tanks towed by farm
tractors, people pay up to Y 10-13 per cubic meter. A typical family spends about Y 100
to Y 130 per family for drinking water during the dry season when their rain water tanks
dry up. This is a reasonable measure of the upper limit of peoples' willingness to pay. In
villages with existing water supply systems the people pay between Y 1.5 and Y 2.5 per
cubic meter and spend about Y 30 to Y 40 per family in a year. For the benefit
calculation, the lower value of Y 1.5 per cubic meter is used as an average figure for the
willingness to pay. This is a conservative estimate, since the observed value of Y 1.5 is a
marginal value and many people would be willing to pay higher prices particularly for
smaller amounts of water as the situation in Yuncheng shows. On this basis, the rural
water supply component was found to generate an ERR of 22 percent (Annr x7).



- 49 -
5.15 An alternative measurement of the benefits has been tested, based on the fact that
people spend a substantial share of their time in collecting and hauling water. At many of
the open wells there is a long waiting time for the well to recharge after each villager
takes his or her share. It is assumed that 40 percent of the population are economically
active and spend about 10 percent of their time hauling water. The distance to the water
source in many locations in Yuncheng is between 3 and 5 kilometers and, particularly in
Luliang, there is also often a difference in height of 100 to 200 meters between the village
and the water source. If the time for collecting water is conservatively valued at Y 2.5
per day, the time saved amounts to about Y 25 million annually and the ERR is 23
percent. This is close to the ERR based on willingness to pay.
5.16  Horticulture. Individual fruit and nut tree models on a per hectare basis are
shown in Annex 9. The individual ERRs range from 22 to 33 percent. An aggregated
area model has been built to show the economic results for entire investment. The
weighted ERR is 26 percent. A sensitivity analysis was made to test the economic results
for a drop in fruit and nuts sales prices and an increase in labor costs if off-farm
employment opportunities would become more attractive. A drop in sales prices by 50
percent would bring the ERR down to 12 percent, while increased labor costs by 50
percent would drop the ERR from 26 percent to 17 percent.
5.17  Livestock  The introduction of cattle to farmers in the project area will allow
them to generate income from a surplus of feed resources. In the plain areas of Yuncheng
there are large amounts of wheat straw and maize stover as byproducts from the cropping
activities, and in the hilly areas in both prefectures there are unused resources of natural
pasture and byproducts which can best be exploited by large ruminants. A farm model
has been prepared to estimate the likely financial and economic results of the introduction
of livestock in the farm operation (Anac&J). To minimize the risk to the individual
farmer the investment package will be designed to introduce only two breeding animals
as an additional farming activity and costs will be kept to a minimum. The participating
farmer will take credit only for the purchase of two breeding cattle or heifers. The
construction of shelter, silage pits, water tanks and some fencing will be low cost and
done with household labor. On this basis the farmer will be able to pay back the initial
credit for the breeding animals from the sale of the offspring within six years and he will
have a cash surplus -even during this repayment period-of about Y 490 per year to
supplement his household income.
5.18  After repayment, the annual net income from this livestock operation will be
about Y 1,800, which represents a return to labor of Y 37 per day. The ERR is estimated
to be 20 percent and includes all investment in support services such as artificial
insemination centers and veterinary services. Functioning support services are critical to
the success of the livestock component. Sensitivity analysis shows that a drop in the
fertility rate from 70 to 60 percent (from poor insemination practice and/or poor health
standards and calf death), will reduce the ERR from 20 to 14 percent. The support
services financed by the project will serve farmers outside of the project, but these
benefits have not been included in the economic analysis.



- 50 -
5.19 Agroprocessing. A financial analysis has been carried out for the agroprocessing
enterprises in the project (Annex I l). The weighted average financial rate of return is 28
percent and ranges from 18 percent for the Xiaxian Flour Mill to 45 percent for the
Wenxi Biscuit Factory. Most of the factories break even between Year 6 and Year 8.
5.20  Three sensitivity scenarios have been modeled for each factory: (a) a drop in the
sales prices of 5 percent; (b) a drop in prices of 10 percent; and (c) a reduction in the
production capacity by 20 percent. The financial parameters of some of the factories are
sensitive to a drop in the sales prices. Particularly affected are those factories with low
fixed costs and high turnovers operating with small margins. However, these type of
enterprises would generally compensate by paying lower prices to their suppliers of raw
material. All of the factories would still be financially viable under a reduced capacity of
20 percent. However, the Xiaxian Flour Mill would be just at the margin with a FRR of
12 percent. Most other factories could economically operate at even lower capacity.
5.21   An expansion of the agroprocessing activities in the project area will lead to a
number of important economic benefits. Processing generally doubles or triples the value
of agricultural raw materials and a large share of this additional value would be kept
within the region in the form of employment and income. Processing of perishable
agricultural raw materials such as fruits and vegetables close to the place of production
reduces significantly postharvest storage and transportation losses. For all products,
transportation requirements are reduced and become less time-bound. This is an
important factor in rural China where the transportation system is heavily loaded.
5.22 Total Project ERR. The total ERR for the project including all costs and
quantifiable benefits is estimated at 28 percent.
5.23  Sensitivity Analysis. Sensitivity of the ERRs for the project components has
been tested for cost overruns, increased input costs and shortfalls in output. Table 5.2
indicates that all components are economically viable. With the exception of the
sediment control dams, this would not change if investment costs increase by 10 percent,
or benefits decrease by 10 percent, or the benefit is delayed by two years, or a combined
cost increase and benefit decrease by 10 percent. Switching values for cost overruns
range from 1 10 percent for check dams to 550 percent for the horticulture component.
More specific sensitivity scenarios, for example a 50 percent drop in fruit prices for the
horticulture component or severe flood damage for the Langdian water intake, have been
modeled for each individual component (details are shown in the Annexes). None of
these variants reduced the combined ERR of the components below acceptable levels. In
fact, a worst case scenario, a major shift of the Yellow River channel away from the
pumps at Langdian within five years of completion, would only lower the ERR of this
component to 17 percent.



Table 5.2: TOTAL ECONOMIC CASH FLOW AND SENSITIVITY
(Values in Yuan million)
Yuncheng       River Beach    TerTacing   Check Darns   Protection    Rural    Rural Water   I loniculture  LIivestock   Agro-        Total
Yecar   Irrigation Systenm  D[vciopment                             Forests /    Roads     Supply                                processing b/   Projccl
1996             -43 86         -31 37      -18 67          -3 02       -3 ol    It 264       -2. ;o .', Uo                            -75 54   -297 83
1997             -90 14         -3225       -2777           -262        -4S -5 9647 2227                     ro'722     -1 86          -11 79   -351 09
1998             -82 77         -21 65      -22 59         -I 02        *2 9v    -l 01         -6 6i         hl32      .12 66           12 63    -272 01
1999             -71 17           9 74        7 70         -I 27        -2 64    -0 24          4 4u         8-) 1       -i 63          33 81    -121 99
20(()             46 88          2652        1 130            8 8       -  4 7    23 75        156t    s         hh 4    2 490          4 51 9    1 35 07
2(il             22314           4149        1610            12 13      -  1    '2946          1 102        - 21  i      2 520          46 30    363 88
2002             27338           4792        20 26           196        -I 3     3 799         1546          -704        214 7          46 23    456 83
21003            27338           4792        2331            204        -13(1   4876           1744          14103       1773           4606     48936
2004             27338           4758        2331            211        -130)   7014           1744          4779        1773           4589      54407
200)5            27338           4758        2331            220        470      8835          1744          7i, 79      1773           4244      59391
2006             27338           4018        2331            161        467      9489          1744         15475        2147           4521      67690
2007             27338           3906        2331            189         123     9957          1744         24095        2520           4652      76854
2008             27338           3855        2331            219        078      9957          1744         34132        2520           4575      86750
2009             27338           4006        23.31           214        -136    9957           1744         45161        2147           4571     973.32
2010             27338           4244        23.31           245         790    9957           1744         53259        1773           4567   1062.47
2011             27338           4500        23.31           249         789    99.57          1744         64045        1773           45.64   1.172.89
2012             27338           47.58       23.31           2 59        262     99.57         17.44        695.24       17 73         11332   1.292.77
2013             273.38          47.58       23.31           2.59        1.94    99.57         17,44        741 34      21 47                   1.228.61
2014             273.38          47.58       23.31           2.59       -1.36    99.57         17.44        775 47       25.20                  1,263.18
2015             273.38          51.41       23.31           2 59      95.21     99.57         17.44       1,307.72      25.20                  1,955.54
IRR:                                    40%             29%         18%           14%         13%      25%           22%           25%         20%            28%        28%
NPV (at 12%)                          841.22          124.32       31.74          1.20        2.91    190.75        38.25         699.09      39.66         133.58   2,108.47
Share of NPV                            40%              6%          2%           0/.         0%        9%            2%           33%         2%             6%       100%
Sensitivity Analysis (resulting ERR)
Cost Incrasc by 10%/6:                   38%            26%         16%           12%         13%       24%           19%           24%         18%           25%        27%
Cost Increase by 20%/:                   36%            24%         15%           10%         13%       22%           16%           24%         15%           23%        25%
Benefit lower by IO1N.                  37%             26%         16%           12%         12%       23%           18%           24%         17%           25%        26%
Bencfitlowerby200/.                     34%             23%         14%           10%         11%       21%           15%           20%         15%           22%        23%
Benefiutdelayby I year                  32%             23%         15%           11%         13%       21%           17%           23%        16%            23%        24%
Bencfitdelay by 2 years                  26%            20%         13%            9%         12%       18%           13%           21%         13%            19%       21%
Costup+benefitsdownby I0                 35%            24%         14%           10%         12%       22%           15%           22%         15%           23%        24%
Switching Values:
at increased cost level of...           460%           210%        1400/o        110%        1400/.   260%           140%          550%       140%           210°/.     308%
atbenefitlevelof..                       36%            47%         71%           91%         86%       50/.          73%           57%        71%             50/.      50o/'
I/ Net benefits after year 20 discounted at 12% and added to year 20.
bl Financial valucs.



- 52 -
5.24  Incomes. The incremental incomes for typical beneficiaries of the project are
summarized below. These are after payment of agricultural taxes, special goods tax, land
rent and loan repayment (16-20 percent of household expenditure). The project would
add 50 to 100 percent to the farm incomes of project participants.
Average
Incremental
Incremental     Typical        Household
Income        Farm Size        Income
Component                    (Yuan/mu)           (mu)       (Yuan/year)
at full development
Yuncheng Irrigation System      244             5                 1,220
River Beach Development         240             5                 1,200
Terracing                       152             3                  456
Check Dams                      266             2                  532
Fruit Orchards                  885             3                 2,655
Livestock Raising                 -              -                1,800
5.25  Financial Analysis. For most of the components, financial analyses are of
limited value. Normally such analyses are done to test the financial attractiveness of the
farrning opportunities offered by the project. In this case, there is ample evidence in the
field that farmers are willing to grow irrigated crops, plant fruit trees, and take advantage
of land development works. In effect the project creates opportunities that precedent
shows are clearly attractive to farmners. The livestock component raises issues of
financial viability which were examined in the course of appraisal. A financial analysis
of a typical livestock operations is shown in Annex 8, and financial analyses have been
prepared for the individual agroprocessing enterprises (Ame2J1 1).
D. PROJECT RISKS
5.26  The project will be executed by local government units that have a good record in
implementing agricultural and rural development projects. Notably successful have been
Shanxi's components of the Loess Plateau Watershed Rehabilitation Project, and the
WFP 3923 Project in Luliang Prefecture. Two components of the project present some
elements of risk, the Langdian Pumping Complex and the livestock component. The
channel configuration of the Yellow River at the Langdian site appears to be stable, but
this might change suddenly in the afterrnath of an extreme flood or through gradual
changes in the river's morphology. The use of three different water intakes at the new
Langdian Pumping Station significantly reduces this risk. It is also to be noted that the
discounted net agricultural benefits of the Langdian complex will exceed the cost of the



- 53 -
complex after three years of operation.  The livestock component will introduce
thousands of farmers to livestock ownership.  This will call for careful selection,
intensive training, and monitoring of the beneficiaries, all of which are supported under
the project.



- 54 -
6. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1   The following agreements were obtained at negotiations. The Borrower and/or
the Provincial Government will:
(a)   prepare and fturnish to the Association by November 30 of each year, a
proposed program of training activities to be carried out during the
following calendar year and thereafter implement such programs as
approved by the Association (para. 3.23);
(b)   ensure that the project will comply with agreed procedures and technical
specifications for review of design, construction and maintenance of
hydraulic structures (para. 3.25);
(c)   cause the project accounts, the Special Account and SOEs to be duly audited
by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA and will submit them to IDA
within six months of the close of each financial year (para. 3.39);
(d)   implement the project in accordance with an environmental management
and monitoring plan acceptable to the Association (para. 3.40);
(e)   ensure that each prefecture will implement the Resettlement Action Plan
agreed with IDA (para. 3.49);
(f)   prepare and submit a detailed annual budget and work plan to IDA for
review by November 30 of each year in respect of project implementation in
the following year, and carry out such plans, as approved by the Association
(para. 4.1);
(g)   ensure that CPMO and PMOs at prefecture, county and township levels
would be maintained with terms of reference acceptable to IDA and staffed
by competent staff in adequate numbers (para. 4.2);
(h)   make available livestock, as well as subloans for agroprocessing and ACWF
subprojects, in accordance with procedures, terms and conditions acceptable
to the Association (para. 4.5);
(i)   ensure that the land developed under the Project is leased to farmers for
terms between 30 years and 50 years under written contracts (para. 4.9);
G)    ensure that project monitoring would be carried out in accordance with
indicators acceptable to the Association and prepare and furnish to the



- 55 -
Association semi-annual progress reports by January 31 and July 31 of each
year (para. 4.1 1); and
(k)   ensure that Shanxi would furnish the Association with a mid-term report by
September 30, 1998 (para. 4.2 1).
6.2   Subject to the above, the proposed project would be suitable for a Credit of
SDR67.3 million ($100 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to the People's
Republic of China.



-57-                                            ANNEX 1
ANNEX 1: FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC PRICES
Table 1: FINANCIAL PRICES
Financial Prices (1995)
Unit          Yuan                                                          Unit           Yuan
Outputs                                                                      Inputs
Crop products                                                                Seeds & Seedlings
Wheat                                      kg             1.28               Wheat seed                                 kg                2
Cotton lint                                kg            9.40                Maize seed                                 kg              4.4
Soybean                                    kg             1.80               Cotton seed                                kg               5
Groundnut                                  kg            2.20                Soybean seed                               kg                3
Maize                                      kg            1 120              Mbilelsed                                   kg                2
-   Sorghum                                    kg             0170               Sorghum seed                               kg                3
Millet                                     kg            0.80                Sunflower seed                             kg               3
Sunflower                                  kg             1.20               Groundnul seed                             kg              4 2
Polato                                     kg            040                Water relon seed                            kg             200
Frult&Nut products                                                             Potato seed                                kg               I
Dates                                      kg             2 00               Date seedling (Yuncheng)                   Pt              1.2
Prickly ash                                kg            16.00               Dale seedling (Luliang)                    Pi              I a
Chesinut                                   kg             2 00               Prickiy ash seeding                        Pi              0.3
Walnul                                     kg             600                Walnut seedling (Yuncheng)                 Pi              1.5
Apricot                                    kg           2000                 Walnul seed"ing (Lutang)                   Pi                2
Apple                                      kg             1.60               Apple seedling                             Pi                2
Water melon                                kg             0.30               Chesinut seedling                          PI                1
Forestry products                                                             Apricot Seedling                            Pt              11.
Pine tknber                                m'             600              Production materals
Pine rafter                               No.              12                Urea                                       kg              12
Firewood                                   kg               2                Anwonium bcarbonate                        kg              0.6
Larch timber                               m'             800                Phosphate (SSP)                            kg              0.5
Larch rafter                              No.              15                Agro-chemicals                             kg              20
Poplar linber                              m'             350                Manure                                    ton               15
Poplar rafter                             No.                              MachInery and Animal labour
By-products and Crop residues                                                 Animal labour                             WDs               12
Cotton seed                                kg            6.80              IrrIgation
Wheat straw                                kg             0 04               trngation Yuncheng System (average) la     m'              0 3
Soybean siraw                              kg            0 04                Irrigation Yuncheng System (9th station) lb  m'            0 4
Groundnud straw                            kg            0 08                Irrigation water (River Beach Land)        m'             0.25
Maize stover                               kg            0 04            Labour
- Milel slover                                kg            0 04              Animal labour                               WOs              12
Sorghum slover                             kg             0 04             Family farm labour                          WDs               10
Sunflower slover                           kg            0 04
Animal products
Cow (breeding)                            unit           3.990           %a Operating costs are 27.5 Fenlrn' 30 Fenlm5 Is used as a consevatie igure
Caln                                      und            1.750           \b Operating costs are 38.6 Feniml. 40 Fen/mi Is used as a conservative figure.
Manure                                      I              15
Animal labour                             WDs              12
Fish
Silver carp                                kg            3.60
Variegated carp                            kg             4.00
Carp                                       kg             6.00
Crucian carp                               kg             600
Grass carp                                 kg             6 80



-58-                                        ANNEX 1
Table 2: EsTIMATED IMPORT/EXPORT PARITY PRIcEs
(For the Year 2000, Expressed in 1995 Prices)
Unit     Export Price Pwrities                             impolt Pkice Paiiles
Cotton Oil Cotion Coke   Wheat Soybean gt  Maize Cotton Lint hi Beef Meat    U,ea   TSP iI onittLogs
twIhaaaal    tS.K.*.l S. Al tert    tCa"edel tu .S G.ilt)    tu S. Gun    t   _ gAvE_uNl  tWt trte peAlaat    ItEMe
World Matket Prices a/      USl/ton        708          166     116        250     106         1.684     3.129      17      143       49
Ouwhty Adjustennt              %            0%          0%       0%        0 0%    0%          20%        40%        0%     50%      20%
Ocoen Fteight               US$lon.         25          20       25         25      20           45        250       48       42       30
CIFtFOB Price               US/tAon        663          135     141       .275     126         1.392     2.127      235      9U        GS
CIF/FOB Price lYuanl ht     Yuan/ton     5.737        1.134    1.1B2     2.308   1.059       11.695     17.669    1.974     833      S61
Pew Ch.rges cl              Yuntton         35           35      35         35      35           72         72       40      40       60
Pot tolfrom Wholesa"r dl    YuentIon        21          21       21         21      21           27        106       21       21      27
MlM/Wholeter - PontOt20kml Yuan/ton         35          35       35         35      35           45        173       35      35       89
Conversion tate                A           17%         53%    100%       100%   100%           100%      100%    100%    100%    100%
Farm to MitttWholessler 112km  Yuan/on       7            7                                                            7       7
Processing Costs           Yuwnhen          21          49
Econ. Farm Gaie             Yuan/Ion       932         497    1.272      2.399  1l149        11.839     16.219   2.077    93S        738
Financial Prices            Yuantton       700         450    1.280      1.t00   1.200        9.400     14.000    1.200    Soo       6O0
Conversion Factot              %          133%        110%      99%      133%    96%          126%       130%    173%   107%    123%
/i Basic essumption of price projetions are taken frorn Wortd lank Commnodity Maikets and the Dveloping Coun tres. A Wortd Bank Guarterly (August k9941.
Price tor wheat raters to U.S. Soft Ftd Wintet No. 2 Fo.b.. 1993/94 price, usng the relative price increases as projected by the World Sank lot
Canadian Weetern Red Spring.
- Prie for colton knt istaos to A Index quaity Livempool. bct. 1994 quotation, using %he same reltaive puice increases as procleted by the Wodld Sank.
Pke for Wool refers to October 1993 price for 64's. London. Significant 1994 ptice iceates eking piece in 1994 are not consideted to contirne.
Ptices for Cotton Oil and Cake are average prices of 1993 pubiishd by FAD.
Pkice tor Log Wood Is based export prices compried by FAO Fotestry Deprntrnent. No siJwicsnt price change ts assumed Iromn 1990 to 2000.
bt Exchange rate ol 8.4 Yuan per US,.
el Local price used.
di Tinjn.Taiyuan ppgoximaltey 600km: 0.024 Yuan per km and ton local price adjusted-y CF of 1. 1; 30% additionwt adiustment lot bulky products.
a) 0.3 Yuan per ton pec km local price adusted by CF of 0.96; 30% adjustmnent tor bunly products.
11 0.6 Yuen per ton per km local price sdusited by a CF ot 0.96; 30% adjusted tor bulky products.
gl It is expected Ihat China's rapidly paowing demand for soymeal for animnl feed wit mtake the counlry a nel importer of soybeans in the nter futue.
h/ BOsed an ihe assumption that 1 ton oa seed cotton - 380kg lint. 55kg oi. 400kg cake and 165kg waste a weighted conversion factor for seed ot 1.2 is used.
1U A 60 % quality adjustment Is mae on Triple Super Phosphate to compare with locally used SSP.



-59 -                                  ANNEX2
Table 1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
%   % TOM
rfu.n miluioni                 muS milliot)           Forlgn   Bse
Local    Forin      Total     Local    Foruign     TotIl  Exchange Coeo
Yuncheng:
A. Yuncheng irrigation System
1. owX source Compiex
Lmrtdm Pump"g Stain                                 36.3       8 2       44 s       43       1t0         5 3       la       3
S.ed wont_ nPond                                    16.3      11.9       283        1.9        14        34       42        2
Fedr Ca                                             4"0                  49.6       5.9                  5 9                4
Zu*2n  IlIUS. (Pumpng soels am Sadnwn. Pond)         a  9        .0 a     69        I         1 0 o      2.0       47       1
SubtotalWalarsourcaComnplea                          111.2      28.1      139.2      13.2        3.3      16.6       20      10
2. Xiaetan tumpn SWoon RotablJWUon                    15.7       2.9 zs      6        1.9       0.4        2.2      t1        I
3. 7uncun Irngauon Syswm ComptOon
SIuIn I to 5 Rh4*_bIAS 484                                              41 4        5.8                 5.8         .       4
Stan s to 9 R    __eunIntpV uin                     8 04       8 3      8tt 7       9.6       1.0       106         9       6
Su12'l Zuncun lYtg Uoa3 Stym Completion              128 8       8t3      137 1      15.3       1 0       s63         6      10
Subtotal Yunchsng Irrigation System                    255.7      39.3     295.0       30.4       4 7      35.1       13       21
B. Rural Water Supply                                   42.9      20.6      63.6        5.        2.3       7.6       32        5
C. Rural Roads                                         104.6                104 a      12.5                12.5         *       5
0. Horticulture
Clhne Goes                                            42.5      128        55 4       5.1        15       6.6       23        4
P mcaNsian                                            17.5       52        22.7       2.1       06        2.7       23        2
Vft&'wA                                               27.0       3.0       30.1       3 2       0 4       3 6        to       2
ChMs't                                                1.1        I I       11 2       1 2       0    .    1.3       10        I
Subtotal Horticulture                                   97.1      22.3      1194       11.6       2.7       142        19       9
E. River Boach Development
liYLionFaaM..                                         58.3       13.5      718        69        16         8.5       19       S
hWraWUaa                                              Is o      21.1       390        2.1       2.5        4 6      54        3
SaikPrr.uon                                            4 *                  48        0 6                 0.6
AquALa.                                                11 4       2.5     139         14        03         1 7       18       I
Subtotal River Beach Development                         z.s5     37.1      129        11.0       44        15.4       29       9
F. Uvostock
AA." FW   nErtsfaOkStl                                91.0                 91.0      l a                  10 *        -       7
LskSupponai   Acsuw.s                                  2 3        2 8       5 2       0.3       0.3        0        5 ss      0
Subtotal Uvestock                                       93.3        2.8      96.2      11.1       0.3       11.4        3       7
G.Agroprocessing                                        753        18.8      95.1       91        2.2       11.3      20        7
H. Prufectural Project Support Services                 55.9       II 4      67.3       6 7       1 4       8.0        17       5
Yuncheng Total fASEUNE COSTS                           818.5      152.3     970.9      97.4       11.1     115.5      l8       70
Lulang:
A. Soll and Water Conservation
Tamna9 t 9                                                        8 5        4       10*  a      1.0      11.8        9       7
ChOCK-0affa                                            140        0.I      14 1       1.7       00         1.7        I       I
P;  dwtn Fo or.u                                       17        0.2        99        1 2       0.0        1 2       2        1
Subtotal Soil and Water Conservation                   114.6        .8      123.4      13.6       1.0       14.7        7       9
B. Rural Water Suppty                                   12.8        1.0      13.8       1.5       01         1.6        7       I
C. Rural Road                                           31.4        0.5      39.o       4.6       0.1       4*6         2       3
D. Horticulture
Ft" am NAu Tr. Ptlnttton                              72.7       27.3     100.0       8.7       3.2       11.9       27       7
Nwswy Irpro4wmn1                                       2.9        0.3       3.2       0.3       0.0        0.4       11       0
SupeerI S.rvs                                           13       0 2        1 5       0.2       00         0.2       14       0
Subtotal Horticulture                                    76.9      27.8     1047        9.2       3.3       12.5       27       a
E. Livestock
Anu,pi F wm Estab shnmw                                20.3                20.3       2.4         .         4         .       I
LremA Suppm  AngcwNas                                   4 2       1.3       5 5       0.5       0.2        0.6       23       0
Subtotal Uvestock                                       24 5        1.3      25.8       2.9       0.2        3.1        5       2
F. Agroprocuseing                                       31.6       11.4      50.0       4 6        1.4       6.0      23        4
G. All-China Women Federation                             5 o                 S.o 0       6                  0.6
H. Prefectural Project Support Service                  28.1       s5        33.7       3.3       0.7        4.0       17       2
Lulbeng Total BASEUNE COSTS                             334.3      56.s     395 4      40.3        5.7      47.1       14      29
Provincial Project Support Services                          * 6       39       12.A       1.0        0.5       15        31       1
Total BASEUNE COSTS                                      1t166.0     212.7   1.37£.7      131.8      25.3     164.1       15      100
Ptl Conungmnafs                                        75.9                75.9       9.0                  9.0        .       6
Expeaed Pnce vwase                                   216.1       44 3     330.5       8 4        1.3       9.7       13       6
Total PROJECT cosTs                                     1,528.0     257.11   1.785.1    156.2       2s.6_ 182.J8          1s     111



-60 -                           ANNEX2
Table 2: EXPENDITURE AccouNTs PROJECT COST SUMMARY
%   % TOb
(Yuan million)                (USS milIonl        Foeign    ga"
Local   Foreign    Total     Local    Foreign    Total  Exchange Cofta
1. Investmnt Costs
A. Land Acquisiton                        tO.8                10.8       1.3                 1.3                I
8. Civil Works
EarthtStone wort                        309.8              309.8      36.9                36.9               22
Buldings/StuMe                          309.6              309.6      36.9         .      36.9        ,      22
Subtota Civil Works                       619.5              619.5      73.8                73.-               45
C. Equipment & Machinery
Large Dedgers/Excavators                   .       18.7     18.7                 2.2       2.2      100       I
Eklecal Equment /a                       15.2     52.4      67.6       1.8       6.2       8.0       78       5
SmnlScais&FarmMachnwy/i                  16.1     14.3      30.4       1.9       1.7       3.6       47       2
Agrprocsa   Equipment                    30.1     26.6      57.0       3.6       3.2       6.8       47       4
Office Equipmwnt                          3.9      3.5       7.4       0.5       0.4       0.9       47       1
SubtotalEquipmentt&Machinery               65.3    115.5    181.1        7.8      13.8      21.6       64      13
D. Inputs and Mateial
PVC Pipes                                 1.3     14.6      15.9       0.2       1.7       1.9      92        1
FertltedAgro-Chemicls                             57.6      57.6                 6.9       6.9      100       4
Livutock                                 92.0               92.0      10.9                10.9        -       7
Seeds and Seedlings                      67.1               67.1       8.0         -       S.0                5
On-Form Labour                          104.2              104.2      12.4                12.4                8
Oter Inputs                              34.3               34.3       4.1         .       4.1                2
Subotal Inpus and Material                296.9      72.2    371.1      35.6       8.6      44.2       19      27
E VehiclIs
Trucks & Suss                                       4.5      4.5                 0.5       0.5      100       0
-   ars& Jeeps                                      9.5       9.5                 1.1       1.1     100       I 1
Motor Cyles                                 .       1.6      1.8                 0.2       0.2     100        0
Subtotal Vehicls                                     15.8      15.8                1.9       1.9      100       1
F. Training. Study Tours
Foreign Trainn                                      3.8      3.8                 0.5       0.5      10        0
Omestic Traiin                            6.7         -      6.7       0.8                 0.8                0
Fongn Study Tou)s                                   5.2      5.2                 0.6       0.6      100       0
O estic Study Tour                        15                 1.5       0.2                 0.2               0
Subtotal Taining. Study Tours                2        90       17.2      1.0       1.1       2.0       51
G. Interest During Construction             9.2                 9.2      1.1                 1.1                1
H. Working Capital                         23.8                2}8       2.6                 2.8                2
1 AI-China Women's Fed. Lullang /b          5.0         -       5.0      0.6                 0.6                0
1. Other
Survey & Design                          45.2               45.2       5.4                 5.4                3
Resuch and Development                    4.1                 4.1      0.5                 0.5                0
Extension                                10.4               10.4       1.2         -       1.2                1
Admintrtion & Mnagement                   5.2                15.2      1. 6                1.8               1
Subtotal Other                             74.9                74.9      6.9         -       8.9                5
Total Investment Costs                     1.115.7    212.7   1.328.4    132.8       25.3    158.1       16      96
It. Recurrent Costs
A. Monitoring & Evaluation                 12.8                12.8      1.5                 1.5        -       I
S. Project Management                      36.5                36.5      4.3                 4.3                3
C. IPM-StatUons                             0.3                 0.3      0.0                   - 0.0            0
D. FrozenSemenContra(Lulang)                0.7                 0.7      0.1                 0.1                0
Total Recunvnt Costs                         50.3                50.3      6.0                 6.0                4
Total BASEUNE COSTS                       1t166.0    212.7   1.378.7    138.6        25.3    164.1       15    100
Physcal Contingenoes                       75.9                75.9      9.0                 9.0                6
Expected Pnce Inc  aae                    266.1      44.3    330.5       8.4       1.3       9.7       13       6
Total PROJECT COSTS                       1t523.0      257.1   1,785.1    156.2      26.6    182.         15        11
la Exduding Agroprocassing Equipment.
\b For disadvantaged women Supported by the A&Cn Wmn 's Federation Lukang.



-61-                            ANNEX2
Table 3: PROJECT EXPENDITURE SCHEDULE
Yuan million
1996     1997     1998     1999     2000     2001      2002      Total
Yunchng Irrigation System                 40.9     81.9      75.2     65.6     31.4      0.0      0.0      295.0
Rivr Beach Development                    32.5     33.6      29.7     16.8     12.3      4.6      0.0      129.6
Rural Water Supply                        10.9      12.3     28.2     21.8      1.4      1.4       1.4      77.4
Rural Roads                               25.0     50.5     43.0      20.0      3.9      1.4      0.0      143.7
Horticulture                              17.0     34.8      44.5     49.8     48.2     26.0      3.9      224.1
Llvestock                                 31.2     30.0      29.2     28.4      2.9      0.1      0.1      122.0
Agroprocessing                            42.0     55.9     40.5       6.7      0.0      0.0      0.0      145.1
Sal andWaterConservaton                   23.1     31.7     28.3    22.3        9.7      6.0      2.3      123.4
All-China Women Federation                 0.5      0.5       1.0      1.0      1.0      0.5      0.5        5.0
Support Services                          36.4     14.6      14.6     13.8     12.5    10.8      10.8      113.5
Total BASELUNE COSTS                      259.6    3.45.8    334.1    246.2    123.3    50.7      19.0   1,378.7
Physical Contingencies                  12.8     20.0     18.9      14.7      7.3      1.8      0.4      75.9
BASE COSTS Incl. Phys. Conting.           272.4    365.8    353.0    260.9    130.7     52.5      19.4   1.454.6
Expect*d Pnce Increases                 14.3     55.6     85.0     84.7      53.4     26.0     11.4     330.5
|Total PROJECT COSTS (Yuan million)       286.7    421.4    438.1    345.5    184.0      78.6     30.9   1.78S.1
USS million
BASE COSTS Incl. Phys. Conting.            32.4     43.5     42.0     31.1     15.6      6.3       2.3     173.2
Expected Pnce increas                    0.3      1.4      2.4       2.6      1.7      0.9      0.4       9.7
iTtal PROJECT COSTS (USS million)           32.7     44.9     44.4     33.7     17.3      7.1       2.7     t |2.8
Inflation rates used (in %Ys) /a
Annual rates -.
Local                               10.5      8.5      7.0      6.5      6.2       6.2      6.2
Foreign                              1.8      2.6      2.5      2.5       2.5      2.5      2.5
Compounded rates
Local                                5.3     15.2     24.1     32.5     40.9      49.6     58.9.
Foreign                              0.9      3.1      5.8      8.4      11.1     13.9     16.7
la Yeary valuis are within Each Project Year



-62 -                          ANNEX2
Table 4: PROCUREMENT PROFILE-NON-ICB/LCB AGREEMENT AS OTHER
(TJ.S.S millinn)
IC9        #4CC      OOtc #4    NlJ. hi     teas
Clvi Wo~
Yuntheng Imgabon System                            9.90      20.98                 30.88
Beachiand                                             -       5.71                  5.71
Yuneheng Dnnking Water Supply             -                   6.46       0.27       6.73
RuwajRoads                                          1.35     16.45         -       17.80
Chek Dams                                          0.19       1.72                  1.91
Oter-    0.41                                                                       041
Subtotal Civil Works                              11.44      51.75      0.27       63.45
Land Development
River Beach Canals and Land LeveUm        -           -       4.61                  4.61
Tenrttng                                  -                  12.60                 12.60
Horticulture                                                 23.00                 23.00
Potecton Forests                                              1.30                  1 30
Subtotatl Land Oevilopment                            -      41.51                 41.51
Livstock
Animals                                                      11.93                 11.93
Buildings and Structures                                                2.44        2.44
Equipment                                                     0.04                  0.04
Support servs                                                 0.57      0.02        0.59
Subtotal Uvestock                                     -      12.54      2.46       15.00
Agroprocessing
BuMnp                                                         5.09                  5.09
Equmomena                                             - .   6.98                    6.98
Subtotal Agroprocesing                                       12.07                 12.07
Equipment and Materals
Pumps and Motors                       3.41           -       0.29                  3.69
Electncal                              3.96                   3.07                  7.03
D9edgers and Excavators                2.34                      -                  2.34
Office Equipment                                              1.11                  1.11
PVC Pipes                               1.83                  0.17                  2.00
Fertlizer and Agrchomcals              6.91                   0.51                  7.41
Other                                                         1.11                  1.11
Subtotal Equipment and Materials       18.45                  6.25                 24.70
Vehicles                                 1.92                                         1.92
All-China Womens Federation                                     0.65         -       0.65
Training&StudyTours                                             2.15                  2.15
Project Management                                      -                14.09       14.09
Miscelbaneous                                                   1.85      5.45       7.30
Total Project                            20.36       11.44    128.77      22.27     182.83
11%         6%        70%        12%       100%
w 0   Okds fted    i                    # U. .
YF: No N10P4.nai



-63 -                                 ANNEX2
Table 5: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS-NON-ICB/NCB-AGGREGATED AS OTHER
PreemfwwrmMa
b            nwp.rud                                                    IDA Stu"e
Siddlag      Diddilt.a      O,[r No.P.                  Tot          %       Tobi
A. Clvi WVota la
1. Yunhen
Punip House                                                          2.0O-                          -         2,060      80%      1,646
Lwtdien Feeer Cwnl h                                                 3.336                                    3,335      80%     2,670
Sedimt Trealmet Pald                                                 2.43             -                       2.463      80%      1,970
Emianr4s I                                                  .            .        5,524                       6,524      50%      3,231
Main Canal                                                           1.322                                    1,322      80%      1.057
Biunci Cnals WId 1_ers                                                   .      - 14,241                     14,241      50%      7,053
Ditni*  Walt supply Id                                                            5.547             -         5.547      80%      4,436
Rural Road Rehebil                                         -         1.347       11.795                      13.143      50%    6S509
Rw_Ae   Pia vW   lh                                        .             .          Ul8                         64       50%       321
Rwr Beach RP                                                             -        1.533             -         1.533      50%       759
Rbvr Tea_, Tube.vieb Out canak)                             . -725                                            5.725      50%      2,835
Aqus                                                       -             -        1.192             -         1,192       0%       590
Awb-Pro_4ing CoudIn  W rs                                   --                    3.223                       3.223      50%      1,596
Uaeemst BuIdki                                                        715                                       715      80%       572
oeWhs c W                                                  -                      1.146                       1.148      50%9
1. Luing
Tem                                                                      .       12.599                      12.599      70%     8,829
ChoD ams                                                               191        1m722                       1,914      70%      1.341
Du1nidiigW i r 9p /                                                                * 912                        912      80%       730
Wo 8rge SQ*                                                              .            -          266            266  0%
Rual Rad Ra4 .                                                           -        46                          4,659      50%      2.330
Aoro.Pusne    C      _nludan Wa                                          -        1.671                       1,871      50%       9m
Cther                                                      .                        50                          505      50%       253
S-aal CI  We                                                            11.436       73,86           266         85,547      59%    5237
IL Equ4_nm
i. I_   W          4ea
lAmp L       Scala sqimard                                                                                                1D         .
°ni                                                    2.0M                           -                       2.035     100%      2,036
EFwutom                                                   0                                         .           306    10%         30
Subtota Lue Seal EQUlPMn                                 2.340                                        -         2340      100%      Z340
I Pumllps an    ar
Lwgdbi.    ltN SYlsm                                  1.344                    .                   .         1.344     100%      1.344
Rbur Bach Lad                                          1.417             -                                    1.417     100%      1,417
Orq   WlerUppVyA                                         333                         83                         416    10%D         416
Acluture                                                    -            -A          93             -            93     100%        93
S:b5Ob ps_  a" Maqu                                      3.094           *            176           3,27t                 100%      3.270
3. 0s1a'ea
T renativme  h                                         3.019             -           43             -         3.0S2     100%      3,062
Pow   Linn 4                                             941                      2.300             -         3.240      80%      2,592
:ubsl:  Ekb l                                           3.9                        2.342             -         6,302      90%      5.654
4. OMcs EiO r                                                -             -                                      88       80t 8D%   704
5. t       _  -a                                                                    6,977             -         6.977      80%     5,561
6. oter                                                       .                     2,450                       2.450      50%      1,225
Subed Equipmen                                             9.304                     1z2826                      22.220      64%    18,775
C. hIpub S M_bwas
C Pipe" A                                                 1,80             -          171             -         2,001     100%      2D01
Fwror                                                    3,873             *            *             .         6,873     100%      6.673
Agaeo_a* A-                                                                           566             -           5       100%       505
vtck                                                          .            .       11,962             -        11.982      80%      9,586
e-esS                                                        -                     86.618                       8.616      80%     6,694
On-Fwm LboL                                                   .                         -        14,621        14.621       0%
Othe                                                         .             .                      4,361         4,381       0%
subbb* imput & Male67                                                                21,276        t9,00         46,981      53%    25.859
0. VehdIces
SeAn- -                                                                               10                          10      1t00       100
LAe Jep (4W)                                               146             .                          .           146    100%        146
Sina Jep                                                   329             -                                      329     100%       329
st#nded Jep                                                549             -            -                         549     100%       549
motr CYCes                                                 323                                                    323     100%       323
Trnds                                                      564                                                    584     100%       564
Suboall VelcldeW                                            1.911                       100                       2,011     100%      20t11
JEr1, 596



-4
'fI <56<C6ff I  II
.. .                       .   .  
S i e aC § hi - -
a8 5    M .u88gUdp  -- 
I.            i _     £Ra§ 



-65 -                    ANNEX3
ANNEX 3: YUNCHENG IRRIGATION SYSTEM
Introduction
1.    The Yuncheng Irrigation System (YIS), in the southwest corner of Yuncheng Prefecture,
has three main units. The two smaller units Jiamakou (18,400 ha) and Xiaofan (11,600 ha),
supplied by pumping stations on the Yellow River were begun in the early 1960's and gradually
developed through the 1970s. In 1969, the river veered away from the site of the Xiaofan station
and in 1976 this also happened at the site of the Jiamakou station. Construction of Zuncun, the
third and largest unit was begun in the mid-1970, with the aim of serving an area of 123,000 ha.
This area was also supplied by a pumping station on the Yellow River built in 1978, but in 1987 the
channel shifted several kilometers away from the intake. Because of the channel shift a decision
was taken to delay the completion of the Zuncun system. The project will restore the pumping
capacity for the three units and carry out works needed to complete the remaining 93,000 ha of the
Zuncun unit. Cost estimates for this components are shown in Table 1.
Project Works
New Pumping Facilities
2.    The Langdian Pumping Complex will increase the supply of water to the YIS. Three
pumping stations were built to lift water from the Yellow River to this system. But the river
channel, which was close to the left bank when the pumping stations were built, has moved away
from the river bank. Now, everv year. channels are excavated from the active channel to the pumps
but these fill with sediment when the river is in flood, and sometimes the channels have to be
excavated several times a year during the flood season. The details of the pumping stations are
summarized below:
Station      Design       H (m)        Date         Date of      Present
Capacity                  Built        River       Capacity
(cms)                                  Shift       (cms)
Jiamakou     9.5          10           1960         1976         7
Xiaofan      6.0          18           1961         1969         0
Zuncun     46.5            7           1978         1987         15
The current delivery capacity is only 22 cms compared to the design capacity of 62 cms. This
problem is to be overcome by building the new Langdian pumping station upstream of the three
existing stations and connecting it to them through a desilting basin and a 13.5 km canal. The



- 66 -                  ANNEX3
capacity of the pumping station will be 45 cms with a lift of 4 m. In addition, floating pumps with a
capacity of 18 cms will be placed near the Zuncun station. A 1.5 km long channel between the river
and the Zuncun station will require annual maintenance dredging.
Siting of the Langdian Station
3.    The Langdian pumping station and river intakes station are at a point in the river where the
channel is close to the left bank and is believed to be stable. Satellite images show that the site has
been free from sediment accretion since 1980. the date of the earliest images. During this period,
flow patterns were tracked on the river and these show that the bulk of the flow stayed close to the
left bank, except in 1984. In that year. the main flow shifted away but pumping would still have
been possible at the proposed site. Local people at the site report that the channel has been stable in
its present location for more than 30 years. From a review of all the available data, a team of river
training experts from the Yellow River Conservancy Commission (YRCC) has concluded that the
river channel at the site is stable and is likely to remain so.
4.   In March 1995, a nrver training expert, Mr. Max Lamnb, was retained by the Bank to review
the siting of the Langdian Station. He reviewed the satellite images and other data and carried out a
detailed inspection of the river reach on the left and right bank of the Yellow River, upstream and
downstream of the project. His conclusions were in line with those of the YRCC experts. He
recommended that the channel configuration be closely monitored to detect any trends that might
lead to a channel shift. He also outlined a proposal for the location and design of a low spur that
could be built at a cost of around Y 6 million if the channel should start to migrate. The dredges in
the desilting basin (see below) will be available in the dry season if it becomes necessary to widen
or deepened the approach to the Langdian station.
5.    Following the March 1995 mission, experts from the YRCC and the Shanxi Provincial
Water Resource Bureau met with the Yuncheng engineers to discuss further various alternatives of
the layout of the pumping station and intakes. This meeting led to agreement on a plan in which
the main intake gate will be at the original site for the pumping station, but the pump house will be
located in the feeder canal about one kilometer downstream. A second intake will be placed
between the main intake and the pump house. This would be operated if the bend in the main
channel migrates downstream. A third option, if there is a further channel shift, would be to create
an opening through the channel bank at the punp house. This multiple intake proposal adds
flexibility to accommodate possible channel shifts in the future. The preappraisal mission had
suggested that the need for river bank protection extending three kilometers upstream of the
Langdian intake be reviewed. The YRCC team concluded that this protection will help to stabilize
the river channel upstream of the intakes.
Langdian Delivery Channel and Desilting Basins
6.    A 13.5 km long delivery channel, I I m wide and 2 m deep will link the Langdian Complex
to the Jiamakou, Xiaofan and Zuncun pumping stations. The channel will carry a road on the IO m
crest of the riverside embankment. The embankment will have a protective surface of hand-placed
rock to guard against erosion during high floods in the Yellow River. During high floods, the
Yellow River carries the highest sediment of any of the world's large rivers. At high sediment



- 67 -                   ANNEX3
concentrations the Langdian pumping station will close down, but the pumps will be operated when
sediment loads reach I to 2 percent of the flow. Each of the three main pumping stations will have
its own sediment basin. When the sediment load is low, control gates will divert water directly
from the feeder canal to the pumping stations. When the sediment load is high, water will first pass
through the sediment basins.
7.    In the flood months of July and August the irrigation demands are relatively low and the
pumps will operate at less than half capacity. The total sediment load in these months will be
about 1.5 million tons. About 50 percent of this will be removed by the sediment basins. The
capacities of the sediment basins are 2, 6.4 and 42 million cubic meters respectively for Xiaofan,
Jiamakou, and Zuncun. The basin at Xiaofan will have a life of 15 years before it will have to be
enlarged, and the other two have lives of more than 50 years. Dredges will be placed in each
basin to remove sediment deposit that might obstruct the intake to the pumps. These will be
80 m /hour dredges that can be assembled at the site which is accessible only by a narrow road.
These dredges will also be available, if needed, to clear the approach to the Langdian pumping
station.
Zuncun Pumps
8.    A shallow distributarv channel of the Yellow River is within 1.5 km of the main Zuncun
pumping station. During the drv season this is dammed with an earth dam and a connecting
channel is excavated to the pumping station, or in some years simply re-excavated, by amphibious
excavators. In the dry season the water level in the river is low and the most that can be extracted
by gravity flow is 15 cms, and at times much less. The plan for the project is to pump water into
the connecting channel from the distributary channel using a battery of floating pumps with a total
capacity of 18 cms. The main Zuncun pumping station will discharge into the sediment basin or
the feeder canal, depending on sediment conditions.
The Irrigation Units
9.    Details of the three irrgation units making up the Yuncheng Irrigation System are given in
Table 2 which shows technical parameters and operating costs. The main, branch and lateral canals
for the Jiamakou and Xiaofan units are essentially complete but before the pumping stations
resume operation some clearing of sediment and general repairs will be carried out. Works
required for the Zuncun unit consist of:
(a)   completion of the main pumping station for Stage 9 (8,000 ha);
(b)   construction of four pumping stations for branch canals served by Stage 9;
(c)   construction of branch canals for Stage 9; and
(d)   construction of laterals for Stages 1-9.



- 68 -                   ANNEX3
In the YIS below the main canals and branch canal, the laterals serve areas of about 60 ha. All canals
including the laterals are concrete-lined. Below the laterals, unlined sublaterals serve 5 ha within
which the farmers construct their field channels.
Crop Production
10.   The YIS is generally 60 to 80 m above the Yellow River, but parts of the Zuncun unit are at
higher elevations and require further lifts up to 100 m. The area has the "gullied plateau" landform
of the Loess Plateau. The soils are deep and fertile. The main crops grown are wheat, maize and
other grains, soybeans and other oilseeds. cotton, and vegetables. Double cropping is possible with
wheat followed by maize and some other grain crops. Cotton cannot be combined with another
crop in the sarne crop year because it is planted too early and harvested too late. The cropping
intensity is about 105 percent. In recent years greenhouse production of fruit and vegetables has
grown rapidly. Interplanting of Chinese dates, walnuts, apple and pears is a common practice. The
average farm size is about 0.6 ha.. About 40,000 ha of the area is fully irrigated, 37,000 ha is partly
irrigated, and 43,000 ha is rainfed. Irrigation is mainly from tubewells. Crops, cropping patterns
and yields for the 'with' and 'without project' scenarios are shown in Table 3.
Water Supply
11.   An estimate of the water requirements at the pumping stations for the YIS when developed
for 123,000 ha is shown in Table 3 A. At present the delivery capacity of the pumping stations is
less than 22 cms, which is much less than the demand for the 87,000 ha that is now irrigated. In
fact, in some months in the flood season, the pumps are shut down because of silting in the supply
channels excavated from the river. Most of the irrigation water at present comes from tubewells.
The groundwater in the YIS has been depleted over the past 20 years. There are three aquifers.
The shallow aquifer from 10-50 m is low yielding and wells produce 2-5 m3/hour, but in many
places the aquifer has been effectively dewatered. A middle aquifer at 50-100 m is somewhat
higher yielding but generally the low yields do not justify deep wells. The deep aquifer at 150-320
m used to be highly productive and in most areas it was artesian, but overuse has reduced the
pressure to 200 m below ground level. and most of the operating wells in the YIS are deep wells
with lifts of over 200 m. There is evidence that the deep aquifer will respond to a reduction in
pumping. In 1984 and 1985, the rains were timely and adequate for most of the growing season
and there was a sharp drop in pumping. In one year the pressure in the deep aquifer rose over 10 m.
Thus the project is expected to help restore the groundwater resource. However, the tubewells will
continue to be used temporarily when the pumps are shut down to avoid excessive sediment inflow
during floods.
Economic Analysis
12.   The completion of the Yuncheng Irrigation System (YIS) will ensure an adequate water
supply for irrigation of 123,000 ha of highly fertile crop land. The benefits arise largely from
tuming rainfed and partly irrigated land into fully irrigated agricultural production. This will lead
to an increase in the cropping intensity for the total area from 105 percent to 120 percent and will
increase yields of wheat, cotton, maize and apples. The annual incremental agricultural output will
be 126,000 tons of wheat, 87,000 tons of maize, 10,000 tons of cotton lint, and 79,000 tons of



- 69 -                    ANNEX3
apples. This will create an additional annual net income of Y 384 million for the farming
population of about 750,000 in the area, and will raise their average annual per capita income from
Y 450 to almost Y 1,000.
13.   The farmers in the area have a long experience with irrigation, and will readily achieve the
change from rainfed to irrigated production. The crop budgets used to estimate the project benefits
are based on differences in yields and inputs observed on rainfed, partly irrigated and fully irrigated
fields in many places in the area (see Table 4). There is therefore a solid basis for the expected
response of the farmers to the availability of irrigation.
14.   The high ERR of 40 percent for this component reflects the large sunk cost of past
development. The irrigation infrastructure is already largely in place, and a number of existing
pumping stations are functional or need only small investment for rehabilitation. The water
distribution infrastructure from the main canals down to the field level is in place over much of the
area and the fields are levelled and ready for irrigation. The project completes some missing
sections of the water distribution system.
15.   The expected benefits are large enough to pay back all investment costs by the third year of
operation (Table 6). A 50 percent increase in costs would still result in an ERR of 31 percent. The
major uncertainty relates to the water intake from the Yellow River. Three different intake points
plus the floating pumps at Zuncun minimize the risk that a channel shift could deprive the system
of water. A sensitivity analysis shows that a worst case scenario, a major shift of the river channel
away from the pumps five years after completion, would only lower the ERR to 17 percent.



70-                              ANNEX3
Table 1: YUNCHNG IRGATION SYSTEM INVESrmEN SUMMARY
(Yuan Million)
saw Cost                 Tom C04a
ani Co"nU
Langdian Pumping S oon
1. Pmwona  Wors is                                      20.02                      28.72
2. Pt moue                                               8.57                      10.40
3. Pumps aris  Eau   t                                   9.87                      11.34
4 Managmnt nuug at cana hted                             l e                        2.2
5. Ms .maNo                                              0.39                       0.48
SuMDOe Agnornn- Marageren fb                             175                        4,39
Sa lbi Langasn Purnping Smoon                               44.47                      88.5
Sedhnesomon Pond
1. EJmI Wo                                              11t.28                     1466
2. Drmm. far enga terng wor                              0.6                        0.30
3. Stau                                                  1.59                       2.33
4. Dn*g(11 FS20U)                                       11.94                      14.15
5. Msoamneous                                            0.24                       0.27
SaWVe.DfeinAumfi  Manavge of lb                          2 46                       2.32
Subami Sedonaeuon Pond                                       83
F_td Can
1. Canal                                                182                       24.35
2. S3vaus (gaes. s4us. onoges...)                        5.73                      6.95
3. Lama auao                                             1.92                      2.30
4. M aaneous                                             0 48                       0.61
S. Feeder Cant S   was  ten                            2.                          30.13
Surwy.0esanmin-..managerneg                              2.37                       2.62
Subemn Feedr Caun                                           43.6I                      67.18
Zunumn Nm4a (Pond and Pnpsog 3oI
I 1 Pwroe     ot tsuton                                 5.48                        7.03
2. Sedment pato                                          9.S2                      13.13
Sury.0engn .A.miti   Managerent                          147                        1 .8
SUMm0d ZWncun Intake (POW   M Pun                            6                         220.4
Xahan  Pumnping Staon Rehablltsdoin
A. Xiedn 1 st omeor stotn riprwvement
1. tst omer swtja
a. Pumps anri Eoa   t                                  4.57                       5.14
b. Earth wats ana strucn s                             3 48                      4 55
3b1tAl 1st ofi r s8t.n                                   * 05                       9.69
2. Masn canal wnprovemr,                                 0.13                       1.00
3. Spare Parts ouwrag                                    0.03                       0.03
Subtotal Xohtan liStor saw en  nor"een                     8.91                      10.72
B. Lngang 2nooroner jitaton - noven                        1 .19                      1 44
C. kmrovng caa of or om r
1. Cana Imnmg                                            4 70                       6.37
2. StjucuMa   on cani sees (280  )                       0.64                      O.
3 Management hous                                        0.92                       120
4 Coimrmnicauan taclas                                   0.54                       0.6O
Subtotl ImoAng canal of     aider                          6.81                       9.14
.0. Rueai                                                  0.06                       p.0
Surv D.0agnAdomn-Management 1b U6                                                     1635
Subtotl Xibofan Pumping Station RehabiUlaln                  1 .65                     23.22
Zuncun brgation Scheme (Stabon I to 61
1 1It stage u ngaton area (49)                          1.64                       2.23
2.2nd stag 0rgauon ares (718 IN)
a. Laras ron nma  cn4267                               7.22                       8.75
b. Labtean frm reoshan man eal                         3.81                       4.62
c. Donpsa brnal canal (219 bwamp                       6.J3                       8.41
d. Sithigang ornanc cra (133 lterA)                    3.67                       5.47
Subtotal 2nd stag mngaon area (718  )ea)                21.79                      27.25
3. 3d stag ogoan a   (1a 9 _Ill)                         0.60                       0.71
4 4mn sage egateon are (27 _brs)                         0.93                       1.22
to be osnantd



-71 -
Yuncheng Irigation System Invwttment Summary (continued)                          ANNbFe 
Base Cost                Total Costs
IncL Contingencies
5. 5th stage imgation ams (400 laterals)              10.75                     14.57
6. Fom imgatlon area (92 latraIs).                     3.21                      4.23
7. Drainage System (280 latersal)
a. 199 escape lterals m Yongji city                  3.90                      5.20
b. 81 escape laterals in Yuncheng city               1.39                      1 93
Subtotal Drainage System (280 laterals)                5.29                      7.14
Survey.esignAdmin..Manaeemnt /D                        4.00                      4.70
Subtotal Zuncun Irrigation Scheme (Station I to 5)        48.41                      62.13
9th Stage Main Pumping Station
1. Pumptng Station
a. Pump House                                        0.88                      1.10
b. Pumps and Equipment                               3.70                      4.66
Subtotal Pumping Station                               4.58                      5.75
2. Other Structures                                    3.39                      4.65
3. Electnrcal tngmneenng                               2.66                      3.06
4 Misceilaneous                                        0.94                      1.08
Survey,DesignAdmin-Management lb                       0.75                      0.92
Subtotal 9th Stage Main Pumping Station                    12.32                     15.47
Oh Stage Main Canal (11km)
1. Ninth stage main canal bed                          5.15                      6.79
2. Ninth stage maih canal strueures                    4.31                      5.70
4. Misceilaneous                                       0.43                      0.54
Survey.Design Admin-Management lb                      0.87                      1.04
Subtotal 9th Stage Main Canal                              10.76                     14.06
8th SLage Branch Canal Pumping Stations
1. The second subchannel stabon
a. Buildings and Stucturs                            0.90                      1.23
b. Pumps Motors and Equipment Instalation            0.71                      0.87
Subtotal The secnd subchannel station                  1.62                      2.10
2. The thtrd subchannel station
a. Buildings and Structurms                          0.86                      1.17
b. Pumps Motors and Equpment Instalation             0.77                      0.95
Subtotal The third subchannel station                  1.64                      2.12
3. The fourth subchannel station
a. Buildings and Stnrctures                          0.93                      1.26
b. Pumps Motors and Equipment InstaIation            0.59                      0.73
Subtotal The fourtnh subchannel sation                 1.51                      1.98
4. Electncity transforming & distributing engineenng   2.66                      3.30
5. Miscellaneous                                       0.40                      0.50
_ Survey.DesignAdonin.,Malagemento                        0.72                      0.89o
Subtotal 9th Stage Branch Canal Pumping Statons             8.55                     10.89
9th Stage Branch Canals
1. First branch canal                                  3.15                      4.62
2. 2nd branch canal                                    0.61                      0.9t
3. 3rd branch canal                                    2.86                      4.18
4. Water receding canal                                3.81                      5.50
Survey.Design.Admin-Management tb                      0.94                      1.24
Subtotal 9th Stage Branch Canals                           11.37                     1S64
Irrigation Area Completion
1. 8th stage irgation area (123 atermls)              11.51                     16.92
2. 9th stage irigation area (86 laterals)              7.61                     10.36
3. Completion of the 9th station Command Area         22.80                     34.27
Survey,Design.Admin.,Management lb                     3.77                      5.04
Subtotal Irrigation Area Completion                        45.69                     6.59
Total Yuncheng Inigation System                          294.98                    388.86
%a Pumping station site protection and upsteam bank potection (3.6km).
%b 9% of direct investment costs.



Tablc 2: YUNCIIENG IRIUCA I ION SYSTEM-TECIINICAL PARAMENTERS
AND OPERATING CoSrS
-Tchbnicl P.amtetas                       Ccsnmnd Area                 Opst    Costs s'OO Yuen)
Stamiianx    et                     Capach    Itead    Hesd  et.4t,1. Vent.   P.  ew"d          l.cIl Of ect v   i cl 21  .cu.duy  Ma"_.. 41.  am.   Overbwut
_________________9  -    Ac&clnd.   bW    WA mDyea   a. kWh                      & 'uat F 1    hWomtioa ipo.lg by r cal PIJ''
Pu,tpngStation                     42.90      4.2      4.2     2.520     445         7.79       0.00   129.91          3.117        633      3.260      323
Sedbnerniion PoWd                  42.90                       2.300     445        s 60                               2.706        963        608      442
S _aI maka.                                                                                                                                   s56 612
Jiamakou Head StatWn                9.50    70.7    74.9   10.030         96       28.52        3.635    16.35       t1 402   tim *a .  b.beou .ee.emuleast
Xbltut~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1 68s                                                                              441      474
Xioln Head Station                  6.00    18.2    22.4       1.290      60        459         0 00    I I.ss        12835   ttlw .a XJ Otacas...awda..aIel
SubStation -1                    2.70    I9e6   62.91    1.650         26        4.34        5.03     5.03          1.736
Sub-Station 1.2                  4.20    49 6    71.9      3.300       33        6.91        6,40     6.40          2. 765
*ama                                                                                                                                 2.773      4.391    4.720
Pun*inBoasas                       13.20      V.   s .5         420      193        1.22                                 48468   tiere Zw Zcaa c_s.w.,Ma00
1. Sta  HedStatdldt                45.26      7.5    11.7     7.460      472       14s7         667   200 0            5s947
Zuncun Sohmetatn Pod               45.26                        too      472        1.60                                 640
Sklne Stati 1-2                  1.50    61.0    62.7       2.120       3        1.32        1.79     1.79           723
Sidaino Station 1-2              0.44    43.3   5ss0         270        3        d62         0.72     0.72            240
2.StagealinStcten-                 42.66    23.2    409    I6.7SO        441       54.03       50.27    93.34         21,611
siduln station 2.1               6.40    36.2    77 1      4.400       s2        7.60       10387    10 97          3.119
Sidetw Sctaion 2-2               0.44    13.9    54.3        210        3        0.o9        0 70     0 70             77
Sid.linestataon23                0.44    20.3    61.7        0SO        3        030         072      072             119
Sidelne Station 2.4              5.76    27.3    66.2      2.660       53        6 13       12 33    11.33          2.453                                                           1
Sd*&" statio 2.6                 0.66      7.9    466e       120        s        0 26        0.99     0.99             62
Swdating Station 2.6             1.44      6.3    47.7       253                 o 024       1.79     1.79             96
Sadeine.Sub-Stelaon2-6-1     2.00      ro    52.7        22o        3        023         1.79     1.79            71
Sldeln  tsaton 2-7               0.o6    1S.37    s 2        220        a        0 49        1 60     1 60            295
3. sea"   St"o                     22.57     .87    49.6    3.520        204        7.44        2 92    43.17          2.973
4.      1el. Sti                   22.30     1.0    606       3.520      295        900         2.0     422            3sss
S. Stage md. awStat1               20.3S    22.7    733       4.500      I90       10.22       19.17    40.17          4.045
Sidehw statiof 5t                0.56    2S s      33s       1SO        7        0 33        1 s9     1 9s            132
Sidee-Sub-Stabln 56-t-1       0.58     63      69.1        52        7       0 27        2.59      1 59            67
Side*   StstioS 5-2              1.05    12.5    65s         225       12        0 63        2 56     2 56           254
Swarm Ssatil S-3                 0.30      9.2    32 5 *      60        3        0 12        0 67     0.67             49
Stlne-Sth-Siation S6-t-1      0.30     69      9633        60        3       006         067      067              31
SLd   Station 5-4                0.86      7 0    60.3        60        4        0.12        05       0 5s             47
6t. tay Ma  Stbats                 13.03    26.9    90.2      3.200       99        704         3.33    21 00          2.614
1. Stama"Stctleim                  11.34    21.9   112.1      3.000       32        7.45        2.02    17.17      -2981
3. Stag  main Sttib                10.60      9     122 0      1.610      72        2 97        715     IS 15          1.189
Sid   Su Stationl.2              0.19      7 2   129 2        30        2        0 06        0 64     0 43             24
Sidea Station. 3-3               2.29    2S      2 147 *     S00       12        1.33        0.97     2 59            531
SW.-Sub-Stetion 8.3-1         0.63    179   I15 7         180        a        056         1 63     1 63           231
S;dee Station. 6-4               0.26    45    161 5        220        3        0 46        0.30     0 53            192
Sidel  Station. 3.5              0.14    24 3    146 a        74        2        0.21        0.65     0 43             S5
9. Step Mic  Selad                 4.26    32 @         3    2.000       38        5 04        7.99     7.99          2.015
Sub-Stctbn 9-1                   0.07     125    1663         22        1        007         027      027              27
Sub-Stalion 9.2                  047    360    18t 7         264        7        1.t2       157 .  157               448
Sub-Statio 9-3                   0 56    30 4   164 2        264       11        1.36        2 26     2 25            545
5uh-Suction 9-4                  0.54    243    2736         Ig0       20        2.02        203      2.06           409
_          _tt __     _                                         34.324      638   204.03        1229.1                  62.101       7.277      9.256   6.607 I
tut~. Q@gejjgZa Cst.i got Lanh of Water Jai                                                           Jotal. of which tieceica,  mengiment Uamin&mcs Ovehail
Il Auac"S1u.16IuimWv t1ar10 - ISaac                 Average Opraction Costs at Head h                      16.50          1247        1.14       1.45 1s04
1TJlaid CooeaduraaWttOO  samelA eiAutca.            Aversgc Operation Costs at Fed Level S/                27.49          21.45       1.90       2.42     1.73
31 Wu.t a puce *o4f 40FoetWh pka coals So h  t esgwe.    macswroum Mesginal Opwation Cotas at Field 9th Suimon  38 56     32.52       1.90       2 42     1.73
41 Swedes cV altfcs teat..
AI Acsacaig c £wcv   elimet, 4430% ree. haid ias 9.4



-73-                         ANNEX 3
Table 2A: YUNCHENG IRRIGATION SYSTEM-IRRIGATION REQUIREMENTS
Annual
Cropping     0     N    0    J    t    M    A    U    J    J    A 
Intensity
Crp ltbgaon Requr,ewnt (mm)
What        ,1o  100                                    100 o00  100
Cotton                                                                   100  100  100
maiMs                                                                   100  100
Fruit                                  100              100        100
Cropping Intasity (%)
Wheat              65             30   35               60   25   45
Cotton             20                                                    20   20   20
Maza               20                                                    20   20
Fnuit              15                  15               15         15
_                             .ODivemion Requvmment (rmnV1,000 ha)
Wheat                            0.46 0.54             0.92 0.38 0.60
Conon                                                                   0.31 0.31  0.31
maize                                                                   0.3-1 0.31
Fruit                                  0.23             0.23       0.23
Totals                      0   0.46 0.77   0    0   1.1S 0.38 .0.02 0.62 0.62  0.31   0
For 123.000 he              0    S7   95    0    0   142  47  114  76   76   38    0
Cap. mcnVmo                 157   157  157  157  157  157  157  157  157  157  157  157



.74-                           ANNEX3
Table 3: YUNCHENG IRRIGATION SYsTEM -TOTAL AREA MODEL
CROPPED AREAS AND YIELDS
Without Projea                              With Project
preint                   future              full development)
Area ('000ha)  Yeld (tlha)  Aea (fOOOha)  Yiid (tla)  Area ('OOha)  Yield (tVha)
lrigated:
What                          23.7        4.5          21.9        4.5          60.0         4.7
Cotton                         6.4        0.9           6.4        0.9          24.6         1.0
Maize                          5.S        5.5           5.S        5.5          24.6        6.0
Apples                         4.0       18.0           5.8       18.0          18.4        19.0
Paftially Irrigated:
Wheat                         21.7        3.5          20.2        3.5
Cotton                         5.9        0.7           5.9        0.7
Maize                          5.5        4.0           5.5        4.0
Apples                         3.4       15.0           4.9       15.0
Rainfed:
Wheat                         34.5        2.5          32.1        2.S
Cotton             .          10.1        0.4          10.1        0.4
Maize                          3.2        3.0           3.2        3.0
Apples                         5.3       12.0           7 7       12.0
Total Aea COOOha)                 129.5                    129.5                   147.6
Cropping Intensity (%)            105.3                    105.3                   120.0
S.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



-75 -                           ANNEX3
Table 4: YUNCHENG IRRIGATION SYSTEM-ECONOMIC CROP BUDGETS PER HECTARE
Maize
.      Irrigated       Partly Irrigated       Rainfed
Unit  Quantity   Value   Quanity   Value   Quantity   Value
Unit  Price             (Yuan)            (Yuan)             (Yuan)
Output
Maize                         kg      1.15    5.000    5.760    4.000    4,608    3.000       3.456
Maize stover                  kg     0.04    6,600       264    4.800       192    3.600        144
Total Output                                              6.024              4.800              3,600
Operating
Inputs
Maize seed                 kg      4.40       35       154       35       154       35       154
Urea                       kg      2.08      130      270       100       208      100       208
Ammonium bicarbonate       kg      0.71      100        71      100        71       50        35
Phosphate (SSP)            kg      0.94      180       168      120       112       80        75
Manure                     ton    15.00       15      225        15       225       15       225
Agro-chemicals             kg    20.00         1        20        1        20         1       10
Animal labour             VWDs   12.00        23      276        22       264       20       240
Labor               *       WDs    7.20        110       792      100       720       85       612
Total Input                                               1.976              1.774              1.559
Net Value of Production                                  4,048               3,026              2,041
Cotton
IrrHgated       Partly Irrigated      Rainfed
Unit  Quantity   Value   Quantity   Valuo   Quandty   Value
Unit  Price            (Yuan)             (Yuan)             (Yuan)
Output
Cotton lint                   kg    11.84      900   10.660        700    8,291       400    4.738
Cotton seed                   kg      0.96     1800     1.722     1400     1.340     800       765
Total Output                                             12.382              9.630              5.503
Operating
Inputs
Cotton seed                 kg     5.00      120       60       120       600      120       600
Ures                        kg     2.08      200       415     10        311      100       208
Anmnonium bicarbonate       kg     0.71       100       71       100       71        50       35
Phosphate (SSP)             kg     0.94      250       234      200       187       70        65
Manure       -             ton    15.00       15       225       13       195       10       150
Agro-chemicals              kg    20.00      27.5      550       21       420        1S      300
Animal labour              WDs   12.00        30       360       28       336       22       264
Ginning                   Yuan               122       122       95        95       54        54
Labor                        WDs    7.20        225     1.620      200     1.440      160     1.152
Total Input                                               4.191.             3.655              2.828
Net Value of Production                                   8,155              5,975              2.675
to be continued



-76 -                          ANNEX3
Table 4 (Cont'd)
Yuncheng Irrigation System (continued)
Economic Crop Budgets per hectare
Wheat
Irrigatsd       ParUy Irrigated       Rainfed
Unit  Quantity   Value   Quantity   Value   Quantty   Value
Unit  Price            (Yuan)             (Yuan)             (Yuan)
Output
Wheat                        kg      1.27     4500    5.702     3500    4 435      2500    3.168
Wheat straw                  kg      0.04     4500      180     3500       140     2500       100
Total Output                                             5.882             4.575              3.268
Operating
Inputs
Wheat seed                 kg      2.00     150       300      150       300      150       300
Urea                       kg     2.08      160       332      100      208       100      208
Anmmonum bcabtonate        kg      0.71     150       106      100        71       80        57
Phosphate (SSP)            kg      0.94     200       187      150       140      100       94
Manure                    ton    15.00       12       180        8       120        7       105
Agro-chernihcas            kg    20.00      1.25       25         1       20        0         0
Animal labour             WDs   12.00        25       300       22       264       20      240
Threshing                 Yuan               30        30       25        25       20       20
Labor                       WOs    7.20         98      706       89       641       £2       590
Total Input                                              2._66              1.768             1.613
Net Value of Production                                  3.716             2.787              1.655
Apple
Irrigated      Psrty Irrigated       RaInfed
Unit  Quantity   Value   Ouantity   Value   Quantity   Value
Unit  Price            (Yuani             (Yuan)             (Yu_n_
output
Apple                        kg      1.60    18000   28.800    15000   24.000    12000    19.200
Total Output                                            28.800             24.000             19.200
Operating
Inputs
Urea                       kg      2.08     400       830      300       623      250       519
Ammonium bicarbonate       kg      0.71      150      106      150       106      100        71
Phosphate (SSP)            kg      0.94     400       374      250       234      200       187
Manure                     kg    15.00        20      300       18       270       1S       225'
Agro-chemicals            ton    20.00      12.5      250       10       200        5       100
Labor                       WDs    7.2Q        230    1.656      210      1.512     200    1.440
Total Input                                              3.517              2.945             2.542
Not Value of Production                                 25283             21,055             16,6U



Table 5: YUNCIIENG IRRIGATION SYSTEM-CROPPING PATYERN
AND ECONOMIC NET VALUE OF PRODUCTION (NVP)
Present                     Future wIthout Project              Future with Project
Area      NVPWma    Total NVP      Are;       NVPIha   Total NVP    Area        NVPIha   Total NVP
('00 ha)    (Yuan)   (Yuan m;il.)  rOOO ha)    (Yuan)  (Yuan r)  (o000 ha)    (Yuan)   (Yuan mill)
Irrigated                                                            6
Wheat                    23 7       3.716      e8 08         21.9       3.716     81 39        800       3,716      297 32
Cotton                    6 4       8,185       52 38         6.4      8.185      52 38        24 6      8,185      201 35
Maize                     5 8      4.048       23 48          58 a     4.048      23 48        24 6      4,048       99 58
Apples                    40      25.283       101 13         5a      25.283     14664         184      25,283      46521
Partly Irtigated
Wheat                    217        2.787       6047         202       2.787      5629                                                            1
Colton                    5 9      5.975       35 25          5 9      5.975      35 25                                                           _
Maize                     5 5      3.026        16 65         5 5      3.026      16 65                                  . 
Apples                    3 4     21.055        71 59         4 9     21.055     103 17                                                           I
Ratnfed
Wheat                    34 5       1.655       57 09        32.1       1.655     53 12
Colton                   10.1      2.675       27.01         10.1      2.675      27 01
Maize                     32       2.041        6 53         3 2       2.041       6 53
Apples                    5 3      16.658      88 29          7 7     16.658     128 27
Total Cropped Area         129 5                               129 5                              147.6
Cuttivated Area            123.0                               123 0                              123 0
Cropping IntensIty         105%                                105%                              120%
Total NVP                                         627.96                             730 19                           1.063 46
Incremental Net Value of Production                                                                                   333.27
(At Full Development)
a



-78 -                             ANNEX3
Table 6: YUNCHENG IRRIGATION SYSTEM-ECONOMIC CASH FLOW ANALYSIS (YUAN
MILLION)
Project         O&M a/         O&M a/    Incremental   Incremental   Net Benefits
Year  Investment Costs without project with project        Costs         Benefits
(11             {21            (31 3)     (1)+{3)-(2}        (A4
1996              43.9            45.3          45-3            43.9             0.0          -43.9
1997               87.7           45.3          47.8            90.1             0.0          -90.1
1998              80.3            45.3          47.8            82.8             0.0          -82.8
i 999              70.7           45.3          47.8            73.2             0.0          -73.2
2000               34.3           45.3           64.2           53.1          100.0            46.9
2001                              45.3           88.8           43.5         266.6           223.1
2002                              45.3         105.2            59.9         333.3           273.4
2003                              45.3         105.2            59.9         333.3           273.4
2004                              45.3         105.2            59.9          333.3          273.4
2005                              45.3         105.2            59.9          333.3          273.4
2006                              45.3         105.2            59.9          333.3          273.4
2007              .               45.3         105.2            59.9          333.3          273.4
2008                              45.3         105.2            59.9         333.3           273.4
2009                *             45.3         105.2            59.9          333.3          273.4
2010                              45.3         105.2            59.9          333.3          273.4
2011                              45.3         105.2            59.9          333.3          273.4
2012                              45.3         105.2            59.9          333.3          273.4
2013                              45.3         105.2            59.9       - 333.3           273.4
2014                              45.3         105.2            59.9          333.3          273.4
2015                              45.3         105.2            59.9          333.3          273.4
IRR: 40%             Break Even in year 2002
NPV: 841.2
Notes:
a/ O&M costs include regular overhaul of pumps and replacement of parts. See Table 'Technical Parameters
Operating Cojt3'. In the without project sttuatton all Management. Maintenance and Overhaul costs exc
for the Langdian intake complex are included and 30 percent of the electricity costs of the with project s
Sensitivity Analysis Scenarios:                                                       resulting IR-
(1) Investment cost increase by 20%                                                        36%
(2) Investment cost increase by 50%                                                        31 %
(3) Incremental benefit decrease by 20%                                                    34%
(4) Incremental benefit decrease by 50%                                                    21%
(5) Investment cost increase by 20% and incremental benefit decrease by 20%                30%
16) Delay in the benefit stream by 5 years (no benefits before year 20041                  19%
(7) Complete reconstruction of the Langdian Pumping Station after 5 years and delay in the
benefit stream from Langdian by 5 years (Pumping Boats work as scheduled)             24%
(8) Complete reconstruction of the Langdian Pumping Station after 5 years
and delay in the benefit stream by 5 years Ino project benefits betore year 20041     18%
(9) Complete reconstruction of the Langdian Pumping Station and the Feeder Canal after 5 years
and delay in the benefit stream by 5 years (no project benefits before year 20041     17%



-79 -                   ANNEX4
ANNEX 4: RIVER BEACH LAND
Project Works
1.    River beach land has been formed by deposition of Yellow River sediments. Until the
creation of the PRC, the course of the Yellow River was virtually uncontrolled, and beachland
was scoured and deposited unpredictably over a cycle of 20 to 30 years. Over the past 20 years
some of the more stable areas of beach land have been protected by river training works and now
about 58,000 ha of land bordering the left bank of the Yellow River in Yuncheng Prefecture is
recognized by the local authorities as river beach land. The beach land is found in eight of the
poorest counties of Yuncheng, and four of these are listed as national poverty counties. The land
is in narrow strips, 2-8 km wide, scattered along a river length of 345 km where the river forms
the westem and southem borders of the prefecture. About 32,000 ha has been developed for crop
production and forest plantations, and much of the remainder is sporadically farmed. The main
crops are wheat, maize, groundnuts, soybean, and small areas of cotton. Virtually all of the crops
are rainfed. The main forest species is pawlonia. Rainfall ranges from 500 mmn in the north to
600 mm in the south. The shallow groundwater aquifer is productive with yields around 10 m3/
hour, but it has not been widely exploited because of poor road access and lack of a power
distribution system.
2.    The project will develop 13,000 ha of land within the eight counties. Irrigation will be
provided by 1,300 wells (one well for 10 ha.), and around 1,300 km of concrete lined irrigation
channels will be built. Typical wells are 30 m deep and use the traditional concrete casing and
porous concrete screens with a submersible pump. Township and village enterprises are skilled in
drilling and installing such wells. The area will be connected to the existing power system by 110
kv transmission lines. Other power facilities will include 110 kv, 35 kv and 10 kv power lines with
associated transformers and switch gear. About 175 km of roads will be built to the Fourth Grade
Rural standard. The road bed will be about 50 cm of compacted earth with a 5 m wide
lime-stabilised surface, with I m shoulders. Aquaculture has been profitable in the area and,
therefore, the project will include 200 ha of new ponds and improvement of 330 ha of existing
ponds. Cost estimates are shown in Table 1.
Economic Analysis
3.    Crop budgets and cropping patterns with and without the project are shown in Tables 2-4.
The project will raise the cropping intensity from 100 percent to I IS percent and more than double
yields of wheat, cotton, soybean, and groundnuts. Irrigation will also lead to production of
high-value crops such as vegetables, and fruit crops such as water melons. All investment costs
including Y 4.8 million for 5 km of bank protection and Y 1 million for the preservation of a
migratory bird reserve are weighted against benefits expected from improved cropping and fish
production. Crops and aquaculture are the main sources of benefits. However, there will be



-80-                    ANNEX4
benefits for the livestock and timber production in the area, that are not quantified. The ERR of 29
percent for the component (Table 6) reflects sunk costs of past development, mainly in the form of
land clearing, rough land levelling and dirt roads.



-81-                                ANNEX4
Table 1: RIVER BEACH DEVELOPMENT-INVESTMENT COSTS
Unit          Unit Price       Quanfti        Toat Cost
(Yuan'000)                     (Yuan V'W0)
WeN Dnlng. Cig. Filt ...              '   No.                10.39           1.603          16.662
Pumps                                     No.                 7.00           1.603          11.227
Transformer                                No.                2.60           1.603          4.16S
Power Lin                                  km                5.20             802           4.168
Oter (swvtAt. comoensator. *tc.)       lumo sum                                             2.315
Subtotal Wells                                                                                3S.540
'Canals
Lind Canal                                 km                14.99          1.603          24.031
Outlt                                     No.                0 34           1 603             548
Subtotal Canal                                                                               24.579
Land Levelling                               ha                6.67           1,300           8,670
Roado
Ea Dhwonks                              OOOm'               9.81             293           2.869
Suuetures                                  km               16.72              90           1.505
Surhsng                                    km               62.96              90           5.666
Oter                                    lmo sum                                             1.016
Subtotal Roada                                                                                11.056
Electrification
110KV Transnussi&n Line                    km              239.20              17           4.068
110KV Line Rehabultation                   km               93.60              30           2.806
IIOKVSub-Station                          M mW             416.00              20           6.320
35KV Line                                  km               135.20             14           1.693
35KV Sub-Station                          MW               391.07              19           7.391
I0KV Lin                                  km                31.99            . 79    -      2.512
Subtotal Electrification                                                                     25.990
Bank Protection (SO.um.)
Eath filling                             '000m'              9.28             166           1,537
Cage stone                                ooOt              48.51               7             960
Filn stone                               'OOOm'             141.02              7             930
aBckin stone                             -OOOm*             107.46'             9             936
Et mgency stone                          'OOm               78.09               a             618
Cnuted atone                             'OOnm             119,59               7            842
Subtoul Bank Protection                                                                       5.643
Aquacultut.
Now Fish Ponds (200ha)
EaW  Excavation                          ha               18.16             200           3.631
Tube-well Constucaon                     No.               570               72             410
Management House                         No.               2.28             360             821
Pots and Joints                      lump sum                                               381
Transmison Les                        kuimp sm                                              340
Transformers                             No.              30.16              12             362
Aernfer                                  No.                1.94            300             582
Pumps snd Auxdiians                  lump sum                                              381
Tnick                                    No.              61.20               6             487
Other                                lumo sum                                               334
Subtotal Now Fish Ponds                                                                     7.729
Fish Pond Improvment
Earth ExcavaDon                          ha                6.84             333           2.280
Tube-wel Consuucton                      No.               6.64              S0             342
Manogement House                     lump sum                                               342
Pipes and Joints                     lump sum                                               265
Transmisin Lines                      lump sm                                               390
Adafir                                   No.                1.94            250             485
Pumps and Auxains                     lump sum                                              269
Nets                                  kimo sum                                              8S
Subtoul Pond impnrvemnt                                                                     4.479
Breeding Fish Frms (5.3ha)              lump sum                                              698
uo1irng capil                           lump sum                                              950
Suppon SefNc Equionent                  lumo sum                                               61
Subtotal Aquacultura                                                                          13.918
Total River Beach Development                                                               129.595



-82 -                          ANNEX4
Table 2: RIVER BEACH DEVELOPMENT-ECONOMIC CROP BUDGETS
Per Hectare
Wheat
Peent         Future without proj.  Future with project
Unit  Quantity   Value   Quantity   Value   Quantity    Value
Unit Prce             (Yuan)              (Yuan)               (Yuan)
Output
Wheat                    kg    1.27     1,900     2,408     2.000     2.534     4.700     5.956
VAeatstraw               kg    0.04     1.900        76     2.000        s0     4 700       188
Total Output                                        2.464               2.614               6.144
Oprating
Inputs
Whea toed              kg    2.00       150      300        150      300       1S0       300
Urea                  kg    2.08        70       145        80       166       180       374
Amnmonium bicarbonate  kg    0.71       50        35        S0        35       150        106
Phosphate (SSP)        kg    0.94       50        47        60        56       220       206
Manure                ton   15.00        5        75         6        90        12        180
Agro-chemrels          kg   20.00         0        0         0         0          1       25
Annal babour          WDs  12.00        20       240        20       240        26       312
Thshing              Yuan               20        20        20        20        30        30
lnigtion Water         mS'   0.25        0         0         0         0      4.050     1,013
Labor
Famitly abour         WDs   7.20        75       540        77       554       100       720
Total Input                                         1.402               1.462               3.265
Net Value of Production                             1.081               1.152               2.879
Cotton
Present       Future without proj.  Future with project
Unit  Quantity   Value   Quantity   Value   Quantity   Value
Unk  Pdice             (Yuan)             (Yuan)              (Yuan)
output
Cotton fint              kg   11.84       400     4.736       S00     5.922     1,000    11.84
Cotton eed               kg    0.96       S0W       765     1,000      957      2.000     1.914
Total Output                                        5,503               6,879              13,758
Operating
Inputs
Cotton seed            kg    5.00       120       600       120      600       120       6oo
Urea                   kg    2.08       100       208      100       208       200       415
Amrmonium bicarbonate  kg    0.71        50        35        70        50      150        106
Phosphate (SSP)        kg    0.94        70       65        100       94       250       234
Manure                ton   15.00        10       150        10      1S0        15       225
Agro-chemicals         kg   20.00        15       300        15       300       30        600
Animal labour         WDs  12.00         22       264        24      288        30        360
Ginning               Yuan               54        54       68        68       135        135
Ingation Water         ms    0.25                   0        0         0      3.090      773
Labor
Famiy labour          WDs   7.20        160     1,152      163      1.174      230      1.656
Total Input                                         2.828               2.930               5.104
Not Value of Production                             2,6751              3,941               8.6S4
to be continued



-83 -                          ANNEX4
Table 2 (Cont'd)
River Beach Development (continued)
Economic Crop Budgets per hectar
Water Melons
Present       Future without proj.  Future with project
Unit  Quantity   Value   Quantity    Value   Quantity   Value
UnIt  Price            (Yuan)             (Yuan)              (Yuan)
Output
Water Melons            kg    0.30                                            28.000     8.400
Total Output                                                                               8.400
Operating
Inputs
Seed                  kg  200.00                                                 2      460
Urea                  kg    2.08                                               150      311
Anmmonium bicarbonate  kg    0.71                                              150       106
Phosphate (SSP)       kg    0.94                                               300      281
Manure                kg   15.00                                                20      300
Agro-chemicals        ton   20.00                                                6       120
Anenal labour        WDs  12.00                                                 36       432
Irmgation Water       mn    0.25                                             1.575      394
Labor
Family tabour        WDs   7.20                                               236      1.699
Total Input                                                                                4.103
Net Value of Production                                                                    4,297
Soybean
Present       Futur without proj.  Future with project
Untt  Quantity   Value   Quantity   Value   Quantity   Value
Unit  Price            (Yuan)             (Yuan)              (Yuan)
Output
Soybean                 kg    2.39      1.100    2,633      1.200    2.873     2.200     5.267
Soybean straw           kg    0.04      1,100       44      1.200       48     2.200        88
Total Output                                        2.677              2.921              5S355
Operating
Inputs
Soybean seed          kg    3.00        60       180        60       180        60       180
Urea                  kg    2.08        50       104        50       104        70       145
Phosphate (SSP)       kg    0.94       130       122       150       140       250      234
Manure                ton   15.00        5        75         5        75        10       150
Agro-chemicals         kg   20.00        0         7         1        10         1        20
Animal labour        WDs  12.00         20       240        20       240        25       300
Threshing            Yuan               20        20        20        20        40        40
Irrgation Water       ms    0.25         0         0         0         0     1.575       394
Labor
Family labour        WDs   7.20         82       590        85       612       106       763
Total Input                                         1.338               1.381              2.226
Net Value of Production                             1,340              1,540               3,129
to be continued



-84-                          ANNEX4
Table 2 (Cont'd)
Rhi Beach Developmernt (continued)
Economic Crop Budgeu per hetre
Groundnuts
Preent        Future without prol.  Future with project
Unit  Ouantity   Value   Quantity   Value   Quantity   Value
Unit Price            (Yuan)              (Yuan)             (Yuan)
Output
Groundnuts              kg    2.20     1.200     2.640    1.300     2.860     2.300     5.060
Grounanutstraw          kg.   0.08     1.400      112     1.500       120     2.600      208
Total Output                                       2.752              2.980              5268
Operting
Inputs
Seed                  kg    4.20      160       672       160      672       160       672
Ursa                  kg    2.08       30        62        30       62        70       145
Phosphate (SSP)       kg    0.94      150       140       160       150      300       281
Manure               ton   15.00        10      150        10       150       15       225
Agro-chenihcals       kg   20.00         0        0         0         0        2        30
Animal aour          WOs  12.00        20       240        20      240        25       300
imgataon Water        ma    0.25        0         0         0        0      1,575      394
Labor
Familylabout         WDs   7.20         16      115        18       130       31       223
Total Input                                        1.380              1.403               2.270
Net Value of Production                            1,372              1,577               2.998
Maize
Present       Future without proj.  Future with project
Unit  Quantity   Value   Ouantity   Value   Quantity   Valtu
Unit Price            (Yuan)              (Yuan)             (Yuan)
Output
Maize                   kg    1.15                                            6.000     6,912
Maize stover            kg    0.04                                            7.200      2t8
Total Output                                                                              7.200
Operating
Inputs
Maize sed             kg    4.40                                              35       154
Urea                  kg    2.08                                              IS0      311
Anmonium bicaftonate  kg    0.71                                              100       71.
Phosphate (SSP)       kg    0.94                                             200       187
Manure               ton   15.00                                               1S      225
Agro-chenicais        kg   20.00                                                1       20
Anwmal labour        WDs  12.00                                               23       276
Inigation Water       m     0.25                                            1.575      394
Labor
Family labour        WDs   7.20                                               115      828
Total InpAut                                                                              2.466
Net Value of Production                                                                   4,734



- 85 -                          ANNEX4
Table 3: RIVER BEACH DEVELOPMENT-
CROPPING PATTERN AND ECONOMC NET VALUE OF PRODUCTION (NWP)
Pgent                   Future without Project          Future with Propect
Area     NVP/ha  Total NVP    Area       NVP/ha  Total NVP   Area      NVP/ha  Total NVP
___________________  (000 ha)   (Yuan)  (Yuan mill.) (oCo ha)   (Yuan)  Yuan mill. rooo ha)  (Yuan)  (Yuan nm.)
Rainfed
Wheat                  6.8      1.081      7.35        6.8     1.152      7.84
Cotton                 1.0     2.675       2.67        1.0     3.949      3.95
Soybean                2.3     1.340       3.08       2.3      1.540     3.54
Groundnut              2.9      1.372      3.98        2.9     1,577     4.57
Irrigated
Wheat                                                                                6.5    2.879       18.71
Cotton                                                                               2.5    8.654      21.63
Soybean                                                                              2.0    3.129       626
Groundnut                                                                            1.0    2.998        3.00
Water Melon                                                                          1.0    4.297       4.30
Maize                                                                                2.0     4.734      9.47
Total Cropped Area       13.0                            13.0                          15.0
Cultivated Area          13.0                            13.0                          13.0
Cropping Intensity      100%                            100%                          115%
Total NVP                                     17.09                         19.90                          63.37
Incremental Net Value of Production                                                                       43.47
(At Full Development)



TalIc 4: IIIVEI BEACII DEVELOPIMEN T-AQUACUILURE: FIsII IPONI) INIPROVEmENT
(333.33  ia) Tolal Arca Modcl
OuanUUla                                                                    Economic Velues (Yuen '00)
Wlihoul                                                           Unrale l: FiiOsal
Pm).c2         VWth PrO)OCI                  hIcroment,            (YMAnl  Pn .CS               Mth Projest                            Inerments
UnlVYenr>   2.20    1          2       3    4 20   t    2              4. 10                -120    1      2       3    4.t6    20        t       2      1    4.tO    20
Mal PmducUoe45
Stow Crp                              ton        101    01S    901    9N1  1.001             31      61    125       360    3.154   .IS4   3.264   3.31   3.604  3.604         -    113    225    450    450
VarlwgtedCorp                        Ion          120    lie    I2       11<4    IO           .1    .14    -10       4.0t     512    512    454    456    400    400             -21    -56   .112   -112
Cffsear                              ten         300    300    413    521    lSO            113    22S    450        S.0   2,040  2040  1.SOS  3.510   SIW          .100 5           65   ISt30  3.060   3.060
C-p                                  Ion          114   14    206    231    30              32      63    126       6.0   1.391  1.22  1.644   1.696  2.400   2.400                252    5O4   1.006   1.00t
Cnhacan cp                            ton          25     as      3 1     38     SO           6      2      25       *000    ISO    ISO    III    225    300    300                  3       175    ISO    ISO
F  aWVCp                              ton                  I      1 2    2S      s    *              2                  0        . I          ,       64    160 331    321           64    166    321    331
Gmeas Vau Of ProducUon                                                                                                         1.241  1 240  6.411   9694 12.140 12.140             1.223  2.446  4.891  4.693
hwseetmenl
Purchased Inputsl21a                                                                                                                                                                 0     ,0
Pwt"aae InpiAJConskrmdu         Yuan (O)                                                                                          1 201  1t201  2.402                   1.201   I 201  2.402
Op*rsino 
Purchased h6pu46
b1wom"   &h                        lon         10      106    li    104    26    .        43     6      113      6.911   1.043   1.043   1.266  1,489   1,935   1.935            2       4      9       9
Fod "o                                        1.415   1.41    1.131  9I'ttO  2.500   -   254    513  2 025         1.000   1.326   1,326   1.621  1l014  X 500  1.SOO            29S    SSG  1.11  1.113
Hega                               Ion        4.500  4,500   .875   1.250  1O.O0    - .315  2.150  .500              SO    225    225    294    33    SaO    SOO                  69   2IN       215    215
Mama                               Ion        1.250   1.250   1.106   1.12$S  t.Ol         63   -125    250          IS      IS      It     16      1 I     Is      S       -       t     -2      4       .4
FgsIag                             son         12$    I2S    12$    115   .125                                     1.400    11$S    1S     1ZS    1S    15         1$S
Waf e    Elbda0y                Yun (000)                                                                                   ISO    150    ISO    15t    150    1SOt
1U4,dl1ehII'o                  Yuan tCOwl                                                                                   tOO     OO    100    100    t)O    100
Tianspodaon                     Yuan 00)                                                                                    ISO    ISO    2SO    ISO    ISO O  t   SO
lda                            Yuan (VW0)                                                                                   SO     SO      SO      SO     SO      SO                   -               I
E*ntm  hllanance                Yuan (0) 01                                                                                        1O0    t00    100    100    100 1
RFeplcantad                     Yuan (00 0                                                                                  250    IS0    250    250    250    250
opluql coils lWa                Yuan (V)                                                                                    325    325    325    325    325    325
Labo
Fanry, mo           .           IOS (000)      250    2SO    21s    30        350           5s      .   2to       ,200   .6 tOtttO   I  1.9t0  2.60  2.520  2.520                SO    360    720    120
Weltin  Capita                                                                                                                       596    596  1.161                     596    S"6  1.191 
Tot tOut"                                                                                                                     S6.314  0.113  8.Sl1 11441  9.3O  6.30   IttOO  2.564   S.21  2.056  3.054
Salvage Wo w ng Captt                                                                                                                                               2t394                                  2.3_4
Calh Flow                                                                                                                       934    066   .401  .1t141  2.110   5,164  ISO   1.340  2.64tl  1.083   4.230
tAN 2S%
NrV 4.311
I  .



Table 5: RIVER IBEACII DEVELOPMIENT-AQUACULTURE: NEW FisIlI PONDS
(200 lia) Total Area Model
Quantities              Unit Price          Economic Values (Yuan '000I
UnitIYears*>    1        2         3      4 to 20   (Yuan)      1         2        3      4 to 19     20
Main Production
Silver carp                        lon             r       68       135      270      3.600                243      486       972      972
Variegited carp                    ton                     16        32       65      4,000                 65      130       259      259
Carp                               ton             -      284       567     1.134     8,000              2.268    4.536    9,072    9,072
Crucian carp                       ton             -        7        15       30      6,000                 45       90       180      180
By-products
Wheat                              ton             -       78       156      312      1.280                100      200       399      399
Bean                               ton                     24       49        98      1,815                44        89       171      177
Gross Value Of Production                                                                                  2,765    5.530   11.059   11.059
Investment
Project investment           Yuan ('0)                                                       1.978    1.978    3.957
Operating
Purchased Inputs                                                                                                                                                OD
Breeding fish                    Ion                     53       105      210    12.214                641     1.283    2.565    2,565                      _
Fodder                           ton             -      413      825    1.650       2.073               855     1.710    3.420    3,420
Land Cultivalion              Yuan ('000)                                                                67       134      267       267
Water & Electricity           Yuan ('000)                                                                113      225      450       450
Medicine                     Yuan ('000)                                                                  8        15        30       30        1
Transportation               Yuan (000)                                                                  18        36       72        72
Toots                        Yuan '000)                                                                   7        14        27      :27
Equipment maintenance        Yuan ('000)                                                                  11       23       45        45
Replacemnent                 Yuan ('000)                                                                 50        99       198      198
Oppordunity costs land       Yuan (COOO)                                                                 49        98       195      195
Labor
Famly labor                  WDs ('000)          -       53      105       210      7.200               378       756    1.512    1.512
Working Capital                                                                                  359       359      718
Total Outflows                                                                                   2.337    4,533    9,065    8,781    8.781
Salvage Worklng Capital                                                                                                                 1.436
Cash Flow                                                                                       -2,337    -1.768   -3,536    2,278    3.715
IRR 24%
NPV 6.682
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>



-88 -                         ANNEX4
Table 6: RIVER BEACH DEVELOPMENT-ECONOMIC CASH FLOW ANALYSIS
(Yuan Million)
Investment Costs                 Total    Incremental Benefits  Not Benefits
Year    Irrigation    Infra-      Bank      Fish   Investment Agricultural   Fish
Facilities &I   structure   Protection   Ponds  Const    Crops   Production
1996        14.1       14.1                 3.2       31.4                    -      -31.4
1997       16.3        13.0         1.9     3.2       34.5         1.2     1.0      -32.3
1998        17.3        7.2         1.9     6.4       32.8         9.1     2.1      -21.6
1999        14.3        2.4         1.3               18.1       23.7      4.1         9.7
2000         9.8        2.4         1.3               13.5        35.9     4.1       26.5
2001         4.9                                       4.9       42.3      4.1       41.5
2002                                                      -      43.8      4.1       47.9
2003                                                      -      43.8      4.1       47.9
2004                                                             43.5      4.1       47.6
2005                                                      -      43.5      4.1       47.6
2006         7.4                                       7.4       43.5      4.1       40.2
2007         8.5                                       8.5       43.5      4.1       39.1
2008         9.0                                       9.0       43.5      4.1       38.6
2009         7.5       .                               7.5       43.5      4.1       40.1
2010         5.1                                        5.1      43.5      4.1       42.4
2011         2.6                                        2.6      43.5      A.1       45.0
2012                                                      -      43.5      4.1       47.6
2013                                                      -      43.5      4.1       47.6
2014                                                      -      43.5      4.1       47.6
2015                                                      -       43.5     7.9       51.4
IRR: 29%
NPV: 124.3
Notes:
&/ It is assumed that pumps and tubowells are replaced atter ten years.
The costs for oporating the tubwelils are included in the crop budgets. They are calculated with Yuan 0.25 per m'.
Sensitivity Scenarios:      '                                                    resulting IRR:
Cost Increase by 10%:          .                                              26%
Cost Increase by 20%:                                                         24%
Benefit lower by 10%                                                          26%
Benefit lower by 20%                                                          23%
Benefit delay by 1 year                                                       23%
Benefit delay by 2 years                                                      20%
Cost up + benefits down by 10%                                                24%
Switching Values:
at cost overrun of 210 percent
at benefit level of 47 percent



-89 -                     ANNEX5
ANNEX 5: LAND DEVELOPMENT AND EROSION CONTROL
Background
1. Since the creation of the PRC there have been several campaigns in the Loess Plateau,
especially in the 1970s, involving terracing, afforestation, and silt control dams. In the past, the
purpose of these measures was seen mainly as soil conservation and little attention was given by
planners or farmers to maximizing production and incomes. The liberalization of the agriculture
sector in the 1 980s and the growth of a free market has given farmers more incentives to exploit the
resources of the plateau.  While individual efforts are now rewarded by the market, the
development of the Loess Plateau calls for carefully organized, collective efforts to cope with the
highly complex land forms and land capabilities, and the small area of arable land (about 0.5 ha)
available to a farm family. Thus, a new element that has been introduced in recent years is the
comprehensive and integrated planning of individual watersheds. The objectives are to create
sustainable production of field crops and orchards on high-yielding level farmland, and reduce the
area of erodible slope lands devoted to crops. The slope lands are then planted to a range of trees,
shrubs and grasses to produce fuel, timber and fodder. While the area devoted to crops is reduced
the overall output value per hectare is significantly increased. The watershed is the basic physical
unit and the village is the basic social unit. The success of this integrated approach depends on
close consultation between the planners and the village leaders and villagers. In recent years, this
approach has been successfully implemented on a large scale in a number of watersheds in the
plateau, and it has proved to be sustainable. In Luliang Province, the following soil and water
conservation measures will be implemented as part of the project:
(a)   terracing of 13,400 ha;
(b)   construction of 56 sediment control dams; and
(c)   afforestation of 4,200 ha of slope lands.
Terraces
2.    The conversion of slope lands to terraces serves a number of purposes. First, it creates a
better environment for crop production through moisture conservation; in a year of average rainfall,
grain yields on terraces are two to three times higher than on slope lands. Second, terraced land is
more resistant to damaging soil erosion during intense storms than slope land. And third, sediment
runoff is much lower from terraces than from sloped land. Generally, terraces are confined to lands
where slopes are less than 200, but where there is a shortage of crop land, terraces are built on
slopes up to 25°. Soils are deep in Luliang and the area is therefore well suited to terracing, but the
topsoil is often set aside and replaced upon completion of the terrace. About 7,600 ha will be wide



-90-                     ANNEX5
terraces of 13-16 m built on slopes of 5°-10O and 5,800 ha will be narrower terraces of 10-13m built
on slopes of 10°-15°. The terraces will be level and the lower parts of the risers vertical, with a
sloping top to allow for establishment of grasses and other vegetative cover plants to protect the
riser from erosion. After terracing, the fields will be deep plowed, fertilized with 150 kg of urea
and 300 kg of single superphosphate. The main crops will be sorghum, maize, millet, beans,
potatoes and sunflower. A cost estimate for terracing is shown in Table 1.
Sediment Control Dams
3.    The project includes the construction of 56 sediment control dams. These are earth dams
with heights between 10 and 25 meters built in the steep-sided gullies typical of the loess plateau.
Gross initial storage capacities range between 100,000 m3 and 1,000,000 m3. Numerous similar
dams have been built in Luliang. The dams reduce flooding and sediment loads in the downstream
rivers, and the sediment deposits behind the dams create high quality agricultural land, in this case
about 270 ha. The water stored behind the dams can be used for irrigation and village water
supplies.
4.    Parts of the loess plateau in the Yellow River Basin have some of the highest rates of
sediment runoff in the world. Sediment runoff from an area is expressed as tons/km2/year (the
sediment modulus) and is averaged over a number of years because there is a wide variation in soil
erosion from year to year. The parts of the loess plateau with the highest sediment runoff have a
modulus of about 20,000. This is, however, an average of runoff from a wide variety of terrain and
land use. Researchers have found that typically about 70 percent of the soil loss is from the sides of
the gullies and about 30 percent from the surrounding land.
5.    Sediment control dams serve a number of purposes. First, they intercept sediment that
would otherwise be deposited in downstrean river channels. This deposition of sediment raises
bed levels and hence flood levels, and in turn requires periodic, and costly, raising of flood
embankments. Second, the reduction in high sediment flows leads to more efficient irrigation;
canals do not have to be closed as frequently due to high sediment flows, and there is less sediment
to be cleared from the irrigation channels. Third, the dams largely eliminate high flows in the
gullies, and this reduces the undercutting and collapse of the gully sides that contributes much of
the sediment runoff. Fourth, the sediment collected by the dams creates high-quality farmland.
6.    The dams are homogenous, earth fill embankmnents. The areas submerged by the dams
consist of eroded slopes and gully beds and are uninhabited. In recent years a mode of construction
using hydraulic fill has been perfected. The loess material on the sides of the gully is sluiced with
high pressure hoses into the dam body. The fill is contained between upstream and downstrem
shells formed by bulldozers. The loess forming the foundation for the dam is cleared of loose
material in the gully bed and the abutments before the fill is placed.
7.    The procedures for design review and supervision will be the same as those adopted for the
dams financed under the IDA- financed Loess Plateau Project. These procedures are fully
consistent with Bank standards. Design and construction standards for sediment control dams have
been improved considerably following some dam failures in 1977 when exceptionally intense
storms hit the loess plateau. The design standards call for the dams to be designed for a 30-year



-91-                       ANNEX5
flood and checked for a 200-year flood. A 30-year flood is in fact the volume resulting from a
30-year storm. This volume has to be contained without exceeding a reservoir level 3 m below the
dam crest. The flood from a 200-year storm has to be contained with a reservoir level 0.5 m below
the crest. A 30-year, 24-hour storm in the loess plateau depends on location and ranges between
100 and 160 mm and a 200-year storm ranges between 140 to 210 nmu. This design approach is
conservative since the significant flood-reducing effect of dams that have been built, or may be
built, upstream is ignored in the design of the key dams. The active storage capacity for the dams is
the gross capacity less the volurne of sediment estimated to be stored in 15 years. Thus, in the
years when the sediment is building up in the reservoir, the actual capacity of the reservoir exceeds
the required design capacity, and it is during this period that the upstream catchment is likely to be
further controlled by additional sediment control dams.
8.    The geometry of the gullies is such that key dams and warping dams have to be relatively
high to serve their purpose; the range is usually 5-15 m but some are as high as 30 m. For most
reservoirs, the bulk of the active storage volume is in the top 5 m and, when sedimentation begins
to infiringe on the flood storage capacity, the option is available at most sites to increase the height
of the dam. This can be done at a fraction of the initial cost since it involves a low embankment
placed on the sediment behind the dam. At many sites, raising could be carried out a number of
times since a dam typically occupies a small part of the total heigJt of a gully. Each damn has an
outlet conduit with an intake structure designed to accommodate future raising of the dam.
9.    The topography of the watersheds allows considerable flexibility in siting the dams. Site
selection criteria for the dams include a requirement that they should be located at sites remote from
existing or potential settlements. All the dams proposed for the project satisfy that criterion.
Therefore, in the unlikely event of failure there would be no danger to life and limited damage to
property.
10.   Sediment control dams are designed by the provincial water resource bureaus according to
standards developed by the Ministry of Water Resources in 1986 ("Technical Standard for Major
Gully Control Structures," SDI75-86). These standards have been endorsed by the Planning
Academy of MWR as well as the Ministry of Energy. They specify all aspects of design and
construction including planning procedures, site selection, dam  body layout, calculation of
hydrologic design parameters, foundation design, choice of construction materials, construction
techniques, hydrologic and hydraulic design.
11.   The procedures require multilevel technical reviews and approval of design and
construction of sediment control dams. Preliminary designs are carried out by county water and
soil conservation bureaus. Initial review and approval of structural design and siting will be carried
out by prefecture water and soil conservation authorities who will, in tum, submit construction
*   applications to the provincial authorities for final review and approval. The ultimate responsibility
for ensuring compliance with design procedures and technical specifications will rest with the
provincial authorities. These procedures, are currently applied to structures over 15 m height, but
the province has agreed to that they will be applied to all dams over 10 m height.



-92 -                      ANNEXS
12.   Construction is carried out by construction teams selected and supervised by the county
water conservancy bureaus. There are numerous such tearns qualified to construct darns using the
hydraulic fill technique. The advantage of this mode of construction is that it produces a dense and
uniform fill which is less demanding, in terms of close quality control and inspection, than
mechanically compacted fill.
13.   Routine maintenance and inspection of structures will be carried out by townships and
villages under a contract to the county water conservancy bureaus. These contracts specify the type
of maintenance to be performed and how often these procedures should be performed. Prefecture
authorities will also carry out inspections of each key dam during the year. In addition to such
routine maintenance, the provincial authorities will conduct pre- and post-flood season inspections
of all key dams and an information system will established by the prefectural water resource bureau
to document construction and maintenance history for all sediment control dams. A cost estimate
for the check dams is shown in Table 5.
Afforestation
14.   Tree planting is planned for 4,200 ha of steep slopes and wasteland. Chinese pine, larch
and poplar are the main species suited to the area. Trees will be planted on land where the steep
slope or poor soils render it unsuitable for crops or orchards. This increases the supply of fuel
wood, lumber, and improves soil and water conservation. Poplar will be mainly planted on gentle
slopes without terraces. Pine and larch will be planted on narrow terraces on land with steep slopes
(20°-300). Participating households will tend I ha of plantings. The area planted will be 1,400 ha
of each of the three species giving a total plantation area of 4,200 ha. In practice, the three species,
together with other suitable tree species, will be established as mixed plantations. Cost estimates
are shown in Table 8.
Economic Analysis
15.   The project would convert 16,400 ha of slope land to 13,400 ha of terraces. The higher
yields of maize, soybean and potatoes will lead to significant gains in their net production values.
Crop budgets are shown in Table 2, and the with and without cropping patterns are shown in
Table 3. The ERR for terracing is 18 percent as derived in Tables 3 and 4.
16.   The 56 check dams will retain a sediment load of 1.8 million tons annually. The benefit
from this is based on the sediment retention benefit of I Yuan per ton of sediment derived in
studies carried out for the appraisal of the IDA-financed Loess Plateau Watershed Rehabilitation
Project. The 270 ha of land created by the dams is highly fertile and will be used mainly for maize,
sorghum and sunflower. Economic crop budgets (Table 6) have been estimated for these crops
showing that the annual incremental net value of crop production will reach Y 787,000 by Year 10
(Table 5). The economic cash flow analysis presented in Table 7 includes sediment retention and
crop benefits. The ERR is 14 percent.
17.   Economic crop budgets for pine, larch and poplar are presented in Tables 9, 10 and 11.
These show that the long-term benefits from timber and the shorter term benefits from poles and
firewood generate, even under conservative yield assumptions, sufficient returns to pay back the



- 93 -                      ANNEX5
investment costs. The aggregated cash flow analysis for a 34 -year period of analysis shows an
ERR of 13 percent (Table 12).



-94 -                      ANNEXS
Table 1: LULIANG TERRACING-INVESTMENT COSTS
Total  Unit Price    Total Costs
Unit         Quantities     (Yuan)    (Yuan '000)
A. Wide Terraces
1. Terrace Construction
Earth Works                    '00Om3             20,900       1,879        39,265
Plantng on Soft Bank              ha               7,600        331          2.513
Subtotal Terrace Construction                                                  41,778
2. Soil Improvement
Soil Deep Ploughing               ha               7,600        193           1.466
Urea                               t               1,140      2.132          2.430
Calcium Superphosphate             t               2.280        812           1.851
Manual Labor                   '000 WD               152     10,260  -        1,560
Subtotal Soil Improvement                                                       7,307
Subtotal Wde Terraces                                                            49,085
B. Medium Terraces
1. Terrace Construction
Earth Works                    'OOOm'             23,200  _    1,713         39,751
Planting on Soft Bank             ha               5,800        694          4,027
Subtotal Terrace Construction                                                  43.778
2. Soil Improvement
Soil Deep Ploughing               ha               5.800        193           1.119
Urea                               t                 870      2,132           1,854
Calcium Superphosphate             t               1,740        812           1.413
Manual Labor                   '000 WD               116      10,260          1,190
Subtotal Soil Improvement                                                       5.576
Subtotal Medium Teerces                                                          49.354
C. Diesel Transporter                 No.                  6    152,250             914
Total                                                                               99,352



-95 -                                       ANNEX5
Table 2: LULIANG TERRACING-ECONOMIC CROP BUDGETS
(Per Hectare)
Main
Unit       Oucabty           Val                           Vakue
u*ni     P,IC                         (Yuan)                        (Yuan)
o_
mom.                               kg         1.15            250             2.860          4,500          5,1U4
mom _NNW                           kg         0.04            3.000             120          5,500           220
*  Ow     u                                                                      3.000                         5,404
mes eced                        kg         4 40               35             154             35            154
Un                              kg          2.0S              50             104            t50            311
Ptigeeu(SSP)                    4          0.64               65              79            200           17
."nges                           Olm       1S.00               7              10              14           210
AAml lahor                     WlS         12.00              20             240             22            264
Labo
Femiy labor                    VMS          7.20              of             634            120           4
TaOW mes                                                                         1.315,                        1,390
et Vale of Pd                                                                       s 1.584                   3.414
Millet
wwinu Projec                    wooI Project
URN        Oauaatty          Vaue          OUaatft          Val
Unit    Pelt                         (Yuan)                         (Yuan)
Mi                                 kg         0.60            1.000             600          2.500          2.000
Maoet  _A                          kg         004             1.200              48          3000             120
TOWt OPA                                                                           648 *                      2.120
hi" t   d                        kg         2.00              15              30             ls             30
Ue                               kg         2.08              45              93             75            t54
_h(5ef SS1                       kg         O.t4              so*  75                       110           103
mange.                          lan        15.00               8              60             12           1t0
AM       labo                 woo         12.00              17             204              19           228
_.v* how0                        WVM          7.20              70             504             *S            64
Tetallnet   *                                                                      34                          t 1361
Net Valu ef Prd                                      I                              4 .6                        733
Soybean
wwmut Proe                      Ww' Project
Unit       Gumntiy           Vk            Quant"y         Valuo
Unit    Prce                          (Yun)                         tYuanl
Skgn                                           2.30             500           1.17            1.600         3.60
Sobean Slw                         kg         0.04              500              20           1.600            64
Toa  0uu                                                                         1.217                         3.664
TW0~
lapub
5 ybeanced                      .k          3.00              *0             ISO              *0           1W0
Urn s                                       2.06              30              62              40            63
PhsaNM (SSP)                     4          0.t4              75              70            100             *4
Mans                            on         15.00               7             105             14            210
A#ted 1eo                       WVS        12.00              17             204              1            226
Lab_
Fw* how                         Woo         7.20              50              360            65            *12
Total In"                                                                          9611                        1.407
et Val     Preof                                                                   23
to be b ntnusd



- 96 -                                    ANNEX 5
Table 2 (Cont'd)
Lutn Tem~ {ue.ne
eaow Cow u  w b_
Potato"
Whtu Preed                 W*  -rj
Undt      Quinl             Vau          Quant           Vau
URNt    Pue                         (Yuen)                        (Yuan)
OA
Pebee_kg                                    OA40           6.000           2.400         14,000         5.100
TOa Outu                                                                      2,400                        5.600
Potam Soe                      kg         100            1500            1500           1500          1.500
Urea                           kg         2.08             50            103.1           150           311
Pheehau (SSP)                  kg         0.94             100            93.5           250           234
Manrew                         tn        15.00             10             150             20           300
A*Wn UV"                      WVS        12.00             17             204             22           264
Fwndy a r                     WMe         7.20             70             504              o           576
TOWa Inw                                                                      2.555                       3.105
No Vau of ProuMoe                                                              .16                        2.416
Sunflawom
Wiout r                        Wmh PrOet
Uni       Quaty            Val"o         quant           Valu
Unit    Price                       (Yuan)                        (Yuani
Su.er                             kg         1.20            600             720          1S50L         1.800
TOl Outu                                                                       720                         1.400
SanioeorSed                    kg         3.00              1s             54             16            54
Ur"                             kg        2.0              40           .83.04            90           16
P*tmdna' (SSP)                 kg         0.14             s0             74.            150          140
Manue                          Ion       1S.00               S             71             10           ISO
Ara"  ar                      Wos         12.00             15           10              20           240
Labor
Fny lar                       wos         7.20             55             336             70          5m4
TotaI nOut                                                                      63                         1.275
MM Value of Podu n                                                              1431
Sorghum
WUtoot Proect                  W        Projet
URNI        uanty          Vakue           uVal
UR*t    Pite                        (Yuann                       (Vufi)
Sarell-                           kg         0.70           1.500          1.050          3.000         2.10
Soghun SMe                        kg         0 04           1.600             72          3.600           144
TOt 0tWu                                                                     1.122                        2.244
Open
swgeum e ed                     kg        3.00              30             90             30            80
uta                             kg        2.U0              45           13.42            80           167
Palia   (SSP)                   kg        0.14              so            74.6           150           1O
Malure                         Io01      15.00               6.            90             12          1I0
AJURUnal OsWOe                           12.00             1              216            20           240
Labor
Family Or                     Wos         7.20              60            576            107           770
Tout Int                                                                      1.140                        1.607
Me Valu, of Produc.                                                             -is                         63?



- 97 -                             ANNEX 5
Table 3: LUL[ANG TERRACING-CROPPING PATrERN AND
ECON'OMIC NET VALUE OF PRODUCTION (NVP)
Without Project                        With Project
At Full Development a
Area       NVPIha      Total NVP      Aras        NVPIha    Total NvP
rOOo ha)     (Yuan)    (Yuan mill.)   t000 ha)     (Yuan)    (Yuan min.)
Crop
Sorghum                          2.5          -18        -0.05          1.3         637        0.80
Maize                            6.5        1.684        10.95          6.8        3.414      23.04
Millet                           2.5         -148        -0.37          1.0         739        0.74
Soybean                          2.5         236          0.59          2.7        2.488       6.72
Potatoe                          O.S         -155        .0.12          1.0        2.415       2.41
Sunflower                        1.6         -143        -0.23          0.7         525        0.37
Total Cropped Area                  16.4                                   13.4
Cultivated Area                     16.4 b/                                13.4 cl
Cropping Intensity                 100%                                   100%
Total NVP                                                    10.77                                34a08
Incmemental Net Value of Production                                                               23.31
(At Full Development)
al New terracea land will be oevelopeO accoraing to tre following annual schedule (curmutative figures):
0. 16. 43. 66. 85. 93. 98, 100 percenti
It is assumed that the improved yield on the new terraces will build up within 4 year (s-shaped
funAion assumed).
b/ Cortsnsg 7.300 ha wdh 10 degree to 15 degree slope for medium terraces (10 to 13m width), and
9.100 ha with 5 to 10 degree slope for wide terraces (13 to 16m width).
cl Finished are compnsing 5.800 ha of medium width terraces and 7,600 ha of wide terraces: overaml
loss of area due to terracing works is about 18%.



- 98 -                    ANNEX5
Table 4: LULIANG TERRACING-ECONOMIC CASH FLOW ANALYSIS
(Yuan Million)
Projet      Incremental    Net Benfits
Year  Investment Cosu  Benefits
1996       18.67           0.00        -18.67
1997       27.89           0.12        -27.77
1998       25.12           2.52        -22.59
1999       19.76          12.07         -7.70
2000        8.48          19.79         11.30
2001        5.45          21.65         16.19
2002        2.55          22.82         20.26
2003                      23.31         23.31
2004                      23.31        23.31
2005                      23.31        23.31
2006                      23.31         23.31
2007                      23.31        23.31
2008                      23.31        23.31
2009                      23.31        23.31
2016                      23.31        23.31
2011                      23.31        23.31
2012                      23.31        23.31
2013                      23.31         23.31
2014                      23.31        23.31
2015                      23.31  .     23.31
IRR: 18%
NPV: 31.74
Sensitivity Analysis Scenarios:     resulting ERR:
Cost Increase by 10%:                      16%
Cost Increase by 20%:                      15%'
Benefit lwer by 10%                        16%
Benefit lower by 20%                       14%
Benefit delay by 1 year                    15%
Benefit delay by 2 years         .         13%
Cost up + benefits down by 10%             14%
Switching Values:
at cost overrun of 140%
at benefit level of 71 %



-99 -                      ANNEX5
Table 5: LULIANG CHECK DAM INVESTMENT COSTS
Total  Unit Price  Total Costs
Unit         Quantities     (Yuan)        Total
A. Construction Works
1. Earth Works
Dam Base Excavation               '000 M'             61.3     2.622.0        160.8
Rock Excavation                  '000 M'               3.5    13,965.0        49.1
Other Excavation                 '000 M3             149.3     3,648.0       544.8
Fill Work (manual)               '000 M'              37.0     8,493.0       314.2
Earthfill and Compaction (machine)  '000 M'         1,155.1    6,583.5      7.604.4
Subtotal Earth Works                                                          8,673.3
2. Intake, Culvert and Spillway
75# Mortar Stone                    M'             17,046.0      182.4      3,110.0
1 00# Concrete                      Ms               838.2       278.5       233.4
150# Concrete                       M'               112.1       257.0        28.8
200# Reinforced Concrete            M'               495.6       523.6       259.5
Loose Stone                         M'             5,621.0        82.5       463.9
Sand and Pebble                     Ms             4,353.0        80.2       349.2
Pitch Mortar                        Ms                25.8     2,781.9        71.7
Cement Montar Facing                Ms               391.3       366.7        143.5
Subtotal Intake, Culvert and Spillway                                         4,659.9
3. Temporary Works
Worker Houses (20 No.)              Ms              1,120.0      228.0       255.4
Access Roads                      lump sum            56.0     5,700.0        319.2
Subtotal Temporary Works                                                        574.6
Subtotal Construction Works                                                     13,907.8
B. Equipment                        lump sum/dam           56.0     3,663.5       205.2
Total                                                                             14,112.9



-100 -                                   ANNEX 5
Table 6: LULIANG CHECK DAm COMPONENT-ECONOMIC CROP BUDGETS
(Per Hectare)
Maize                 Sorghum                Sunflower
Unit Quantity Value   Unit  Quantity Value  Unit  Quantity Value
Unit  Price          (Yuan) Price             (Yuan) Price            (Yuan)
Output
Yield                kg      1.15    5.000  5.760   0.70    5.500  3.850   1.20    2.500  3.000
By-Product           kg      0.04    6,000    240   0.04    6.500    260                       0
Total Output                                  6.000                   4,110                   3.000
Operating
Inputa
Seed               kg     4.40       35    154   3.00        30     90   3.00        18     54
Urea               kg     2.08      150    311   2.08       150    311   2.08       150    311
Phosphate (SSP)    kg     0.94      250    234   0.94       200    187   0.94       200    187
Manure            [on    15.00       15    225  15.00        15    225  15.00        15    225
Agro-chemicals     kg    20.00      0.75     15  20.00     0.75     15  20.00      0.75     15
Animal labour     WDs   12.00        23    276  12.00        25    300  12.00        20    240
Labor
Family labour     WDs    7.20       110    792   7.20       117    842   7.20        80    576
Total Input                                   2.007                   1.971                   1.608
Net Value of Production                       3,993                   2139                    1.392
Cropping Pattern and Economic Net Value of Production (NVP)
Area           NVP/ha        Total NVP
(ha)           (Yuan)       (Yuan '000)
Crop
Maize                      135            3.993             539
Sorghum                     80            2.139             171
Sunflowers                  55            1,392              77
Total Cropped Ara            270
Cultivated Area              270 a/
Cropping Intensity          100h
Total NVP                                                     787
.1 TrW wgrpaog ame W be eenond by m uaU   of 50 c01,4ams wie VW Pf
Tte amr* eeveiepm.e wi be as kfwlag.  imm,iaVe ri"is):
0 ata r  ftnt 5 year Uwiuatw 10. 20, 30. 40. 50. 60. 50. 100 pOeint



- 101 -                          ANNEX 5
Table 7: LULIANG CHECK DAM CONIPONENT-ECONOMIC CASH FLOW ANALYSIS
(Yuan '000)
Project     Check Dam     Incremental    Sediment     Net Benefits    Net Benefits
Year  Investment Costs   Raising a/   Benefits from Crops   Retention   without Sediment wth Sediment
1996          4,417                                       500         -4,417       -3,917
1997          3,619                                      1,000        -3.619       -2,619
1998          2,621                                      1,600         -2,621      -1,021
1999          2,975                                      1,700        -2,975       -1,275
2000            920                                      1,800          -920         880
2001            653                           81         1,800          -573        1,227
2002                                         157         1,800           157        1,957
2003                                         238         1,800           238        2.038
2004                                         315         1,800           315        2,115
2005                                         395         1,800           395        2,195
2006                         662             472         1,800          -190        1,610
2007                         543             629         1,800            -87       1,887
2008                         393             787         1,800           394        2,194
2009                         446             787         1,800           341        2,141
2010                         138             787         1,800           649        2,449
2011                          98             787         1,800           689        2,489
2012                                         787         1,800           787        2,587
2013                                         787         1,800           787        2,587
2014                                         787         1,800           787        2,587
2015                                         787         1,800           787        2,587
IRR:             none            without sediment retention benefits
NPV:             -10.239.9        without sediment retention benefits
IRR:             14%             with sediment-retention benefits
NPV:              1,200.7 -       with sediment retention benefits
ax It is assumed that the height of the dams is to be raised after 10 years with investment costs
of 15% of Initial constnujcon costs.
Sensitivity Analysis Scenarios:                                               resulting IRR:
Cost Increase by 10%:                                                         12%
Cost Increase by 20%:                                                         10%
Benefit lower by 10%                                                          12%
Benefit lower by 20%                                                          10%
Benefit delay by 1 year                                                       11%
Benefit delay by 2 years                                                       9%
Cost up + benefits down by 10%                                                10%
Switching Values:
at cost overrun of 110%
at benefit level of 91%



-102 -                                          ANNEX 5
Table 8: PROTECTION FORESTS INVESTMENT COSTS
TOW
UIP3 P1e  Qsanue   Caandd          Cost    Toal Cot
Undt     (Yuan)    perha    fwN.01    prl ha    Yuan 000)
A. CNneae Phn 41.400 ha)
1. lst Yar Opeaton
a. Matrial Input
Seed14                                No.       0.1       3.300.0       4.120      371.2      521.7
FPe   dkg                                       20.3          2.0           3       40.6       56.8
b. Labor input
Sod Purtawn                           WO        10.3         42.0         5S       430.9      603.3
Plng                                  Wo        10.3         30.0         42      307.8       430.0
Teng                                  WO        10.3         30.0          42      307.8      430.9
c. Oer                                kimp miur                                       57.0       79.8
Sublbe  lst Year OpendUon                                                            1.520.3    2.120.4
2. 2nd Year OpeumUon
a. Mbawta Input
Sedln                                 Nlo.      0.1         660.0         924      75.2       105.3
PeCKOS                                kg        20.3          0.5           1       10.2       14.2
b.      n hput
Ptaabng                               WD        10.3          a 0           a      61.6        86.2
Tending                               WD        10.3         6.0           8       61.6        66.2
C. O'e                               kI, umowm                                .       11 4       16.0
Subtol 2nd Yer Operftn                                                                 219.9      307.9
Subttaol Cftlne  Pin                                                                   1.740.2     2.430.3
U. Lath (1.400 ha)
-       t. 1st Year Opdbn
a. Matalal Inpt
3eedig                                No.       0.1       3.300.0       4.620      376.2      526.7
Peae-                                  kg       20.3          2.0           3       40.6       56.8
b. Labor nbput
Sol Psoamtn                           WV        10.3         42.0          59     430.9       603.3
Pianng                                WV        10.3         30.0          42      307.8      430.0
TVng                                  W         10.3         30.0          42      307.8      430.9
C. Ot                                                                 *               5.0          .8
Subtota l.t Yea Opean                                                                1,520.3    2.128.4
r2nd Year Opet tbon
a. Material Input
Sling                                 No.        0.1        660.0         924      75.2       105.3
- - P* 1o                                  kg       20.3          0.5           1       10 2       14.2
b. Labor4nput
Pang                                  Wv        10.3          10            a       GI 6       06.2
TO"ng                                 WV        10.3          6.0           *       616        86.2
c.Other                               kwno sum                                        I14         110a
Sublotal 2nd Year Operudon                                                             219 9      307,9
Subtoal Larch                                                                           1.740.2    2.436.3
C. Poplar (1.400 ha)
1. 1st Year Operation
a. Matwal Input
Seedg                                 No.        0.5       Z500.0       3.500    1.140.0     1.596.0
Pe.hades                               kg       20.3          2.0           3       40.6       56.6
b. Labor Input
Soil Pro nt                           WV        10.3        126.0         179    1,313.3     1.38.6
Planong                               WV        10.3         45 0          63      461.7      646.4
Teing                                  V         10.3        20.0          28      205.2      287.3
C. Other                              km  wn s                                        68.4       95.J
subtotal let Year Operutiln                                                           3.229.2    4.520.9
2. 2nd Year Operton
a. Material Input
Se                                    No         0.5        500.0         700      223.0      319.2
Pesods                                 kg       20.3          0.5           1       10.2       14.2
b. Lawor Input
Ptn                                   WV        10.3          6.0          13       023       129.3
Taxg                                   V        10.3          4.0           6       41.0       57.5
c. Other                                m swunm                                       22.3        31.9
Subtotal 2nd Year Oper on                                                              394.3       552.1
Subttal Poplar                                                                          3.623.5    5.072.S
Total Investment 9 s45 .



Tablc 9: PiNE TREES CROP MODEL-ECONOMIC BUDGET
(Per Ilecturc)
Year ->             Quantities                       Unit Prlke                 Economic Value (Yuanlb)
UnI        I      2      3    4.19    20   21-26  -9          IYuan)       1       2       3     4-19     20    21-29    JO
Output
Main Ptoduction
PI"  nXet                         m'          -              -              -            60     714 00                                                       4 2 -  -  -  -   42.840
Rafer                             No.             -          -      -  1.350                      12.00          -      .       -           16.200
Sub4oua Main Production                                                                                                                       1 .   6.m20  -   42.U40
By Products
Firewood                          kg       .                 *      -  1.21S       -  1.215       2 00           .                           2.430            2.430
Sub-toal Output                                                                                                                             -   18.630       -   45.270
Malodal                          Yuan                                                                         414      97       .      -
Operating
pgs*dJe                           kg          3      3      3       5              5       -     20 00         60      60     60     100       100    100
Other                            Yuan                                                                          35      35     35      35_    35        35      480        C
Sub-toal Operating Costs                                                                                         9S      95     95    135        135    135      480        t.
Sub4ota hIput costs                                                                                                569   ?192    .9 °    135     135    135        480
icom  e (Dor. Labor Costs)                                                                                        -569    19Z      95   -135   16,49S    135   44.790
Labor
Plntailon                          WDS        143     16              -                              720       1.030    115
Operating                          Wlh         30     30     30      30     60     30    100        7.20        216    216    216    216        432    216
Sub-lota Labor costa                                                                                             1.246    331    216    216      1432    216        20
su-oen. (Aftr Labor Costs )                                                                                     -1.i14  -523   -311   -351   18,063   -351   44.0t0
kwome (Allot Labw Costs)~~~~~~~~~~~~



Table 10: LARcII TIIEES CROP MODEL-ECONOMIC BUDGET
(I'cr   leca rc)
Yenar              CQuantiltes                     Unit Price               Economic Value (Yuantha)
Unit      1             3    4-14     1    15-20   30    (Yuan)         1       2      3    4-14     16    16-29    30
Output
Main ProducUnon
Larchrsbor                       m'                                                  80    71400            -                    -        -       -   52,120
RaRer                            No.                      -          1.350         .         1200                  -       -          16,200      -
Sub-total Main ProducUon                                                                                             -      -      -   1.200        -   57.120
By Products
firewood                         kg                              -  1215        .1.21         200  -                          -       2.430      -     2410
Sub-lou Output                                                                                                  -                     -   15,b30      -    9.550
input
Investment                                                                                                                ,
Malerl                          Yuan                                                                      474     07
Operaung 
Pestidde                         kg         3      3      3      5      5      5                            5200   60   60   60     100   100     100   4
Other                           Yuan                                                                       3S     35    3S    335        35    3S       480
Sub-total Operating Costs                                                                                    95     95     9S    13S       135   135      480
Sub-total Input costs                                                                                         569    192    95   t135        35   135       46.0
income lbeofre Labor Costs)                                                                                  *56   -192    *9S  -135   1S,495   -\35   59,070
Labor
Plantaon                          WDs       143    16                                           7.20      1.030    15-
Operating                         WDs        30    30    30    30        60    30    100        7.20        216    216    216    216      432   216       '720
OpSubeotaltbor cortJ                                                                                        1.246    331    216   216       432    218      720
Income (Ater Labor Costs                                                                                   .1,814   -523  .311   -3S1   18.063   -351   56.3$0
Ii



Table I 1: I'OPLAR TItEIS CIIOP Moi)EL-ECONON1IC BUDGET
(IPer licctare)
Years ->           Quantities                    Unit Price               Economic Value (Yunlha)
Uni       1     2      3    4-1    10   11-21   22    lYuan)         1       2      2    4-       to    11-21    22
Output
Main Production
Poplabtimber                    m             -      -      -         -      -   120    350 00                  -          -      -              42.000
Ralter                          No.        -      -            -  1350                     a 00          -      -      -          10800
Sub-total Main Production                                                                                  -      -      -      -   10.80Q     -  42.000
By Products
Flewood                         &g         -      -     -      -  1.000      -  1.200      2 00                                   2.000           2.400
Sub-loWl Output                                                                                                     -      -          12.800     -  44.400
Input
Iatmial                        Yuan                                                                  1.249   261       -     -            -       -
Opecating
Pestcd"e                        kg       4 5    4 5    4 5    4 5    6 0    6     6 0     20 00        90    90    90    90         120   120       120
Other                          Yuan                                                                    40    40    40    40         480    40      480
Sub-total Operating Costs                                                                               130   130   130    130        600   160      600
Sub-total Input Costb                                                                                    1379   39f   130   130         6C   160a
Income isolre Labor Costs)                                                                              .1.37i  -391   -130  -130   1 200   -160   43.800
Labor
PLbntaon                         WOs       270    19             - -                             20    1944    137
operating                        WOs        32    32    32    13    70    I5    140          7 20       233   233   233    94         504   10    1.608
Sub-total Labor costs                                                                                    2.177   370   233    94        504   106    f 008
hcome Alter Labor Cosb)                                                                                  3.556  -761  -353   2t   1 696  -265   42792
IA



-I06-                               ANNEX S
Table 12: PROTECTION FoREsTs AREA DEVELOPMENT
Area Development (ha, cumulative)
Year             1       2        3       4
Pine tees             503    1,005   1,221  . 1,400
Lach trees            503   1,005   1,221    1,400
Poplar                503   1,005   1.221    1,400
Total                  1,509   3,015   3,663   4,200
Cash Flow (Yuan million)
Net                      Net
Year          Benefit         Year    Benefit
1            -3.61           18         1.94
2            -4.52           19        -1.36
3            -2.95           20         7.90
4            -2.64           21         7.89
5            -1.47           22        24.28
6            -1.31           23        23.69
7            -1.30           24         8.21
8            -1.30           25         6.68
9            -1.30           26        -0.98
10             4.70           27  .    -0.98
11             4.67           28    .  -0.98
12             1.23           29        -0.98
13             0.78           30        50.89               _
14            -1.36           31        51.14
15             7.90           32        22.00
16             7.89           33        18.33
17             2.62
IRR: 13.24%
NPV:    2.91
S3nsitity Scenarios:                           rsulng IRR
Timber and rafter price drop by 10%               12.50%
Timber nd rafter price drop by 20%                11.60%
Investmnt cost increase by 10%                    12.90%
investment cost increase by 20%                   12.50%
Combned timberirafter prkce drop (10%) and
inwestnent cost scresse by 10%                 12.10%



-107-                          ANNEX 6
ANNEX 6: RURAL ROADS
Summary
1.    The systems in the prefectures are in reasonable condition and well maintained, but there is
considerable scope to improve existing rural roads to provide all-weather access to some of the
townships and villages. This component will upgrade existing gravel roads to Class 4 Standard
(Rural Roads) in the project areas by widening them to 7.5 meters (a 6 m pavement of 20 cm of
compacted gravel, and 0.75 m shoulders). This standard calls for a minimum radius of 30 m,
minimum sight distance of 30 m, and maximum grade of 8 percent. The improved roads will fill
critical gaps in the county road systems and they will (a) lower transport costs of inputs and outputs
for farmers and small mines, (b) attract buyers for farm produce, and (c) lead to new, or more
frequent, bus services that will expand opportunities for off-farm employment and access to social
services and education. The project will upgrade six roads with a total length of 209 km in
Yuncheng and five roads totalling 118 km in Luliang.
2.    The main economic benefits of the improved access provided by the roads will arise from:
(a)   more productive land use due a switch to higher value crops;
(b)   higher farm-gate prices for crops;
(c)   lower input costs leading to higher returns to the farmers;
(d)   lower material costs for existing mining operations, and lower transportation costs
for the output of the mines.
3.    More frequent and reliable movement of passenger vehicles will lead to social benefits such
as:
(a)   more opportunities for off-farm employment;
(b)   easier access to health and other social services;
(c)   better access to schools;
(d)   a wider variety of farm products in the rural markets.
4.    The roads will be built by the County Transportation Bureaus using labor-intensive
methods. For maintenance, sections of road will be assigned to nearby villages and enterprises.
They will organize work teams to carry out routine maintenance of the road surface, structures and
drains on a voluntary basis. Improvement and major repairs will be funded by the counties and
townships and work will be assigned to local construction teams.



-108-                         ANNEX 6
5.    A notable feature of these roads is that tolls will be charged. This is permissible because the
roads are externally financed. The first call on these funds will be for maintenance and repair, and
this will ease the problem often encountered in securing funds for rural road maintenance. The tolls
proposed are as follows:
Trucks with 4 ton capacity or more: -      Y 3
Trucks 2.5-4 tons:                         Y 2
Vehicles with less than 1-2, 5 ton capacity:  Y 1
Yuncheng Prefecture
6.    TongsL  This 38 kan road in Yanqu county connects Tongshan township to Lishan
township and beyond to Xihonghong at the border with Henan. The impact area has a population
of 25,000 and 2,470 ha of farmland. There are three iron ore mines and one copper mine on the
road, and the ore is now moved by trailers and small tractors to the main road. The high cost of
moving the output and the pit props and other supplies for the mines reduces the profitability of
these township enterprises. With the new road, farming will become more profitable, the mines
will expand output, have lower transport costs and employ more labor.
7.    Moyuan. This 31 km road in Jiang county links two main highways and passes three
townships. The impact area has a population of 25,000, 3,100 ha of farmland, a coal mine, an iron
ore mine and a copper mine. The road will tead to more diversity in farming and expansion of the
mines.
8.    Laoxia. This 15 km road in Xiahua county will link Laoyaotou village to the county town.
The impact area has a population of 15,000 and 1,560 ha of farmland. There are five small coal
mines with a combined production of 150,000 tons most of which is moved by mules and animal
drawn wagons. Improvement of the road will raise farm production, allow expansion of the mines,
and lead to higher employment.
9.    Pinguan. This 28 km road in Pinlu county will connect six townships to the provincial
road and railroad system, and to a bridge over the Yellow River. The impact area has a population
of about 230,000. About 10 km of road surface has been improved near the county town by
voluntary labor and this has had led to increased cultivation of fruits and vegetables. A similar
effect is expected within the 12,500 ha of farmland served by the road. Lower transport costs for
supplies and output due to the improved road will lead to more efficient and profitable output from
the existing township and village #nterprises mining coal, gypsum, iron ore and titanium.
10.   Xiaqi. This 69 km road in Xia county runs from the outskirts of the county town to Qijiahe
township and passes five townships. The impact area includes 80 villages, and has a population of
69,000. The farmland area is 6,770 ha, and there is considerable potential for farmers to switch to
high value crops; marketing conditions are ideal since the county town is on a provincial highway.
County officials estimate that, with an improved road, annual output from at six existing mines will
quickly expand from 85,000 tons to 360,000 tons and create over 1,000 jobs.



-109-                         ANNEX6
11.   Zeguan. This 26 km road in Xinjiang county joins the townships of Zezhang and
Guanwangmiao and serves 65,000 people in two other townships and 50 villages. Earthwork for
10 km of the road has been constructed by the voluntary labor. The road is impassable after rain or
snow. The impact area has 4,340 ha of fannland, devoted to wheat, cotton, maize and apples. The
road will lead to higher production of fruit and vegetables. There are two iron ore mines, two
gypsum mines and five limestone quarries along the road. With a better road, the output of the
mines will increase and transport costs are expected to fall by 25 percent.
Luliang Prefecture
12. Qiliang. This 17 kmn road in Lanxian County connects Qijiazhunag and Liangjiazhuang
townships. In its present condition the road is only passable in dry weather by small tractors. The
impact area has a population of 11,000 in 31 villages and two townships. The area of farmland is
3,600 ha. Important cash crops are potatoes, kernel apricots, and seabuckthorn, but poor road
conditions hamper movement of crops to market and every year some of the harvest is spoiled.
Side-line activities are community-owned coal and iron ore mines, which will become more
profitable and will be expanded when the road is improved.
13.   Shizha. This 18 km road in Fangshan county connects Shizhantou and Zhangjiata
townships and passes near three other townships. It is passable to small vehicles and animal drawn
carts. The impact area has a population of 9,500 and familand of 2,600 ha. The main benefit of the
road will be diversification into higher value crops and expansion of orchards.
14.   Caiwei. This 38 km road in Xingxian county connects Caijiaya and Weijiatan townships.
The impact area has a population of 43,600 in five townships and 113 villages, and farmland of
14,800 ha. The area has potential for expansion of Chinese dates and apples and, when the road is
completed, a processing plant will be built. An existing coal mine will also be expanded.
15.   Liuxia. This 25 km road in Linxian county connects Liujiahui and Xiaojiatou townships
and passes close to three other townships. The impact area has a population of 65,000 and
farmland of 12,500 ha. It is the main Chinese date production center of Shanxi province. The
improvement of the road will reduce post-harvest losses caused by damage in transport and closure
of the road by rain and snow.
16.   Xuexia. This 20 km road in Liulin county connects Xuecun and Xiabo townships. It will
serve 45,000 people in five townships and 103 villages. There is 8,120 ha of fannland, of which
2,200 is devoted to fruit and vegetables. The poor condition of the road leads to considerable waste
and spoilage. Road improvement will lead to higher production and sales of high-value crops at
better prices.



-110-                          ANNEX 6
Economic Analysis
17.   The rural roads are in the areas where agriculture is the main economic activity. Their
economic justification rests largely on improved productivity on 70,000 hectare of farm land in the
impact area of the roads. There would also be benefits to small-scale mines operated by township
and village enterprises, but these have not been quantified due to lack of data.
18.   Agricultural benefits arise from:
(a)   A cost saving effect due to a reduction in transport costs (lower vehicle operating
costs and shorter distances) that lower farm-gate input prices and raise farm-gate
output prices.
(b)   An efficiency improvement effect due to more timely availability and lower cost of
agricultural inputs, and a reduction in post harvest losses.
(c)   A development effect due to better access to markets that causes a shift in cropping
patterns towards high-value crops and increased fruit production. The areas served
by the roads have a comparative advantage for the production of fruits (apples in
Yuncheng and Chinese dates in Luliang).
19.   Economic analyses were made for two typical roads, one in Luliang and one in Yuncheng
(Tables 2 to 7). Economic cro.p budgets and cropping patterns for the "with" and "without" cases
were derived for the major agricultural crops in areas served by the roads. These crop budgets form
the basis for calculating the total incremental net value of production according to the effects
described above (Tables 3 and 6). Annual maintenance for the roads was taken as 15 percent of the
capital cost. The ERR was 37 percent for Luliang and 22 percent for Yuncheng. A sensitivity
analysis shows that a 50 percent reduction in benefits lowers the ERR to 18 percent for Luliang and
12 percent for Yuncheng.
20.   The road selected for analysis in Yuncheng shows a lower ERR than Luliang because of the
high cost of a large bridge at the end of the road. This bridge connects to a wider area and the
neighboring province, but the benefits from this have not been estimated. In general, the roads will
have other benefits not captured by the analysis. These include mining benefits, off-farm
employment opportunities, and better access to education, health and extension services.



- I 111-                      ANNEX 6
Table 1: RURAL ROAD REHABILITATION INVESTMENT COSTS
(Yuan million)
Yuncheng                Tongxi Moyuan  Laoxia Pinguan   Xiaqi Zeguan    Total
Eanhworks               1.42    0.00    1.47    2.69    3.80    0.00    9.39
Rock Excavation        12.97    6.99    1.26    1.85    4.07    5.97    33.11
Slope Protecbon         1.06    0.79    1.87    0.62    3.28    1.04    8.66
Road Surface            2.04    1.67    0.78    1.47    6.15    0.52    12.84
Bridges                 1.94    0.26    0.65   11.26    1.05    0.00    15.16
Culverts                2.80    2.81    0.30    1.56    4.37    0.56    12.41
Misc.                   1.28    0.62    0.49    0.67    1.26    0.42   4.74
Engineering             2.12    1.18    0.61    1.81    2.16    0.77   8.65
Total                    25.63   14.33    7.44   21.93   26.14    9.29   104.76
Length (km)             39     31      15      28      69      26     208
Cost per km           0.66    0.46    0.50    0.78    0.38    0.36    0.50
Lullang                 Oiliang  Shkzha  Caiwei  Liuxia  Xuexia          Total
Earthworks              0.91    1.71    1.34    1.11    0.83            5.91
Rock Excavation         1.01    0.49    3.28    1.76    1.96           8.50
Slope Protection        0.69    1.06    2.47    1.35    0.93            6.50
Road Surface            0.34    0.48    1.13    0.58    0.42           2.95
Bridges                 0.13    0.39    1.08    0.54    0.38           2.52
Culverts                1.20    0.84    2.09    1.10    0.80           6.03
Misc.                   0.73    1.18    1.64    1.19    1.08           5.83
Engineering             0.10    0.11    0.23    0.15    0.12           0.72
Total                     5.13    6.25   13.27    7.79    6.53          38.96
Length (km)             17      18     38      25      20             11U8
Cost per km           0.30    0.35    0.35    0.31    0.33            0.33



-112 -                                         ANNEX 6
Table 2: LULIANG RURAL ROAD REHABILITATION (LIUXIA ROAD)
ECONOMIC CROP BUDGETS (Per Hectare)
Maize
Wlhout Improvd Road          Economc            With Imp-owd Road
Unit Price  Ouanity  Value      Lose b         Unit    Quantity    Valte
Unit adjusted al          (YUatw      (YuWVh)        Price              (Yu")
Output
Maize                      kg          1.14    2.300    2.827       .22            1 15     2.600      2.988
maze s%IU                  kg          0.04    2.800     112          0            0.04      3.100       124
TdUi Output                                               2.739        -22                               3.119
Operoting
Inpu"
mainesoe                 kg         4.45       35      156          2           4 40         35       154
Ure                      kg         2.17       40       87          4           2.08         80       168
Phoapha (SSP)            kg          1.03      60       62          6           0.94        100        04
MaKnurton                           15.00       7      to5          0          15 00          7       105
sita Idbor              WD.         12.00      20      240          0          12.00         22       264
Labor                     WOs          7.20      86      634          0           7.20         95       66
Total Input                                               1.283        11                                1.467
Not Value of Production                                  1,451        .34                                1,653
Potatoes
Wilhout Improved Road        Economic          With Improved Road
Unit Price  Ouantity  Value     Lose bh        Unit    Quanity    Value
Unh  adQuated a/          (Yuanihs    CYuanlta)      Price              (Yu }ma
output
Potatoes                   kg          0.39    5800    2.263        .57           040       7.200      2.60
Total Output                                              2.263       -57                                2.80
Opeating
InputB
Potato See               kg          1.01    1.500    1.515        15           1.00      1,500      1.500
Urs  -                   kg          2.17      40       87          4           2.06        100       206
Phoaphat (SSP)           kg          1.03      10       63          a           0.94   t     50       140
Manum                   ton         15.00      10      150          0          15.00         20       300
A.wm1W labor            WDs         12.00       17     204          0          12.00         18       216
Labor                     WDs          7.20      70      504  -       0           7.20         72        516
Total Input                                               2.542        26                                2.8U2
Net Value of Producuon                                     .27S        43                                   -2
SunfIowem
Without Improved Road        Economic          W#htimproved Road
Unt Price  Quant    Value       Lossabi        Unit    Quantity    Value
Unit adjusted /           eYuaniha    (VYuanfha      Price              tYusnVha)
Output
Sunfobwer                  kg          1.19     600      714         -6            1.20       S00       960
Total Output                                                714        46                                  90
Operating
Inputs
Sunfloer Seed            kg          3.05       Is      55          1           3.00        1         54
Ur"                      kg          2.17      30       65          3           2.08         60       125
Phosphate (SSP)          kg          1.03      60       62          6           0.94        100        94
Mark                    ton         15.00        5      75          0          15.00          5        75
A1w" labor              WDs         12.00       15     180          0           12.00        15       ISO
Labor                     WDs          7.20       55     396          0            7.20         55      390
Total Input                                                833         10                                  923
Net Value of Production          I.111                                 16                                   37
to be   ned



-113 -                                        ANNEX 6
Lulang Rufal Road Rehabilitation (Uuxls Road) (continued)       Table 2 (Cont'd)
Economic Crop tBudgets per hectrer
Sorghum
Wihout Improwed Road        Economic           With impnred Road
Unit Price  Quantity  Value     Lose bl       Unit   Quantity    Value
Unit  adjusted aV        (Yuanrha    (Yuanrhal      Price              (YuarVta)
Output
Sorghum                    kg         069    1.500    1.035        -15           0.70      1.700      1.190
Sorghum Stoer              kg         0.04    1.700      68          0           0.04      2.000        80
Total Output                                             1,103       -15                                1.270
Operating
Inputs
Sorghum *ed              kg         3 05       30      91          1           3.00         30        90
Ure                      kg         2.17       40      87          4           2.08         60       125
Phosphate (SSP)          kg         1.03       60      62          6           0.94       120        112
Manum                   ton        15.00        6      90          0          15.00         6         90
Anmal labot            WDs         12.00       l8     216          0          12.00         1 8      216
Labor                     WDs         7 20       80     576          0           7 20        80        576
Total Input                                              1.122        11                                t.209
Net Value of Production                                    -19       .26                                  6I
Chinese Dates intercropped with Soybean
Without Improved Road       Economic           With Improved Road
Unit Price  Quantity  Value     Loss hi       Unit    Quantity    Value
Unit  adjusted a/        (Yuan8ha    (Yuan/hal      Price              (Yuan/ha)
Output
Dates                      kg          1.92    4.600   8.641      -359           2.00      4.700     9.400
Soybean                    kg         2.38      750   1.788         -7           2.39       760      1.867
Soybean Staw               kg         0 04      600      24          0           0 04       600         24
Total Output                                            10.653      -366                               11,291
Operating
Inputs
Soybean Seed            kg          3.05       30      91          1           3.00        30         90
Ursa                     kg         2.17       45      98         4            2.08        60        125
Phosphate (SSP)          kg         1.03       80      83          8           0.94       120        112
Manure  -               ton         15.00       6      90          0          15.00         8         90
Aiwmai Labor            WDs         12.00      18     216          0          12.00         18       216
Labor.                    WDS          7.20     180-  1.296          0           7.20        190     1.368
Total Input                                              1,874        14                               2.001
Net Value of Production                                  4,780       480                               9.211
Basic Assumption:
Ao*rge transeu distanew                        15 km
Econom.c transport cost vithout mnpr   road:    S Yuan/ton/on
Economic trnsport cost with inproved rod:     1.5 YusnvlAton
Share of product transpted:
Gmns and Potatoes                           10 %
Fruits                                      80% 
8y-Products                                  0 %
Gran Seds                                   50 %
Potato Seeds                                10 %
Chemcal Fortilizers                        100 %
Other Inputs                                 0 %
Notes:
a/ The everge economic unit pnce for ipu  and outputs wihout road imprvment is derind from the da  in ares *Fth
adequate rood a*ss adjusted by the addinl transport costs to/rom te farm acrdig to the distunce and the shane
of product transpored. For example t  pie of mane (Yuan I 150ton) is decrased by 6.5 Yuan (tnspont rst differnce)
times 15 (distance in km) times 10% (share of product transported) reutng in a pnce deceaso at farm gate Of
Yuan 9.75ton. For dates the djusment is Yuan 78 per ton. because of the nher share (80%) of th pmduct tnsported.
Trade farm inputs prces are inteed acewrdgity.
W Repr pnt  the pnr disadvantsge due to t  hher ecinoic transport costs on te pesent arp budet.



Table 3: LULIArqG RURAL ROAD REhIABILITATION (LiUxIA IROAD)
CuiOP PATTERN AND ECONOM1ic NET VALUE OF PRODUCTION (NVP)
Wlthout Improved Road                   With Improved Road (Cumulatve Elects as Irom A to C) at
A                          B                            C
Transport Costk and      Transport Coslt Change of      Combined
Change of Input Use        Input Use, and Cropping      Change In
Transport Cost Effect Only     Combined Effect           Pattern Effect Combined      Net Value of
Area  NVP/ha Total NVP   Area  NVPfha Total NVP   Area  NVPiha Toial NVP    Area           NVPIha  Total NVP   Productilon
('000 ha) (Yuan) (Yuan ml) ('000 ha) (Yuan) (Yuan miel) roo0 ha) (Yuan) (Yuan mil)  ('000 ha)   (Yuan)  (Yuan mill)  (Yuan mill)
Crop
Sorghum                 1.07    -19       -0 02     101       7       0 01     107      61       0 07       t 00       61       0 06           0.08
Maize                   1.45   1.456      2 11      1 45   1,490      2 16     1.45   1,653      2 40       1 60     1.653      2 64           0.53
Potato                  2 58   -279       -0.72    2 58   -196       -0 51     2 58     -2       0 01       2 40       -2      -0 01           0.71         J
Sunflower               1.57   -119       -0.19    1 57   -103       -0 16     1 57     37       0 06       1 40       37       0 05           0.24
Dates (ntercropped)     5.82  8.780      51.13     5 82  9.159       53 34     5 82  9,291      54A11       6.10    9.291      56867           5.54
Total Cropped Area        12.50                       12 50                      12 50                        12-50 S059.42
Total NVP                                    52.321                     54.84                      56.62                           59.42          7.11
Incremental NVP                                                          2.53                       1 78                            280)
al it is assufed that the Iransport cost change wilt be effetive kinredialely after finishing cli works and the change in productivily and the shift In the cropping pattern wil
take 9 years after finIshng Ihe cdvi works (s-shape fundion assumed).



-115 -                                ANNEX 6
Table 4: LULIANG RURAL ROAD REHABILITATION (LIUXIA ROAD)
ECONOMIIC CASH FLOW ANALYSIS (Yuan Million)
Pr*ct           Road        lncrmental   Not Benefits
Year   Investmnent Costs  Maintenance a/    Benefts
1996            0.76                         0.00       -0.76
1997            2.45       -                 0.00       -2.45
1998            3.39                         0.00       -3.39
1999            1.86           0.94          3.45        0.64
2000                           0.98          3.82        2.84
2001                           1.01          4.19        3.18
2002                           1.05          4.67        3.62
2003                           1.10          5.19        4.09
2004                           1.18          6.08        4.90
2005                           1.24          6.74        5.50
2006                           1.26          6.95        5.70
2007                           1.27          7.11        5.84
2008                           1.27          7.11        5.84
2009                           1.27          7.11        5.84
_~                      2010                            1.27         7.11        5.84
2011                           1.27          7.11        5.84
2012                           1.27          7.11        5.84
2013                           1.27          7.11        5.84
2014                           1.27          7.11        5.84
2015                           1.27      ... 7.11        5.84
IRR:               3 7
NPV:                16.0
Break Even at a level of 37% of the expected benefits
fusing dynamic maintenance work requirem Wnt  _a
Sensitivity Scenarios:                               resulting IRR:
Construction cost increase by 20%                   31%
Maintenance cost increase by 50%                    33
Benefit decrease by 10%                             34%
Benefit decrease by 20%                             30%
Benefit decrease by 50%                             18%
Combined cost increase 20%, and
benefit decrease 20%                              25%
a/ 15% of toLtl road investment costs annually at l u se of the road.
tt is assumed that the amount of maintenance work depends upon the use of the road.
The maintenance costs of 15% of the iwestment costs coverthe necessary works
at fIU use of the road. Any reducion in th use is easumed to go along with a reobtie
reduction in maintenance costs of half of this amounL For example, a 20 percent reduction in the
use would allow for. 0 Opercent reduction in the maintenance cost.



-116-                                          ANNEX 6
Table 5: YUNCHENG RuRAL ROAD REHABILITATION (PINGUAN ROAD)
ECONOMIC CROP BUDGETS (Per Hectare)
Maize
| Witout Improved Road           Economic           With Improved Road
Unit Price  QOntnty  Value      Los bI         Unit    Quantiy    Value
Unit  adjusted a/        (Yuantha    (Yuan4ha        Price              (Yuanlh)
Outut
maize                      kg          1.09    2.000    2.187      -ii7            1.15     2.800      3.225
masto                      kg          0 04    2.500     112          0           0 04      3.500        I'O
Total Ouqtp                                               2.299       .117                               3.366
Operating
lnputi
m1l seed                 kg         A 45       35      1S6          2           4 40         35       154
Ura                      kg          2.17      50      109          5           2.0J        ICa       208
Ph.pat (SSP)             kg          103       40       41          A           09 4         80        75
MIanur                  tcn         15.00      15      225          0          15 00         15       225
Anwmal labor             VOs        12.00      20      240          0          12.00         20       240
Labor                     WQs          7 20      85      612          0           7 20         8S       612
Total tnput                                               1t363        10                                1 513
Not VJa of Producton                                       915       .127                                1,852
Millet
Without Improved Road        Economic          With Improved Road
Unit Price  Quantty  Value      Lost hi        Unit    Quantty    Value
Unli  adiusted a/        (Yuandfa    (Yual _a   Price                   (Yuanfl'st
Output
Mallet                     kg          0.74    1.200     890        -70           0 80      1.5C0      1.200
Miiet Stoier               kg          0.04    1.500      60          0           0 04      1.800        72
Total Output                                               950        .70                                1.272
Operatsng
inputs
Mike(                    kg          2.01       IS      30          0           200          iS        30
Ura                      kg          Z17       40       87          4           208          75       156
Phosphate (SSP)          kg          1.03      60       62          6           0 94        110       103
Mnure                    mon        15 00       6       90          0          15 00          6        9O
Anamalabor_             WDV         12.00       17     204          0          I2.OC        1t        204
Labor                     WOs          7 20       70     504          0            r;          7c       504
Total Insout                                               977         10                                1067
Not Value of Production                                     .27        40                                  1s5
Cotton
WIthout Improved Road       Economic           With Improved Road
Unit Price  Quantity  Value     Loss bl       Unit    Quantity    Value
Unit  sdjusted al        (Yuansfh     (Yu.nfla)      Price              (YuarVhal
Output
Conon Lnt                  kg         11.75      250    2.937       -24           11.84       300      3.553
Coton Seed                             0 91     500      454        .24           0 96        600       574
Total Output                                              3.391        -49                               4.127
Operating
Inputs
CottonwSed               kg          5.05      120     606          6           5 00        120       600
Ursa                     kg          2.17      55      120          5           2.06        100       208
Phosphate ISSP)          kg          1.03      30       31          3           0.94         S0        47
Mnur                    ton         15.00       10     150          0          *5.00         t0       150
Am" labor               WHOs        12.00       22     264          0           12.00        22       264
Labor                     WDs          7.20      160    t      152    0           7 20        160      1.152
Togul Input                                               2.322        14                                2.420
Net Value of Production                                   1.065        63                                1,707
to be contnued



-117-                                         ANNEX 6
Table 5 (Cont'd)
Yunchrng Rural Road Rehabilitaton (Plnguan Road) (continued)
Economic Crop Budgets per hectare
WVheat
Without Improved Road       Economnic          With Impoed Road
Unit Pnce  auuntity  Valuo      Loss cu       Unit    Quantiy    Valk
Unit adjusted a/         (Yuanrha    (Yua)hal       Price              (Yuan/hie
Output
VlVht                      kg          1.21    2.200   2.659      t129            1.27     2.500      3.1"
WhatStraw                  kg         0 04    2.200      as          0           0 04      2.500       100
Total Output                                             2.747       -129                              3.26
Operating
Inputs
Vat Saw                  kg         2.05      150     307          7           2.00       1S0        300
Uma                     kg          2.17       60     130          6           2.06       100        206
Phosphate (SSP)         kg          1 03      60       62          6           0.94       100         94
Manure                  lon        15.00        7     105          0          t5.00         7        105
Anal labor             WVS         12.00       20     240          0          12.00        20        240
Labor                     WDs         7 20       82     590          0           7.20        82       50
Total Input                                              1.435        19                                1.537
Not Value of Production                                  1,312      .148                               t,72
Apple
Without Improved Road       Economic           With Improvwd Road
Unit Price  Quantity  Valuo     Los bl        Unit    Quantity    Vakt
Unit adjusted al         (Yuan/ia    (Yuan/hal      Price             (YUanh)
Output
Apple                      kg          1.52    7.000  10.t54      .546            1.60    10.000    16.000
Total Output          - -                               10.654      -546       --                     16.000
OperaUng
Inputs
Urea                    kg          2.17      100     217         10  -        2.06       250        519
Phospnat (SSP)           kg         1.03      100     103         10           0.94       200       17
ManLw                   ton        15.00       15     225          0          15.00        1S        225
A-nal labor             WVs        12.00        0       0          0          12.00         0          0
Labor                     WDs         7 20      200    1 440         0           7 20       200      1.440
Total Input                                              1.98U        20                               2.371
Net Value of Producuon                                   9,"4       .566                              13,625
Basic Assumption:
Avorge transport cistance                      15 km
Econmrc transo  cost without wnprmvsd road:     8 Yuan/km/tn
Economic transnort cost wdh wnprod oad:       1.5 Yuwnkmton
Shar of product transnted:
Grams                                       60 %
Cotton                                     100 %
Frudis                                      60%
By-Products                                  0 %
Grain S5ds                                  50%
Potato Seds                                 10 %
Chemicl Featilitzes                        100 %
Other Inputs                                 0 %
Notes:
at The average conormic unit pnce for onps and outputs wdhot romad mprovmint is doeved from the data in wae   ith
adeqtuate fa anss aduSSted by au additonal transport cost tolmfro w tae arm accrding to th distance and the shae
o product transportd. For sample the pnoe of matze (Yuan 11501ton) is decrsaed by 6.5 Yuan (transt cat diffne)
tbres I5 (distance in km) bimes 60% (shaw  of product tansported) resulting in a prcet decrase at farm gate of
Yuan 5.5/ton. For apple Om adgutment is Yuan 76 per ton. because of the hgher ahutm (60%) of the Product tported.
Traded farm inputs pnces am inresassa aCCDruity.
Vi Repreoasnlng the pnce1 disadvantage due to the higher economic taspOrt CdtS on the present crog budgt



Table 6: YUNCIIENC IRURAL ROAD REIIABILITATION (PINGUAN IROAD)
CROPPING PArrEIRN AND EcoNoMic NET VALUE OF PRODUCTION (NVP)
Wilhout Improved Road                    With Improved Road (Cumulative Effects as from A to C) aI
A                           B                             C
Transport Cost and        Transport Cost, Change of       Combined
Change of Input Use        Input Use. and Cropping        Change In
Transport Cost Effect Only      Combined Effect            Pattem Effect Combined       Net Value of
Area   NVP/ha Total NVP   Area   NVPIha Total NVP   Area   NVP/ha Tolal iVP    Area           NVP/ha  Total NVP   Production
rooo ha) (Yuan) (Yuan mlil.) (000 ha) (Yuan) (Yuan mill) (000 hi) (Yuan) (Yuan mill)  (o0o ha)   (Yuan)  (Yuan mill)  (Yuan mill)
Crop
Wheat                    8 17   1.312      10 72     8 17   1.460      11 93     817   1.732       14 15       7 40      1.732      12 St          2.09
Maize                    0 76    916        069      0 76   1.044       0 79     0 76   1.852       1 40       0 8l     1,852        1 50          0 1
Millet                   015      -27       000      015      53        001      015      185       003        012        185        002           003            1
Colton                   0 44   1.068       0 47     0 44   1.131       0 49     0 44   1.707       0 75       0 47      1.707       a s0          0034
Apples                   0 79   8.668       6.80     0.79  9.234        7 25     0 79  13.629      10 70        1 50    13.629      20 44         13 64           co
Total Cropped Area         1030                        10 30                       10 30                          10 30
Total NVP                                     18068                       20.47                       2702                             35 58          16 90
Incremental NiP                                                            1.79                        6 55                             856,
a  It is assumed tha the tansport cost change will be effedivo immediately atet fimishing clviv works *nd the change in productivHy nd the shifti n the copping pattern will
take 9 year after finishing the chil works (s-shape function assumed).
0%



-119-                                ANNEX 6
Table 7: YUNCHENG RURAL ROAD REHABILITATION (PINGUAN ROAD)
ECONOMIC CASH FLOW ANALYSIS (Yuan Million)
Pr*ct         Road       Incremental    Not Bnefi
Year  Invesbuent Costs Maintenance a/    Benefits
1996         4.81                        0.00         -4.81
1997         9.88                        0.00         -9.88
1998         7.16                        0.00         -7.16
1999         2.09         1.24           2.65         -0.69
2000                       1.29          3.36         2.07
2001                      1.35           4.26         2.91
2002                      1.44           5.67         4.24
2003                      1.56           7.54         5.99
2004                      1.80          11.40         9.60
2005                      2.02          14.78        12.77
2006                      2.09          16.01        13.92
2007                      2.15          16.90        14.75
2008                      2.15          16.90        14.75
2009                      2.15          16.90        14.75
2010    .                 2.15          16.90        14.75
2011                      2.15          16.90        14.75
2012                      2.15         -16.90        14.75
2013                      2.15          16;90        14.75
2014                      2.15          16.90        14.75
2015                      2.15          16.90        14.75
IRR:             22%
NPV:              23.4
Break Even at a level of 50% of the expected benefits
(using dynamic mainbtnance work requir.mrnfnW
Sensitvity Scenarios:                           resulng IRR:
Construction cost increase by 20%                 19%
Maintenance cost increase by 50%                  20%
Benefit decrease by 10%                           21%
Benefit decrease by 20%                           19%
Benefit decrease by 50%                           12%
Combined cost increase 20%, and
benefit decrease by 20%                         15%
a/ 15% of road investment costs and 3% of the nvestment cost for th large bridge onnualy
at ful use of th rad. nt is assumed that the amount of maintenance work depends
upon th use of the rod. The hf maintenance costs cover the necessay warks
at h use of the oad. Ay reducion in the use is asumed to go along with a reltive
reduction h ma   ance cost d hal of ths amounL For example, a 20 percent reduction In te
use would llow for a 10 percent rductbon in the rmintenance cost



-120 -                         ANNEX 7
ANNEX 7: RURAL WATER SUPPLY
- Summary
1.    There is a severe shortage of water in many villages in both prefectures. In Luliang,
groundwater can be found in shallow aquifers (10-15 m deep) in the beds of gullies, but these can
only be pumped for a few hours at 5-10 m3/hour. Most villages get their water from pits in the
ground (cistems) filled with storm runoff and from shallow wells in the beds of gullies. The latter
are very low-yielding and in the dry season people have to wait for hours for the wells to recharge
after the first villagers have filled their buckets.
2.    Water is often sold in the villages by people who have access to a well in their own village.
The average family in water-short areas spends around YI00-130 in a year-this is 10 percent of the
average family income. In addition to the cash cost, the water shortage also causes many hours to
be spent hauling water which could be spent on more productive activities.
3.    A better water supply will (a) expand possibilities for villagers to own draft aninals for
farming and transportation, (b) reduce the incidence of water-bome diseases, (c) allow for watering
of seedlings in orchard establishment and (d) provide water for small township and village
enterprises that will create jobs and raise incomes for the local population. The rural water supply
component of the project will provide water supply systems for 516 villages in Yuncheng and 204
villages in Luliang.
4.    The projects have been prepared by the Yuncheng and Luliang Water Resource Bureaus
and they will supervise construction by the county and township bureaus. These bureaus have their
own well drilling teams operating under the guidance of ground water geologists who have
considerable experience in well location and testing. Cost estimates are shown in Tables I and 2.
Yuncheng
5.    The plan for Yuncheng is for 78 comparatively large systems including 59 deep well
systems and 19 diversion schemes serving 516 villages, 620,000 people and 120,000 draft animals.
In Yuncheng, wells to produce a reliable supply of good quality water (40-60 m3/hour) have to be
between 150 and 300 meters deep. The systems are planned to provide 30 liters per day (Ipd) per
person and 50 lpd per animal. Some water is used for vegetable and fruit trees, but strict operating
rules are imposed on each well to prevent over drawing the groundwater resource. Compliance
with the rules is monitored by the county water resource bureaus. Violators are fined or their
operating license is suspended. A typical deep well system consists of a well and pump house, an
operators house, piping to storage tanks in each of the villages served, and distribution pipes to
several standpipes in each village. Diversion schemes typically take water from springs. A
collection tank is constructed at the source and protected from pollution. A pump is placed in the
tank and the rest of the system is similar to the deep well schemes.



-121-                          ANNEX 7
Luliang
6.    Luliang plans water supply facilities for 204 villages, including 77 well systems, 65
schemes based on springs, and 1,179 cistems in the remaining 62 villages. The schemes will serve
64,000 people or about 50 percent of the remaining population of 135,000 in the prefecture without
access to reliable drinking water. In Luliang, groundwater can be found in shallow aquifers (10-15
m deep) in the beds of gullies, but these can only be pumped for a few hours at 5-10 m3/hour.
Except for the much shallower wells, the basic approach is the same as in Yuncheng, but the
systems are generally smaller because of the lower population density.
D. Operation and Maintenance
7.    The PMOs of the two prefectures' water conservancy bureaus will establish a Regional
Support Unit (RSU) to oversee (a) overall project planning, implementation and management;
(b) enforcement of Water Laws and regulations; (c) technical assistance and emergency repairs; and
(d) supervision of routine operations and arbitration of disputes among villages or townships
regarding water use. The actual construction works will be awarded to local contractors through
competitive bidding. Routine operation and maintenance of the pumping and diverting systems
would be contracted to individuals, who would follow the regulations stipulated in the Water Law
and the guidelines set by the RSUs. These individual managers will also be responsible for
collecting water charges from villages to finance the 0 & M.
E. Economic Analysis
8.    The improved water supply will (a) reduce the amount of time or money required to carry
or purchase water by villagers; (b) expand possibilities for villagers to own draft animals for
farming and transportation; (c) reduce the incidence of water-bom diseases; and (d) allow for
watering of seedlings in orchard establishment. In some locations, water will be provided for small
township and village enterprises
9.    The economic justification of the rural water supply component is based on the peoples'
willingness to pay. In villages in Yuncheng, without access to drinking water, and where the water
is transported in tanks towed by farm tractors, people pay up to YIO-13 per cubic meter. A typical
family spends about Y 100 to Y 130 Y per family for drinking water during the dry season when
their rain water tanks dry up. This is a reasonable measure of the upper limit of peoples'
willingness to pay. In villages with existing water supply systems the people pay between Y 1.5
and Y 2.5 per cubic meter and spend about Y30 to Y40 Yuan per family in a year. For the benefit
calculation the lower value of Y 1.5 Yuan per cubic meter is used as an average figure for the
willingness to pay. This is a conservative estimate, since the observed value of Y 1.5 Yuan is a
marginal value and many people would be willing to pay higher prices particularly for smaller
amounts of water as the situation in Yuncheng shows. On this basis, the rural water supply
component was found to generate a weighted average ERR of 22 percent (Table 3).
10.   An alternative measurement of the benefits has been tested, based on the fact that people
spend a substantial share of their time in collecting and hauling water. At many of the open wells
there is a long waiting time for the well to recharge after each villager takes his of her share. It is



- 122 -                       ANNEX 7
assuned that 40 percent of the population are economically active and spend about 10 pement of
thir time hauling water. The distance to the water source in many location in Yuncbhng is
between 3 and 5 kilometers, and particularly in Lulian& there is in addition often a difference in
altitude of 100 to 200 meters between the village and the wate source. If this time is
conservatively valued at Y 2.5 per day, the time saved amounts to about Y 25 million annuallyand
the ERR is 23 percent This is close to the ERR based on willingness to pay (Table 3).



-123 -                              ANNEX 7
Table 1: RURAL DRINKING WATER SUPPLY LULIANG INVESTMENT COSTS
Unit Cost                Total Costs
Unit     (Yuan)       Quantities  (Yuan 000)
Pumping Schemes
Structures
Mortar Stone                  ma              146         11,574     1.689
Concrete                      n9              417          1.587       662
Earth Works                   m'                4       265.342      1,107
Steel Bar Making             ton            4.676            48       223
Subtotal Structures                                                    3.681
Equipment (incl. Installation)
Pumps and Motors              Set           8.405            77       647
Transformer                   No.          22.304            15        335
Diesel Generator              No.          10.775             1         11
High voltage line             km           32,325             6        199
Low voltage line              km           17,240            36    - 618
Steel Pipe                    ton           6,441           244      1.571
Plastic Pipe                  ton          10.431            56       587
Water meter                   No.              65         1.578     - 102
Valve                         No.              65         2.545        165
Subtotal Equipment (incl. install                                      4,235
Subtotal Pumping Schemes                                                   7,915
Diversion Schemes
Structures
Mortar Stone                  m'              146         8.381      1.223
Concrete                      m'             417            815       340
Earth Works                 '000nM          4,172           268      1.120
Steel bar making              ton           4.676            23       106
Subtotal Structure                                                     2,788
Equipment (incl. installation)
Steel Pipes                   ton           6,441            55       353
Plastic Pipes                 ton          10.431            72       747
Water Meter _                 No.              65           493         32
Valve                         No.              65           982         63 _
Subtotal Equipment (incl. install                                      1.196
Subtotal Diversion Schemes                                                 3.984
Household Storage Tanks
Structures
Mortar Stone                  m               146         3,154       460
Concrete                      m'              417         2,044       852
Earth Works                  0OOmM          4,172           122       510
Steel Bar Making              ton           4,676            11         53
Steel Pipe                    ton           6,441             1          8
Subtotal Household Stonge Tanks                                            1,883
Total Rural Drinking Water Supply                                         13,783



-124 -                            ANNEX 7
Table 2: RURAL DRINIUNG WATER SUPPLY YUNCHENG INVESTMENT COSTS
Unit Cost                Total Costs
Unit           (Yuan)   Quantities   (Yuan'000)
Tube-wells                    m                682         9,500        6.481
Pumps                        No.            26,507           100        2,651
Transformers                 kVA               773         4,900        3.787
Power Lines (10kV)           km             31,298           70         2,191
Power Lines (400V)           km             15,202           12           182
Storage Tanks                m3                439        37,500       16,470
PVC Pipes                   ton              8,578         1.700       14.583
Steel Pipe                   ton             6,441          370         2.383
Prestressed Pipe             km            190,000           25         4,750
Pipe Laying                  km              2,533         1.100        2.786
Pipe Accessories          lump sum                                      2,000
Diversion works           lump sum                                        783
Control Rooms             lump sum                                      2.328
House Connections         lump sum                                      2,200
Total                                                                    63,574



Tabllc 3: ECONONIC Cos r BENEFIT IANAI.YSIS OF IRURAL l)IINKING WATEIt StlPI'LY,
ACGRECATED SUAIMARY TABLE FoR 213 WATEI SUPPLY SYSTEMS AND I,179 CISTERNS
(Values in Yuan '000)
A. Benefits based on willingness to pay           B. Benefits based on ime csaved
Operating Costs                                                                          (Allemative benefll calctlalionI
Year Investment           t  Sries Ad_minstr. Maintenance   Total   Water dollvered Wtilingness  Not Benelit   fonsililng            Time saved  Bensilt  Not Benefit
(11       . (2)      (31        141         1 81                   (000 ml)      to pay 18)               Popultlon | 000)     17!
1998       24.408         33      453        133        561        I.180             0            0          25.589            0            0           0      -25.589
1997       25.850      2.287      907        205      1.158        4.595         5.448        a.t72         -22.272      232.605        3.396       8.490      -2t)955
1998       17.502      3.014    1.217        355      1.558        6.144        It.329       t6.993          -6.653      484.t68        7.069     1.672        -S.974
1999        2.168      3.053    1.230        358      1.608        6.25         15 .279      22.918          14.493      653.222        9.537      23843        15.418
2000        1.275      3.073    1.251        360      1.638        6.321         15.501      23.252          15655       663.742         9691      24.227       16630
2001        1.998      3.112    1,272        383      1.684        6.431        15,633       23.449          15.020       670.043       9.783      24.457       16.027
2002        1.275      3,131    1.285        365      1.713        6.494        15.822       23.732          15.963       679,094        9.9)5     24.701       17,017
2003lo IS                   3.131    1.285        365      1.713       6.494         15.953      23.930          17.436       685.395       10007       25.017       18.523
201sl      74.477     58.389   24.328       0.945    32.187      121,848       286.403      429.605         233.2i0                   179.478    448.695       2523710
IRR:        22%                                   IRR:         23%
NPV:       311.24                                 NPV:        44.272
SwUchhn Value for willingness             Swftding Value lor shadow prIce
10 pay (Yuarnh):              1           of tabor (Yuanfday):                    1.75
Noiese:
(1) ludh.e support servic Cwits,
(2) 0.3 Yuan per kvWh fo delata see ChdMduai cost benil lables.
(3) See btdMduat cost benel tbbes lIo delks.
14) Se Individual cost beneLl tables br deais.
(5) 1% of iat loiawtstwe  kw 4 anuenance. plus 1.3% of toti4al Iresmeri br ovethui worls.
16) N Is assum"d thul Om average wtgness lo pay for waler An 11w proekc  are w  be of leal 1.5 Yuan per mo.I
17) In  00  labor days. assumnirg nhol 40% of Uw dolal popudalion Is econwd  lay acUve and would have 10 sPend on average 10% of their active time for water lethin
Shadow price od lbr wes assumed xi Yuan 2.51day.
-4



TablC 4: ECONOMIC COST BENEFIT ANALYSIS OF RURAL DRINKING WATER SUPPLY,
YUNCIIENC-TUBF-WELL l'UMPING SYSTEMS
(Yuan '000)
OperaUng Costs                                 Benefits
Year investment  Electicity Salaries Admlnistr. Maintenance   Total    Waler delivered  Wiliingness   Not Benefit
J1)         12)       13)       14)          (S)                    rooom')        to pay IS)
1996       18.315                 374         112           421       907                 0            0      *19,222
1"7        15,596      2.175      692         208           780    3.855              4.087        6,130      -13.321
1998       11,165      2.891      920         276         1.037    5.124              7.567       11,350      -4.938
1999                   2.691      920         276         1,0317   5,124             10,058       15,087       9.964
2000                   2.891      920         276          1.037    5.124            10.058       15.087        9.964
2001                    2.891     920         276          1.037    5.124            10.058       15.087        9.964
2002                    2.891     920         276          1.031    5.124            10.05,       15,087        9,964
2003 to 15                  2.891      920         276         1.037    5.124             10.058       15.087        9.964
Total      45.076     54.209   17.626        5.288       19.863   96.986            182.645      273.967      131.906
IRR:              20%                                                                                                                            CT
NPV:            19.19S
Notes:
(1) Including  e  of support service cost.
(2) Calculation based on Oh operating tme ol pumps per day, an instaled toal capacdy of 3300kW and a price of 0 3 Yuan per kWh.
(3) 230 operetors with an average annual salary of Yuan 4000 per operalor.
(4) Yuan 1200 per operator for smnaN offlc supply and healing. communkation fees, travel expenses. etc.
(5) 1% of total lnvestment lor maintenance. plus 1.3% of total Investment fr overhaul.wos.
(6) 1 Is assumed that Ihe average wiilngness to pay for water in the project area will be aI least 1.5 Yuan per O'.
.                                                                              s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Tablc 5: ECONOMIC COST BENEFIT ANALYSIS OF RURAL DRINKING WATERt SUPPLY, YUNCIIENG-WATER DIVERTING SYSTEMS
(YUAN '000)
Operating Costs                               Boneflts
Year Investmont  Electricity Salaries Adminhsir. Maintenance   Total   Waterdelivered Wliingness   Net Beneilt
11)         (i2      131        (4)         1S)                    r OOOm',      to pay (6)
1996        4.209         11       60         Is            97       186                0            0       -4395
1997        7.727         30      171         51           275,     527              1.165        1.748       6,506
1998        4.534         42      236         71           179'     728              3,305       4.958         -304
199                       42      236         71           379       726             4.560       6.841        6.113
2000                      42      236         71           379       728             4.560       6.841        6.113
2001                      42      236         71           379       728             4.560       6.841        6.113
2002                      42      236         71           379      728              4.560       6.841        6.113
20031o 1S                     42      236          11           379      728             4.560        6,841        6.113
Total      16.47i        798    4.479       1,344         7,190   13.811            81.998      122.997      92.715
IRR:              3S%
NPV:           21,651
Notes:
(1) Induding shwe of suppodt servkce costs.
(2) CakulatIon based on 8h operating thm of pumps per day, an instaNed total capacty of 48kW and a price ol 0.3 Yuan per kWh.
(3) 59 operators with an average annual salary of Yuan 4000 per opernlor.
(4) Yuan 1200 per operator for snial ofice supply and heating, communikation fees. lyavel expenses. etc
(5) 1% of total nvestment for maintenance, plus 1 3% of tdal investmnent for ovethaul works.
(6) It Is assumed that the average wVingness to pay to waler in the ptroed area will be at least 1 5 Yuan per m'.
x
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



Table 6: ECONOMIC COST BENEFIT ANALYSIS OF RURAL DRINKING WATER SUPPLY,
LULIANG-1UIIE-WELL PUMPING SYSTEMS
(Yuan '000)
Operating Costs                               Benefits
Year hnvestment  Elctrlcty Salaries Adrmnlstr. Maintenanco   Total   Water delivered Willngness   Nett Snent
(i)         (2)      13)        (4)         (5)                    (GOOm')       to pay (61
1996         846          23       10          2            19       54                 0            0         -900
19?         1.460         62       28          5            53       147               67          101       -1.506
1998         733          81       37          6            7 t0     194              1e4          275         -652
9gg9        1.463        120       54          9           104      267               242          363       -1.387
2000          737        140       63          11          121       334              358          537         .534
2001        1.464        179       at          14          154       428              417          625       -1.266
2002      .  737         196       90          IS          171       475              534          800         412
2003 to 15                    198      90          15           171      475               592         8s8          414
Total       7.441      3.381    1.534        256          2,917    8.088             9.500       14.250      -1.278
IRR:             none
NPV:            -3,273
Notes:
(1) Inckludng shate of support service costs.
(2) Calculation based on 2h operating ltme of pumnps per day. an instaled total capacity of 906kW and a price of 0.3 Yuan per kWh
(31 ?5 vage operators with an average annual salary of Yun 1200 per operaetr.
(4) Yuan 200 per village opetalor for overhead costs.
(5) 1% of total Investment lot maintenUnce. plus 1.3% o tolat investment for overhaul works.
(6) It is assumned that the average willigness to pay for water in the project area will be at least 1.5 Yuan per mi.



Table 7: ECONOMIC COST BENEFIT ANALYSIS OF RURAL DRINKING WATER SUPrLY,
LULIANG-WATER DIVERTING SYSTEMS
(Yuan '000)
Operating Costs                                Benents
Year Investment  Electricity Salaries Admninisir. Maintenance   Tolal   Water delivered Willingness   Not Benefit
(11         (2)       (3)       (41          (6)                    (DOOOm')       to pay (6)
t996          840                   9           I            19       29                  0            0        -868
1997          724                  16           1            36       54                 89          134        -644
1998          727                  24           2            53       79                167         250         -556
1999          363                  28           2            61       91               244          366          -87
2000          366                  31           3            69       103               283          424         -45
2001          363                  35           3            78       It6               322          483           4
2002          368                  39           3            86       128               360          541          47
2003 to 15                              39           3            86      128               399          599          471
Total       3,748          0      689          57         1.523    2.269              6,657        9.986        3.969
IRR:              10%
NPV:              -374
Notes:
(1) Induding share of support service costs.
(2) None.
(3) 65 vilage operators with an average annual salary of Yuan 600 per operator.
(4) Yuan 50 per vilage opeqator tor ovethead costs.,
(5)1 % of lotal invesimenl for mnatnenance, plus 1.3% of total Investment for overhaul works.
(6) It is assumed that the average wlgness to pay for water In Ihe prolect area wil be at least 1 5 Yuan per m'.
!                                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~X



ITable 8: ECONOMIC Cosr BENEFI T ANALYSIS OF RURAL DRINKING WATER SUrPLY,
LULIANG-WATER STORAGE SYSTEMS
(Yuan '000)
OpPrmiUn Costs                                 Benefits
Year Investment  Eleciicty Saladrie  Admtnsftr. Maintenance   Total    Water delivered Willingness   Not boneit
{1L....    {(2)       (3)       (43          (S)                    CooomJ)        to pay (6)
1996         198                                              5         S                 0            0         -203
1997          342                                            12         12              39            59         -296
1998          343  i                                         20        20               106          159        -204
1999          342                                            28        25               174         261         -110
2000          173                                            32        32               241          362         157
2001         1l1                                             36        36               275         413          205
2002          173                                            40        40               309          463         251
20031to l                                                         40       40               343          514          474
TOAal       1.741          0        0           0           694       694             5,602        8,403        5,968
IRR:              26%
NPV:             1.054
Notes:
(1) Incudig share of suppod servke coss.
(2) None.
(3) None.
(41 None.
(5) 1% oftal inW stmentn kw maitnance, pis 1.3% of total Investment for ovethau'works.
(6) 11 Is assumed Mat tw average wngess to pay '?r wale In the proed aris v*3 be at lesst 1.5 Yuan per m'.
-41



-131-                          ANNEX 8
ANNEX 8: LIVESTOCK
Summary
1.    The aim of the livestock component would be to raise the incomes of the poorer farmers
through the introduction of large animals to their farming operation. The component also includes
improvements in veterinary services, artificial insemination, and research. The main elements of
the component will be:
(a)   the introduction of livestock to poor and marginal farmers who have access to
adequate crop residues and/or large areas of unimproved natural pasture;
(b)   the improvement of veterinary and artificial insemination services;
(c)   the introduction of better techniques for silage making and the upgrading of
artificial and natural pastures amongst existing livestock owners; and
(d)   research in topics relevant to small livestock farmers, and training for project
officials and farmers.
2.    Farmers would be provided with two breeding cows. The farmers themselves would
construct the necessary livestock shelter, water trough and silage pit. The cows would be paid for
over 6-12 years and farmers would be required to take out an insurance policy against the death of
their foundation animals. Simple low-cost fodder conservation techniques such as ammoniated
straw silage would be promoted and farmers would be encouraged to keep their operational cash
commitments to a minimum. The current target is for 14,000 farmers to receive a livestock loan
under the project.
3.    Facilities and equipment would be improved at 222 existing veternary service stations, the
Shanxi Frozen Semen Center in Taiyuan, the Jinan Yellow Cattle Breeding Center in Yuncheng
and the frozen semen and liquid nitrogen production center in Lishi.
4.    To promote better quality silage making, livestock owners would be provided with
grass/straw choppers. Crop residues from a number of farmers could be handled by a single
chopping machine located in villages where new livestock farmers are to be established. An
additional 500 loans would be offered to existing livestock owners for the establishment of artificial
pastures and improvement of natural pasture and wasteland. Where individual enclosure of pasture
is either impractical or not accepted, loans should be offered to groups of livestock owners for the
improvement of common grazing areas. Cost estimates are shown in Table 1.



-132-                           ANNEX 8
Cattle Production
5.    In recent years there has been a movement away from large collectively-owned herds of
cattle in which a high proportion were male animals kept for draught purposes, to small
individually-owned herds where breeding cows predominate. Where grazing is available, these
small herds are often managed as a group under the care of a professional herdsman. In areas of
intensive arable farming cattle are kept close to the homestead in shelters where stall feeding is
carried out.
6.    With the diversity in farming practices found in the project area, there are an equally varied
set of cattle management practices. However, there appear to be common management themes
developing amongst small cattle owners which deserve recognition. Farmers are anxious to own
breeding cows and regard them as a source of draught power as well as producing cash and other
benefits through calves and manure production. Also, cattle are seen as a cashable security in times
of hardship or sudden crisis. It is widely reported that the majority of farmers sell calves in their
first year of age primarily to meet cash demands but also to reduce the high feed costs of winter and
early spring. Few small farmers fatten cattle for beef.
7.    There is some evidence of specialised beef fattening enterprises emerging to meet the strong
nationwide demand for beef. Such operations buy animals either directly from the small farmer in
the village or from an official cattle saleyards which are found throughout the project area. These
enterprises are able to offer economies of scale, cultivate better market access, and improved
fattening techniques and management. It is a logical development for an expanding industry and
one that will provide benefits for the small farmer engaged in cow-calf breeding.
8.    Livestock prices have risen rapidly in the last two years, and in 1994 rose on average over
200 percent. Average sale prices for in-calf cows and heifers have in the past 12 months risen from
Yl,300 to Y3,500 and there has been commensurate increases in value of yearling animals. The
principal reason for this spurt in livestock values seems to be increased demand for beef and other
meats brought about by the growth of disposable incomes throughout China. Deregulation
throughout the economy is allowing farmners to respond to demand by increasing livestock numbers
but the immediate supply of breeding stock is limited. It will be difficult for the project to procure
significant numbers of breeding cows in Shanxi Province without seriously distorting prices.
Therefore, cattle will have to be purchased from other provinces where at present surplus animals
are available.
9.    Management techniques and ability are varied. In general, the cattle in the highlands are
kept less intensively than those in the low lands. Low calving indices are apparently acceptable in
both areas and it is a common practice not to serve an animal which is lactating. Calving indices
reported range from 0.5 to 1; however, indices of 0.75 to 0.85 are not ambitious and should be
readily attained.
10.   Animal health is remarkably good. Brucellosis and endo parasites are reported to be
problems but the incidence of abortion is reported as low and routine treatmnent for fluke and worms
is said to be generally practiced.



-133 -                          ANNEX8
11.   The policy of the Animal Husbandry Bureau (AHB) is to encourage the use of Artificial
Insemination (AI) and promote the crossbreeding of the local Yellow Jinan cattle with exotics such
as Simmental for their perceived faster growth rate and better carcass conformation. AHB
estimates that about 30 percent of the cows in the project area are bred to Al with a success rate of
about 1.8 inseminations per conception. However, no work seems to have been carried out to
compare the feed conversion efficiency or biomass production of the local breeds with the exotics
under normal village conditions, despite the evidence that the meat from the these local breeds is
highly sought after and is even exported to Hong Kong. The project will initiate this research and
provide funding to maintain the local breed.
Sheep and Goat Production
12.   Most sheep and goat flocks are grazed extensively in the growing season and grazed in the
winter and spring on crop residues and natural pasture with some supplementation with conserved
fodder. The majority of flocks number between 20 and 50, the latter being the number which
require a full time herder. The method of grazing sheep and goats on steep land accelerates erosion
and intensive grazing in winter and spring, if not carefully controlled, increases tree damage
through bark stripping. The project will assist in the development of improved herd managing
practices. The main product is wool or fibre and the demand for meat is firm although not as high
as that for beef and pork. skins are in demand for leather, and all by-products have a local market,
and are also exported. Present management practices of sheep and goats are create erosion
problems and endanger the long-term sustainable use of the natural grazing resources.
Livestock Services
13.   Although the condition of roads in the upland and mountain villages of the project area are
often poor, veterinary and artificial insemination services are found in all counties and townships
with some sub-stations at village level. Veterinary staff at townships and below are funded by the
charges levied for treatments and vaccinations and the mark-up on the sale price of medicines and
inseminations. These veterinary staff are also responsible for demonstration and extension work
relating to animal husbandry, animal health, pasture improvement and fodder conservation.
Institutions
14.   The relevant administrative department at provincial level is The Shanxi Livestock and
Veterinary Departrnent (LVD) is resposible for livestock throughout the province. It controls the
Provincial Animal Husbandry Bureau (AHB) which in turn serves and supervises the county
AHBs. All LVD and AHB staff are salaried. The AHBs train and supervises the township
Veterinary Service Station staff, who are responsible for extension and some farmer training at the
village level. Staff at this level draw their wages from the fees they charge, and from the mark-up
on goods sold to farmers. In addition, it is cormrmon for supplementary non-veterinary activities to
be carried out to help fund veterinary activities and staff.
15.   Further support for the sector is provided by the Shanxi Livestock and Veterinary Institute,
the Shanxi Agricultural Research Institute and the Shanxi Agricultural University. All these



-134-                          ANNEX 8
institutions are active in animal husbandry, grassland and pasture improvement research, and in the
selection and evaluation of different pasture plant accessions. The Pastwe and Grassland Station,
the Fodder and Feed Station, the Livestock and Fowl Breeding Station and the Station for the
Prevention and Treatment of Diseases of Livestock come under the provincial LVD.
16.   The Shanxi Frozen Semen Center at Taiyuan is the main source of frozen semen in the
province for artificial insemination (Al) of cattle. The Jinan Yellow Cattle Improvement Center in
Yuncheng and the Lishi Frozen Semen Center act as semen storage depots and distribution centers
for the Veteinary Service Stations whose staff carry out the inseminations.
17.   In-service training of prefectural and county staff is the responsibility of the provincial
AHB. Training of township technicians and farmers is carried out by prefectural staff and county
staff. Townships staff serve as the extension contact with farmers groups and individuals. In 1994
all prefecture and county level staff received a series of training programs on the use and
improvement of natural pastures, the ammonia treatment of crop residues, silage making and
methods of mixing feed for ruminants. These technical staff are now training township staff and
farmers. Farmers appear to have a high degree of confidence in the skills of the lower level
technical staff.
Credit and Insurance
18.   Fonnal agricultural credit is the responsibility of the Agricultural Bank of China (ABC).
Recently ABC has undergone a restructuring where its loan commitments under govemment
programs have been spun off to a new loan entity, the Agricultural Development Bank of China.
This move is designed to allow ABC to follow a more market-oriented and commercial approach to
agricultural lending. ABC's existing livestock sector loan portfolio is small and loan repayments
terms are limited to 1-2 years. The Prefectural Insurance Company offers cover against death of
animals with insurance premiums ranging from 3-5 percent per annum of the animal value. These
insurance rates are much higher than those which might be expected considering the low recorded
death losses in the project area. However, in the past there appears to have been farmer abuses of
the insurance system and this is now reflected in higher rates.
Detailed Features
19.   Introduction of Cattle. About 10,900 farmers in Yuncheng and 2,900 farmers in Luliang
will receive two breeding cows/heifers.
(a)   Priority would be given to farmers from villages that do not have large numbers of
existing livestock and where agricultural income levels are below average.
(b)   In the lowlands, farmers should have a minimum of lOmu of arable land under grain
crops from which residues can be retained for animal fodder. In addition, these
farmers should be located in areas where there are surplus crop residues which can
be acquired in exchange for manure, labor or cash.



-135 -                          ANNEX 8
(c)   In the mountains, farmers should also have about 10 mu of arable land under grain
crops and access to natural pasture under a contract of not less than 30 years. Care
should be taken that the natural pasture areas have adequate capacity to receive
additional animals.
(d)   Farmers would be expected, from their own resources, to provide an adequate
animal shelter, a water trough and a silage pit or pits .
20.   The cost of breeding cattle has risen sharply over the last 18 months, and quality
cows/heifers are expected to cost Y 4,000 per head at the time of purchase. Full procurement of a
sufficient number of quality animals for the project may prove difficult in a single year and
implementation will be phased over two or more years. However, as regards individual farmers,
they will receive a complete animal package in one transaction.
21.   Veterinary Service Stations. A total of 324 township veterinary service stations (VSS)
service the project area in both prefectures and about 222 stations have been identified for
improvement. They are staffed by between two and four veterinary technicians. At present the
VSS's have no motorized transport and their ability to service the veterinary and artificial
insemination needs of remote areas is limited. The project would provide a motorcycle for the
identified VSSs and motorcycles would be assigned and sold to specific staff to avoid overuse or
misuse. Staff receiving a motorcycle loan will be paid an allowance for duty use which would fully
cover the operation and maintenance of the machine. Each VSS will have a refrigerator, liquid
nitrogen flasks, a microscope, a sterilizer and a basic set of surgical instruments. The project will
finance the construction of 90 treatment rooms in those VSS's without this facility. To assist in the
tansport and distrbution of semen, liquid nitrogen, demonstration materials and vaccines, eight
utility vehicles will be provided for those counties (five in Yuncheng and three in Luliang) having
the highest work load.
22.   Artificial Insemination Centers. The Shanxi Frozen Semen Center at Taiyuan will be
supported by providing computer equipment for contemporary comparison of bull performance.
This equipment will assist the Center in the publication of a herdbook with comparative
performance figures. The project will also provide a second line for the production of frozen semen
straws and plugs and the purchase of four Jinan Yellow bulls for the maintenance of good quality
germ plasm of local breeds.
23.   Jinan Yellow Cattle Breeding Center. Upgrading the Jinan Yellow Cattle Breeding
Center in Yuncheng requires no major structural work but the project will provide funds for the
renovation of the well, pump, powerline, water tower. Similarly, funds will be provided for the
repair of the two existing liquid nitrogen generators. At Lishi, the Animal Husbandry Bureau
intend to relocate the frozen semen center into buildings away from the town's center. The project
will provide funds for alterations to these buildings and for the purchase of a new 20 liter per hour
liquid nitrogen generator. To assist with the procurement of semen from Taiyuan and its
distribution together with vaccines and demonstration materials throughout the project area, the
project will provide for eight utility vehicles (Yuncheng five, Luliang three).



-136-                           ANNEX 8
24.   Silage Makdng and Pasture Improvement. To support the development of higher quality
ammonia treated straw and grass silage, the project will provide loan finds for existing livestock
farmers to purchase electrically operated grass/straw choppers. Two hundred chopping machines
will be funded and extension staff will focus their silage demonstration on farmers using these
machines. Five hundred pasture improvement loans will also be provided for existing livestock
owners to establish artificial alfalfa/chinese vetch pastures and improve natural pastures through the
introduction of better grass and legume species and the application of fertilizer. Similarly,
extension staff will work with the farmers taking up pastures loans to promote the wider use of
quality pasture amongst livestock owners.
25.   The introduction of cattle to farmers in the project area will generate income from a surplus
of feed resources. In the plain areas of Yuncheng there are large amounts of wheat straw and maize
stover as byproducts from the cropping activities and in the hilly areas in both prefectures there are
unused resources of natural pasture which can best be exploited by large ruminants.
Financial and Economic Analysis
26.   A farm model has been prepared to estimate the likely financial results of introducing
livestock to a typical farm (Table 2). The risk to the farmer is limited by keeping the investments to
a minimum and he will borrow only for the purchase of two breeding cattle or heifers. The
construction of shelter, silage pits, water tanks and some fencing will be low cost and done with his
own labor. On this basis the farmer will be able to pay back the initial loan for the breeding
animals from the sale of off-spring within six years and he will have, even during this repayment
period, an annual cash surplus of about Y 490. After repayment, the annual net farm income from
this livestock operation will be about Y 1,800, which will be a return to labor of Y37 per day.
27.   The ERR is 20 percent and includes all investment in support services such as artificial
insemination centers and veterinary services (Table 3). These services will not be limited to the
project farmers and will create wider benefits that are not included in the economic analysis. A
sensitivity analysis shows that a drop in the fertility rate from 70 to 60 percent, which could result
from poor insemination practices and/or poor health standards and calf death, would drop the ERR
from 20 percent to 14 percent.



-137-                               ANNEX8
Table 1: LIVESTOCK INVESTMENT COST SUMMARY (Base Costs)
Unit Price Total Costs
Unit  Quantity    (Yuan) (Yuan '000)
Yuncheng Prefecture
A. Cattle Farms (9400 No.)
Animal Purchasing (2 cows per farm)    No.  18.800     3.990     75.012
Farmer Investment /a           lump sum                          15.988
Subtotal Cattle Farms                                              91.000
B. Veterinary Stations (10 No.)
New treatment rooms               No.         60    12.996          780
Equipment                       lump sum                          1.293
Motor cycle                        No        150      8.120       1.218
Subtotal Veterinary StatIons                                        3.291
C. Al Support Center                lump sum                            534
0. Pasture Improvement                                                 1.042
E. Grass Chopper                       No.        160      1.800        288
Total Yuncheng                                                        96.155
Luliang Prefecture
A. Cattle Farms (2100 No.)
Animal Purchasing (2 cows per farm)   No.   4200      3,990      16.758
Farner Investment /a                                              3.591
Subtotal CatUe Farns (2100 No.)                                    20.349
B. Veterinary Stations (72 No.)
New treatment rooms               No.         30    12.996          390
Rehab, of treatment rooms         No.         42      3.420         144
Equipment                       lump sum                            566
Motor Cycle                       No.         72      8.120        585
Subtotal Veterinary Stations                                        1.684
C. Al Support Center
Investment Costs               lump sum                             499
Operating Costs (year 1 to 7)   lump sum                            654
Subtotal Al Support Center                                          1.153
0. Pasture Improvement                                                 1.025
E. Grass Chopper                       No.         40      1,800         72
F. Adaptive Research and Demonstration
Pasture and Fodder Crop Research  lump sum                          547
Feeding Trials                 lump sum                             205
Natural Pasture Development    lump sum                             194
Extension Support              lump sum                             570
Subtotal Adaptive Research and Demonstration                        1.516
Total Luliang                                                         25.800
Taiyuan Frozen Semen Center         lump sum                           1.985
Total Livestock Component                                            123,941
ba For stable. silage pit, drinking water pond. etc. (no IDA disbursement).



Table 2: CATrLE FAIRM CASnI FLOW MODEL
Uni Pike
Establishment                       Uni  auanilly  (Yuan)   Year I Yew 2 Yew 3 Yec 4 Yee S Yew S  Yew Yew   5 Vye r 9-13   year 14  Yew I5  Year 16.20
Cattle                            No.        2  3.990   7.980
Sheler. Slage Pits & Waler Tanks  (arm           1.700   1.700
Total Establishment Costs           Yuan I                 9.680
Annual Operation                           Prke or Fadot
Herd Composbion
Breeding Cow/Helfer              No.                     2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0    2.0        2.0     2.0     2.0       2.0
Calt (90% In year 1. and 70% In  No          90%170      1.8   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4    1.4        1.4     1.4      1.4      1.4
years 2 to 20 fertlhty rales)
Sales
Calf                             No.           1,750     1.8   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4    1.4        1.4      1.4     1.4      1.4
Cult Cow                         No.           2.990                                           1.0    1.0              1.0      1.0
Income
Animal Sales                    Yuan                   3.150 2.450 2.450 2.450 2.450 2.450  5,440   5.440   2.450   5.440   5.440      2.450            1
Contrad Anml Labor              Yuan     Yuan 12/day     300   600   600   600   600   600   600    600       6W       600     600       600
Gross Income                      Yuan                   3.450 3.050 3.050 3.050 3.050 3.050  6.040   6.040   3.050   6.040   6.040      3.050  .
Operating Expenditure
Ctop R"idues (samonia treatmnt)  Yuan                     74    74    74    74    74    74    74       74       74      74      74        74
Concentrate Feed and Sal        Yuan   Yuan 800/top      336   336   338   338   338   336    336    336      336      336     338       336
Aitifidal insemination/natural broodin  Yuan   Yuan 351 straw    140   140   140   140   140   140   140    140  140   140     140       140
Veterlnary Servke               Yuan   Yuan 20 1 head     76    68    68    68    68    68    68       68       68      68      a8        68
insurance                       Yuan  4%docowfvalue    319   319   319   319   319   319   319    319         319      319     319       319
Breeding Cow/Heiler             Yuan           I                                             3.990   3.990           3.990   3.990
Total Operating Expenditure Ibform debt servicing)        945   937 '. 937   937 .,937   937  4.927   4.927     937   4.927   4,927       937
|Flnancia lCashFlow(operating)                             2.505 2.113 2.113 2.113 2.113 2.113  1,113   1.113   2.113   1.113   1.113      2.113|
Loan repaynent for cattle      Yuan 1.623/ year (8 years)   1.623 1,623 1.623 1.623 1,622 1.622
of which: Prncipal                                     1.144 1.213 1.286 1.363 1.444 1.530
Interest (@ 6%)                                  479   410   337   260   176    92
Materal for Shelter, Silag Pis  Waler Tanks 30% of lotal costs0   510
Not incremental Fann income                                 372   490   489   490   490   491  1.113   1,113   2,113   1,113   1,113      2,113
Economic Analysis
Economic input Costs A/                                 11.487 1.105 1.105 1.105 1,105 1,105  6.292   6.292   1.105   6.292   6.292      1.105
Labor Costs b/                           Yuan 7.2 I day   1.195   360   360   360   360   310   360    360      360     360      360      360
Econonic lncome c/                                       4.335 3,665 3.665 3.665 %3.665 3.665  7.552   7.552   3.665   7.552   7.552     3.665
rEconomic Cash Flow                                       -8.347 2.200 2.200 2.200 2.200 2.200   900    900   2.200        900     900     2,200
Economic IRR: 24%,
a The financal price for animls I adjusted by a converslon fador of 1.3: the concentrate feod prke Is adjusted by 1.5; other Inputs rto valued at fnancal prkes.
b 116 days establishmnnt. and 30 days annual operation.
C/ The finandal prike for anknals Is adlusted by a converion factor of 1.3; aninal labor Is adjusted by 0.8.



-139-                          ANNEX 8
Table 3: LIVESTOCK COMPONENT
ECONOMIC CASH FLOW ANALYSIS
(Yuan million)
Suppont Service Costs  Inamental Benefts (Farms)   Net Benefits
Year  Luli ng a/   Yuncheng  Taiyuan   Luliang  Yuncteng
1996     2.63      2.35   1.99      -4.38     -19.62      -30.96
1997     0.40      1.79             -3.23     -14.45      -19.86
1998     0.40      0.91             -2.07      -9.28      -12.66
1999     0.40      0.21             -0.92      -4.11       -5.63
2000     0.40                        4.62      20.68       24.90
2001     0.09                        4.62      20.68       25.20
2002     0.09                        3.94      17.62       21.47
2003     0.09                        3.25      14.57       17.73
2004     0.09                        3.25      14.57       17.73
2005     0.09                        3.25      14.57       17.73
2006     0.09                        3.94      17.62       21.47
2007     0.09  .                     4.62      20.68       25.20
2008     0.09                        4.62     : 20.68      25.20
2009     0.09                        3.94      17.62       21.47
2010     0.09                        3.25      14.57       17.73
2011     0.09                        3.25      14.57       17.73
2012     0.09                        3.25      14.57       17.73
2013     0.09                        3.94      17.62       21.47
2014     0.09                        4.62     -20.68       25.20
2015     0.09                        4.62      20.68       25.20
IRR:     20%
NPV:    39.66
a/ Inituding oAertional costs of Lishi Artifical Insemination Center.
Sensitivity Scenarios:.,                              resulting IRR:
Economic Prices of Livestock drop by 20%                 16%
Economic Prices of Livestock increased by 20%            23%
Fertility Rate is 60% instead of 70%                     14%
Concentrate Feed Prices increased by 50%                 16%
Opportunity Costs of Labor increased by 50%              17%



-140-                          ANNEX 9
ANNEX 9: HORTICULTURE
Summary
1.    The project plan for fruit and nut trees in Yuncheng and Luliang, summarized below, builds
on considerable experience of suitable orchard crops in the project areas. Except in Yuncheng,
where the Chinese dates and prickly ash will be interplanted in the wheat fields, the orchards will
be established on slope lands where the slope is too steep for field crops, or on reclaimed waste
land. In most cases field crops such as millet and soybean will be interplanted in the early years of
the orchards. The project will also include improvement of seedling nurseries. This component
will raise incomes for more than 250,000 households in the project areas, and will also contribute to
erosion control. Cost estimates are shown in Table 1.
Luliang      Yuncheng
- Area in ha
Chinese Dates           15,000          23,300
Prickly Ash                             12,500
Kemel Apricots          2,800
Walnuts                 2,800            8,800
Chestnuts                                3,300
Apples                    700
Luliang Prefecture Chinese Date (Zizyphus sativa)
2.    The red Chinese date (jujube) has been cultivated in Shanxi province for thousands of years.
During the centuries natural evolution and artificial selection made by the local population have
resulted in many outstanding varieties. The Chinese date can survive and give a good yields in a
climate with a short vegetative season (frost-free period being only 150-170 days), dry springs, dry
and cold winters (-23°C), sparse rainfall (only 400-500 mm/year) and absence of irrigation.
Ability to withstand these extreme climatic conditions makes the Chinese date a good choice for the
loess hills of Luliang. It is also highly efficient in using the high sumrnmer sunlight and the little
water available. Consequently it is a good crop for exploiting the 266,000 ha of slope land and
118,000 ha of wasteland in the project area. So far, around 42,000 ha of Chinese dates have been
planted in the project area, with a production of about 30,000 tons (many trees being still
immature). The range of varieties adopted has been reduced to several high-perfomiimg cultivars,
selected for their adaptability to the dry soils and climatic conditions of the Luliang mountains.



-141-                           ANNEX 9
3.    The Chinese date can be eaten fresh or dried and converted into a wide range of products,
including candied forms, sweets, jellies and juices. In its dried form the fruit can be kept up fo one
year. The fruit has a high level of Vitamin C content; around 400 mg/I 1Og freshweight, which is
fourtimes more than kiwi fruit as well as other vitamins A, B and P, and it has an important place in
Chinesese traditional medicine.
4.    These new orchards will occupy the hilly loess region,with slopes of 15-20 degrees on the
west side of the Luliang prefecture. This is land that is considered "low -input and low- output"
famiing land, mostly used for growing soybean or millet. Within the project, four counties will be
involved in the new plantations: Xingxian (2,100 ha), Linxian (5,000 ha), Liulin (4,100 ha), and
Shilou (3,800 ha).
5.    Land preparation will consist of constructing Im wide terraces with 2 m sloping risers. A
basin will be formed around each plant to conserve moisture. The orchards will have an average
density of 750 plants/ha (4mx3.3m). Planting will be mostly in spring, with some in autumn. After
planting, soybean intercropping will also be possible for the first seven years. Each household will
manage its own plot of about 0.4 ha (6 mu). At present typical farms have an average of 10 mu
cultivated as follows: 4-5 mu soybean, 2-3 mu of millet, 2-3 mu of maize.
6.    The new Chinese date plantings will require around 13,500,000 seedlings in six years, or an
average of 2.25 million plants annually. The existing nurseries are not able to supply immediately
such a large amount of'plants, but the project will stimulate the output from farmer-owned and
operated nurseries. Chinese dates plants produce suckers naturally from the roots. These suckers
can be collected and transplanted in the nurseries at high density planting (5,000 suckers/mu =
75,000 suckers/ha) for one or two years, with an output of high quality plants estimated at 4,000
plants/mu (= 60,000 plants/ha). In some cases, grafting on wild Chinese date seedling can also be
adopted. The large number of existing trees in the project area assures the availability of suckers
for the nurseries. To speed up the project implementation with good plant material, the project
includes finance for about 250 household Chinese date nurseries with an average nursery area of
0.1 ha.
7.    Incremental production after 16 years will be around 1 12,500tons. Added to the output of
the existing area of Chinese dates planted in the project area of 42,000 ha (315,000 tons), future
production will be around 428,000 tons. The main part of this output will be sold on the domestic
market, inside Shanxi but also in the southem Chinese provinces where the fruit is popular. The
Chinese date fruits can be easily stored without any cold storage, thus sales to domestic and foreign
markets can be carried out all the year around. The "Mu Zao" variety has a good reputation and is
recognized by domestic and foreign buyers for its high quality in relation to its relatively low price.
Kernel Apricot (Prunus armeniaca)
8.    The kemel apricot is suitable for planting at high altitude, from El. 800 m to El. 1,200 m.
The varieties are selected for their cold and drought resistance, high yield and almond-kemel
quality. The plan is to plant 2,800 ha of new kemel apricot orchards in the cold, rocky mountain
areas of five counties, in shallow soils of the millet fields. These local selected apricot varieties



-142 -                          ANNEX 9
appear particularly adapted to the climatic conditions, and few alternative fruit trees are suitable for
these cold areas. Luliang has a long tradition of growing kernel apricots.
9.    Each householder will convert an average of 0.4 ha (6 mu) of his land to apricot orchards,
so that about 7,000 households will directly benefit from the project with a total of 28,000 family
members. The existing county nurseries can supply around 319,000 plants, and the households
nurseries around 801,000 kernel apricot plants, which will be more than sufficient for the plantings
in the first year (350,000 plants). The use of this kernel apricot is widespread and popular in China,
and most of the incremental production will be sold at the domestic market. However, exports will
also be promoted since the main constraint on exports is lack of product, and in the past exports
have been made to Japan and to Europe.
Walnut (Juglans regia)
10.   New walnut orchards will be planted on 2,800 ha in the high, cool region of the middle
section of the Luliang mountain, in five counties. The plantations will occupy existing millet fields
on sloping land. There is a long history and tradition in the project area for walnut cultivation.
Walnuts are easy to store and transport, the oil and fruit are nutritious, and the wood has many uses
for ornamentals and furniture.
11.   The new plantations will have a density of 400 plants/ha(5mx5m)and will be intercropped
with with millet during the first six years. Before planting, the slope land (15-20 degrees) will be
terraced with lm wide benches and 4m wide sloping risers.
12.   For the project implementation the existing state nurseries (at county level) within the
project area can produce 230,000 walnut plants annually and the household nurseries produce
550,000 plants, so there willbe an ample supply of seedlings. The main constraint wi be the need
for good quality plant material in terms of genetic correspondence with the chosen variety grafted
on a good rootstock, two years old, and capable of good survival after planting in the field. An
average of 0.4 ha (= 6 mu) will be planted by each household, for a total of 7,000 families or 28,000
people.
Apple
13.   About 700 ha of new apple orchards will be spread over seven counties. There are a
number of apple nurseries in the project area ensuring an adequate supply of good planting
material. Existing famiing land occupied by soybean will be planted with low density orchards
(4rnx4m = 625 plants/ha), using the common well-known high-yielding varieties; the local red
"Liulinhong" and the more famous "Fuji". The land chosen for apples has 10-15 degrees of slope
and wide terraces, of about 4m, will be prepared for planting the apple seedlings. At full orchard
development the new 700 ha of apples will give a fruit output of around 8,750 tons, very small in
relation to the existing apple production of Shanxi province, which is about 330,000 tons.



-143 -                          ANNEX 9
Research, Development and Training
14.   A prograrn of research and development will be undertaken under the supervision of the
Agricultural Academy of Sciences, in co-operation with the Yuncheng and Luliang Forestry
Bureaus. In general, the purpose of the described activities is to establish a good, strong
relationship with the training and extension services, as well as with other institutions in Shanxi and
in other provinces with similar aims, interests and programmes.
15.   Tissue Culture Laboratory.  Because of the potential use of the micropropagation
technique in a medium term program and mainly with the aim of propagating new selected jujube
clones recently found in the Prefecture, a Tissue Culture Laboratory will be established at the
Forestry Research Station of Lishi in Luliang. It will include a new building, all necessary
instruments, a greenhouse and a shade house for transplanting the plantlets to "in vivo" conditions.
The size of the laboratory will permit an initial production of around 50,000 plantlets/year.
16.   Cutting Nursery. Besides the tissue culture laboratory, a cutting nursery and a plot for
mother plants for suckers and scions will also be set up at the Forestry Research Station for research
in vegetative clonal propagation. In recent years, various experiments have shown the possibility
of obtaining jujube plants by means of cuttings and rooted under fog or mist irrigation.
17.   Mother Plant Nursery. A plot will be set up at Lishi where selected mother plants can be
collected and used every year to obtain suckers or scions for grafting. The proposal includes 60m2
of cold storage for the scions, 4 refrigerators and a intensive orchard plantation of 14,000 selected
mother plants. This will assure good plant material for project implementation as well as for any
other nursery activity for the near future in the field of jujube and walnut vegetative propagation. A
number of specific research and development projects will be undertaken.
18.   Increasing yield in young Chinese date orchards. In three counties (Xingxian, Liulin
and Shilou) plots of 30 mu (2 ha) of existing orchards will be used for different trials of intensive
soil and plant management for 3 years. Staff will also visit Cangzhou city (Hebei), Jishan (Shanxi),
Jaocheng (Shanxi). Consultancy will be provided by the Provincial Pomology Institute and
Provincial Forestry Institute.
19.   Rejuvenating existing old Chinese date orchards. In three counties (Linxian, Liulin and
Xingxian) plots of 20 mu (1.3 ha) will be treated to obtain higher yield by means of pruning and
soil management during three years. This work will be carried out by Luliang Prefecture Forestry
Bureau, in co-operation with Agronomic Department of Shanxi Agriculture University. Visits are
planned to Jiaocheng, Jishan and Taigu. The main consultants will be the Provincial Pomology
Institute and Provincial Forestry Institute.
20.   Increasing yield in walnut orchards. Two plots of 2 ha each will be planted in Linxian
and Liulin Counties with different varieties, different plant material and different management to
obtain early fruit bearing and higher yield in a typical loess area with drought problems. The
research will be carried out by the Shanxi Forestry Research Institute and Shanxi Food Research



-144 -                         ANNEX 9
Institute. Visits and consultancies will be undertaken by Forest Research Department of Shanxi
Agricultural University.
21.   Control peach moth in Chinese date. In Kehu town (Linxian County) an experimental
plot will be established, in which pheromone traps will be used as well as chemicals over a three
year period. Visits and consultancies will be the responsibility of the Plant Protection Department
of Shanxi Pomology Institute.
22.   Chinese date post-harvest technology. In co-operation with the Shanxi Farm Product
Storage and Freshness Conservation Institute, trials will be carried out (i) to improve the storage
technology of fresh fruits that are the most valuable in the market and have a highnutritional
content; and (ii) to improve techniques for drying, grading and storing dried fruits. These will be
done in collaboration with the Shanxi Pomology Institute and Hebei Agricultural University
(Baoding).
23.   Increasing yield in kernel apricot orchards. Two plots of 5 ha, in Lishi County and
Xingxian County will be established to research soil and water management methods to raise yield.
Shanxi Forestry Research Institute, Shanxi Pomological Research Institute and Luliang Prefectural
Forestry Bureau will be involved in the trials.
24.   Training and Extension. A network of Technical Extension Stations, Pest Management
Stations, Forestry Stations and Forestry Bureaux operates at various levels. About 8,700 farmers
will attend one-day training courses, twice a year. Prefecture, county, and township technicians will
be trained for five days twice a year.
Yuncheng Prefecture
Chinese Dates
25.   Chinese dates are indigenous to Yuncheng prefecture and the presence of many old trees,
sometimes over 400 years old, and many jujube orchards, demonstrates the excellent adaptability of
this crop to the local environmental conditions. Chinese date are interplanted with grain in areas
round the Fen river and along the Yellow river. Locally selected varieties of the Chinese date show
an extraordinary adaptability to the local soil and climate conditions,with their late shooting
qualities, high cold hardiness, and drought resistance.
26.   In Yuncheng, Chinese date are mostly planted in wheat fields, both in the plains and the
hilly terraces. The plants are obtained mainly by suckering, or occasionally by grafting on "shan
zao" (wild jujube = Zizyphus spinosus Bge ).
27.   The plan is to plant Chinese dates at wide spacing in about the 23,300 ha of existing wheat
fields. Average tree density per ha will be only about 180 (15 m rows and 3.7 m spacing) At a
conventional orchard spacing density of around 750 plants per ha, this will be equivalent to around
5,600 ha. Varieties will be matched to planting site. A features of the Chinese date, is that in
spring time it is late in shooting and fonning leaves, in autumn the leaves drop early, in such a way
that the light availability for field crops standing under the tree canopy is quite high for long



-145 -                          ANNEX 9
periods. Chinese date orchards in wheat fields have few technical risks; the main constraints is the
availability of good plant material.
28.   For the 23,270 ha of new plantings, there is a need for 8,500,000 plants, plus 1,700,000 for
20 percent replanting or a total amount of 10,200,000 plants. To provide this large number of
plants, a great effort will be required by both the state nurseries and those of farm households. The
only data available gives the area actually taken up by plants in the county nurseries, as follows:
29.   The nursery land for jujube trees is 10.2 ha. Considering an average of good quality plants
of 60,000 plants/ha, 612,000 plants are presently available from state nurseries. Survey data on
household nurseries indicates that their annual capacity will be around 1,000,000 plants. The area
of planting of 4,700 ha in each of the first two years has been set bearing in mind the ability of the
nurseries to produce adequate numbers of plants of suitable quality. This allows time to develop
the nurseries to produce good quality plants for the third and following years of the project
implementation, when 9,400 and 9,170 ha will be planted.
Prickly Ash (Zanthoxylum Bungeanum Maxim)
30.   The new 12,500 ha of Chinese prickly ash orchards will be planted in the same areas as
existing Chinese prickly ash plantations, in the Emei and Mingtiao mountain ridges, at
El.600-800 m. The fruits main use is as a spice for cooking, but about 5 percent is used for
medicinal purposes. Most Chinese families know, and frequently use, this spice. The orchards will
be established on narrow terraces with a density of 750 plants/ha, and a spacing of 4 x 3.3 m.
Planting material will be one year old seedlings, provided by local nurseries, of a self-pollinating
variety, named "Da Hongpao" that is seedling propagated. This variety is chosen for its full red
fruit colour, high yield, good spicy taste, aroma and flavour.
Walnut (Juglans regia)
31.   The areas chosen for 8,870 ha of new walnut orchards are in six counties in the Zhong Tiao
mountain, chain. at about El.700-800 m. All the new areas will be reclaimed from wasteland. The
orchards will have a density of 278 plants/ha (6m x 6m) planted on terraces. The plants will be two
year-old seedlings, obtained from seeds of the local varieties. The genetic quality of the plants
seemed to be one of the main constraints to good walnut orchard development.
Chestnut (Castanea mollissima)
32.   New chestnut orchards will be established on 3,330 of reclaimed wasteland in three
counties in the Zhang Tiao mountains. This an area in Shanxi province where chestnut trees have
been grown from many years with good results. The rate of planting will have to be kept within the
capacity of local nurseries to produce good quality plants. Plant densities will be 5m x 5m = 400
plants/ha.



-146 -                         ANNEX 9
Research, Development and Training
33.   Four subjects will be investigated, all conceming Chinese dates.
(a)   Increasing yield: 10 ha of orchards in Jishan county will be rented and trials
established on orchard management to find means of improving productivity,
testing different soil and water management, fertilising and pruning methods. The
work will be carried by Prefecture Forestry Station and County Forestry Station.
(b)   Variety improvement:  5.2 ha of orchards will be bought and new orchard
established for testing varieties.  The work will be carried out under the
responsibility of the Shanxi Pomology Institute.
(c)   Pest management: 30 ha of orchards in Jishan, Ruicheng and Yuncheng, will be
used by the Prefecture Forestry Bureau and County Bureau to develop integrated
pest management systems.
(d)   Drying technique improvement and spreading: 39 sites will be selected in the 13
counties and trials will be conducted by the Forestry Stations at prefecture and
county level.
Training and Extension
34.   A network of Technical Extension Stations, Pest Management Stations, Forestry Stations
and Forestry Bureaux operates at various levels. Each year 2,500 selected farmers will be trained
for 3 days. The main aim of the training activity will be to provide the farmers with practical
information on the technical and financial aspects of fruit trees. For this, the trainers must first also
undertake courses to give them up to date information on orchard management, and 30-70
personnel will be trained for 10 days twice a year.
Economic Analysis
35.   At full development, the increased annual fruit and nut production will be 225,000 tons of
Chinese Dates, 7,500 of tons prickly ash, 45,300 tons of walnuts, 25,600 tons of chestnut, 2,800
tons of apricots, and 8,400 tons of apples. This will create Y 885 million additional annual net
income, that will mainly accrue to the poor people in the mountainous areas of Luliang and
Yuncheng. The component will create employment; about 33,000 person-years will be needed for
the initial establishment of the orchards and 64,000 people will find permanent employment in their
operation. Secondary income and employment benefits will come from fruit processing, packing
and marketing.
36.   Economic crop budgets have been estimated for each horticulture crop in each prefecture
(Tables 2 to 10). The ERRs range from 20 percent for Chinese dates in Yuncheng to 33 percent for
prickly ash. In an aggregated area model an overall rate of return of 25 percent has been calculated
(Table I1). The ERR has been tested for a drop in sales prices. A 20 percent lower fruit and nut



-147-                           ANNEX9
price would lower the ERR to 22 percent and only a drop of 50 percent would bring the ERR close
to 12 percent.
37.   The climnate in the project area offers a comparative advantage for fruit and nut production.
The apportunity costs on the slope and bill lands are negligible. These areas cannot reasonably be
used for any annual crop and are too steep for terracing, but they provide good conditions for
perennial horticulture crops. The economic risk for the farmer is negligible, since he does not have
to give up any other economic activity. The investment is small and consists basically of seedlings,
fertilizer, and family labour. The inputs and operational costs again are low. On the other hand
even a small number of fruit trees provide a significant additional income.



-148 -                                         ANNEX 9
Table 1: HORTICULTURE DEVELOPMENT INVESTMENT COST-LULLNG
Unit  Quantities    Costs        Total
Unit   Price    per ha      pertha       Coats
Chines. Dates (15,000 ha)                  (Yuan)                (Yuan)   rooo Yuan)
A. lot Yaar Operation
1. Materil input
Seedn                         No.        2.1      750       1.539      23.085
Ure                           kg         2.1      I60         341       5.116
Phoshalle                     kg         0.8      160         130       1.949
Manur                         It        17.1       10         171       2.565
Pastaode                      kg        20.3        2          41         60S
2. Labor Input
Sed oreparaon                 WD        10.3       64         657       9.850
Fertilizer no,  ton           WD        10.3       12         123       1.U7
P4rnwg                        WD        10.3       30         306       4.617
Pruning                       WD        10.3        4          4A         616
Pestiod  pplcaton            WD         10.3        3          31        462
atearngmatenal ranspon        WD        10.3       20         205       3.078
3. Other Input               lunp sum                            57         655
Subtotal lot Year Operation                                     3.643      54.647
S. 2nd Year Operation
1. Material Inputs
Seedlr forr ganting           No.        2.1      150         308       4,617
Una                           kg         2.1      160         341       5.116
Phosplate                     kg         0.8      160         130       1.949
2. Labor Input
ReplanbngAtmnd                WD        10.3       18         185       2.770
Subtotal 2nd Year Opeation                                        963      14.452
C. 3rd Year F.rtillzir
Urs                           kg         2.1      145         3t0       4.648
Phoephate                     kg         0.6      130         106       1.583
Subtotal 3rd Year Fertilizer                                      415       6 231
Total                                                              5.022      75.330
Unit  Quantits    Costs         Total
Unit   Prkc.    per ha      per ha      Cost
Walnuts (2.B00ha)                          (Yuan)               (Yuan)  (t000 Yufln
A. ist Year Operation
-1. Maerial Inputs
Seeding                       No.        2.3      400         912       2 5SA
Urea                          kg         2.1      120         256         16
Phosphate                     kg         0.6      120          97        273
Manure                         t        17.1        6         103        287
Pesbode                       kg        20.3        1          20          57
2. Labor Input
Bed preparatin                WV        10.3       57         585       1.637
Fergizerappotin               WD        10.3       10         103        287
Plantftg                      WV        10.3       20         205         575
Pruwng                        WD        10.3        4          41         115
Pasbd aplIation               WD        10.3        1          10          29
W etrnatenal transpot         WD        10.3       15         154        431
3. Other Input               lurnp sum                           57         160
Subtotal 1st Year Operaiton                                      2.543       7.120
e. 2nd Year Operation
1. Matrial Inputs
Seeding forreplantng          No.        2.3       60         162        511
Urea                          kg         2.1      120         256        716
Phosphate                     kg         0.6      120          97        273
2: LaborInput
Replentinghtendid             WV        10.3       10         103        267
Subtotal 2nd Year Operation                                       638        1.787
Total                                                              3,18161     6.907
to to cntmued



-149 -                                         ANNEX 9
Table 1 (Cont'd)
Horticulture Development Investment Cost - Luliang (continued)
Unit  QuantJtil     Coats        Total
Unit   Price    per ha      per ha      Cost
Kernel Apficots (2,800 ha)                  (Yuan)               (Yuan)    (o000 Yuan)
A. lot Year Operation
I. Matarial inputs
Seding                        No.        2.1      625       1.283       3.591
Ursa                          kg         2.1      188         400       1.11S
Photpnate                     kg         0.6      18t         152         425
Manure                         I        17.1       10         171         479
PestioG                       kg        20.3        2          30          a5
2. Labor input
Bed preparation               Wo        10.3       50         513       1.436
Fertihzer appltion            WD        10.3       10         103         287
Plantmg                       W0        10.3       25         257         718
Pnrnin                        WD        10.3        A          Al         115
Pestode aoolttion             WD        10.3        3          31          86
Watenngimatenal transpor      WD        10.3       19         195         546
3. Otier input               lump sum                            57         160
Subtotal 1st Year Operation                                      3.232      9.049
S. 2nd Year Operation
1. Material inpuu
Seedtng forrepdantng          No.        2.1      125         257         718
Urea                          kg         .        181   r    400        1.119
Phonate                       kg         0.8      18a         152        426
2. Labor input
Revptnungltending             WV        10.3       18 ai   _    51
Subtotal 2nd Year Operation                                       993       2J51
Total                                                              4.225      t1.52
Unit  Quantties    Cots          Total
UnnI   Pnce    per ha       -Por ha     Costa
Apple Trees (700 ha)                       (Yuan)                (Yuan)   (000 Yuan)
A. 1st Year Operation
1. Mataral inputs
Seelming                      No.        2.3      625       1.425        996
Urea                          kg         2.1      1"          400        280
Phosrata                      kg         0.8      168         152        107
Manure                         t        17.1       10         171         120
Pestixde                      kg        20.3        2          30         21
2. LAbor input
Bed reparation                WD        10.3      140      1t436        1.005
Fertilzer appication          WD        10.3       10         103          72
Ptantng                       W         10.3       40         410        287
Pnunwg                        WD        10.3        4          41         29
Pestiode application          WD        10.3        3          31          22
Weteynmnatanal transport      WD        10.3       22         225         158
3. Other Input                kxnp sum                           91          64
Subtotal 1st Year Operation                                      4.516      3.162
S. 2nd Year Operation
1. Material inputs
Seding toe replantng          No.        2.3      125         285        200
Un4                            kg        21       188         400        260
Phosphate                     kg         0.8      188         152         107
2. Labor input
Reolantz/endng                WV        10.3       26t        267         II?
Subtotal 2nd Year Operation                                     1t104         773
Total                                                              5.620       3.934
Total Horticulture Tree Planting . Luliang                                 100.001



-150 -                                      ANNEX 9
Table 2: HORTICULTURE DEVELOPMENT INVESTMENT COST-YUNCHENG
Unit  Quantities    COtsD       Total
Untt   Price    per ha      per ha     Costs
Chinese Dates (23.270 ha)                 (Yuan)               (Yuan)   (000 Yuan)
A. 1st Yoar Operation
i. Materal Inputs
Seedling                     No.        1.4      360        492      11 .460
Urea                          kg        2.1       s0        171       3.96B
Phosphate                     kg        0.8       s0         65       1.512
Manure                        t        17.1       12        205       4.775
Pesticide                     kg       20.3        4         S1       1.890
2 Labor input
Bed preparation              WD        10.3      50         513      11.938
Fertilizer application       WD        10.3       12        123       2.865
Planting                     WED       10.3      20         205       4.775
Pruning                      WD        10.3       4          41         955
Pestkide application         WD        10.3       4          41         955
3. Other Input               knmp sum                          46        1.061
Subtotal 1st Yeor Operation                                    1.983     46.153
B. 2nd Year Operation
1. Material Input
Seedling for replantung      No.        1.4      72          98       2.292
Urea                         kg         2.1      80 -       171       3.968
Phosphate                     kg        0.8      80          65       1.512
2 Labor Input
Repbanting                   WD        10.3        6         62       1.433
Subtotal 2nd Year Operation                                     396       9.204
Total                                                            2.379      55.3S7
Unit  Quantities    Costs       Total
Unit   Price    per ha     per ha      Costa
Prickly Ash (12.500 ha)                   (Yuan)               (Yuan)   rooo Yuan)
A. lot Year Operation
1. Material Inputs
Seedling                     No.        0.3      750        257       3.206
Urea                          kg        2.1      120        256       3.197
Phosphate                     kg        0.8      150        122       1.523
Manure                        t        17.1        8        137       1.710
Pestiode                      kg       20.3        2         41         508
Irrigation Water                        0.6       15          9         107
2. Labor Input
Bed preparation              WD        10.3       45        462       5.771
Fertilizer application       WD        10.3        7         72         898
Pbanting                     WD        10.3       20        205       2.565
Pruning                      WD        10.3        3         31         385
Pestiode application         WD        10.3        3         31         385
lnigating                    WD        10.3        9         92       1.154
3. Other Input               kamp sum                           23        285
Subtotal 1st Year Operation                                    1.735     21.693
B. 2nd Year Operation
1. Material Inputs
Seed ng for replanting       No.        0.3      150         51         641
2. Labor Input
Replanting                   WD        10.3        3         31         385
Subtotal 2nd Year Operation                                       82       1.026
Total                                                             1.318     22.719
to be continred



-151-                                         ANNEX 9
Table 2 (Cont'd)
Horticulture Development Investment Ccst Yuncheng (continued)
UnIt   Quantes    Costs.         Total
Untt   Price     per ha      per ha      Costs
Walnut 18,870 ha?                           (Yuan?                (Yuanl  1r000 Yuan)
A. lot Year OperadIon
1. Matenal Inputs
Seedling                      No.        1.7      278          475       4.217
Urea                          kg         2.1      100          213       1.891
Pnosonate                     kg        .0.8      110           t9         792
Manure                         t        17.1         5          86         758
Pesticide                     kg        20.3        2           41         360
Imgation Water                m.         0.6       10            6 a5
2. Labor Input
Land Retlamation              WD        10.3      150        1.539      13.651
Bed preparatn                 WVD       10.3       35         359        3.185
Fertilazer appication         WD        10.3        5           51         455
Plantng                       WD        10.3       20         205        1.820
Pruning                       WV        10.3        2           21         182
Pesticde appicaoun            WV        10.3        2           21         182
Imgating                      WD        10.3       11         113        1.001
3. Other Input               lump sum                             34         303
Subtotal 1st Year Opration                                       3.252      2t.848
B. 2nd Year Operation
1. Material Inputs
Seedling for replanting       No.        1.7       56          96         89
2. Labor Input
- -                       Replanting                     WD        10.3        4          41         364
Subtotal 2nd Year Operation                                        137        1.213
Total                                                               3.3891   30.062
UnIt   QuantWtes    Costas       Total
UnIt   Price    per ha       per ha      Costs
Chestnuts /3.330 ha)                        (Yuan)               (Yuan)   (.000 Yuan)
A. 1st Year Operation
1. Matertal Inputs
Seedling                      No.        1.1      400         456        1.518
Urea                           kg        2.1      100         213          710
Plhospnate                    kg         0.8      110          89         297
Manure                         I        17.1        5           86         285
Pesticide                      kg       20.3        2           41         135
Irrgation Water               m'         0.6       11            6          21
2. Labor Input
Land Redamation               WD        10.3      150        1.539       5.125
Bed preparation               WV        10.3       35         359        1.196
Fertilizer application        WV        10.3        5           51         171
Planting                      WV        10.3       20         205          683
Pruning                       WV        10.3        2           21          68
Pesticide applcation          WO        10.3        2           21          68
Irrgating                     WD        10.3        12         123         410
3. Other Input               lump sum                             34         114
Subtotal 1st Year Opertion                                       3.244       10.802
B. 2nd Year Operation
1. Material Inputs
Seedling for replanung        No.        1.1       80           91         304
2. Labor Input
Replanting                    WV        10.3        4           41         137
Subtotal 2nd Year Operation                                        132_        440
Total                                                               3,376  [   11.242
Total Horticulture Trve Planting - Yuncheng                                  119,380



TIIblC 3: CIIINEsE D)A TES INTIhl[CAROPPED (LUI.IANG) CROP MODEL
ECONOMIC BUDGET PERH IECTARE la
Years >       I Quantities                        Unit Price                     Economic Value (Yuanlha)
Unit    1      2     3    4-5   6.7  8.10  11-15 16-20  (Yuan)        1       2        3      4-5      6-7    *.10   1116    16-20
Output                                                             I
Main Productilon
Yield                    kg                     -  300   900 1.500 3.000 7,500       2.00         -       -        -    600   1.800   3.000   6.000   15.000
By Products
Soybean                  kg      500   500   500   400   300             -           2.39     1.197   1.197   1,197      958     71B
Soybean slraw            kg      400   400   400   300   200                   -    0.04         16      16      16       12       a                .
Sub-total Byproducts                                                                            1.213   1.213   1.213      970     726        -       -
Sub-total Output                                                                                  1,213   1,213   1.213    1.570   2.526   3.000    6.000   I5.000
Inputs
investment
Seedlings               No.      750   150                                           1.80     1.350     270        -                ,
Urea                     kg      160   160   145                                     2.08       332     332     301        -        -      -        -        - .
Phosphale (SSP)          kg      IB0   160   130                   -                 0.94       150     150      122       -        -      -        -        -
Manure                  ton       10      -                                         15 00       150
Agio-chemlcals           kg        2      -     -     -     -      -     -          20.00        40
Sub-total lnvestment Cosr                                                                       2.022     752      423        -       -       -       -
Operating
Seed                     kg       50    50    50    40    30       -     -           3.00       1S0     150      150     120      90       -
Urea                     kg                     -  150   150   150   150   150       2.08         -                -     311     311    311       311     311
Phosphate (SSP)          kg                         150   150   150   150   150    0.94                    -             140     140    140       140      140
Manure                  Ion             IS    15    15    15            IS   IS 15   15.00        -    225      225      225     225    225       225     225
Agro-chemicals           kg              2     2      2     2     2     2      2   20;00                 40       40      40      40      40       40      40
Other                   Yuan                                                                      -      40      40       40      40      40       40      40
Sub-total Operating Costs                                                                         150     455     455      877     847    757       757     757
Sub4total Input costs                                                                             2.172   1.207      878     877     847    757       757      757
Net Value of Production (Belore Labor Costs)                                                       -959       6      335     693   1.680   2.243    5,243   14.243
Labor
Invesiment costs          WDs    133    18        -                 -      -           7.20       958     130        -                .
Operating Costs           Wos    150   200   200   200   200   200   250   250         7.20     1.080   1.440   1,440   1.440   1.440   1.440    1.800    1,800
Sub-Iotal Labor costs                                                                             2.038    1.570   1.440   1,440   1.440' 1.440    1.800    1 800
Net Value of Production (Afner Labor Costs)                                                      -2.996  .1.563   -1.105    -747      240    803   3.443   12:443
X
IRR - 19.6%. NPV - 7,687.47
a/ The economic net value ol produdion on existing plope land Is considered to be about zero or negative. No oppodunily cosis have therehore been considered for the land.



T'able 4: WALNUTI'S INTERCROPPED (LULIANG) CROP MODEL
ECONOM IC BUDGE IPERI IECTARE LA
Years ->    Quantlties               Unit Price             Economic Value (Yuanlha)
Unit    1      2    3-5  6-10  11-15 16-20  (Yuan)        1        2      315     6-10    11-15   16-20
Output
Maln Productilon
Yield                    kg               -     -  400 2.000 3.500      600                   -        -   2.400   12.000 21.000
By Products
Millet                   kg    1.000 1.000 1.000      -         -       080         800     800     800
Millet stover            kg    t.000 1.000 1,000         -         -    0.04         40      40       40
Sub-total Byproducts                                                                  840     840      840        -       -       -
Sub-total Output                                                                        840     840      840   2.400  12.000 21.000
Inputs
Investment
Seedlings               No.    400    80           -     -      -       2.00        800     160            -        -           -
Urea                     kg      120   120         -     -      -       2 08        249     249                 -       -       -
Phosphate (SSP)          kg      120   120      -     -     -      -    0.94        112     112        -        -       -       .
Manure                  ton        6      -           -      -         15 00         90       -
Agro-chemicals           kg        I      -           -      -         2000          20        -
Sub-total Investment Costs                                                          1.271     521
Operating
Seed                     kg       30    30    30      -     -           2.00         60      60      60         -       -       -
Urea                     kg        -     -  120   120   120   120       2.08                  -    249       249     249    249
Phosphale(SSP)           kg        -     -  120   120   120   120       094                          112     112      112    112
Manure                  ton        -   10    10    10    10    10   15 00                   150      150     150      150    150
Agro-chemicals           kg        -    2      2      2     2     2   2000 o                 40       40      40       40     40
Other                  Yuan                                                          60      60      60      140      140    240
Sub-total Operaling Costs                                                             120     310      671     691      691    791
Sub-total Input costs                                                                 1.391     831      671     691      691    791
Net Value of Production (Before Labor Costs)                                           -551       9      169   1.709  11.309 20.209
Labor
Inveslmeni                WDs    107    10              -     -           7.20        770      72
Operating                 WDs    150   200   200   200   250   250        7.20      1 080    1.440   1.440    1.440   1.800   1.800
Sub-total Labor costs                                                                 1.850    1.512   1,440    1.440    1.800   1.800
Net Value of Production (After Labor Costs)                                          -2,402  -1.503  -1.271      269   9.509  18.409
M
IRR a 25.6%, NPV - 17.932,25
a/ The economic net value of production on existing slope land Is considered to be aboul zero or negalive.
No opporluniy costs have thereforo been considered for the land.



'ablec 5: Apricots Intcrcroppcl (Luli:ing) Crop Model
Econonmic lBudgct Pler llectare lA
Years ->        Quantities                        Unit Price            Economic Value (Yuanlha)
Unit    1      2  1 3    4.6    7   *-10  11-15 11-20  (Yuan)         1       2        3      4-6       7     6.10   11-16   16-20
Output
Main Productilon
Yiekid                   kg              -      -  I170   250   250   750 1.000   20.00                                3.400   5,000  5.000   15,000  20.000
By Products
mUlct                    kg    1.000 1.000 1.000      -                             00         g80      800     800Bo
Milbt slover             kg    1.000 1,000 11.00                -        -          0.04         40      40      40        -                        -
Sub4tobal Byproducts                                                                              840     840     840        -               -        -       -
Sub-total Output                                                                                    840     040     840   3.400   5,000  5.000   15,000  20.000
Inputs                                        I
Investment                                                                                                                                                          I
Seedlings               No.    625   125                    -1.80                             1.125     225        -
Uresa                    kg      188   188                     1       U       .    2.08       390      390                .-
Phosphale (SSP).         kg      188   188      -     -            -                 0.94       176     176        -       -        -      -
Manure                  ton       10         -     -     -                          15.00       150       -         
Agro-chemnials           kg        2            -     -     -      -     -          20.00        40        -
Sub-total Investment Costs                                                                      1.881     791
Operating
Seed                     kg       30    30    30            -            -          2.00         60      60      60                 -      -
Urea                     kg               -  200   200   200   200   200   200       2.08                  -    415      415     415    415      415    415
Phosphate (SSP)          kg           -      200   20(     W 200   200   200   200  0.94                        187      187     187    187      187    187
Manuie                  ton             IS     15   IS     15    15    15   IS   15.00            -    225      225      225     225    225      225    225
Agoo-chemicals           kg        -    2      2      2     2     2     2      2   20.60                 40      40       40      40      40      40      40
\  Other                Yuan                                                                    100     100      100     100     200    200      200    200
Sub-total Operating Costs                                                                         160     425   1,027      967   1.067   1.067   1.067   1.067
Sub-total Input costs                                                                             2.041    1.216   1.027     967   1.067  1,067    1.067   1.067
Net Value of Production (Before Labor Costs)                                                     . -1,201    .376    -187   2.433   3.933   3,933  13.933  18.933
Labor
Invesinent                WDs    III    18        -                                    7.20       799     130
Operating                 WOs    200   250   250   250   250   300   300   300         7.20     1,440   1.800   1.800   1.800   1.800  2.160   2.160   2.160
Sub-total Labor costs                                                                             2.239   1,930   1.800   1,800   1.800  2,160   2,160   2.160
Net Value of Production (After Labor Costs)                                                      -3.440  .2.306  -1.987      633   2.133   1.773  11.773  16.773
IRR = 28. 1 %, NPV * 22.35e871
a/ The economic nel value ol produdion on exltingstope land Is considered to be aboutzero or ngative. No oppotuniy costs have theefore been consideed for the land.



TaIble 6: AiIt.E IN I I ItCRtO0I'[EI) (LULIANC) CIo0  MODEL
IECONONIICILII)CEL I'PEITIECIARE La
Years Q' Quantities                               Unit Price             Economic Value (Yuan/ha)
Unit     1    2      3    4.6    7    3-10  11-15  16-20  (Yuan)      1        2        3      4-6       7     8-10   11-15   16-20
Output
Main Productlon
Yield                    kg        -     -     -  450 2.25O 6.750 9,000 12,000       1.60          -               -     720   3.600  10.800  14.400  19,200
By ProducLs
Soybean                  kg     400   400   400   400                   -            2.39       958     958      958     958        -       -
Soybean straw            kg     350   350   350   350       -                        0.04        14       IA      14       14
Sub-total Byproducts                                                                              972      972     972     972        -       -       -       -
Sub-total Output                                                                        I           972      972     972    1.692   3,600  10,800  14.400  19,200
Inputs
Investment
Seedilngs               No.    625   125              ,     ,     ,                  200      1.250     250        -        -       -       -               -
Urea                    kg      18   188       - e          -     -            -    2 08      , 390     390                                 ,
Phosphate (SSP)          kg     188   188      -               -     -      -        0 94       176      176                -       -       -       -
Manute                  Ion       10                        -     -     -       -   15.00       150
Agro-chemicals           kg        2     -      -     -                             20.00        40                                                          -
Sub-total Investment Costs                                                                       2.006     816        -       -
Operating
Seed                     kg       50    50    50    50                  -       -    3 00       )so      150     150      150                             I  
Utea                     kg        -         200   200   200   200   200    200      2.08                        415     415      415    415      415    415
Phosphate (SSP)          kg        -     -  200   200   200   200   200    200       0.94          -       -    187       187     187    187      187    187
Manure                  Ion             iS    15 i1        I5    15    25     15   15 00                 225     225     225      225    225      225    225
Agro-chemicals           kg        -    3      3     3      3     3     3      3   20.00           -      60      60      60       60      60      60      60
Othef                  Yuan                                                                      80       80      80       80     140    140      240    240
Sub-total Operating Cost.s                                                                        230      5t5   12117   1.117   1,027   1.027   1.127   1.127
Sub-total Input costs                                                                              2.236    1.331   1.117   1.117   1.027   1.027   1.127   1.127
Net Value of Production (Before Labor Costs)                                                       1,264    -359    -146      574   2.573   9.773  13,273  18.073
Labor
Investment                WDs    III    18                          ,     ,            7.20       799      130       -                -       -               -
Operuling                 WDs    200   250   250   250   250   300   300    300        7.20      1,440    1.800   1.800   1.800   1.800   2.160   2.160   2.160
Sub-total Labor costs                                                                              2.239    1.930   1,800   1,800   1,800   2,160   2.160   2a160
Net Value of Production (After Labor Costs)                                                       -3,504  -2,289  -1.946  -1.226      773  7.613  11.113  15.913
IRR - 30.1%. NPV * 25.711.64
a/ The economic net value of production on eMisilng slope land Is considered to be about ztero or negative. No opportunly costs have therefore been considered for the land.



TaIbIC 7: CIIINI.E SI)A1ES (YUNCIIENG) CRoI0  MOI)EI,
ECONOMIC IBUDGET PER I IECrAItE
Years ->             Quantities                            Unit Price                    Economic Value (Yuanihsa
Unit     1      2       3     4-5    8-7    8-10   11-12  13-20  (Yuan)    1          2       3      4-5     6-7    8-10   11-12   13-20
Ylfld                        kg                        -   540    900   1.100  2,200  5S000    2 00           .         *       *.080.0  1.800.0 2.2000  4.400.0 10.000 0
Input
Invetiment
SeedVings                Pi       360     72       -      *       -          -               1.20    432.0    86.4
Urea                     kg        80     80       -              .                          2.08    106.1   166.1                -       -       -       -
Phosphals (SSP)          kg        s0     80       -       *             .       .           0.94     74.8    74.8        -       .       .       .
Manue                   Ion        12              -0 -                      .0 .:            .W      180.0
Agro-chemkals            kg         4                             -      -       .      .   20 00     80 0
Sub-total Investment Costs                                                                             932.9   327.3                -
Operating
Urea                    kg                        80     80     80      80     80      80    2 08        *       *   166.1  166.1   166.1   166.1   166.1   166.1
Phosphate (SSPJ          kg                       so     so      so     80     80      So    0.94         -       -    74.8    74.8    74.8    74.8    74.8    74.8    Ln
Manure                  Ion               10      10     10      10     10     10      10   I500              150.0  I500    150.0   150.0   150.0   150.0   I500       C'
Agro-cheemlcals          kg         -      3       3      3       3      3      3       3   20.00             60.0    60 0    60.0    60 0    60.0    60.0    60o0       1
Other                  Yuan                                                                              -    80.0    80 0    80.0    60.0    80.0    80.0    80 0
Sub-total Operating Costs                                                                                   *  290.0   530.9   530.9   530.9   530.9   530.9   530 9
Sub-total Input costa                                                                                    932.9   617.3   530.9   530.9   530.9   530.9   530.9   530.9
Not Value of Production (SBeore Labor Costs)                                                             *932.9  -617.3  *530.9  549.1  1.269.1  1.669.1  3.869.1  9.469 1
Labor
Investment                WDs        90      8 a            .                                  7.20    648 0    43.2                -       -       -
Operafng
WeedhWs                                    5       5      5      5       5      5       5    7.20             36.0    38.0    38.0    36.0    36.0    36.0    36 0
Pestidke appicatan     "Os          -      2      2       2      2       2      2       2    7.20        -    14.4    14.4    14.4    14.4    14.4    14.4    14 4
Ferilfler eppication   WDs                 -      10     10     10      10     10      10    7.20                -    72.0    72.0    72.0    72.0    72.0    72.0
Pruning                vws                20     20      20     20      20     20      20    7 20            144 0   144.0   144.0   144.0   144.0   144.0   144.0
Management             WDs          *     10     10      20     20      20     20     20    7.20              72.0    72.0   144.0  144.0   144.0   144 0    144 0
HarvesUtlanspontallon  WDs                         -    30      45      45    ISO    18      7.20                            2180   324.0   324.0  1.080.0  1.2960
Sub-total Operating Costa                                                                                  *  266.4   338.4   626.4   734.4   734.4 1t490.4  1.706.4
Sub4otal Labor costs                                                                                     6480   3096   338.4   626.4   734.4   734.4 .1490.4  1.706.4
Net Value of Production (Aftor Labor Costs)                                                            -1.580 9  -926.9  -869.3   .77.3  534.7   934.7 2.378.7  7.762.7
MR * 26.8%. NPV * 9.858.62
>C
x



Ta: blc 8: l'IPICKLY ASII (YUNCIIENG) CROP MODEL
ECONOMIC BUDGET P}ER I[EC1TARE
years -               Quantiie                                Unit PlIc                      Economic Value (Yuanlha)
Unit     t       2       J      4-S    s-r    *-10    I-112  13t20   (Yuan)       I       t        3      4-s      s.7    6.10    1t-1t   13-20
Yield                        kg                  -             120    180    250    300    600    16 00            -                     .920   2.880   4.000   4.800   9.600
Input
Investment
Seedling                 Pi        750-   150                -              -                     0.30      225      45                                           -
Urea                     kg        120       -               -                                    2.08      249
Phosphabs (SSP)          kg        150       -               -                                    0.94      140
Manure                   ton         8               -       -                                   IS 00      120
AgFo-chemicals           kg          2       -                                                   20.00       40
Irrigatio Water          m          I5                   -               -so                                  a -  - -  -                                 
Sub-total Investment Costa                                                                                    782      45
Operaling
Ures                     kg                120    120    120    120    120    120    120          2 08              249      249     249      249     249      249     249
Plhosphate (SSP)         kg                150    ¶50    ¶50    150 I      50    150    150       0 94        -     140      140     140      140     140      140      140    u
Manure                   ton         -       0      10 t0           10     10      to      10   IS 00               150      150     150      ISO     ¶50      ISO      150
Agro-chemicals           kg          -       3       3      3       3       3       3       3   2000          -      60       60      60       60      60       60      60
Other                   Yuan                                                                                         80       o0      80       80      80       80       0o
Sub-total Operatlng Costa                                                                                             679      679     679      679     679      679     679
Sub-total Input costs                                                                                           782     724      679     679      679     679      679     679
Net Value ol Production D8olor. Labor Costs)                                                                   -782    -724    -679   1.241   2.201   3.321    4.121   8.921
Labor
Investment                WDs         87       3                                 -                  7.20      626      22                         .
Operating
Weeding                 WDs                  5      5       5       5       5       5      6     720          -      36       30      36       36      30       36      36
PesIlicde applcatlon    WDs          -      2       2       2       2       2       2      2     7.20         -      14       14      14       14      14       14      14
FerdMlzer applkallon    WDs          -      10     10      '0      to0    10       ¶0     1o    7.20                 72       72      72       72      72       72      72
Pnuning                 WDs          -     20      20      20      20      20     20      20     7.20               144      144     144      144     144      144     144
Managenenl              WDs                20      20      20      20      20      20     20     7 20               144      144     144      144     144      144     t44
llarvestlransportallon  WDs                                45      60      60    180    200      7.20         -                -     324      432     432  1t296   1.440
Sub-toal Operating Costs     -                                                                                       410      410     734      842     642   1.76   1.850
Sub-total Labor costs                                                                                           626      432     40      734      842      842   1.706    1.850
Not Value of Production (Aler Labor Costs)                                                                    1.408   -156   1,090       506   1.358   2.478   2.414   7.070
IRR  32.5%. NPV  I 197f6.82
x



1;11)IC 9: WAI,NU'S IN-I'l.ICROlr0PEI) (YUNCIIENG) CItO   MODEL
1E CONOMIC BlUi)cDEr PER IIECTAItE
Years                             a uanilles uUnl P,lce                                                Economic Value (Yuan/hal
Unit    1   2   3   4  5-7   I    *        10    11    12    13  14.20  (Yuan)    1        2      3      4     5.7    6      5    10    II       12     13   14-20
Yield                        kg                                 1.000 1.200 3.000 3.500 o3,500 4.000     600                                            6W000 7.200 1t.000 21.000 21.000 24.000
By Products
Soybean                    kg    t00 700 600 500 400  400   40w                                        2 39   1915  1,676  1.436  1.197   g95   958   956
Soybean sitaw              kg    640 420 360 300 240  240   240                                       004       26    IT    14    12    10    10    10          -
Subtolal Revenue                                                                                                1.941  t,693  1.451  1.209   967   967 6.967 7.200 19.000 21.000 21.000 24.000
Inputs
Investment
SeedNing                 Pi   276  56          -                                                    0Iso     417    64
Urea                     kg    100.. -                                                              2 0t    206
Phosphale (SSP)          kg    110                                                                  0 94    103
Ma3nee                   Ion     5.1500                                                                       75                                   
Agro.hen4cals            kg      2. -   -           -                                              20 00      40
inlgalan Waler           m      t 1                                                                 0 50 so    6
Sub4ot* lInvestment Costs                                                                                      646    84
Operaling                                                                                                                                                                                           F
Seed                     kg     o0  60  60  60  60   60    60                                       300      to0 t 60    160     too   too   too   ISo        -                                   OD
Urea                     kg te   O ISO 1S0 ISO 1so  150   200   200   200   200   300   300         2006     311   311   311   311   311   311   415   415    415    415    623    623             1
Phosphale (SSP)          kg    300 300 300 300 300  300   400   400   4W    400   500   500         094      261   281   281   281   261   281   314   374    314    374    466    468
Ma1nure                 ton     20  20  20  20  20   20    20    20    20    20    20    20    I S00    300   300   300   300   300   3003  0  300    300    300    300    300
Agro-chemicals           kg      2   2   2   2   2    3        3     3      3     3     4     4   20 00       40    40    40    40    40    60    60    60          60     60      60     s0
Other                   Yuan                                                                                  50 5050 50    so    so    70   t0o             o    100    100    260    260
Sub-lolal Operating Costs                                                                                    1.162  1.162  1t162  1.162  1.162  1.202 1,409 1.239  1.249  1.249  1.750  is50
Sub40talIinput costs                                                                                           2.010  1.248  1.162  1.162  1162  1.202 1.409 1.239  1.249  1.249  1.750  I1750
Not Value of Production (Before Labor Costs)                                                                     .69   447   269    47  -195  .235 5.556 5.961 18.751 19.751 19250 22.250
Lrbor
investment
Ltnd Reclamation        V\lt   ISO                                                                 7 20   1.060
Otw tabour% WDS   75   4                                                                             `720    540    29
Operating
Weeding                 WDs    40  40  40  40  40   40    40    4b          5     5     5     5     7.20    266   26    266   266   260   206   268   206           36     36      36     36
Pesticde apptcAtlon     Wis      7   7   7   7   7   13    13    13    13   13    20    20          7.20      So    so    So    50    50    94    94    94          94     94    144    144
ferlltzerapplIcallon    WDS   20  20  20  20  20   20    30    30    30    30    40    40           720      144   144   144   144   144   144   216   216    216    216    208   2S6
Pruning                 WDS    10  10  10  10  to   20    20    20    30    30    40    40          7 20      72    72    72    72    72   144   144   144    216    216    266    266
Managehenl              Wi),    so  so  so  so  sb   so    so     50    so 50    50    50           7.20    360   360   360   360   360   360   360   360    360    360    360    360
sowng                   WDs    75  45  45  45  45   45    45                                        7.20    540   324   324   324   324    324   324
ItaNest4Iransportalion  WDS   60  60  60  60  60   70    70    90   100   100   ISO   IS0           7.20    432   432   432   432   432   504   504   646    720    720  1.060  1.060
Sub-lotal Operating Costs.                                                                                   1.666  1.670  1.670  1.670  1.670  1.656 1.930 1.750  1.642  1,642  2.196  2.1_6
Sub-total Labor costs                                                                                         3i506  1.699  1.670  1.670  1.670  1.065  1.930 1.750  1.642  1.642  2.196  2.196
Net Value of Producton (After Labor Costs)                                                                     -.575  1.253  1.382 -.623 .1.865 .2.092 3.626 4.2i I15.109 16.109 17.054 20.054
IRR * 26.7%. NPV * 26.640 62



Tabtl 10: CIIISI NUIS INTIEItCatOl''EI) (YUNCIIENC) ClIor MODEL
IECONOMIC l;UDGET I'EEl ZIECT1AiE
Years ->                     Quaniltles                Unit Prke                                  Economic VsIue IYuanlhal
Unit    1   2   3   4  s5i   I              10   11.t2 13-20  (YusnJ        t         2       3        4       6.7       I        9        10     11-12    13-20
Udnr Production                           .   .   .   400  600  1.600 2.00W  3.000 *.000        2 00                                            800   1.600    3.200    4.000    6.000   16.000
By ProductS
soybean                     k4    Soo Boo 700 600 500  500   500   400                        239       1.915    1.915    1.6r6    1.436    1.197   1.197    1.197      958
Soybean sraw                kg    640 840 580 480 400  400   400   320                       a004          28       26      22        19      18       lo       le       I3
Total Revenue                                                                                             1.941    1.941    1.698    1.456    2.013   2.8t3    4.413    4.9T0    6.000   16.000
triput costs
Inverlemnt costs
Seedling                  Pi    400 00    .         .          .               -            1 00       400       0o
Urea                      kg    100                                                          0         20.    .  .  .  .   .  D e  20
Phosphat (SSP)             g    110. .    .".                                                94         103
Manure                    ton      S.      .     .                                         IS 00         75 
Agro.chendcals            kg       2                       -      -                        20 00         40                                   .o
bBrallon Waler            m       11                                                        O 50          6                                                                                       I
Sub4otal Invetsmont COelA                                                                                831       0O
Operating Coals
Seed                      kg      60  60  60  60  60   60   .60    60                       300         160     ISO      too      ISo      Igo      160      Igo      too
Ulea                      kg    150 15o 150 150 ISO  150   200   200   200   300            200        311      311      311      311      311     311       415      415      415       623
Phosphate(SSPD            kg    300 300 300 300 300  300   400   400   400   600            094        261      261      281      201      281     261       314      314      314       Sal
Manua                     Ion     20  20  20  20  20   20    20    '20    20    30    1500             300      300      300      30w      300     300       300      300      300       450
Agro'emncaIa              kg       2   2   2   2   2    3         3.    4      4     6    20 00         40       40       40       40       40       60       60       80       s0       120
Other                    Yuan                                                                           So       50       50       so       60       70       60       90      100       t80
Sub-lotal Operating Costa                                                                              1t162    .tt62    1.162    1.162   'ii72   1.202    1.409    1.439    1.269    2.034
Sub-total Input costs                                                                                     1.t93    1.242    1.162    1.162    .I 72  1i202    1.409    1.439    1.269    2.034
Net value of Produclon ilelore Labor Costs)                                                                 .52      699      536     294      841   1.611    3.004    3.531    4.731   13.966
Lebor
knvestment
Land Recdamation         WDS   150                         -        -                      7.20       1.00                  -                         -
Other Labour             VMS    70   4                .    -                                T 20       547       29
Operating
WeedV-                   WVS    40  40  40  40  40   40    40    40            5     5      7.20       268      266      268      286      286      268.    286       268       36        36
Pesicldae ppIaacon       WDS       7   7   7   7   7   13    13    13    13    20           720         50       50       50       50       S0       94       94       94       94       144
Ferlllrer app6slcn       WDs    20  20  20  20  20   30    30    30    30    40             7.20       144      144      144      144      144     216       216      216      216       286
Pmntng                   WIs    10  10  10  10  10   20    20    20    20    30             7 20        12       12       12       72       72      144      144      144      144       216
Management               W&    50  50  50  50  50so   50    s0    s0    s0    50            7.20       360      360      360      360      360     360       360      360      360        60
SO-rg                    WDs    75  45 45  45  45  45    45    45                          7 20        540      324      324      324      324     324      324       324                  -     tt
ltaNre,lndornsportlb   WOs    60  60  60  60  70   75    75    80   100   150             7.20        432      432      432      432      504     540       540      576      720    1.060    X
Sub-total Oper ting Costs                                                                               188.6    1670    1.610    1.610    1.742   1.906    1.966    2.002    1.510    2.124
Sub-totlA Lsbor costa                                                                                     3.514    1.699    1.610    1.670    1.742   1.966    1.966    2.002    1.570    2.124
Net Value of ProducUon lAnai Labor Costsl                                                                .3.566   .1.000   .1.134   .1.377    .901    .355    1.038    1.530    3.161   11.642
IRR * 20.S%. NPV a 1050455:



-160 -                                   ANNEX 9
Table 11: HORTICULTURE DEVELOPMENT
CROPPING PATTERN AND ANNUAL ECONOMIC NET VALUE OF PRODUCTION (NWP)
NVPIha       Total NVP
annual figures at full development
Lullang                     1        2        3        4         5       (Yuanrhal        (Yuan mill.)
Chiese Dates          3.158    7.105   11.053   14.211    15.000         12.443         186.65
Walnuts                875    1,750    2.450    2.800    2.800           18.409          51.54
Apricots               875    1,750    2.450    2.800    2.800           16.773          46.96
Apples                 175       350      525      700       700         15.913          11.14
Sub-total Luliang       5,083   10,955   16,478   .20.511   21,300                        296.30
Yuncheng
Chinese Dates         2.586    7.757   15.513   23.270   23.270           7.763         180.64
Pridcly Ash           2.744    6.098    9.451   12.500   12.500           7.070         U8.38
Walnut                2.087    4.696    6.783    8.870    8.870          20.054         177.88
Chestnut               740    1.480    2.590    3.330    3.330           11.842          39.43
Sub-total Yuncheng      8.157   20.031   34.337   47.970   47.970                         486.33
Total Project            13.240   30,986   50,815   68,481   69,270                         782.62
Cash Flow Analysis (Yuan million)
Supporting Costs              Tree Crops    Value of
Year Nursenes               [PM              NVP       Timber al     Net Benefit
1      324               0.89             -33.24                    -37.38
2         -              0.21             -60.01                      60.22
3                        0.16             -83.16                     43.32
4                        0.09             -89.30    -                -89.39
5                        0.09             *58.46                     .58.54
6                        0.05 O-32.80                                -32.85
7         -              0.05              -6.99                      -7.04
8         -              0.05              14.08                      14.03
9                        0.05              47.85                     47.79
10                        0.05              76.85                     76.79
11         -             -0.05             154.81                    154.75
12                        0.05             241.01                    240.95
13         -              0.05             341.38                    341.32
14         -              0.05             451.67                    451.61
15                        0.05             532.64                    532.59
16         -              0.05             640.51                    640.45
17         -              0.05             695.29                    695.24
18                        0.05             741.40                    741.34
19                        0.05             775.52                    775.47
20         -              0.05             782.62         525.15    1.307.72
IRR:      25%
NPV:       699
a* Estimated volume of walnut timber is SOm' per ha valued with Yuan 900 per m'. Value of other tmees not considered.
Sensitivity Scenarios:                                                 Resulting IRR
Fruit/Nut Sales prices drop by 20%                                          22%
Fruit/Nut Sales prices drop by 50%                                          12%
Economic Labour costs increased by 20%                                      23%
Economic Labour costs increased by 50%                                      17%



-161-                          ANNEX 10
ANNEX 10: ALL CHINA WOMEN'S FEDERATION
Summary
1.    The All China Women's Federation (ACWF) is a national organization with representation
at all levels of government. The Federation's aim is to assist women to improve their skills and
earning capacity; Its committed and motivated staff work directly with their women in the
townships and villages.  Over the past six years in Luliang Prefecture the Federation has
implemented a Rural Women's Poverty Alleviation Project (RWPAP). The aim of the project is to
train and assist women in low-income families so that they can help other women in their
immediate neighborhood.
2.    Since its inception in 1989 the RWPAP has assisted women in 19,000 households and the
initial loan funds of Y2.6 million have been fully repaid and reinvested in new enterprises. Over 70
percent of the recipients have undertaken small livestock enterprises and many of them have
received their stock from the Federation's own livestock multiplication farms. Currently the
Federation operates farms for cashmere goats, breeding rabbits, lean pig production and caged
chickens. With the rapidly increasing demand in the national economy for livestock, these farms
have proved a valuable source of supply and the weaner pig farm included in this component will
add to this supply base.
3.    The success of the Federation in Luliang in helping women in poor households to raise their
incomes has received national recognition, and government funds have been provided for the
construction of a training center in Lishi. UNICEF has also provided training equipment and some
operational funding. The Federation's poverty alleviation program suffers from a shortage of loan
funds and presently only 20 percent of the women in low income households are receiving some
forn of assistance. The component will improve this situation by providing Y 3.0 million to be
used for loans to poor households.
4.    The main aim of the ACWF component is to assist in the development of small livestock
enterprises at the household level in Luliang Prefecture. These enterprises will provide a new
source of income for women without the need for additional land. In addition, such enterprises will
provide assets to secure loans in times of financial emergencies.
5.    The component will expand and diversify the existing livestock development programs of
the Federation through better access to weaner pigs, laying chickens and breeding rabbits.
Households will be offered loans to establish the small livestock enterprises and will be provided
with technical, financial and marketing training by Women's Federation staff. Participants in the



-162 -                          ANNEX 10
component will form a core of households through which technical skills and new sources of
livestock will become available for future expansion of similar enterprises at village level.
6.    The main features of the component will be;
(a)   the establishment of a weaner pig production farm in Luliang Prefecture.
(b)   loans to women for small pig, chicken and rabbit production enterprises.
(c)   the provision of technical, financial and marketing training for participating
households.
Weaner Pig Production Farm
7.    To increase the supply of weaner pigs for fattening, a farm will be established with an
annual production capacity of about 3,400 weaners. In recent years, the Women's Federation has
shown the capacity to operate successful livestock enterprises and competent technical staff have
already been selected to establish and operate the proposed farm.
8.    It is proposed to lease an existing pig farm in Lishi County and renovate and expand the
facilities. About 200 new pigsties, a water storage tank and one kilometer of road will be
constructed and the existing 10 pigsties, warehouse storage, feed processing room and worker
accommodation will be renovated. Construction cost will be about Y182,000 and the work will be
completed in the first six months of the project. Equipment purchase (YI 10,000) will include a
feed grinder and mixing machine, a water pump and fittings and a farm truck for feed transport and
livestock delivery.
9.    About 600 young pigs and 5 stud boars will be purchased from which a foundation stock of
about 200 breeding females will be selected. Artificial insemination will be used for breeding. It
has been estimated that the breeding females (sows) will have an average of 2 litters per annum and
about 17 piglets will be weaned from each mature sow. About Y 500,000 will be provided for
livestock purchase and feed /veterinary costs. After selecting the foundation stock the balance of
the pigs will be fattened for selling as pork at six months of age. This fattening exercise will only
take place in the first year and its revenue will be used to provide the required operating funds in
the second year before commencement of weaner pig sales.
10.   About 700 households will receive up to five weaner pigs at market prices from the
breeding facility and initially all will be fattened and sold for meat.
11.   While the above farm has been designed for the production of weaner pigs for meat, the
plan is to receive approval to sell young breeding stock. Presently government policies, in an effort
to safeguard genetic quality, control the sources of supply of breeding pigs. However, the existing
government farms are finding difficulties in keeping up with demand and unless new sources of
breeding pigs can be established there is danger that expansion of the pig industry will be limnited.
Well-managed piggery operations such as those operated by the Women's Federatfon will increase



-163 -                          ANNEX 10
the supply of breeding pigs to farmers and the Federation's approach of using nucleus households
rapidly increase quality pig production.
Small Livestock Enterprise Loans
12.   The corner stone of the Women's Federation effort to alleviate poverty has been the
provision of small production loans to the women of poor households. The project will support
and further develop this capability by providing about Y 3.0 million for about 3,000 new loans.
Finance will be provided to low-income households (annual eamings less than Y 300 per capita) for
pig raising, egg production and rabbit rearing enterprises on repayment terms of 4-5 years.
Principal repayments received during the project period will be recycled into further loans. The
small livestock loans will be designed to acconmmodate a range of households with varying labor
availability and inherent skills. Within a target group of low income households (those with anual
earnings of less than Y 300 per capita), loans will be made for the purchase of pigs, chickens and
rabbits. Recipients will be first trained and then offered a loan based on their skills and the labor
availability within the household.
13.   About 800 loans will be provided for fattening weaner pigs for pork. The average
individual loan cost will be Y 2,375 and will provide for the purchase of 5 weaner pigs (8 weeks
old) and sufficient foodstuffs for the first year's operation. The borrower will provide a suitable
pigsty. The pigs will be expected to reach about 100 kg live weight within 26-30 weeks and will
then be sold on the local markets. The pig fattening operation will be a relatively simple enterprise
to manage with a low labor requirement. AWCF's experience with similar loans has shown a low
incidence of animal health problems and satisfactory profit levels. The larger profit from the first
year_s operation will be carried forward to pay for pig and feed purchase and this practice will be
continued in subsequent years. Loan repayments will be spread over five years and the enterprise
will self-sustaining thereafter. Annual profits are expected to be about Y 300-400 so raising
household income by about 25 percent.
14.   For egg production about 150 loans of about Y 2,000 will be made for the purchase of 110
day-old chickens and sufficient feed for the chickens. The borrower's contribution will be the
purchase of laying cages. The day-old chickens will be reared through to 16 weeks when laying
will commence. Each mature chicken will be expected to produce about 15 kgs of eggs and on
ceasing laying the chicken will be sold on the market. Past experience has shown that successful
egg production enterprises require high technical, financial and marketing skill levels. While the
gross labor input required is comparatively low, the quality of labor needs to be high. Young
chickens are susceptible to a range of ailrments and need careful attention. Feed quality is critical to
both growth and laying frequency and correct financial management is essential to ensure the
timely purchase of new chickens and future feed supplies. Marketing problems have been
experienced where producers were isolated and the Federation has developed a policy of grouping
egg producers. This approach attracts buyers to the villages, but also allows the producers
themselves to collectively market their produce in the towns or directly to large industrial sites.
However, notwithstanding the difficulties, the potential profits from an egg production enterprise
can be highly attractive and margins are sufficient to repay a loan in four years. Training will be an
important element of this component.



-164-                           ANNEX 10
15.   Rabbit production will be supported by 2,000 loans of about Y 400. The loan amount will
allow for the purchase of 5 females and I stud rabbit, planting of about 0.13 hectare of grass or
suitable fodder and a rabbit shed. Each female rabbit will be expected annually to produce 28
offspring that will be sold directly after weaning. While rabbit production is a simple enterprise to
manage with low investnents it does have a high labor requirement for harvesting and transporting
the fodder. Past experience has shown that about  110 labor days are required each year for such an
enterprise but returns to labor are about Y 9 per day and this is much higher than the normal
opporunity cost for such labor at village level.
Training
16.   The loan program will be supported by an extensive training program covering all areas in
the Luliang Prefecture. Using the existing Women's Federation central training facility in Lishi
and their 10 rural training centers, funds would be provided for the specific training costs and
materials required to support the project's loan program. Emphasis would be placed on providing
the appropriate technical , financial and marketing knowledge to potential loan recipients. Training
activities would be aimed at about 6,000 women during the project period. Livestock availability
will to a large extent dictate the training timetable but it is expected to be scheduled over a four year
period. Total cost of the training program would be Y 750,000. Eleven training courses a year, one
at each rural training center, would be provided throughout the project area. Each training course
wil Ibe run for 3 days and would cater for 150 trainees. The project will fund the cost of
accommodation, meals and training materials for the trainees and the wages for the teachers. The
courses will cover the technical, financial and marketing aspects of small livestock production
units.



-165 -                      ANNEX I
ANNEX 11: AGRICULTURAL PROCESSING
Summary
1.    The agroprocessing component includes 22 enterprises, of which there are 13 in Yuncheng
and 8 in Luliang. These are expansions of existing enterprises except for four new enterprises in
Luliang. The expansions consist of adding new equipment in buildings on factory-owned land near
the existing facilities. This expansion of processing capacity adds value to the raw material
produced by the project, and the profits accrue to communities in the project areas. A reliable
market for their produce also gives the farmers more incentives to invest in higher yields and new
crops. Furthermore, the enterprises add to the local tax base and create employment opportunities
for managerial and technical staff, and off-farm employment for the farm households.
2.    The enterprises are mainly township and village enterprises (TVEs), a form of ownership
that is now common throughout China and can be seen as a transition between government
ownership and ownership by private individuals. TVEs are subject to market forces in procurement
of raw materials and the sale of finished products. The enterprises in this project plan to expand
production to meet well-defined market opportunities, and they will in most cases acquire
machinery that is more efficient and produces higher quality goods. Cost estimates are shown in
Table 1.
Yuncheng Prefecture
Jishan Guangong Distillery
3.    The distillery was established in 1988 as a township enterprise. The distillery produces
white spirit from sorghum and other locally available grains and rice husk purchased from other
provinces. The factory extension rill be located on an empty site about half a kilometer from the
existing plant. Buildings will include raw material storage, warehouse, bulk white spirit storage,
stores for packing materials, two packaging workshops, stores for finished products, a laboratory,
dormiitories and other buildings. The existing site will be modified to provide more space for spirit
manufacture and to move storage to the new site. The expansion will allow production to increase
from the present 1,000 tons to 5,000 tons.
4.    The distillery has won several awards and sells its products in 24 provinces of China and
reports exporting 60 percent of its annual production to Russia, Korea, Thailand, Hong Kong,
Macau, Taiwan and other parts of South East Asia. The Hong Kong Wang Li Brewery Company
apparently will be able to take 2,000 tons per year for export to other parts of Asia, another
company have signed a contract for the distillery to supply 1,200 tons of spirit, and at the China
Spring and Autumn Export Commodities Fair the distillery secured contracts for over 2,500 tons.
Local demand is 1,000 tons. The management, therefore, believes, with justification, that there will
be no difficulty in selling 5,000 tons per year. The investment cost is Y 10.7 million.



-166-                      ANNEXll
Wenxi Dehydrated Fruit and Vegetable Factory
5.    The factory started in August 1992 with a capacity of 400 tons per year of dehydrated
products. In November 1993 this was doubled to 800 tons per year, although the factory is still
working up to full capacity and will probably produce about 700 tons this year. With the present
production, drying is by hot air blowers. The main products are dehydrated Chinese onion, garlic
slices, carrots, Chinese cabbage and other vegetables. These are mainly sold to South Korea, Japan,
Singapore and Taiwan. The factory is a township enterprise managed as a collective. In 1993, the
factory broke even and in 1994 expects to make about Y 500,000 profit. The feasibility report was
prepared by the Shanxi Agro and Animal Husbandry Design Institute.
6.    The plan is to expand the facilities on a I ha site next to the existing factory. A new
building will be constructed and equipment installed to allow an annual production of 220 tons of
vacuum dehydrated vegetables and 500 tons of fruit and vegetable crisps. The investment cost is
estimated at YI 1.6 million. The factory anticipates selling all its production for export. A contract
has already been signed with a South Korean company to supply them with 3,000 tons of
dehydrated vegetables over a three-year period.
Jishan Date Processing
7.    The Company was established in March 1990 as a township collective enterprise. At
present, the factory produces about 500 tons of date products annually, composed of 100 tons of
ginseng-soaked date, and 200 tons each of honeyed date and sweetened date slices.
8.    The factory will be extended on the existing 18 mu (1.2 ha) with 4,500 m2 of existing
buildings by construction of a further 3,260 m consisting of processing area, workshops, cellars, a
boiler room and an electrical power distribution room. Total cost is estimated at Y6.5 million
(US$0.80 million). Production will increase by 2,300 tons to 2,800 tons. For this level of
production the intake quantity of dates will increase to around 4,600 tons per year.
9.    The factory has an agent in Guangdong and has good export links. The Jiangmen company
in Guangdong and other companies in Guangzhou and Zhejiang want to obtain a further 3,000 tons
of date products. Management expects exports to increase to 1,000-1,500 tons. Domestically, the
factory has developed a good market network and sells in seven provinces. Main markets are the
cities of Beijing, Taiyuan, Dalian and Xian and the corporation is having considerable success
selling its products .in railway stations and to airlines. The estimated cost is Y 6.5 million.
Jiangxian Hawthorn Processing
10.   The company was set up in July 1989. The present factory has a design capacity of 250
tons of hawthorn products, mainly hawthorn juice and some candied hawthom. However, poor
performance of the equipment and lack of working capital limit production of about 180 tons. Raw
material is more readily available, and processed haw fruit has a good market Planting hawthom
trees was encouraged by the county govemment which had a policy for each household to have
I mu (0.07 ha) of hawthom trees. By 1993 production of haw fruit in the county reached 6,000



-167-                       ANNEX 11
tons and the price which had been Y3.6 per kg in 1987 fell steadily to only around YO.4 per kg by
1993. As a result, there is strong pressure from farmers to increase processing capacity.
11.   For the extension, the factory would move to a 10 mu (0.67 ha) new site about 0.6 km away
from the present location. A 30-year lease has been signed for the site, that is next to the road with
piped water and electricity readily available. The new factory would have a capacity of 1,200 tons
per year of a variety of haw fruit products. Total investment cost is estimated at Y6 million.
Wanrong Dehydrated Vegetable Factory
12.   The factory, set up in December 1993, has the capacity to produce 300 tons of dried
vegetables per year. Up to September 1994 the plant had produced 75 tons of dehydrated
vegetables, mainly sold to South Korea and Taiwan. The plan is to establish a slaughter and beef
dehydration facility adjacent to the existing vegetable dehydration operation. It is proposed that the
beef dehydration unit will have an annual production capacity of around 100 tons from processing
440 tons live weight from 1,100 beasts. In addition, the extension will allow the vegetable
dehydration capacity to increase by a third to 400 tons per year. The cost of the extension is
estimated at Y7.5 million. The feasibility study was prepared by the Shanxi Food Industry
Institute.
Guanghua Food Processing Factory
13.   The factory, in Guanghua township of Wanrong County, was set up in 1990. It has
developed an excellnt reputation for candied fruiits. Annual production is 500 tons and the plan is
to expand this to 400 tons of dates, 300 tons of apples, 400 tons of haws, and 300 tons of apricot.
New equipment will be installed on a vacant site near the plant. The estimated cost is Y 3.7
million. The feasibility study was prepared by the Shanxi Food Industry Institute.
Yuanqu SiLk Reeling
14.   The mnill was set up in 1981 as a township enterprise and is under the Yuanqu Silk and
Cocoon Corporation which both assist households to produce silk cocoons and operates the mill.
Present output of the mill is 30 tons of white reeled silk per year on a single shift, which could be
doubled by introducing a second shift. About 300 households with one million mu (67,000 ha) of
mulberries supply cocoons to the mill, which also buys cocoons from other areas.
15.   The planned expansion has a number of components. Additional silk reeling equipment
will be installed with an annual capacity of 14 tons of white silk per year. This together with the
existing silk reeling equipment and introduction of a second shift will enable the reeling mills
production to increase to 70 tons per year. Machinery will be installed to produce silk cloth
including 24 looms for production of crepe de chine, 24 looms to produce other types of silk fabric,
and associated equipment. These will have a combined capacity of 60 million m2 of silk cloth
(equivalent to 56tons of silk) per year. The remaining 14 tons will be sold as reeled silk. In
addition, 55 sets of equipment for the manufacture of silk clothing. Finally, there the mill will
assist specialist silk- producing households. This will total Y1.5 million and include Yl million for
purchase of mulberry seedlings, silkworm eggs and tools, Y40,000 for improvement to the



-168 -                     ANNEX II
Sericulture Service Centre and Y100,000 for training programs. Total cost is estimated at Y10.2
million. The feasibility study was prepared by the Shanxi Light Industry Design Institute.
Xiaxian Feedmill
16.   The company was set up by the Xia county Animal Husbandry Bureau in 1992. The
company operates commercially and assumes sole responsibility for profit or loss. The present
business is keeping 60,000 meat chicken (broilers) parent generation breeding stock, which in 1992
produced 11.2 nillion eggs, about a third of which were kept for hatching to provide day-old chicks
for local farmers and the balance sold to Guangzou. The company has a small existing feedmill
which produces 1,750 tons of chicken feed per year (0.5-0.75 tons per hour, or 5 tons per day); this
is inadequate for present feed needs of 2,160 tons annually. The business is housed in disused
police barracks transferred to the local govemment.
17.   A 30,000 ton animal feed annual capacity mill (100 tons per day) will be constructed on a
site adjacent to the existing poultry farm and mill. The plan is to produce 10,000 tons of chicken
concentrate feed, 10,000 tons of chicken compound feeds, and 5,000 tons each of pig and cattle
compound feeds. There are 14 small feed mills in the whole of Yuncheng prefecture with a total
production of 29,000 tons, which is about 5 percent of the prefecture's demand. There are no large
mills in the area, the closest being in Taiyuan and Xian. Construction of the mill will be part of an
overall plan for large scale broiler production. Total cost of the investment is estimated at Y5.3
million. The feasibility study was prepared by the Shanxi Construction Design Institute of the
Shanxi Feed Station.
18.   Wuhan, Sanmenxia and Chaoyang District have signed a contract with Xia county for the
supply of 2 million broilers annually. About one-third of the eggs produced by the company will
be used to produce around 2.5 million chicks. These will be supplied to 10,000 households for
rearing and fattening. The company will supply poultry feed totalling 12,000 and will collect and
sell the finished birds. This operation and the company's own poultry farm will, therefore, require
about almost half the new mills feed output. The balance of about 6,000 tons of poultry feed and
all the pig and cattle feed will be sold within the Yuncheng prefecture. At present there are
reported to be about 20,000 chicken producing households in Xiaxian.
19.   Marketing plans for the balance of poultry feed and pig and cattle feed are yet to be
developed, but given the reported scarcity of processed animal feed in Yuncheng prefecture this
should not prove a problem, so long as quality and price are acceptable to farmers. Raw materials
such as maize, oilseed cake, bran and bone meal are all readily available in Xia county and
surrounding counties.
Xiaxian Flour Mill
20.   The existing mill is long established, starting in 1964, and is the responsibility of the Grain
Bureau. Since 1989 the mill has followed a commnercial and market-oriented system of operation,
but profits have fallen in recent years due to old equipment, outdated technology, market demands
for high grade flour, and competition from a number of small new private mills. Production was
9,000 tons of flour in 1992, but breakdowns and lack of demand for a poor quality product has



-169 -                     ANNEX 11
caused output to fall to 5,000 tons. The present mill building will be rebuilt to house a flour mill
with a 14,000 ton annual capacity producing a range of quality flours. The flour produced will be
sold within the county prefecture and province. The feasibility study has been prepared by the
Zhengzhou Grain Institute. The mill, as a long established business under the Grain Bureau, should
have no problem to market the output or to secure adequate supplies of wheat. Xia county produces
90,000 tons of wheat annually. Total cost is estimated at Y8.3 million.
Wenxi Biscuit Factory
21.   The Wenxi Yicheng Biscuit Factory was established in September 1992 and produces 22
kinds of biscuit products. The factory is a Lingxidong township enterprise and the finance to
construct and start the company is reported to have been collected by private individuals. At
present the factory buys around 1,500 tons of flour and produces about the same weight of biscuits.
22.   The factory will move to a new site and be expanded by adding a mill with a 60 ton per day
capacity (in three shifts) milling 15,000 tons of wheat per year and producing 9,500 tons of special
flour for biscuit production. Initially, the company plans to sell the flour but anticipates that in five
years its own biscuit production will absorb the mill's output. Total cost is estimated at Y2.5
million. The feasibility study was prepared by the Shanxi Food Industry Institute.
Xinjiang Dehydrated Vegetables
23.   The factory is located in Nanzhuang village of Hengqiao Township, and is in an area where
the farmers specialize in vegetables. Its annual production is 400 tons of dehydrated tumips,
onions, cabbage, garlic and other vegetables. It has customers in Korea, Japan, Europe and the
USA. The plan is to expand production to 1,600 tons. Buildings and new equipment will be
installed on vacant land next to the factory. The investment cost is Y 4.7 million.
Yuncheng Flour Mill
24.   The mill, in the western suburb of Yuncheng City, began production in 1990.In 1994 it
processed 3,000 tons of wheat and produced 1,800 tons of specialized flours. Markets are
well-established in Taiyuan, Beijing, Shanghai and other cities. The plan is to expand production
to 12,000 tons of wheat, and 9,000 tons of flours. New equipment will be instalWled on a site close
to the plant. The estimated cost is Y 6.5 million.
Pinglu Fruit Packing
25. . The enterprise was set up in 1993 to pack apples for markets in Guangzhou and other cities
in China. It draws on local production of high quality apples, especially the Fuji variety which is in
demind in the domestic and export markets. In 1994, over 1,000 tons of beeswax coated apples
were sold. The plan is to expand annual capacity to 5,000 tons of wax-coated Fuji apples. New
grading, washing, coating and packing machinery, and temperature-controlled storage will be
installed on a site next to the existing factory.



-170 -                     ANNEX 11
Luliang Prefecture
Linxian Paperboard Mill
26.   The mill commenced operation in 1989, financed by a govermnent investment of Y2.3
million, of which Y1.20 million was as a poverty alleviation loan and YO.9 million from the
provincial SPC. It is the responsibility of the Linxian Township Enterprise Administration Bureau.
Present design capacity is 1,000 tons annually of corrugated paper, about half used for production
of 500,000 m' of boxes and the balance sold. In 1993, the mill is reported to have produced 935
tons of corrugated paper, of which 400 tons were sold as paper and 475,000 m2 of boxes.
27.   Main raw materials are wastepaper,wheat straw and purchased wood pulp. The mill has
signed agreements for purchasing waste paper from surrounding counties. Total supply is
estimated at 5,000 tons - of which the mill will need about 36 percent, or 1,800 tons. Present price
of com stalks and wheat straw, delivered to the mill, are respectively Y40 and Y80 per ton. Around
100 tons of wood pulp will be required. Present price is Y3,200 per ton (UJS$368 per ton). At
present, the mill can only make rough kraft suitable for the comugated core and buys better quality
kraft paper for facing. The plan is to expand capacity of kraft box paper by 1,400 tons per year and
increase corrugated cardboard for box making by 2.5 million m2, to a total of 2,400 tons and 3.0
million m2 respectively. Total cost is estimated at Yll.0 miUlion. The feasibility study was
prepared by the Shanxi Light Industry Design Institute.
28.   The present demand for boxes in Linxian is 7-8 million m2 The Linxian mill is the only
significant manufacturer of boxes in Luliang prefecture, which has a number of small plants with a
combined output of only 0.5 million mr.
Fangshan Oil Mill (New Enterprise)
29.   A number of oilseed crops are produced in Fangshan county, including rape seed, linseed,
mustard, sunflower and soybean. In 1993, 3,300 ha of oil seeds produced about 4,000 tons. The
county plans to plant an additional 2,000-2,700 ha to oilseeds and raise production to around 6,500
tons. Simple local processing by around 20 small simple, low technology mills consumes about
1,500 tons of the county's production. The balance of around 2,000 tons is presently sold for
processing in other areas. The quality of oil produced is poor.
30.   The plan is to establish a new mill in Madihui village. The mill will have an annual
capacity of 4,000 tons of oilseeds. Through a process of expelling, followed by solvent extraction
and oil refining, the factory aims to produce, 1,135 tons of cooking oil and 2,000 tons of oilseed
meal.Total investrnent costs are estimated at Y 4.4 million. The feasibility study was prepared by
the Shanxi Light Industry Design Institute.
Shilou Leather Factory
31.   The factory was established close to Shilou county town in 1991 to process goat hides,
which are readily available in the surrounding area. The plan is to expand output of leather and to
produce leather clothing. New equipment will be purchased and set up in new buildings adjacent to



-171-                        ANNEX 11
the existing facilities, together with a treatment plant for effluents. The estimated investment cost is
Y 2.4 million.
Xingxian Cereal Processing Factory (New Enterprise)
32.   This is a new enterprise, to be set up 7 km from Xingxian county town, to produce 2,000
tons of cowpea and grade and pack 1,000 tons of mung bean, 800 tons of red bean, and 200 tons of
other beans. It will be built on the site of an abandoned silkworm farm. Farmers in the area
specialize in these crops, but lack of a nearby processing plant depresses prices. There is a good
demand for the output of the plant in Taiyuan and other cities throughout China. The estimated
investment cost is Y 2.7 million.
Linyu Distillery
33.   The distillery, a township enterprise established in 1985, produces about 1,000 tons per year
of white spirit from sorghum, wheat bran, millet husk and other materials. Present production is
purchased by the larger and well-established Xinhuachun Fenjiu Distillery. Under a contract signed
in 1993, the latter will purchase up to 600 tons of distilled spirit in bulk each year. Last year the
distillery was awarded the Superior Quality Liquor designation by the Shanxi Province Township
Industries Bureau and demand exceeds production.
34.   The present location of the distillery is in a remote hilly area where water quality is good
and there is no other industry. The plan is to extend the facilities on an adjoining site of 2.6 ha to
enable the distillery to produce 1,000 tons more spirit and to bottle and package 40 percent of the
incremental production. A further 160 workers will be employed bringing the total staffing to 225.
The feasibility study was prepared by the Shanxi Light Industry Design Institute.
35.   The present contract with Feniu is attractive to the distillery because it enables them to sell
in bulk and they have no proper bottling plant. The addition of a bottling plant will make it
possible to bottle the balance of the incremental production (400 tons) and presumably the existing
production, also of around 400 tons. Since the product is of good quality and the market appears
buoyant, this will help to increase the distilleries independence and allow it to develop its own
lines.
Shilou Feed Mill
36.   The mill started in 1984 as a township enterprise with an annual design capacity of
800-1,000 tons of animal feed. In the last three years production has been around 1,000 tons
mainly chicken and pig feed. Annual sales value has been about YI million and net profit of
Y50,000. The mill will be expanded on its existing site. A 2.5 ton per hour mill will be installed to
produce 6,000 tons of feed per year working 300 days and 8 hours per day.
37.   Total investment is estimated at Y 2.96 million ($340,000), including incremental working
capital of Y 415,000 ($48,000). Total staffing of the mill will increase from the present 11 to 25,
mainly through employment of additional workers, clerical and maintenance staff. The feasibility
study was prepared by the Shanxi Light Industry Design Institute.



-172 -                     ANNEX I1
Liulin Date Processing Factory (New Enterprise)
38.   Chinese date production in Liulin in 1993 was around 3,000 tons and is increasing each
year. According to the feasibility report, about 8,000 tons were spoilt last year by mildew and rot
before they could be sold. Wild dates are also readily available in the area (around 340 tons) and at
present there is little processing capacity in the area.
39.  In 1993, the Liulin Date Developing Company (LDDC) and the Sanjiao Township
Enterprise Company (STEC) of Liulin county set up a joint stock company. So far the enterprise
has functioned mainly as a trading company. The company buys about 1,300 tons of date and sells
about half through three outlets, in North-East China, Zhejiang and Guangzhou. In addition,
LDDC has some experience in date extract and date juice manufacture. STEC has some experience
of smashed dates, candied dates and rudimentary packaging using a very traditional workshop.
40.   With their existing finance, the company has acquired a site and three buildings with a total
ground plan area of 1,000 m2 which are close to completion. The plan is to construct and equip
additional buildings with an of 2,000 m  The factory will produce 1,000 tons of graded dried
(25-30 percent moisture) and packed dates and 1,000 tons of wild Chinese date juice. The dried
dates will be tunnel dried and packed in plastic bags. The feasibility study was prepared by the
Shanxi Light Industry Design Institute.
41.   The main export markets are Japan, Korea, Malaysia and Singapore. Soft drink production
nationally is reported to be 4.5 million tons and is projected to reach 6 million in 1995 and 10
rnillion by the Year 2000. Production of soft drinks in Shanxi is about 5 percent of the national
total and drinks are imported from other provinces.
Lishi Date Processing Factory (New Enterprise)
42.   The proposed new enterprise will be a joint stock company under the general corporation of
township enterprises of Lishi county. A board of directors is to be formed with five members who
will appoint a factory manager. The feasibility study was prepared by the Shanxi Light Industry
Design Institute. The factory will be housed partly in a disused slaughterhouse 7 km north of Lishi
and partly in new buildings to be constructed on the same site. Most of the old slaughterhouse
buildings will be demolished to allow construction of the new workshops but the offices, cold
stores, dormitory accommodation and service buildings will be retained.
43.   The expected annual production will be 400 tons of Chinese date (jujube) and a similar
quantity of jujube coffee. These two products have been developed by the Food Processing
Department of Luliang College. The products have attracted interest of both foreign and Chinese
food industry specialists and a patent has been obtained on the process. About 2.3 tons of date
coffee has been produced on a pilot basis for test marketing and as samples. At the Xianen
Economic Negotiation in July this year, the Zhenfa Private Limited Company from Singapore
signed a letter of intent to purchase 1,000 tons of jujube at a price of Y 30,000 ($3,450) per ton.
Total cost of the enterprise is estimated at Y 6.6 million.



-173 -                       ANNEX 11
Financial Analysis
44.   A financial cash flow analysis based on a 17-year period has been undertaken for all
agroprocessing plants in the project (Table 2). The weighted average financial rate of return is 28
percent and ranges from 18 percent for the Xiaxian Flour Mill to 45 percent for the Wenxi Biscuit
Factory. Most of the factories break even between Year 6 and Year 8.
45.   Three sensitivity scenarios have been modelled for each factory: (a) a drop in the sales
prices of 5 percent; (b) a drop in prices of 10 percent; and (c) a reduction in the production capacity
by 20 percent. The financial parameters of some of the factories are sensitive to a drop in the sales
prices. Particularly those factories with a low fixed costs and high turnovers that operate with small
margins. However, these type of enterprises would generally compensate by paying lower prices to
their suppliers of raw material. All of the factories would still be financially viable under a reduced
capacity of 20 percent. However, the Xiaxian Flour Mill would be just at the margin with a FIRR
of 12 percent. Most other factories could economically operate even at lower capacity rates.
46.   An expansion of the agroprocessing activities in the project area shows a number of
important economic benefits. Processing generally doubles or triples the value of agricultural raw
materials and a large share of this additional value would be kept within the region in the form of
employment and income. Processing of perishable agricultural raw materials such as fruits and
vegetables close to the place of production reduces significantly post-harvest storage and
transportation losses. For all products, transportation requirments are reduced and become less
time-bound. This is an important factor China where the transportation system is under pressure.



Table 1: AGROPROCESSING INVESTMENT COST SUMMARY
(Values in Yuan Million)
Investment Costs lincl contingencies)
Buildings   Equipment    Working   IDC       Other
Yuncheng                                      a/        bi        Capital      c/         di        Total
Jishan Guangong Distillery                   4.83       3.94       1.91       1.33       0.59      12.60
Wenxi Dehydrated Vegetable Factory           2.63       6.48       1.84       1.45       1.07      13.48
Jishan Date Company                          2.07       2.73       1.32       0.67.      1.05       7.84
Jiangxian Xinxing Food Products Factory      2.35       1.89       0.89       0.66       0.78       6.57
Wanrong Dehydrated Vegetable Factory         2.09       3.80       0.3        0.95       1.37       9.03
Guanghua Food Processing Factory             1.63       2.35       0.55       0.57       0.29       5.39
Yuanqu Silk Reeling Plant                    4.97       3.72       2.92       1.32       2.13      15.07
Xiaxian Feed Mill                            2.21       2.94       3.66       0.64       0.68      10.12
Xiaxian Flour Mill                           2.14       4.44       1.03       1.17       0.85       9.62
Wenxi Biscuit Factory                        1.31       1.31       0.44       0.42       0.41       3.89
Xingliang Dehydrated Vegetable               1.07       2.43       1.02       0.54       0.64       5.70
Yuncheng Flour Mill                          1.22       4.58       0.67       0.97       0.74       8.18
Pinglu Fruit Packing                         2.32       1.07       0.22       0.20       0.51       4.32
Sub-Total Yuncheng                            30.84      41.68      17.30      10.90       11.11    111.83
Lullang
Linxian Paper Board Mill                     3.13       7.40       0.97       0.60       0.59      12.68
Fangshan Cooking Oil Refinery                1.66       3.22.1    2.20        0.24       0.19       7.41
Xinxian Cereals Processing Mill              1.03       2.12       1.50       0.16       0.17       4.98
Shilou Leather Factory                       0.53       1.97       0.65       0.15       0.21       3.51
Liulin Liuyu Distillery                      4.78       3.85       0.52       0.47       0.25       9.87
Shilou Feed Mill.                            1.51       1.44       0.56       0.11       0.07       3.69
Liulin Date Processing Factory               2.55       3.82       1.63       0.34       0.27       8.60
Lishi Date Processing Factory                3.10       3.13       2.96       0.26       0.24       9.69
Sub-Totd Lullng                               18.18      26.95      10.99       2.32       2.00      60.45
Total Project     -                           49.02      68.63      28.29      13.23      13.11     172.28
a/I nldin Land.
bI kiciing tr,uportaton equipment and costs for isat.Uiton.
c/ Interest DuNn Construction
di Mawagement. Supervisn and design lees.



Table 2: ACROPrOCFSSINC FINANCIAL ANALYSIS SUMMARY la
(NPV in Yuan Million)
Serlsilivity Scenarios
Baseline Scenario             sahes Prices *ow            Reduced Capacity
Btak Even    by 6 %          by 10%         by 20 %    Break Even
Yunchong                                FIRA     NPV      In Yer    FIRR    NPV    FIRR    NPV   FIRR    NPV       at
Jishan Guangong Distillery             25%       9.44     8       21%      6.35   17%    3.26   19%      4.92    60%
Wenxi Dehydrated Vegetable Factory     25%      11.61     8       22%      8.18   18%    4.75   17%      4.23     70%
Jishan Date Company                    41%       7.75     5       20%      2.28    1%   -3.18   19%      2.09     75%
Jlangxian Xinxing Food Products Factory  25%     5.96     8       19%      3.17   13%    0.37   17%       2.06    70%
Wanrong Dehydrated Vegetable Factory   29%       7.66     6       26%      6.15   22%    4.63  21%       3.86    60%
Guanghua Food Processing Factory       23%       3.63     9       19%      2.21   15%    0.78   17%       1.48    65%
Yuanqu Silk leeling Plant              27%      11.44     8       22%      7.46   17%    3.47   19%      5.46    65%
Xiaxian Feed Mill                      37%      10.20     6       24%      4.29    7%   -1.63  31%       7.27    30%
Xiaxian Flour Mill                     18%       1.64    12        3%    -2.03           -5.70   12%    -0.12    80% 
Wonxl Biscuit Factory                  45%      10.01     6       35%      6.76   24%    3.50  35%       6.42    45%    u1
Xingjiang Dehydrated Vegetable         25%       5.25     8       14%      0.57          -4.10   15%     1.11     75%
YunchengFlourMill                      28%       7.32     7       21%      4.14   14%    0.96   18%      2.63    65%
Pinglu Fruit Packing                   39%       6.36     5               -5.01         -16.39   18%     1.25    75%
Sub-Total Yunch.ng                       28%     104.19     7       20%    47.62   10%   -8.94   19%    42.80
Luliang
Linxian Paper Board Mill               26%       9.10     7       23%      7.39   21%    5.67   20%      4.85    55%
Fangshan Cooking Oil Refinery          32%       9.60     6       27%      7.13   22%    4.66  23%       5.38    55%
Xinxian Cereals Processing Mill        31%       6.12     6.      20%      2.76   10%   -0.61   22%      3.10    60%
Shilou Leather Factory                 22%       2.06     9       19%  .  1.49   16%    0.92   15%       0.68    70%
Uulin Liuyu Distillery                 21%       4.23     9       18%      2.94   16%    1.65   14%      0.80    75%
Shilou Food Mill                       26%       2.82     7       20%      1.66   15%    0.50   19%      1.48    55%
Liulin Date Processing Factory         28%       8.16     7       23%      5.57   18%    2.99   20%      4.20    60%
Ushi Date Processing Factory           29%      12.18     7       23%      7.50   16%    2.82  21%       6.08    60%
Sub-Total Lulang                         27.%     54.28     7       22%    36.45   17%   18.62  20%    26.56
Total Project                            28%     158.47     7       21%    84.07   13%    9.68   19%    69.45
Al Based on  I7yo cash flw.



-176 -                   ANNEX 12
ANNEX 12: SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
Poverty Alleviation Programs in Shanxi Province
1.   In 1990, 50 counties in Shanxi were included in the national poverty program-
Help the Poor Fund. This program was renamed the "Eight-Seven Poverty Alleviation
Plan" which commenced in 1994 and aims to solve poverty alleviation for 80 million
people in seven years (by 2000). In 1992, the national criterion was set at 400 yuan per
capita and the provincial criterion to 500 yuan per capita.
2.    Shanxi is one of the poorest provinces in China. For isolated townships that lack
good infirtructure, the outlook for poverty alleviation is vezy bleak without outside
assistance.  The poverty alleviation strategy of the Shanxi Government focuses on
improvement of cultivated land, rural infiastructure, developing ural enterprises, and
diversifying agricultural production with orchards, livestock breeding and forestry.
3.    In Luliang Prefecture, 9 of 13 counties were included in the program in 1990 and
they have received Yuan 418.6 million as of 1993. In 1991, 5 of 13 counties in Yuncheng
Prefecture were also added to the program and they have received Yuan 44.3 million as of
1993.
4.    Related Programs Being Implemented in the Project Areas with Foreign Assistance:
-   World Food Programme, Project No. 3923, aimed at poor areas in Luliang
Prefecture.
*   WHO and Unicef Health Program for health and hygiene education.
*   World Bank Loess Plateau Project for agricultural development and soil
conservation.
*   World Bank Primary Education Project for schools, curriculum development
and teacher training.
5.    Chinese Programs Being Implemented in Shanxi Province:
*   Chen Poverty Alleviation Project, which includes adult literacy, skills
training, health and hygiene education, and reduction of drop out rates in
schools.
* Project Hope, an education program for school drop outs in poverty stricken
areas.



-177 -                   ANNEX 12
*  Green Certificate Training Program to teach farmers modem scientific
methods.
* Various development and training programs undertaken by the All China
Women's Federation.
Project Components and Benefits
6.    Figure 1 sunmmarizes the project strategy and logic for alleviating poverty in the
project areas-Yuncheng Prefecture and Luliang Prefecture. There are many factors that
are both the causes and symptoms of poverty. The IDA supported Project focuses on
addressing poverty related issues directly with investments in three areas:
(a)   agricultural development;
(b)   rural water supply and roads; and
(c)   agro-processing enterprises.
7.    There will be no investment in social services such as education or health because
there sectors are covered by existing programs; however, an indirect benefit is anticipated
because higher incomes can lead to a dramatic improvement in living standards, housing,
nutrition, health care and education. In this manner, the project should help to alleviate
poverty by directly raising incomes and imnproving living standards, and by ii,directly
benefiting social services which have been targeted by other programs. So rather than be
designed as a fully integrated project targeted at specific villages, this project aims to
augment an existing sector program for poverty alleviation that has identified subprojects
that can greatly benefit a large number of poor people.
8.    The project components for Yuncheng Prefecture include:
(a)   rehabilitation of the Langdian, Xiaofan and Zuncun pumping schemes and
upgraded irrigation system for 123,000 ha, which will benefit 750,000
people in four counties;
(b)   improvement of river beachland areas through investment in 1,250 tube
wells, land levelling for 13,000 ha, power supply and road construction,
which will benefit 450,000 people;
(c)   orchard developments covering 71,400 ha of cultivated land, which will
benefit 400,000 people;
(d)   livestock breeding of 39,000 cows and improved pastures for 130,000 sheep
in the mountainous areas, which will benefit 9,500 households;
(e)   78 rural water supply schemes for 516 natural villages, which will benefit
621,500 people and 118,000 livestock;



-178 -                   ANNEX 12
(f)   upgrading of six rural roads with a combined length of 202 Ian, which will
improve access for 185,000 people;
(g)   aquaculture development for 533 ha of fish ponds, which will benefit 6,150
people;
(h)   investment in 13 agro-processing factories, which will employ 2,000
workers; and
(i)   support for technical training and agricultural extension services.
9.    The project components for Luliang Prefecture include:
(a)   land terracing for 13,400 ha of slopeland, which will benefit 100,000 people;
(b)   construction of 56 check dams to prevent soil erosion, which can benefit
local farmers directly and reduce sedimentation and flooding in downstream
sections of the Yellow River;
(c)   planting of 4,200 ha of forests to protect against soil erosion;
(d)   orchard developments covering 21,300 ha of cultivated land, which will
benefit 120,000 people;
(e)   raising of 12,400 cows and grassland seed nursery, which will benefit 3,100
households;
(f)   204 village water supply schemes, which will benefit 63,900 people and
5,560 livestock;
(g)   upgrading of five rural roads with a combined length of 118 km, which will
improve access for 132,000 people;
(h)   investment in eight agro-processing factories, which will employ 1000
workers; and
(i)   support for technical training and agricultural extension services.
Baseline Socioeconomic Conditions
10.   Table 1 shows a comparison of the baseline socio-economic conditions in the
Yuncheng and Luliang project areas. The Yuncheng area has better agricultural land and
greater agricultural output, but it is spread over a population which is twice as large as the
Luliang project area. Since the Yuncheng project area encompasses the entire prefecture,
the statistics are improved by rural industry and economic activity around Yuncheng City.
However, the mountainous parts of Yuncheng have severe poverty conditions.



-179 -                  ANNEX 12
11.   The Luliang project area is targeted at the poorest counties in a poor prefecture. The
poverty conditions relate to poor natural conditions, including serious soil erosion, drought
conditions, cold winters and lack of water resources. The population density is lower than
in Yuncheng but the poverty conditions in Luliang are widespread. This part of Luliang
Prefecture does not possess abundant rural industry; any of the large mines are State owned.
Rural Incomes in Yuncheng Prefecture
12.   The average annual net income for the rural population was 480 yuan per capita in
1992. This ranged from a low of 379 yuan in Pinglu County to a high of 574 yuan in
Yongji County. The higher incomes tend to reflect proximity to urban centers or mining
districts. Map la shows the distribution of rural per capita incomes at the township level in
1992. In 1993, income levels rose by an average rate of 22.1 percent, although the real
increase after inflation was only 8.0 percent. This was considered a good crop year because
the rain came at the right time; yields were 27 percent higher than in 1992. In 1994,
incomes rose again by an average rate of 28.5 percent, but since inflation was very high, the
real increase was only 4.1 percent. Fortunately, the farmers benefited from significant
increases to crop prices which enabled them to keep pace with the general cost of living. In
real terms (1992 prices), the 1994 per capita rural net income for Yuncheng was 540 yuan
and ranged from 415 yuan in Yuanqu County to 636 yuan in Yongji City.
13.   Table 2 shows the distribution of rural income groups in 1992. Only 2.4 percent of
rural households had a net income less than 200 yuan per capita but 9.9 percent were
between 200 and 300 yuan and 57.5 percent were between 300 and 500 yuan. 30.1 percent
of households earned more than 500 yuan although most of them earned less than 800 yuan
per capita. In 1993, one of the best years for crop output, almost 60 percent of the
households earned more than 500 yuan per capita. Map la shows that in 1992, 86
townships (41 percent of the 211 townships) were below the national poverty line and 140
townships (66 percent) were below the provincial poverty line. Map l b shows 1994 income
levels expressed in terms of 1992 price indices. In 1994, 41 townships (19 percent) of
townships were below the national poverty line and 99 townships (47 percent) were below
the provincial poverty line. Therefore, there was an improvement in income levels between
1992 and 1994 which is attributable to good weather, crop yields and grain prices; however,
a large number of rural people are still below the poverty line. In a year with a serious
drought, an estimated 70 percent to 80 percent of the townships and as many as 80 percent
to 85 percent of rural households could fall below 500 yuan per capita.
Rural Incomes in Luliang Prefecture Project Area
14.   The average annual net income for the rural population was 318 yuan per capita in
1992. This ranged from a low of 272 yuan in Xingxian County to 372 yuan in Liulin
County. Map 2a shows the distribution of rural per capita incomes at the township level in
1992. 104 townships (89 percent of the 117 townships) had net incomes below the national
poverty level of 400 yuan per capita.



-180 -                   ANNEX 12
15.  In 1993, income levels rose by an average rate of 23.9 percent but the real increase
was 10.2 percent. In 1994, income levels rose another 44.5 percent due to higher grin
prices. In real terms (1992 prices), the 1994 per capita rural net income for the Luliang
project area was 398 yuan and ranged from 316 yuan in the four project townships of Lishi
City to 435 yuan in Liulin County. Although this is an impressive 25 percent real increase
since 1992, there were still 82 townships (70 percent) below the national poverty line and
108 townships 92 percent) were below the provincial poverty line, based on 1992 prices
(see Map 2b). Significant increases were made in the counties of Lanxian (56 percent
increase) and Xingxian (52 percent increase), both situated in the northern part of the
prefecture. In a bad year, 95 percent of the townships are likely to fall below the national
poverty line.
16.   Table 3 shows the distribution of rural income groups in 1992. Only 6.9 percent of
rural households had a net income less than 200 yuan per capita but 32.3 percent were
between 200 and 300 yuan and 52.6 percent were between 300 and 500 yuan. Roughly 70
percent of the households fell below the poverty line (400 yuan per capita). Only 8.2
percent of households earned more than 500 yuan. When incomes rose by 24 percent in
1993, 82 percent of the households still earned less than 500 yuan per capita.
Socioeconomic Issues
17.   The following issues were identified and resolved after discussions with the PMOs.
(a)   measurement of incomes (village statistics versus actual household
incomes);
(b)   target groups for project investment/benefits;
(c)   farmer's labour inputs for the project;
(d)   project benefits and impacts on women;
(e)   inclusion or exclusion of social infrastructure in project;
(f)   public  consultation  and  participation  in  project decisions  and
implementation;
(g)   equitable allocation of project benefits (selection, operation);
(h)   cost recovery from rural beneficiaries for each projectcomponent;
(i)   surplus male labour in rural areas and seasonality of labour requirements;
and
(j)   funding for training and agricultural extension services.



-181-                    ANNEX 12
18.   The following paragraphs indicate the status of public awareness, public
consultation, community participation and involvement of women.
Public Awareness
19.   Since the Poverty Alleviation Office has already been financing projects for ten
years in Luliang Prefecture and four years in five counties of Yuncheng Prefecture, many
rurl people are quite aware of the poverty alleviation program. During the process of
project preparation, four World Bank/FAO missions and two years of continuous
investigation by the PMOs have created widespread awareness for the project. The
township offices have been active in identifying candidate villages and households.
20.   Local television and newspapers have reported project activities on a regular basis.
The environmental assessment team has conducted a opinion survey of farmers,
administrators, technicians and intellectuals (refer to the EIA report). As of March 1995,
the social assessment team had conducted pilot surveys of 130 villages in Yuncheng and 70
villages in Luliang. The Yuncheng team had also done a pilot survey covering 156
households. Since then, larger surveys have been carried out to provide an extensive
database of baseline conditions for the project areas. Consequently, the level of awareness
is very high and the people are anxious to see the start of the project.
Public Consultation
21.   The Poverty Alleviation Office has involved all relevant line departments and local
government in formulating the project. In addition, they have had extensive consultations
with the general public. In March 1994, the World Bank mission participated in an
informal symposium with heads from local democratic political parties, intellectual
societies, and the ACWF. Although the purpose was to bring diverse groups together to
become involved with the project, it became clear that all groups had already been
consulted during the past two years and strongly supported the project.
22.   At the village level, public consultation has been underway for two years. Ongoing
consultation is required for the final selection of target households, and for project
implementation. Most farmers understand and accept that they will have to repay loans.
Careful consideration must be given to ensure that the beneficiaries include a wide spectrum
of households, while focusing on poverty alleviation. Also, the project will target women
as well as men for household schemes, particularly livestock and horticulture.
Community Participation
23.   Proper mobilization, motivation and organization is necessary to ensure high quality
construction and a feeling of ownership in the project. For the livelihood schemes, a
broader community approach will be taken although there may be few target households in
each village. This approach will provide learning opportunities for other villagers which
prepares the ground for future investments with local funds from savings or loans from the
Agricultural Bank of China. In China, the household responsibility system has developed



-182 -                  ANNEX 12
more individual attitudes amongst the farmers. Now, some blending of entrepreneurial
initiative and collective support is required for poverty alleviation to achieve maximum
benefits to the greatest number of people.
24.  In villages, it will be beneficial to target women who traditionally work collectively
on famiing and sideline activities. There is a women's representative in each village who is
responsible for awareness, organizing, and motivating the women. Through the ACWF,
access can be gained to training and demonstration programs and to small amounts of
credit.
The All China Women's Federation
25.   The Poverty Alleviation Office has years of experience working in conjunction with
the ACWF and training institutes, which can allocated responsibilities for project
implementation. For this project, the ACWF will be directly involved in implementation.
This will be done in an number a ways, such as:
(a)   targeting villages where the ACWF is currently working,
(b)   allocating funds to ACWF to organize and conduct training of women in the
villages,
(c)   seconding some ACWF staff to be attached to the county PMOs,
(d)   channeling some funds to the ACWF for on-lending to women, and
(e)   providing follow-up training in literacy, hygiene, and occupational skills that
compliment the initial livelihood component.
Project Beneficiary Selection Criteria
26.   The main criteria used to identify the investment components and project areas were
as follows:
(a)   per capita income levels of prefectures and counties,
(b)   exclude areas with existing internationally financed projects,
(c)   components aimed at improving agricultural incomes and sideline incomes,
(d)   components that enhance the socio-environmental land capacity,
(e)   components that have good prospects for cost recovery, and
(f)   components benefiting the greatest number of people per unit investment
cost.



-183 -                   ANNEX 12
Table 2 shows the selection for villages and households, by project component.
Monitoring And Evaluation System
27.   In order to evaluate the success of the Shanxi Poverty Alleviation Project, certain
criteria need to be monitored during implementation and after project completion. From the
socio-economic viewpoint, the following criteria and indices have been adopted:
(a)   Per capita rural incomes:
(i)   real increase in net incomes,
(ii)   percentage of households above the poverty line, and
(iii)   sources of income (income stability).
(b)   Rural employment:
(i)   number of days and wages for locals during construction, and
(ii)   number of people employed in enterprises and salaries, (the indices
should include a gender breakdown),
(c)    Rural living standards:
(i)   quality of housing and new house construction,
(ii)   household assets (farm machinery and consumer items),
(iii)   percentage of households with adequate potable water supply, and
(iv)    people with improved access to towns (via new roads).
(d)   Specialized households:
(i)   household equity and repayment of loans, and
(ii)   number of failures or additional loans and subsidies.
(e)   Local economic growth:
(i)   new enterprises and rural employment,
(ii)    wage income (full-time, part-time), and
(iii)   local investment in social infastucture (schools, clinics).



-184-                   ANNEX 12
28.  In addition to these socio-economic criteria, there will be project implementation
criteria such as irrigated area, new orchard area, new livestock, terraced area, new water
schemes, new roads, etc. For each component, the status of project implementation should
be measured in terms of percent complete, cost, quality, and number of people benefited.
Monitoring and Evaluation System
29.   The Shanxi Provincial PMO and the prefecture PMO's will have overall
responsibility for socio-economic monitoring and evaluation. Baseline data have been
collected and entered in database management systems by the Yuncheng and Luliang
PMOs. Income statistics and agricultural data have been collected at the county and
township levels. General statistics on income, living standards, health, education, and
agricultural production by crop have been compiled for each county. These data will be
updated annually by the Bureau of Statistics.
30.   A significant amount of data have been, and will be, collected and maintained by the
prefecture PMOs. The dBase software program is being used to manage the survey data
and generate annual reports at the prefecture level. The baseline statistics at the county and
township levels have been entered into Excel spreadsheets. These are adequate but
provision should be made to link statistics within each database. The system should remain
simple and user friendly to ensure transparency and access by the project supervisory staff.
The reporting formats should be simple and clear to assist the World Bank to review
progress during project evaluation missions.
Recommendations
31.   Project Design
(a)   Encourage and support non-farm activities in rural areas.
(b)   Coordinate project with existing health and education programs.
(c)   Select poor townships for components that have no fixed location.
(d)   Promote activities that generate labour requirements as well as incomes.
(e)   Encourage activities the spread labour requirements throughout the year.
(f)    Vary the financial and cost recovery requirements by income group.
32.   Project Implementation
(a)   Continue to improve the level of public consultation and participation.
(b)   New labour requirements should be allocated equitably between men and
women.



-185 -                   ANNEX 12
(c)   Develop programs for technical training and adult education.
(d)   Villages should be encouraged to set up a fund to finance the local inputs
for project implementation.
33.   Monitoring and Evaluation
(a)   Maintain the monitoring and evaluation system by updating data each
year.
34.   Special Issues
(a)   Target the poorest villages in Luliang.
(b)   Ensure equitable allocation of project benefits. For the operation of
schemes, benefits should be allocated on the basis on ability to pay, with
an overall objective of full cost recovery.
(c)   Set higher targets and local financing in Yuncheng.



-186-                   ANNEX 12
Table 1: COMPARISON OF SOCIOECONOMIC CHARACTERISTICS IN
THE Two PROJECT AREAs-1993
Characteristics                                       Yuncheng       Luliang
Total Population                                      4,436,620      1,113,770
Natural Growth Rate                                   1.14 %          1.10 %
Rural Population                                      3,846,390      1,036,800
(87 %)         (93 %)
Rural Population Density per km2                      275            110
Cultivated Land (ha)                                  609,200        250,900
- percent of land area                               43.6 %         26.8 %
Irrigated Land as a percent of Cultivated Land        49 %           4 %
Mature Orchard Land (ha)                              39,538         25,120
Farmland per Capita (ha)                             .0.17           0.27
Livestock (head)                                      704,900        95,700
Frost Free Days per Year                              188 - 238      150 - 170
Annual Precipitation (mm)                             472 - 603      485 - 523
1992 Average Rural Net Income per Capita (Yuan)       480            318
Percent of Rural Population Below the Poverty Line    70 %           85 %
Total Rural Output Value (million Yuan)               8,800          976
- of which Industrial Output                        65 %            47%
Agricultural Output Value per Capita (thousand Yuan)  806            501



-187-                                ANNEX 12
Table 2: SELECTION OF PROJEcT TOWNSHIPS, VILLAGES AND HOUSEHOLDS
The following sections describe the criteria used to target beneficiary villages and households for livestock farms, horticulture, land terracing,
rural roads and rural water supply.
Livestock Farms
Yuncheng                                - Ist, select all townships in five poverty counties (S3 townships);
- 2nd, select poor townships in other counties (66 townships);
- 3rd, select poor villages in other townships (45 townships);
- 4th, select villages that possess good natural resources (e.g., 20 to 40 ha of natural pasture and
5 ha for herbage; or adequate farm residue and fodder).
Within these villages, between 2 and 10 households will be identified on the basis of those that:
- are poor (below 500 yuan per capita);
- agree to participate in the progran;
- have a young adult who completed junior middle school; and
- are capable of good animal husbandry management skills but presentdy have no livestock.
Lulig                                   Every township will identify 20 to 30 poor households for animal husbandry farms because all
seven project counties, and 112 of the 117 townships, are below the poverty line.
- villages that presently have no or few cattle;
- villages that have adequate domestic water supply;
- villages that have natural pasture or suitable land for improved pasture;
- households that have young adults with junior middle school education;
households that are capable of good animal husbandry management skills but presently have
no livestock; and
- households that agree to participate in the program.
Economic Tree
Yunchenz                                - i st, select all townships in five poverty counties (83 townships);
- 2nd, select poor townships in other counties (66 townships);
- 3rd, select poor villages in other townships (43 townships);
- 4th, select villages with suitable gullies and wasteland;
. 5th, select villages with less than 0.02 ha orchard per capita (i.e., less than 5 percent of
farmland except for specialized orchard areas).
Lulianz                                 - all seven project counties and 112 of the 117 townships are below the poverty line;
- all townships have abundant slopeland and gullies suitable for planting orchards;
- villages not having more than 0.03 ha orchard per capita;
- villages with good household candidates.
In Yuncheng and Luliang, the selection of households is based on:
- a contract on suitable slopeland, or cultivated land that will be intercropped;
- a young adult who has completed junior middle school;
- possibly some scattered fruit rees but no orchard land;
- good household enterprise management skills; and
- agree to participate in program.
Land Terracing in Luliang               - dispersed widely to Ill of the II7 townships in Luliang;
- villages agreeing to repay the capital investment;
- maximize the number of villages to benefit from mechanized terracing, subject to a minimum
terraced area of 2 ha; and
- a preference to villages with no village roads, yet accessible by bulldozer.
Rural Drinking Water Supply
Yuncheng                                - clusters of villages in dry areas that could access groundwater from a deep tube well and a
distribution network serving all villages;
- small isolated villages whose needs could be satisfied by nearby streams or springs using
gravity schemes; and
- most of the villages were selected from the hilly or mountainous areas where access to water
is limited, far from villages, and/or expensive to exploit
Lulianc                                 - 20 to 40 schemes within each of the seven counties;
- S of the 7 counties have allocated water supply schemes to every township, ranging from I to
S schemes per township; and
- each village is served by a single water supply scheme.



-188 -                      ANNEX 13
ANNEX 13: STATUS OF ENVIRONMENTAL
IMPACT ASSESSMENT
Status of Environmental Impact Assessment
1.    The Shanxi Poverty Alleviation Project consists of a number of subcomponents
covering a range of rural development, agricultural, and agro-industrial development
initiatives. Environmental screening has been completed for all project subcomponents.
For environmental assessment purposes the project is considered a "B" project. This
ranking was based on the observation that environmental effects associated with the project
are local in nature and pose no long term negative impacts. Furthermore the project is
considered to promote improved land management in poverty stricken rural areas.
Proactive programs on the proper use of agricultural chemicals and improved animal
husbandry, among others, will create opportunities for improving environmental conditions
in a number of areas.
2.    An environmental impact assessment (EIA) has been prepared by the China Institute
for Radiation Protection (CIRP) on behalf of the project management office (PMO). The
EIA considered a number of issues including the legal and regulatory framework for
environmental pollution control, the baseline physical conditions in the project areas,
potential process impacts from agroprocessing facilities and other project investments,
environmental costlbenefits assessment, and environmental management and monitoring
program. The report describes the main environmental concerns associated with each
subcomponent and outlines an appropriate mitigation strategy where required. Maps
showing the locations of all proposed activities have also been provided separately from the
main EIA report. Costs for implementing the environmental monitoring program are
provided in supplemental tables presented during appraisal. English translations of the EIA
report have been reviewed by ASTEN staff and their comments have been satisfactorily
incorporated into subsequent drafts of the EA report prepared by CIRP.
3.    The main conclusion of the ETA is that the project wiUl have minimal adverse
impacts while simultaneously promoting a number of environmentally positive
initiatives. The findings and recommendations of the EIA were evaluated and endorsed by
Chinese experts during a recent (May 1995) provincial review meeting involving technical
specialists from the Shanxi Provincial EPB, the National Environmental Protection Agency
(NEPA) and number technical design institutes. The recommendations contained within
the EIA have been reviewed and accepted by the Project Management Office. The EIA has
been submitted to NEPA and approved.



- 189 -                     ANNEX 13
Summary of Environmental Impacts and Proposed Mitigation Measures
4.    Agro-processing Facilities. Adverse impacts of the project are, for the most part,
confined to the 21 agro-processing facilities which will be expanded or newly established
under the project. Of these facilities only three are considered to be potentially significant
polluters: the Linxian Paperboard Factory, the Shilou Tannery, and the Fangshan Edible
Oils Factory. The main environmental concems associated with these facilities are process
impacts such as air pollution generated from the operation of coal fires furnaces, disposal of
solid wastes, treatment and disposal of liquid effluents, control of dust and noise associated
with plant operation, and provisions for adequate workplace safety.
5.    For each of these sub-projects these issues have been reviewed and appropriate
environmental mitigation and monitoring measures have been recommended by CIRP. The
pollution impacts are considered to be of local concem and assuming pollution control is
carried out in a manner consistent with the EIA recommendations they should not pose any
significant incremental pollution problems All agricultural processing facilities financed
under this project will be required to meet or exceed relevant national and provincial
poHlution control standards. In addition, the approval, licensing, and siting of these
facilities will follow National, Provincial and Prefecture environmental review and
approval regulations.                              -
6.    In principle, the adverse impacts associated with the agro-processing facilities can
be mitigated through the use of readily available treatment technologies, waste management
procedures, and a careful analysis of alternative sites for new facilities. The mitigation
measures have been designed to ensure that sub-projects meet all relevant national and local
standards and that compliance is assured throughout the project implementation period.
Brief descriptions of recommended measures are provided in the main EIA report.
7.    Agro-processing facilities involving coal fired furnaces are required to meet
standards described in the National "Standard for Air Pollutant Discharge of Boilers
(GB13271-91)" and the "Air Environmental Quality Standard (GB3095-82). For these
facilities the principal air pollution control technologies will involve the installation and
operation of cyclone precipitators or water membrane scrubbers. According to the EIA
report, boilers with rated evaporation less than 4 t/h cyclone precipitators will be furnished.
For boilers with evaporation greater than 4 t/h water-membrane scrubbers will be installed.
Chimney stack heights as prescribed National Standard GB13271-91 (Air Pollution
Discharge for Boilers) will be provided. Tree planting has also been recommended at each
site as a means of reducing visual impact and of filtering airbome dust and particulate
matter.
8.    Waste water generated by processing plants will be required to meet the national
"Environmental Quality Standard for Surface Water (GB3838-88) ". In addition industry
specific standards for tanneries (GB3549-83) and paper making (GB3544-92) will apply.
The Linxian Paperboard Mill, Fangshan Refined Oil Factory, Shilou Tannery and the
Wanquan Dehydrated Vegetable Factories will be provided with comprehensive waste



-190 -                      ANNEX 13
water treatment plants for water treatment. Proposed waste water treatment for the Shilou
Tannery and the Linxian Paperboard factory are described in schematic diagrams in the EIA
report.
9.    In facilities where dust levels are likely to be high dust bag filter systems will be
provided. Management of solid wastes will involve use of ash debris in road construction,
recycling of organic waste materials (use of fruit peels, vegetable leaves as fodder, use of
jujube pit in traditional medicines). Unusable solid wastes will be buried in designated
landfills. Financial allocation for equipment installation and operating costs have been
incorporated in the cost estimates for expansion or establishment of each plant.
Environmental Management and Monitoring
10.   Overall responsibility for ensuring project compliance with environmental
regulations and project objectives will rest with the project PMO. An environmental
monitoring unit (EMU) will be established within the central PMO and, where appropriate,
at the prefecture and county PMO levels. The central PMO unit will comprise a small staff
of technical specialists and will report to the provincial project leading group on
environmental performance in the project areas. In addition this group will provide
technical assistance and guidance on monitoring matters to the prefecture and county level
implementing units. The PMO-EMU will, to a great extent, rely on support from other
agencies involved with routine data collection such as the Provincial Environmental
Protection Bureau (EPB) at prefecture and county levels as well as relevant meteorological,
water conservancy, and public health departments at all levels (see Figure 1 SPAPO
Environment organization and management).
11.   The finalization of an appropriate strategy for monitoring environmental conditions
in the project area will be the task of the PMO-EMU. A framework for project
environmental monitoring has been proposed (Table l). Approximately 2.77 million Yuan
has been allocated for these purposes.
12.   A more detailed monitoring plan will be developed for the agroprocessing
subcomponents. For example, the monitoring plan calls for monitoring of process waste
water only once a year in the Shilou Tannery and the Linxian Paperboard Factory. Reports
documenting the level of environmental compliance achieved by each would be issued on a
much more regular basis (perhaps monthly) to the local EPB and to the PMO on a quarterly
basis. As a minimum each report would document performance in the following areas: air
emissions, solid waste management, liquid effluents, dust, and workplace safety.
13.   The frequency of sampling would be established on the basis of the variability of the
parameters at each site and can be modified according to actual operational experience.
Therefore each facility will need to refine its sampling methodology in collaboration with
EPB and the PMO. The main concerns associated with agroprocessing will include
tracking and monitoring fuel source utilization rates (including quality and quantity), air
emissions, liquid effluents volumes and quality, dust, noise, worker (and workplace) health



-191-                         ANNEX 13
and safety shall be the responsibility of the individual plant. Routine checks will be carried
out by the local environmental monitoring stations of the Shanxi EPB. They will also assist
each plant in situations where specialized monitoring activities are required. The PMO will
also establish an environmental unit who will be responsible for periodic inspections of
facilities, management of overall pollution database for the project facilities, and other
environmental oversight tasks (see Terms of Reference for environmental unit) .
14.   A person(s) responsible for ensuring environmental compliance would also be
established within each factory. The agroprocessing facilities with the most significant
impacts (i.e., the Linxian Paperboard Factory, Fangshan Edible Oils, Shilou Tannery) have
already proposed internal management responsibilities for the operation and maintenance of
environmental mitigation measures. The other processing facilities will establish units or
designate responsible individuals before any construction activities are undertaken.
Depending on the size and complexity of the facility most agroprocessing facilities will
require from I to 3 staff responsible for ensuring compliance with environmental
regulations. Staff with relevant environmental engineering or pollution control experience
for these positions should be recruited. Where necessary, the PMO-EMU will ensure that
environmental staff of each facility are provided additional specific training to ensure they
are familiar with technical and administrative procedures.



-192 -                      ANNEX 13
Terms of Reference
for Environmental Monitoring Unit in
Project Management Office
1.    The Shanxi Poverty Alleviation Project is a multicomponent rural development
project whose objective is to raise incomes within some of the poorest counties in Shanxi
Province. The objectives will be achieved through an investment program which aims at
diversifying agricultural activities in the project counties and through the provision of
critical rural infrastructure for irrigation, transportation, and drinking water supply. Many
of the project components are explicitly designed to reverse negative trends in natural
resource utilization (e.g. reduce reliance on groundwater extraction, promote in-situ soil
conservation, improve land management).
2.    As a result it is considered important that environmental conditions in the project
area be monitored closely as part of a comprehensive project monitoring and evaluation
plan to ensure that these positive objectives are being achieved.  To carry out the
environmental monitoring tasks an environmental monitoring unit will be established
within the central project management office (PMO) to oversee the environmental aspects
of the project. The environment unit will coordinate all monitoring activities to be carried
out in association with the construction and operation of agroprocessing facilities, the
development of the Langdian pumping complex and related development in the three
irrigation zones, the development of river beach lands in Yuncheng prefecture, the
construction and rehabilitation of rural roads, and the development agricultural lands.
3.    The unit will comprise a small core staff (1-3 people) to coordinate monitoring
activities to be carried out by implementing bodies and supporting documentation from
environmental protection bureaus at the provincial and prefecture levels. The core team
should comprise, or have access to, technical specialists in the field of environmental
engineering, pollution control, groundwater hydrology, and rural /agricultural land use
management. The unit will function as part of the overall monitoring and evaluation
function of the PMO and will report directly to the PMO director. The role and function of
the EMU should be continuously evaluated in order to ensure the work of the unit is
relevant and useful to the PMO director.
4.    The main tasks of the EMU will be to organize and implement the project
environmental monitoring program. Specifically, the EMU will:
(a)   Develop and implement a detailed environmental monitoring plan for each
project component. The core team will provide guidance to field monitoring
units on the data gathering and reporting formats to be used. Advising
facilities managers as to their responsibilities for environmental reporting
under the project.



-193 -                       ANNEX 13
(b)   Ensure that all agro-processing facilities to be supported under the project
meet or exceed relevant national pollution standards. The EU will ensure
that facilities installed and procedures established for the purposes of air
pollution control, wastewater treatment, and solid waste air operated and
maintained in accordance with design standards.
(c)    Maintain written documentation on the performance of all project
components relating to environmental aspects. Maintain an environmental
fact sheet and /or databases on each project component. The fact sheet
should include a brief description the component; base line conditions prior
to the project; predicted or expected impacts; mitigation measures proposed;
status of compliance with Chinese regulations; provisions for workplace
health and safety; training activities related to environmental monitoring and
management. These fact sheets will form the basis of supervision reports to
be presented to Bank supervision teams.
(d)    Carry out information gathering and organize periodic training seminars for
technical staff of agro-processing units related to environmental best practice
in factory operations. Research and seminars might include topics such as
low cost pollution control technology, new approaches to waste
minimization, waste recovery, pollution prevention, energy conservation,
and worker health and safety.
(e)    Carry out random "on-the-spot" checks of project facilities and activities
supported by the project to ensure compliance with existing regulations, to
ensure the safety of workplaces supported by the project etc.
(f)    Advise the PMO on any remedial or disciplinary actions which may be
required as a result of unanticipated environmental impacts of the project.
(g)    Coordinate with provincial and prefecture EPB and other providers of
baseline data.



-194 -                                    ANNEX 13
Table 1: ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING FRAMEWORK
Project
Sub-component      Area of concern            Environmental Objective              What will be monitored?  Frequency of monitoring.
1. Agro-processing  - Air pollution from boiler    - Each plant shall meet or exceed industry - Ambient Air Quality  - as per current collection of
facilities         stacks (compliance)        specific national pollution control                          EPB
standards
- Stack emissions      - quarterly reports
precipitator efficiency
- Water pollution (compliance) - Each plant shall meet or exceed industry Water quality in receiving - quarterly reports;
specific national standards for waste water waters
pollution
EffluenL
e.g. specific to each
industry but may include
pH, temp, SS, BOD, COD,
sulphite, chloride ion, CR,
oils
- Solid waste management    - Each facility shall meet or exceed-                      - quarterly reports
(compliance)               relevant standards for solid waste
management
Effectiveness of technical    Each facility shall maintain and operate  operation rates, efficiency - quarterly reports
operations (compliance)    pollution control equipment in accordance of pollution control
with recommendations from CIRP      equipment, inspections
2. Langdian Pumping - Surface water quantity and  - To ensure that water delivered to  - water temperature, pH,  - annual reporting on
Complex            quality (compliance / trends)  irrigated farmiands meets or exceeds  BOD, COD, non-ionic    conditions in project area
quality standard for agriculture    ammonia, N02, Hg, Cr,
volatile phenol, crynide,
total colon bacillus
- Environmental            - To ensure that aquifers in the irrigated  - operating status of
hydro-geology              areas are used sustainable i.e. control andmechanized wells in
reduce the current groundwater extracion region;
raues
To establish a monitoring system serious - chemical constituents of
impacts on groundwater availability and  groundwater (pH, hardness,
quality are identified well in advance;   nitrite, bacteria etc.)
degree of mineralization,
salinity,
- Ground water recharge                                         volume estimates of
(trends)                                                       aquifer in Langdian
Irrigation zones



-195 -                                     ANNEX 13
Table 1 (Cont'd)
Project Sub-
component           Area of Concem              Environmental Objective              What will be monitored?  Frequency of monitoring
3. Rural drinking   Groundwater quality         - To ensure that groundwater used for    - pH, total hardness, sulfite,- monthly reports
water supply        (compliance/ trends)        village drinking water meets or exceeds  bacteria, fluoride, total
relevant national standards          colon bacillus etc.
4. Livestock and    n/a                         n/a                                  n/a                      n/a
pasture development
5. Rural road       - noise, dust, waste disposal   - To minimize or reduce undue                             - routine visual observation
construction        associated with road        disturbance to local communities in
construction activities    proximity of construction sites                                - random spot checks
(compliance)
6. River beach      - Protection of wild fowl   - To construct and operate a sanctuary for                    Quarterly report on progress o
development         breeding habitat (performance) nesting and breeding water fowl in project                 sanctuary construction
area
7. Promotion of     - Proper use, storage disposal - Promote best practice in applications,   - incidence of pests, plant - conditions in project rea
horticulture,       of pesticides, fungicides and  storage of agricultural chemicals;  disease, weeds         during growing season;
aquaculture and other fertilizers in project area
agricultural activities (performance)
(terracing etc.)
- Dam safety (compliance)    - To ensure appropriate steps are taken to                  - visual assessment 2-3 times
minimizc or eliminate public safety risk  - soil moisture content,   during flood season
associated with large silt control structuresdam failure resistance
indicators,
- Effectiveness of soil water   - To quantify soil and water conservation
conservation measures       benefits from planned investments
(performance).
- run-oft sediment
discharge
8. Baseline and     - to ascertain prevailing   - to track trends throughout project area to - General climatic vaiables- monthly reports based on
physical trends     environmental conditions    determine impacts of climate and / or    (precipitation, run-off,    continuous recording
analysis            throughout the region       other environmental factors which may  temperature, humidity)
influence performance of project
- Soil conditions in project - twice during project
area (e.g. organize matter implementation period
content, alkaline / salinity,



-196 -                                      ANNEX 14
ANNEX 14: SUPERVISION SCHEDULE
Datt              Scope of Mission                  Experdse
Ist Supervision   May 1996          Project Launch Workshop            - Project Scheduler
- Review                          - Civil Engineer (irrigation, wate supply, roads)
- Plans and Designs               - Monitoring Specialist
- Procurement                     - Procurement/Disbursement
- Monitoring                      - Economist
- Appointment of consultants      - Horticulture Specialist
- Nurseries                       - Livestock Specialist
2nd Supervision    Oct 1996          Review                            - Economist
- Training Program                - Specialist
- Procurement                     - Agroprocessing Specialist
Progress Report Format          - Civil Engineer (irrigation, roads, water supply)
- Monitoring                      - Agriculture Specialist
Livestock
3rd Supervision   Jul. 1997          Review
- Physical Prgress                - Sociologist
- Progress in Training of farmners  - Training Specialist
- Design progress                 - Irrigation Engineer
- Monitoring                      - Horticulture Specialist
4th Supervision   Apr. 1998          - Review of Physical Progress     - Economist
- Schedule of Changes            - Civil Engineer
- Review of Income Levels        - Soil Conservation Specialist
- Livestock Specialist
5th Supervision   Jun. 1999          Mid-term Review                   - Socio-Economist
- Physical Progress               - Irrigation Specialist
- Cost Estimates                 - Horticulture Specialist
- Income Levels Realized          - Soil and Water Conservation Specialist
- Project Schedule                - Environmental Specialist
- Environment, etc.               - Livestock Specialist
6th Supervision   Annually           - Review of Physical Progress



-197 -                             ANNEX 15
ANNEX 15: PROJECT PLANNING MATRIX, INDICATORS
AND IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULES
Table 1: PROJECT PLANNING MATRIX
Isues/Prblesms       Oblectlvess          Project                Direct              lndlrtct
Targets             Components             Irpacts              Impacts
I& lnvsutI
LV  A4,, AaQ  EC3nemC ccw Ory 6- -igs u~m.    n    I  ORDU d 
-  0_  ':- 5 fror~~~~~~~~~~ipo   n m   1hm_sy
e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iP Ykklo   10 -ia o                                 M4 nxE     - dn
|Poor Social Inlristniturtur  Improvo Inifni1ur:  Constiud IntastruVue C  Improed Influtruiun we
_   _                     I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -       oo I eafwd-en
lngSjM8      - W  StO0 . RwalWNv.Sw..  .--.--.   Vi-l-W-rSaD   - - - -.    Reloci. r W  Sail
PoA Acr.    F        CominRoam  1---- -  TowwunaWRo0          IwowNWi |UR *          ReGue |
Low Guay Ed6Yon  -----      Scfioa Sdws  |                 ;           n-
mwed a.
tPooUmnoojC ondlntedl
_law OuatyNimqi           NwH        
swuumm cei N mhad
.   hnsdoowdinfrsdol_ie
4npwsd    a1 _ s a Wr
_ Poor SaeWon   ---- -  b 
Few Pers5 AU  ----'- - I As Oe S-VM  tim in gio e
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Polw iv amIE io
| v~wdgi inen_
* rpou_irv      iw in
WM[ arto (iln 
hidLam imik im si
LO ho mll   _
L bavid uiil (hi   OWN
PM" o mm flu
XlomwU of llr>



-198 -                            ANNEX 15
Table 2: KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Main Goal: Poverty Alleviation in 20 of the poorest counties in Shanxi Province
Key                                                          Full
Project                      Performance                      Baseline  Mid-term    ICR    Impact
Objectives                      Indicators                        1994      1998      2001     2002
Rural         Real Net Income per capita (yuan)                    480        650       700      730
Per Capita    Households below the poverty line (%/o)               70        50        40        30
Income        Income stabilitv (% annual fluctuation)               70        60        50        40
Increased     Average Gfain Output per capita (kg)                 320        380       400      400
Project Construction
Rural             Temporarv Jobs(number)                           I M      200,000   50,000   25,000
Emplovment  People emploved in enterprises
Increased         Males (number)                                    0        2,000     2,500    2,500
Salaries (in 1994 vuan/day)                   15         20        25       25
Female (number)                                   0        2,000     2,500    2,300
Salanes (in 1994 vuan/dav)                    12         17        20       20
Average Per Capita Area for Housing (m2)              20        25        30        30
Rural Living  Average Age of Village Housing (years)                25        20         18      1S
Standards     Household Assets (farmung & consumer)
Improved          Small Tractors (% of households)                  5          10       12        15
Draught Animals (% of households)                 S         1S        18       20
Household Appliances (number per household)       2          4        4         4
Labor Activity-Time Spent on subsistence income
generation
Males (hours)                                  4,400      3,500    3,200    3,000
Females (hours)                                4,000      3,300     3,100    3,000
Safe Rural Water Supply Coverage (%)                  65        80        90       90
Distance to Rural Roads for Villagers (km)           4.1        1.5       1.0      1.0
No. of
SpecN ized    Number of Households in Village (%)                   10        30        35       40
Households   Cost Recovery-Repavment of Loans (%)                   50        70        80       80
Increased                     .
Local         New Enterpnses in Villages & Townships (% of
Economic       province average)                                    40        60        65       70
Growth        Local Investment in social infrastructure
Strengthened  (e.g.. schools and clinics) (% of province average)   30        50        55       60



Project Implementation Schedule
Luliang Prefecture
1996                 1997                 1998                 1999                  2000                 2001
Component                  Jan.       Jun.       Jan.      Jun.       Jan.       Jun.      Jan.       Jun.       Jan.      Jun.       Jan.       Jun.
Project                                                                                                                                 .
1. Water & saol conservaUon                              _
a. Teracs
b. Warpig dam                                                                                                      .                            .
c. Foresy 
2. Water supply                                                      : ___                                                      .
3.hA   M      h                      __                               _ _ _ _                                   _
4. Rural road
a. c" -Qoagou                                        _                      _
b. Sw#ao - Quyu
c. Xlcun - Wely ou                                                    _  
d. Dongcun - Uaniazua_                                                                         .                             .
a. Jhouhi.- Zhanglata                   -                   _
S. Agrooducts procesing                                                                                                        .
a. LJnudn pwper board ml
b. X dan cereals processin mE
c. Fansh  coeldng d ree                                                                          _                                      ._
d. Shilou leah  pocessin                       _
*. Lkdn iuriu disilwey                                                                                                    _                               ._. _
C.Shlou eed m-
g. Lk*n dates procs                                                                   _
h. UsI date poceing                                                                                                                     _
6. PMOs prefecture and counties
Provincial Support Servics                                                                                                                .
1. Provincil frozen semen ceer                      -                                                                 .
2. PMO                                      _ _ _ .                               .___
Fie: M:aea2agdivWshl_dsbi2.doc 



Project Implementation Schedule
Yuncheng Prefecture
1996                1997                1998                1999                2000                 2001
Component                     Jan.      Jun.      Jan.     Jun.       Jun.      Jun.       Jan.     JunL      Jan.       Jun.      Jan.      Jun.
project_                                                           _                                                         _  _       _   _   _   _
1. Wa_ conseivny
a. k      eon sch.m
b. Rwer beach dereopmei                      __..
c. Water    l__
d. AuLure 
2. Fnis and ni 
3. A rnIa husny                                                        .
4. Rural rod
a.qMgo                                                                                       _ 
b. XIOn - O_                                                         .                                                                   .
c. Tongang - Xhong                           _                                  _                                                                                    o
d. Mal - Y ua_ p g                           -
a. Phipu - Gua                                 _.
-   Xhihm                                                                                 __                    _                                      __w
g. Zaehang - G gmwngb
5. A     _*Vaducts prcesg_
a. Sheu Guuigong dsley                                                 _            _
b. Wered food producmon mll                                 _                                              _
c. Jkeu date proces I_                                                                 _       _____
d. Jradmn * Vg food prcn                               _
a. War    dd*died vegaebb fatry                        -__                                                   .                    .
fW Wur    G    wghus food p ng                          _ 
g. Yu.qu sk ree  lacory                _               _                                                                                                             >
h. XIan cone_raled proin feed mll                      _ _Z
1. Xdan a         s prceing mil                        _                                                                                                             Z
- WWd food mill                                        _                                                                                                             X
k. Yunchn pvier mg                                                              _                                                                                    _
1. Jnadan dd-n   wgt    cloty                  _     _
m. Piga hibs procestig ml                                                           .
6. Prefectue and counUs PMOs                                                                                                                   _
._ ._ . .. _ _,_.._._ ._._._ ._ .__.._                      _     .        _              _         _                        _



- 201 -                        ANNEX 15
ANNEX 16: DISBURSEMENT PROFILE
CREDIT DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
IBRD                       Disbursement
Fiscal Year/Semester    Semestral   Cumulative    Project Cumulative    Profile la
-----------$ million ----------  (%)             (%)
1997
1 st                   8.0          8.0                8             30
2nd                   10.0          18.0               18            38
1998
1st                   12.0         30.0               30             46
2nd                   13.0          43.0              43             54
1999
1st                   13.0         56.0               56             66
2nd                   12.0          68.0              68             74
2000
1st                    8.0         76.0               76             82
2nd                    7.0          83.0              83             90
2001
1st                    6.0         89.0               89             94
2nd                    6.0         95.0               95             98
2002
1st                    5.0        100.0              100             98
Za Disbursement profile - Bank standard disbursement profile for agricultural sector in China.
Completion date:       December 31, 2001
Closing date:          December 31, 2002



-202 -                     ANNEX 17
ANNEX 17: SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA
AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
Reports and Studies
1.    Shanxi Poverty Alleviation Project: Preparation, Main Report, Annexes 1-6,
February 13, 1995.
2.    Shanxi Provincial Poverty Alleviation Development Project: Feasibility Study
Report, October 1994.
3.    Shanxi Poverty Alleviation Project Implementation Plan (Draft), March 1995.
4.    Poverty Alleviation and Agricultural Development in Luliang Prefecture, Shanxi
Province: A Feasibility Study Report, February 1995.
Appendix 1: Terracing
Appendix 2: Check-Dam Construction
Appendix 3: Drinking Water Supply
Appendix 4: Forestry Development
Appendix 5: Livestock and Pasture Production
Appendix 6: Road Reconstruction (from Caijiaya to Weijiatan in Cai-qing
Line in Xingxian County)
Appendix 7: Road Reconstruction (from Liujiahui to Xiaojiatou in
Sanjiao-Quyu Line in Linxian County)
Appendix 8: Road Reconstruction (from Xuecun to Xiabao in Xue-wei Line
in Liulin County)
Appendix 9: Road Reconstruction (from Qijiazhuang to Liangjiazhuang in
Dongcun-Liangjiazhuang line in Lanxian County)
Appendix 10: Road Reconstruction (from Shizhantou to Zhangjiata in
Gezhang Line in Fangshan County)
Appendix 11: Fangshan Cooking Oil Refinery



- 203 -                    ANNEX 17
Appendix 12: Extension of Linxian Paperboard Mill
Appendix 13: Reconstruction of Liuyu Distillery in Liulin County
Appendix 14: Reconstruction of Feed Processing Mill of Shilou County
Appendix 15: Data Processing Factory of Liulin County
Appendix 16: Reconstruction of Leather Factory of Shilou County
Appendix 17: Lishi Healthy Jujube Products Factory
Appendix 18: Cereals Processing Mill of Xingxian County
Appendix 19: Supporting Service System
Appendix 21: Report of Social Economic Formation
5.    Report on Preparations of Luliang Poverty Alleviation Subproject, October 1994.
6.    Explanation of Readjustment and Items in The Memorandum of World Bank
Mission, October 1994.
7.    Report on All China Women Federation Luliang Prefecture Poverty Alleviation
Program to Target Women in Village with Small Credit Program.
8.    Feasibility Study Report of Poverty Alleviation Exploitation Project (Yuncheng
Prefecture), March 1995.
Annex 1: Langdian Water Complex and the Conveyance System
Annex 2: Drinking Water Supply Project
Annex 3: Economic Forest Engineering
Annex 4: Pasture and Livestock Development
Annex 5: Road Improvement Engineering in Mountainous Area
Annex 6: Yellow River Beach land Development Engineering
Annex 7: Aquaculture Engineering
Annex 8: Low Degree St. Guan Alcohol Production Line Extension
Annex 9: Wenxi Food Mill Extension with Dehydrated Vegetable and Fruit
Crisp Production Lines



- 204 -                    ANNEX 17
Annex 10: 2800t Date Products Line Extension
Annex 11: Nutritious Haw Products Mill Extension
Annex 12: Xinjiang Vegetable Dehydration Mill Extension
Annex 13: Yuncheng Flour Mill Extension
Annex 14: Wanrong Vegetable Dehydration Factory Extension with the
Construction of a Dried Beef Production Line
Annex 15: 1,500t Candied Fruits Production Line Extension
Annex 1I Cocoon Production Base & Silk Reeling Mill Extension
Annex 17: Xiaxian Concentrated-Protein Feed Factory Extension
Annex 18: Xia County Special Flour Production Line Extension
Annex 19: Wenxi Special Food Mill Extension
Annex 20: Pinglu Fruits Storage Works Construction
9.    Yuncheng Prefecture Mountainous Area Road Improvement Feasibility Study
Report.
Annex I:  Pinglu-Guanyao Road Extension
Annex II: Moli-Yuanzhiping Road Extension
Annex III: Laoyaotou-Xiahua Road Extension
Annex IV: Xia County-Qijiahe Road Extension
Annex V: Tongshan-Xihonghong Road Extension
Annex VI: Zezhang-Guanwangmiao Road Extension
10.   Feasibility Study on Extension of Shanxi Livestock Frozen Semen Center, March
1995.
11.   A  General Introduction  of the  Project of Zun  Village  Station  of
Channel-Water-to-Irrigation-Fields along the Yellow River, Yuncheng, Shanxi,
December 10, 1993.
12.   Supplementary Materials: Agroprocessing Mills, March 15, 1995.
13.   Crop Area and Yields Situation in Xiaofan Irrigation Zone.



-205 -                     ANNEX 17
14.   Crop Area and Yields Situation in Jiamakou Irrigation Zone.
15.   Crop Area and Yields Situation in Zuncun Irrigation Zone.
16.  Irrigation Benefit Sketch Map of 5th Branch Canal in Jiamakou Irrigation Zone.
17.  Irrigation Benefit Sketch Map of North Main 6th Branch Canal in Xiaofan
Irrigation Zone.
18.  Irrigation Benefit Sketch Map of 7th Branch 5th Main Canal in Zuncun Irrigation
Zone.
19.   Maps for Yuncheng Prefecture Subprojects:
* Langdian Water Complex and the Conveyance System
* Economic Forest Engineering
* Aquaculture Engineering
* Road Improvement Engineering
* Yellow River Beach Land Development Engineering
* Pasture and Livestock Development
* Agroprocessing Mills
* Drinking Water Supply in Yuncheng



CHINA
SHANXI POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
PARTICIPATING PREFECTURES
NEI MONGOL 
"00SFq_0 l)FCt
)   OWf lC-AltrexNf                                                  V      {Tnran
MIOIWE   oArIESi(
MEN                     0t/  82       )1   A  '                                   ql.B    E-q
nj-u GE*WM                                                 HG WG.nn W                G .  qli
IiA.
Sn~~~Y
/t it g 1                               XmJFoo(
Non 2  1  Wurho,                                                            HEBE! H    E ,  E  I
Limi    990
toIz    (\     Kela      (-           * /- i                _AYUN
0~~~~~~~~~~~1 
Si 
SI,,                           G ~~~~~~~6,f
ji.  :~      ~ ~ . 
i.    i   r'   r...i.                                                               RUSA
H E N A N                             
J- Xigxion  /          \   JnglJ,aXflhfl *iofl
YLJ                  WJ          Yoonqt $4 &,  TY                .X      W     0- 
L.nynl     o         io,gongi>\             ''°   Tile                      ;a8 
u_hn \-    \lIU<                                                   luna    a  --Pnfbg
Yogj            Pi" n'gluoi                                                            :
ftuL  kh  .ng^t                                                   Yc\~>_                 Xyn
6   -tu,n   o            i        HvEN A N         N Xrt                   n    s    ob
0. * . t    O                       1  .lE    ;    .                            gI I A



IBRD 27655
CHINA
SHANXI POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
APPROXIMATE SITE OF PROJECT ACTIVITIES
LIULANG PREFECTURE
Xingxian                                       0       15       30       45      60
p - / ~~Xingxion                                             I        t       I>       I        I  
9   Linxion         )                                               ii u
X              -38    I              <>                     Jiaocheng                           O
Liulin <Lsit~  ''
| )                                                          FenyIng                            NZHO Z LONG I
4 SHiOU                                                 h _ouangr,. cvlo Xiaoyir||
S ,X, fi Ji~aokou \~llgAI~A    
PARTICIPATBNG COT ES                                            | |                 o r|
<         G   ~~~~AGRO PROCESSING FACIUTIES                                         i     W    7 ,NZHLN  
\         v ~~~DRINKING WATER SUPPLY                                    
|   i   GRASSLAND                                                      ,       NAN
HORTICULTURE                                       Th. b-.dd.6ri-, c.lor.  ,
SILTIUARRESTING DAMS                                 n hismpd o               s,z >.N4
COUNTY BOUNDARIES                                LTh. W-dd 8.n  oQ,4UN     G,vp,         NA 
PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES                             oo on, f-y t.oL,-y,
)   -   PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                oon.of   _ c
JANUARY 1996



CHINA
SHANXI POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
APPROXIMATE SITE OF PROJECT ACTIVITIES
LINFEN                                                 YUNCHENG PREFECTURE
LANGDIAN COMMAND AREA          EXISTING PUMPING
STATiONS
PARTICIPATING COUNTIES
- 0  n  RURAL ROAD UPGRADE            COUNTY BOUNDARIES
I  4HeIin\9o~                          ;iangijiX                   0   AGRO PROCESING FACIOUES         PRCTUE BN DARIES
\   26s  /   g\  +  <                                @   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AOUACULTURE MPROVEENT  POIC  OJDRE
_              j ~~~~~~Heiin                                     .                        DRINJNG WATER SUPPY
2 t} } F ~~J is h                                an                                       x .-- - HORTCULTURE
/ 1 .j  -zit >)/'   X   ''       + ~~~~~Jian?gxfon                   LAGDA *WM S TST)t
if)   <)  WHESErIgR    BEAG SITES
a                                                                                                                              /~~y 
Ruj cn     ! iengli 
0       15      10 .,   dpl                                , ,;
OTRS                                  -                                  H E   A N 
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fh .1                                                      N 
k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ond t\r  , t,
<7                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~     ~      ~    ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~or ocnypendce a! nuh  v    
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



IMAGOING
Report No:       15079 CHA
Type: SAR






