Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2834 CHA
Project Agreement
(Shanxi Poverty Alleviation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SHANXI PROVINCE
Dated June 7, 1996
CREDIT NUMBER 2834 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 7, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and SHANXI PROVINCE (Shanxi).
WHEREAS, by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixty-seven million three 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 67,300,000), on the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that Shanxi agree 
to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS Shanxi, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
Page  2
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Shanxi declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this 
end, shall carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, economic and technical practices, and sound health, safety 
and environmental standards, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and Shanxi shall otherwise agree, Shanxi shall carry out 
the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Shanxi shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, and without 
limitation thereto, Shanxi shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish 
to the Association not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between Shanxi and the 
Association, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with Shanxi 
on said plan.
 
Section 2.04. (a) Shanxi shall, at the request of the Association, exchange 
views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance 
of its obligations under
this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
Shanxi shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by Shanxi of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Shanxi shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of Shanxi 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
Shanxi shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
Page  3
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, 
the report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
 
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
Shanxi thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in 
accordance with its terms; or
 
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify
Shanxi of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
 
For Shanxi:
Shanxi Poverty Alleviation Project Management Office
No. 261 Fudong Street
Taiyuan
Shanxi Province  030002
Page  4
People's Republic of China
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Shanxi may be 
taken or executed by Vice
Governor or such other person or persons as Vice Governor shall designate in writing, 
and Shanxi shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and 
the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Russell Cheetham
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SHANXI PROVINCE
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Page  5
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Works
 
(a)
National Competitive Bidding
 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C.1(b) of this Section, works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Force Account and Community Participation
 
Works for upgrading and expansion of irrigation systems, beach land development, 
soil and water conservation, road construction, installation of water distribution 
systems, and plantation
establishment, which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, and 
costing $92,000,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Association's 
prior agreement, be carried out by force account in accordance with the provisions of 
said paragraph of the Guidelines, or by the use of community members hired in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.
Goods
 
(a)
International and National Shopping
 
Equipment, vehicles and materials estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or less 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $13,300,000 equivalent, and 
livestock, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international or 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as
shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 
1.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$250,000 or more, and each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$1,000,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been 
agreed by the Association.  Where no relevant standard contract documents have been 
issued by the Bank, other
standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
Page  6
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts 
for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each.  
However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply to (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association, (d) 
amendments to
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 2.01(b) 
of this Agreement.
A.
Project Management
 
In order to ensure the proper carrying out of the Project, Shanxi shall at all 
times continue to maintain, with terms of reference acceptable to the Association, and 
with competent staff in adequate numbers:
(a)
a Project management office at the provincial level to be responsible for 
the overall coordination and supervision of Project implementation, including 
procurement of goods and services and monitoring and evaluation of the progress of the 
Project; and
(b)
a Project management office in each of Luliang and Yuncheng, and in each 
county and township involved in Project implementation, to be responsible for 
coordination and supervision of the Project activities included within said office's 
respective jurisdiction.
B.
Resettlement
 
Shanxi shall take and cause to be taken all measures necessary to ensure that 
all persons displaced as a result of the Project shall be resettled in accordance with 
the Resettlement Action Plan so as to improve the living standards and productivity of 
such persons.
C.
Land Use Rights
 
In order to ensure increased productivity of the land developed under Parts E 
and F of the Project, Shanxi shall lease said land to farming households, under 
arrangements satisfactory to
the Association, including a written lease agreement, on terms whereby said land shall 
be leased to said households for a duration of at least thirty (30) years in the case 
of orchard land, terraced
land, and other land located immediately behind dams, and at least fifty (50) years in 
the case of all other land.
D.
Environmental Monitoring and Management Plan
 
In order to ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance with sound 
health, safety and environmental standards, Shanxi shall take all measures necessary 
to carry out the Project in accordance with an environmental management and monitoring 
plan acceptable to the Association.
E.
Dam Safety
 
In order to ensure the safety of each dam included in the Project which is 
planned to reach ten (10) meters in height or more or to create a reservoir with a 
Page  7
gross storage volume of 2,500,000
cubic meters or more, or which the Association determines possesses unusual design 
features, involves difficult geological conditions or is situated so as to cause 
significant damage in the event of a failure of the dam to operate properly (a 
Designated Dam), Shanxi shall take the following actions:
1.
Shanxi shall employ a panel of experts, with membership, terms of reference and 
resources acceptable to the Association (the Panel), to be responsible for reviewing 
the adequacy of the design and construction of each Designated Dam and its associated 
structures.
2.
Shanxi shall ensure that the Panel shall, on the basis of guidelines acceptable 
to the Association:
(a)
undertake periodic reviews of each Designated Dam and its associated 
structures and the design of said dam and structures throughout the period of design 
and construction thereof; and
(b)
prepare and furnish to Shanxi and the Association, upon completion of 
each said review, a report of the results of said review, together with any 
recommended changes to be introduced into the design or construction of said 
Designated Dam and its associated structures.
3.
Promptly upon receipt of each report furnished by the Panel to Shanxi, Shanxi 
shall introduce the changes recommended by said report, taking into account the 
comments of the Association on the matter.
4.
Shanxi shall:
 
(a)
ensure that each Designated Dam and its associated structures shall be 
inspected by the Panel not less than annually, for the first three (3) years following 
completion of their construction, and not less than once every two (2) years 
thereafter, in accordance with sound engineering practices and under arrangements 
acceptable to the Association, in order to identify any deficiencies in the condition 
of said Designated Dam and its associated structures, or in the quality and adequacy 
of the maintenance or methods of operation thereof, which may endanger the
safety of said Designated Dam or its associated structures, and promptly rectify any 
such deficiencies; and
(b)
to this end, prepare and furnish to the Association, appropriate 
arrangements for said inspection not later than one year prior to the planned 
completion of said Designated Dam and
thereafter, promptly implement said arrangements, taking into account the views of the 
Association on the matter.
F.
Livestock Sub-projects
 
1.
Shanxi shall ensure that the livestock and equipment required for Part G(1) of 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be made 
available to farmers in accordance with procedures and on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association.
2.
Shanxi shall exercise its rights in relation to each Livestock Sub-project in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Association and Shanxi, comply with its 
obligations under this Agreement and achieve the purposes of the Project.
G.
Agroprocessing Subprojects
 
1.
Shanxi shall make Agroprocessing Sub-loans in accordance with procedures, and on 
terms and conditions, satisfactory to the Association, which shall include those set 
forth in Section 2 of
this Part G.
2.
Agroprocessing Sub-loans shall be made:
 
(a)
exclusively to entrepreneurs selected by agreement between the 
Association and Shanxi;
Page  8
(b)
on the same terms as those applicable to loans for similar goods and 
works made by the Agricultural Bank of China established under the laws of the 
Borrower and operating pursuant
to the Circular of the Borrower's State Council on the Restoration of the Agricultural 
Bank of China, dated February 23, 1979 (State Council Document No. (1979) 56) and the 
Decision of the Borrower's State Council on the Exclusive Exercise of Central Bank 
Functions by the People's Bank of China, dated September 17, 1983 (State Council 
Document No. (1983) 146), as said Circular and Decision may be amended from time to 
time; and
(c)
on conditions whereby the entrepreneur to whom or to which an 
Agroprocessing Sub-loan is made shall undertake to:
(i)
carry out its agroprocessing operations, including its respective 
Agroprocessing Sub-project, with due diligence and 
efficiency and in 
accordance with sound financial, managerial, 
and agroprocessing practices, and 
appropriate health, safety and 
environmental practices acceptable to the 
Association, and 
provide promptly as needed the funds, and other resources 
required for the purpose, and maintain adequate records and accounts;
(ii)
procure the goods and works required for its respective 
Agroprocessing 
Sub-project in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, 
and utilize said goods and works 
exclusively in the carrying out of said 
Agroprocessing 
Sub-project;
(iii)
take out and maintain such insurance, against such risks and in 
such amounts, 
as shall be consistent with sound business practice;
 
(iv)
enable the Association to inspect the goods and the sites and 
works included 
in its respective Agroprocessing Sub-project, the 
operation thereof and any 
relevant records and documents;
 
(v)
at all times maintain and operate its equipment and facilities, 
and from time 
to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary 
repairs and renewals thereof, 
all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and industry practices; 
and
 
(vi)
furnish to the Association all such information as the Association 
may 
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the 
administration, 
operations and financial condition of said 
entrepreneur.
3.
Shanxi shall exercise its rights in relation to each Agroprocessing Sub-project 
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Association and Shanxi, comply with 
its obligations under this Agreement and achieve the purposes of the Project.
H.
WF Sub-loans
 
1.
Shanxi shall ensure that WF Sub-loans shall be made in accordance with 
procedures and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
2.
Shanxi shall exercise its rights in relation to each WF Sub-project in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Association and Shanxi, comply with its 
obligations under this Agreement and achieve the purposes of the Project.
I.
Annual Programs
 
Shanxi shall:
1.
prepare, under guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the 
Association not later than November 30 in each calendar year, a proposed work program 
for the implementation of the
Project during the following calendar year (including a proposed program of training 
activities for such following year), and a proposed budget therefor; and
Page  9
2.
thereafter, implement such work program during such following year as shall have 
been approved by the Association.
J.
Monitoring and Reporting
 
1.
Shanxi shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Association the carrying 
out of the Project, including the Resettlement Action Plan and the environmental 
monitoring and management plan, referred to in Part D of this Schedule, and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof.
2.
Shanxi shall prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association, (a) semi-annual reports, not later than January 31 and 
July 31 in each year, integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to Part J.1 of this Schedule, on the progress achieved 
in the carrying out of the Project during the preceding
calendar semester and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
then current calendar semester, and (b) a mid-term report, not later than September 
30, 1998, integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to J.1 of this Schedule during the period preceding the date 
thereof and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date.
3.
Shanxi shall, after furnishing each report referred to in Part J.2 of this 
Schedule, review said report with the Association, and promptly take all measures 
required to ensure the continued
efficient implementation of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of said report and the Association's 
views on the matter.
