Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2834 CHA
Development Credit Agreement
(Shanxi Poverty Alleviation Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 7, 1996
CREDIT NUMBER 2834 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 7, 1996, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)
Shanxi (as defined in Section 1.02(g) of this Agreement) will carry out 
the Project with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make available to Shanxi the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and Shanxi;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
 
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made:  (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is 
not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Agroprocessing Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by 
Shanxi out of the proceeds of the Credit for an Agroprocessing Sub-project.
(b)
"Agroprocessing Sub-project" means a specific project to be carried out 
under Part H(1) of the Project utilizing the proceeds of an Agroprocessing Sub-loan.
(c)
"Livestock Sub-project" means a specific project to be carried out under 
Part G(1) of the Project utilizing the goods procured by Shanxi for the purpose and to 
be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(d)
"Luliang" means Luliang Prefecture in Shanxi.
 
(e)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and 
Shanxi, of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement. 
(f)
"Resettlement Action Plan" means the resettlement action plan prepared by 
the Shanxi Poverty Alleviation Project Management Office and dated July 25, 1995, for 
the resettlement of persons displaced as a result of the Project.
(g)
"Shanxi" means the Borrower's Province of Shanxi.
 
(h)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement.
(i)
"WF" means the Luliang Women's Federation or the Yuncheng Women's 
Federation (as the case may be), each of which is an organization operating under the 
aegis of the All China Women's
Federation, an organization of the Borrower.
(j)
"WF Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by Shanxi, through 
WF, out of the proceeds of the Credit for a WF Sub-project.
(k)
"WF Sub-project" means a specific project to be carried out under Part 
I(1) of the Project utilizing the proceeds of a WF Sub-loan.
(l)
"Yuncheng" means Yuncheng Prefecture in Shanxi.
 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies
Page  3
equivalent to sixty-seven million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
67,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a financial institution and on terms and 
conditions, both satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
February 15 and August 15, commencing August 15, 2006 and ending February 15, 2031.  
Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 15, 2016 shall 
be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms 
of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association 
may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the 
amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with 
Page  4
the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from 
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall 
not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment 
modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of 
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, shall cause 
Shanxi to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the 
obligations of Shanxi
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate 
to enable Shanxi to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to Shanxi on 
the following principal terms:
(i)
The principal amount so made available: (A) shall be the 
equivalent in terms 
of Special Drawing Rights (determined on the 
date or respective dates of 
withdrawal from the Credit 
Account) of the value of the currency or currencies 
so withdrawn; and 
(B) shall be recovered by the Borrower in dollars in an 
amount 
equal to the equivalent (determined as of the date or respective dates 
of repayment) of the amount referred to in subparagraph (A) above.
(ii)
The Borrower shall recover from Shanxi the principal amount 
referred to in 
paragraph (b)(i)(B) of this Section over a 
period of twenty (20) years, 
inclusive of a grace period of 
seven (7) years.
(iii)
The Borrower shall charge interest on the principal amount 
referred to in 
paragraph (b)(i)(B) of this Section and 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time at a rate equal to three and 
one half percent (3.5%) per annum.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by 
Shanxi pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Page  5
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year 
in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)(i) of 
this Section 
and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year 
the report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested, including a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Shanxi shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that Shanxi will be able to perform its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in Section 
5.01(a) of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) 
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be
furnished to the Association namely, that the Project Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by Shanxi, and is legally binding upon Shanxi in accordance 
with its terms.
Page  6
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The provisions of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and 
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on 
the date twenty (20) years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Russell Cheetham
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
Page  7
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                                Credit
                               Allocated            % of
                             (Expressed in      Expenditures
      Category              SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)   Civil works other         24,200,000      50%
      than for Part E
      of the Project
(2)   Goods other than          22,800,000      100% of foreign
      for Parts G and I                         expenditures,
      of the Project                            100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 75%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
(3)   Soil and Water             6,400,000      60%
      Conservation
      Activities
      for Part E
      of the Project
(4)   Horticulture               6,100,000      40%
      Activities
      for Part F
      of the Project
(5)   Goods and                 6,100,000      80%
      works for Part G
      of the Project
      (Livestock)
(6)   Goods, works                200,000      50%
      and training
      for Part I of
      the Project (WF)
(7)   Consultants'              1,500,000      100%
      services,
      training and
      study tours
      other than for
      Part I of the
      Project
                               __________
      TOTAL                    67,300,000
                               ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
Page  8
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term "Soil and Water Conservation Activities" means dam construction, 
terracing and afforestation; and
(d)
the term "Horticulture Activities" means planting, land preparation and 
seedling supply.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 6,730,000 may be 
made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after August 1, 
1995.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for (a) goods under contracts 
costing less than $250,000 equivalent each, (b) works, under contracts costing less 
than $1,000,000 equivalent each, (c) consultants' services under contracts awarded to 
firms, costing less than $100,000 each, (d) consultants' services under contracts 
awarded to individuals, costing less than $50,000 each, and (e) training and study 
tours; all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in alleviation of poverty 
in the poorest counties of Yuncheng and Luliang through rehabilitation of irrigation 
systems, upgrading of
rural roads, establishment of village water supplies, land development, expansion of 
livestock raising and horticulture and expansion of primary agricultural processing 
capacity.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Yuncheng Irrigation System
 
(1)
Construction of a pumping complex and associated structures on the bank of the 
Yellow River in Yuncheng and provision of floating pumps.
(2)
Upgrading and expansion of Yuncheng's irrigation system, including 
rehabilitation and construction of pumping stations, canals and related structures.
Part B:
Yuncheng River Beach Development
 
Development of protected river beach land along the Yellow River in Yuncheng, 
consisting of:
(1)
installation of tubewells and associated electrification, land levelling, 
upgrading of rural roads and construction of canals;
(2)
rehabilitation and construction of fish ponds, construction of a fish hatchery, 
establishment of a fish farmers' association for the exchange of market information, 
technical advice and carrying out of applied research; and
(3)
development of a nature reserve on undeveloped beach land through the 
establishment of a forest protection belt and observation facilities.
Part C:
Rural Water Supply
 
Page  9
Construction of village water supply schemes in Luliang and Yuncheng, including 
construction of deep well and spring-based systems, diversion schemes and household 
cisterns.
Part D:
Rural Roads
 
Upgrading of rural roads in Luliang and Yuncheng.
Part E:
Luliang Soil and Water Conservation
 
Implementation of a program of soil and conservation works in small watersheds 
in Luliang, consisting of construction of sediment control dams, terracing of moderate 
slope lands and afforestation of steep slopes and wasteland.
Part F:
Horticulture
 
(1)
Establishment of fruit and nut tree plantations in Luliang and Yuncheng, 
including land preparation, upgrading of seedling nurseries and provision of seedlings 
and plants.
(2)
Implementation of a program of horticultural research and training in Luliang 
and Yuncheng, including (a) construction of a tissue culture laboratory and related 
facilities, nurseries, storage facilities, (b) carrying out of soil, plant, water and 
pest management activities, (c) provision of training for farmers and extension 
personnel and (d) provision of equipment required
therefor.
Part G:
Livestock
 
(1)
Financing, through the provision on credit terms of livestock and equipment to 
farmers in Luliang and Yuncheng, of projects to develop livestock farming enterprises.
(2)
Implementation of a program in Luliang and Yuncheng to improve veterinary and 
artificial insemination services and research and training in livestock management, 
consisting of the provision of vehicles, equipment, bulls and publications, 
construction and upgrading of facilities, development of research topics and provision 
of training for farmers and personnel of Shanxi.
Part H:
Agroprocessing
 
(1)
Financing, through the provision of loans to selected entrepreneurs in Luliang 
and Yuncheng, of specific projects to develop and expand the operations of their 
agroprocessing facilities.
(2)
Development and implementation of a program to assist the entrepreneurs referred 
to in Part H(1) of this Schedule in strengthening the organization, management and 
operations of their enterprises.
Part I:
WF
 
(1)
Financing, through the provision of loans to women in low-income households in 
Luliang and Yuncheng, of specific projects to establish household livestock production 
enterprises.
(2)
Development and implementation through WF of a training program in Luliang to 
assist women in developing and managing household livestock production activities, 
including provision of materials and equipment required therefor.
Part J:
Project Management and Institutional Development
 
(1)
Implementation of a program to strengthen Project management by the provincial 
and prefectural Project offices in Shanxi, consisting of the provision of equipment, 
vehicles, facilities, study tours and training required therefor.
(2)
Implementation of a program of training to improve extension services in Luliang 
and Yuncheng, including provision of equipment, vehicles and facilities required 
therefor.
Page  10
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), 
(6) and (7) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $8,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $5,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to 
or exceed the equivalent of SDR 15,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account 
and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to 
have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
Page  11
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or  (ii)  was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association; the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association 
such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6(a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
