Ce zvor- i/
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. P- 5786-ZA Type: (PR)
DAFFERN, E/ X34507 / J11097/ AF6IE                         ReportNo. P-5786-ZA.
REPORT AND RECOIMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$200 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR A
PRIVATIZATION AND INDUSTRIAL REFORM ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
JUNE 3, 1992
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Zambian Kwacha (K)
US$1 = 130K (April 1992)
1 million K = $7,700
FISCAL YEAR
Government                 January to December
Zimco Parastatals          April to March
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS         Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
CDE          Certified daily employee
CG           Consultative Group for Zambia
EC           European Community
ERC          Economic Recovery Credit (2214 ZA)
ESMAP        Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
GRZ          Government of the Republic of Zambia
HIV          Human Immunodeficiency Virus
INDECO       Industrial sub-holding company under Zimco, formerly the Industrial
Development Corporation
INDENI        Oil refinery
MMD          Movement for Multiparty Democracy
NCZ          Nitrogen Chemicals of Zambia
NGO          Non-governmental organization
QOL          Open General License
PIP          Public Investment Program
PTC          Posts and Telegraph Corporation
SIDO)         Small Industries Development Organization
SPA          Special Program of Action
SSE          Small Scale Enterprise
TAZAMA       Tanzania Zambia Pipeline Company
UNIP         United National Independence Party
ZA           Zambia Airways
ZCCM         Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines
ZESCO        Zambia Electicity Supply Corporation
ZIMCO        Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation
ZIMOIL       Oil Import parastatal
ZR           Zambia Railways



FOR OWICIAL USE ONLY
PRIVATIZATION AND IMDUSTRIALREFORM ADJUSTMENT CREDrT
Table of Conteb
Page No.
I.    COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP'S ASSITANCE
SrRATEGY ........ 1
A.       Backgroundand RecwtDevelopment. 1
B.       Macroeconomic and Structr Policies
andStraegy.                                                   3
B.1   Short-TermStabilizadonMeasur..                                   3
B.2      Long-Term Development Stregy and Isues.                       6
H.    BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY  .................... 10
A.       PastPerformance andPolicyDialogue .9
B.    Bank Objecdtv and Asistnce StaWgy. .10
C.       LdigProgram and Economic and Seor Work .12
D.       Aid Coordinion and Relations with the IM5.15
B.    CriteriaforMonitoringProgress .16
M.   PROPOSED PRIVATIZATION AND INDUSTRIAL REFORM
ADJUSTNENTCR.EDff  ................................ 17
A.       Macroeconomic Stabiization Program .17
B.   Public Sector Management .18
C.       PrivateSectorDevelopment .      .................            19
D.  PrivatizationProgr am.21
B.  Parastatal Reform .23
F.  Social Safety Net .25
G.  Technical Assistance .26
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Zambia in
March 1992. The appraisal mission was led by Eric S. Daffern, Principal Energyl/ndustry
Specialist (AP61E). Mr. Victor Agius, Principal Financial Specialist (AF6E) was responsible for
the financial sector and stock exchange issues, Mr. James Karuga, Consultant, was responsible
for the technical assistance needs, Mr. John Todd, Sr. Economist (AF6CO) was responsible for
the macroeconomic stabilization program issues, Mr. Pedro Bei, Sr. Inuustrial Economist
(AF6E) for trade issues, and Mr. Chang-Po Yang, Economist (AF6CO) for public sector
management. Seetial support was provided by Mrs. Irene Chacon, Noemi Dacanay, and Ms.
IvY Tompkins (AF6DE). Messrs. David Cook (AF61E), and Stephen Denning (AF6DR) are the
managing Division Chief and Department Director, respecively.
This tocutment has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performaitue
of their oMcia dutie. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ZAMBA
PRIVATIZATION AND INDUSTRUAL REFORM ADJUSTMENT CREDiT
Table of Contents (Cont.)
[V.   FEATURES OF THE PROPOSED CREDrr . . . . . . . . . ........... 26
A.  Borrower and Crdft Amount ........................... 26
B.  Disbuemeand Procuremen ...... .................... 26
C.  ProgramManagmemnand Monitoring  ..................... 27
D.  Monitorable Actions.   .6..............          . ....... ...   28
V. JUbSTIFCATION AND RISKS  ...................... 30
VI. RECOM&ENATION ...................... 31
ANNEXES
Annex I        Leter of Development Policy
Attachment: Policy Matrix
Annex Dk:      Key Macroeconomic Indicators
Bial   of Payments
Extern  FinancingRequirement
Social Indicators of Development, 1990
Annex M:       Slem ayDaa Sheet
Annex IV:      Lndig Program and Economc Sector Work
Annex V:       Parastat Structure
Annex VL       Zambia's Privatizadon Program
Annex VIll     Statement of Bank Group Opeatins  ank and IFC)
Annex Vm:    Social Action Plan



ZAMBIA
PRIVATIZATION AND INDUSTRIAL REFoRM ADJIusMENT CREDfT
CREDrr SUMMAItY
Borrowe/Benellary:                Republic of Za-abia
Executing Agencies:               Ministry of Finance
Ministry of Commerce, Trade and Industry
Ministry of Legal Affairs
Bank of Zambia
ZimCO
Amount:                           IDA: SDR 146 million (US$200 million), standard IMA
terms.
Description:                      The proposed Credit will support the next stages of Zambia's
structural adjustment program which focusses on market
liberalization and civil service reform, together with major
new initatives in private sector development, privatization
and parastatal reform. The main themes of the credit are to
modernize the business framework through up to date laws
and regulatory systems, consolidate establishment of a
market-based exchange rate mechanism, direct
encouragement of the private sector through privadzation,
and autonomy and efficiency improvements in the remaining
parastals.   The centerpiece of the reform  is the
privatization of 90% of Zambia's parastatals over a five-year
period, and giving autonomy to the remaining public udlities
through a new  arm's-length regulatory system.  The
parastatal holding companies will be abolished within the
next year.  At the end of the five-year period, the
Government will have largely removed itself from business
operations.
Enefits and Risk:                 The Credit will provide balance of payments support to
underpin Zambia's structural reform program. Key benefits
of this program will be strengthened management and greater
efficiency resultng from the  asfer of activities to the
private sector, shening the business environment and
improvements to the regulatory system.



i H
The operation faces politcal and implementation risk. The
polidcal risks come from pressures that will arise as
subsidies are phased out and reladtve prices adjusted resulting
in fahlling real incomes and redundancies. Nevertheless, the
new Government was elected to und8rtake a major ecnomic
reform program and has shown courage and te n
in facing up to the difficult decisions tua have to be mat
Ihe Government has also take  steps to strengt
implementaion capacity and will be supported in this
endeavor by a parallel technical assisance credit
Disbursement:                      'he credit would be disbursed in three tranches. The first
tranche of USD  100 million would be available upon
effectiveness. The second and tird tranches of USD 50
million each would be available three to six months and e
to twelve months ,respectively) after effcctiveness upon
satisfactory fulfillment of specified conditions.
Disbursement would follow standard bank procedures for
imorts, subject to a limit of 50% for commodities.
Retroactive fiancing would be allowable up to a maximum
of 35% of the credit for imports carried out since March 1,
1992.
Appraisal Report.                  This is a combined Report of the President and Staff
Appraisal Report.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF TIlE   ENT
TO TE EXECUTIVE DIRECIORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA FOR
A PRIVATIZATION AND INDUSTRIAL REFORM PROGRAM
1.    I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Internationl Development
Association (IDA) Credit of SDR 146 million (US$200 million), on standard IDA terms with 40 years
maturity, to the Republic of Zambia in support of the coutry's Privatization and Industrial Reform
Program. Japan and Germany are expected to participate in the fiancig of this program. A parallel
techical assisnce credit is recommended to provide funds to ensure that the adjustment program
is properly implemented.
2.    The proosed adjustment credit seeks to contiaue the Economic Recovery Program suoed
by IDA through the March 1991 Economic Recovery Credit (2214-ZA), and to deepen the program
in the three key areas of private sector development, privazation and parastatal reform. Ihe Credit
amount specifically reflects the recommeded response for the Bank group to the severe drought
affecting Zambia, within the context of wider donor efforts on this issue. The last Economic
M4emorandum on Zambia (Report No. 5000-ZA) was distrbuted to the Executive Directors in
November 1986; a new Economic Memorandum is under preparation. A Policy Framework Paper
oPff) 1992-94 was discussed by Executive Diectors on March 17, 1992.
X. COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP'S ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. Bakgound and Recent Developments
3.    The Zambian economy suffr from severe and longstanding distortions that will require a
major structural adjustment effort over an extended period if they are to be overcome. Its major
characteric is heavy dependence on copper and the dualistic structre that has grown up around this
depndence. From soon after independence in 1964 the United National Independence Party (UNIP)
Government sought to gain control of the economy through widespread   oization. The economy
became domined by parasls and one-arty was introduced. Rising copper prices helped the
economy to grow steadily at an average rate of 4% per annm during the first decade after
independence. Since 1975, however, falling world prices of copper (Zambia's most Important export)
and the general dterioration in tems of trade, coupled with the failure to develop a diversified
economy, caused overal economic decline. Attempts to support continued conson through
bortowing faRed to contribute to economic growth and created an exceptionally severe debt problem.
Per capita GDP is now morethn a tird below its 1978 level.
4.    Aftr  several unsuccessful efforts at reforming the ecomy, in the late 1970s and early
1980s, Zambia adopted a comprehensive adjustme program  in 1985, wIh Bank and DM  support
This too ran into difficulties in part becau  of poor fiscal and monetary control. In 1987 the
Govenment abandoned It and reversed many of the reforms undetake  In the previous two years.
Th exhange rate was set at an overvalued level, administrative controls for foreigl exdcange and
impot were reintoduced, privileges were given to some parastatals and others were subjected to
price controls. The Governmfet also stpped most extemal debt sevice, consequenty the Bank
suspended             to Zambia. Support from the donor community was progressively
witawn. The debt overmg continued to grow, and the economy to decline. After a hiaus,



-2-
Governmen resumed its policy dialogue with the Bank and Fund in late 1988; in a major policy shift,
In June 1989, Government abolishe all price controls except those on maize, mealle meal, fertizers,
petroleum and public utilities. Subsequntly, agreement was readced in mid-1989 with the Bank and
Fund on a PFP outlinA the Govenme's medium-term developmen strategy and objectves for the
period 1989-91. Ihe PFP was followed by an annual Fund-monitored program for 1990. A second
PFP covering the period 1991-93 was reviewed by the Commitee of tae Whole in March, 1991 when
the Bank arrears were cleared and a new Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) for US$210 million was
approved on March 5, 1991. In addition, Zambia began a rights accution program which was
approved by the If Board in Aprfl 1991. In response to public pressres, a new constiution was
itroduced alowing for multiparty elections.
S.    Government adherence to the agreed economic reforms began to slacken during the run-up
to the multiparty elections; Government reintroduced price controls (this time, informally), and public
exenditure got out of control as a result, inter alia, of excessive public sector pay increases and
increases in subsidies (maize, fertilizer) to a much hiher level than budgeted. Bese of poor
perfmnce, donor support for Zambia was delayed, Govermt defaulted on Its payments to the
Bank, and as a result disburements were again suspended in September 1991.
6.    In the October 1991 multipat eections, the opposition MMD party (Movement for
Multiparty Democracy) was elected to office and given a srong mandate for a reform program dth
incdudes movig to a full market economy and significantly reducing the role of Government.
Specfic proposals in the party manifeso included prvathaon of vir"ally the entire parastatl sector,
and the restructuring of the utilities that will remain in public ownership. Since assuming office the
new MMD Government has made a dermined start in the 1992 budget; comprehensive reforms have
been adopted ahmd at bringing the budget into balance, encouring exports, liberlizing the
economy, cutg back the civil service and pdvating most of the parastat sector. As a result of
the strong actions by the Government, external support has resued; the Bank arrears were cleared
in January 1992, the suspension was lifted and the seoond tanhe of the ERC was disbrsed.
7.    The Government's rerm program will ineviably be made more difficult by the catarophc
dought tdat has affected all of Southern Africa in the early months of 1992. More than half of this
year's crops have been lost throughout the area. In Zambia the maize output is expected to be about
one-tW  of the post-planting esimates, and agricultura GDP wil be reduced by over 25%.
Substan   efs are beiag mounted by the donor community to meet the cost of the drought,
estmated at about US$300 million for Zambia. Because the drought is forcing up prices of maize,
to artficially high levels, the Govenment will use the donor support to shield the public from the
full impact of the drought on maize prices. Agrement has been reached with neighboring countries
on logistcal argements for large impors of maize. Total import requireme   are about ten
million bags (900,000 metic tons) of maize, plus smaller quantities of other products (eg., cooking
oil). ITe drought has also directly affected a number of other food products such as wheat, soya,
sugar and oil seed, and non-food agricultura crops such as tobacco and cotton; this has had an
immedia  impact on related agro-industs. Ihe drought wM also reduce power exports from
Zambia's hydro stations and the loss of these revenues wi lead to a ahap increase in domestic power
8.    There are daree major constrbu on Zambia breaking owut fom tspaen ofpast economic
fires. First, Zambia bas an c     aepdond  large debt bwnle. Total debt at end 1991 amouned
to US$6.7 billion, of which US$ 2.9 billion is multilateral, US$2.5 blion bilateral, US$ 0.6 billion
medium/long-term aommecia icuding exportcredi) and US$ 0.7 biion short term. Excluding



-3 -
the short term debt, Zambia's extrn  debt reprents US$766 per head of population, one of the
highest aniywhere. Further rescheduling of official debt is expected in mid-1992, and a commercial
debt buy-back (with the support of the IDA Dtht Reduction Facility) is planed for later In 1992.
Alleviat  the debt burden is a prime focus of the CG and Paris Clut; processes, and will require
substantial and concerted donor support.
9.    Ihe second major constraint i the heavy dependence on copper. Copper accouns for nearly
85% of the coutr's exports, conutes about 15% of GDP, and is an important source of
budgetary revenue. Ihe problem is worsened by the poor prospects for copper prices and a projected
sharp decline in copper output around the end of this decade. IDA is giving direct support to
improve the efficiency, profitability and longer-term outlook of copper production In Zambia through
the Ming Technical Asistance Credit. However, as outlined in the medium-term strategy expressed
in the PFP, it is important for Zambia to diversify its economy away from copper, to reduce the high
capital and Import-intensity of production and cosuMption, to improve economic efficiency, and to
ise savings and Investment rates so as to restore economic growth. Key to the success of this
strateg is a reorientation of the policy framework to increase incentves for agricultural production,
encourage the priva  sector both through supporting new entry and privatzing the large public
sector, and redirecing public    e   to areas that would facilitate growth and assist In human
resource development. However, the first essendal step of this reform program has to be
macroecnomic stabilization.
10.   The third major constaint, is the domiumce of the parartat sector, the consequent stifling
of competition and initiative, and the imposition of high prices and low quality in the domestic
industrial sub-sectors Where parastatals have an effective monopoly. The manufacturing parastatals
have not kept up with product developments elsewhere. The tourism sector has attracted only a
fraction of the potental market. The gemstone parastatal has exploited a negligible portion of
Zambia's trmendous potential, with most exports avoiding official chanels such that the earnings
were placed direly into foreign bans. With few exceptions, the parastas have been inward
looking, and conteat to rely on the small Zambian market; they have generally failed to diversify the
economy or to develop Zambia's natuWal advanges to the extn  possible. In the public utility sector
the posiion is not much better: the railways are extremely slow and unreliable, the power company
has been unable to maintain a sufficiently steady voltage for the operion of sensitive industrial
plants, and the telemunications service i substandard in areas important to business. This failure
of the pasatatl sector, and the measures to remed It, are the primaryfocus of the proposed Credk.
B.  M|c d 9r1 PoUies ad &Ed=
1.1 Short-Twm Stabiaton Measures
11. Ihe progress made over the last three years, In particular the bold measures in the 1992
Budget, bas now put the Government in position both to deal with the short-term problems
(particularly iflaton and the balace of payments) and to address the undedying structural issues.
Ihe medium-tem str        calls for proviing a regulatory framework and Incentives to encourage
sustainable gtowth, with emphasis on the priate sector parularly In agriclture, tourism and
gemstone mining; significant strengtening of physical and socia  rastructure increased attention
to social and poverty issues; implnn of e r t  policies, and a renewed effort in
bstkadod strengteing.



-4-
12.   The Gouenment's stabilion policies for 1992-94 are set out in the Policv Framework
Paper (PFP) considered by the Committee of the Whole on March 17. The program objective set
out in the PFP (pre-drought) was to achieve real GDP growth rates of 2% in 1992, 3% in 1993 and
4% in 1994, implying a positive real per capita growth by the end of the 1992-94 PFP period. These
figures will be updated mid-year to reflect the impact of the drought. Gross investment is planned
to grow to about 20% of GDP in 1994, more in line with the experience of the 1980s. However,
investment statistics are particularly inaccurate and conclusions should be drawn with care. This rist
in private investment will be facilitated by a fiscal policy designed to increase public savings and shift
financial resources to the private sector, and a monetary policy seeling to attract savings though a
positive interest rate policy. The most daunting task is to lower inflation from about 100% in 1991
to 45% in 1992, 15% in 1993 and 5% in 1994 (all on a calendar year basis). The stabilization plan
is to achieve a primary budget deficit (excluding grants) of no more than 2% of GDP in 1992, ful
balance in 1993 and a small surplus in 1994. The most impoitant of these measures are the rapid
elination oftheprinc4pal subsidies (on maize, fertilizer and parastatal deficits), reprioritkingpublic
expenditures, enhancing revenues by broadening the tux base and redusming loopholes (while lowering
tax rates) and civil service reform to create a smaller but more efflcient, better paid and motivated
staff. Civil service pay will be controlled by maintaining aggregate emoluments at a constant
proportion of GDP, with any extra pay raises being offset by savings from redundancies. The
success of Government in implementing these measures constitutes the key indicator of its
determination to recover control of the economy.
13.   Revenue Measures. The Government's revenae strategy is to simplify and reduce direct
tation and simplify indirect taxation, while lowering protection and encouraging exports. Overall
revenues will be increased, mainly by removing tax loopholes and by higher dividends from
parastatals.
14. The Government has already made a major start on tax reform. Progress on indirect taxes
has been good. In the 1991 budget, most imported goods were brought into three tariff bands at
15%, 30% and 50%, with a few exceptions such as food and fertilizer at zero tax, and minor luxury
goods at 100%. Trade distortions were reduced, and Government revenues enhanced, in the 1992
budget by harmonizing the sales taxes at a uniform rate of 20% on both imported and domestically
produced goods. Petroleum currently is imported tax-free, but there is no local oil production and
the minimum excise tax on petroleum is 15%. In relation to the 1993 budget, the Government's
program is to reduce further the highest tariff band so as to reduce the protection offered (see para.
60), but to do this in conjunction with smoother operation of the OGL (Open General License)
system, and only ater the impact on business and employment has been well-studied. Government
plans to raise new revenues from the introduction of a value added tax, and from the introduction of
mandatory dividends from parastaas.
15.   In addition to the above, Governmemi has cut the basic company tax rate from 45% to 40%
begining April 1, 1992, offsetting this by phasing out non-cash finge benefits as deductible business
expenses, and Is undertaking a detailed examination of the structure of company tax with a view, to
implementing further reforms in 1993 or 1994. Personal income taxes were also reformed in the
1992 budget, the main emphasis being a widening of the tax net to tax cash fringe benefits, (such as
the housing allowance) to offset a reduction in tax rates and an increase in the tax tLreshold.
16.   Expendit . The expenditure reduction plan includes reform of the public and parastatal
sectors, increased devolution of authority to local governments, better coordination and determined
control of commitments and expenditures, reprioritization of expenditure, and phased elimination of



-5-
subsidies. Ihe major reductions in spending will be in crop financing and subsidies. The change
In crop financing is primarily a result of the greater private sector role in maize purchasing and
marketig. The reduction in subsidies comes from elimination of maize transport subsidies and of
fetlizer subsidies and the substantial reduction in maize meal subsidies.
17.   The Zambian public did not generally benefit from the previous Government's maize
subsidies as intermediaries bought up the stocks and many families had to buy at parallel market
prices. The new Government moved fast to correct this situation by a speedy cut In nmaze subsidies
balanced by a stronger safety net to cushion the impact on the most vunerable. In littds more than
a month after taking office, subsidy cuts resulted in price increases for roller meal by 103% and
breakfast mWl by 165%. Further increases were made three months later. Consequently, within its
first four months in office, Government had eliminated the subsidy on breakfast meal (the more
refined product) and reduced the subsidy on roller meal (the less refined, and hence more nutritious,
product) to about 30%. Govermment removed the remaining subsidies on roller meal during May,
and all into- mill subsidies on domestic production have now been removed. As a response to the
drought, Government will pay a temporary bonus on locally produced maize delivered in May and
June, and pay the cost of transport, handling and storage for locally produced maize to ease the
transition to the new higher prices. The phase-in to the higher prices will be achieved by October
such that the Into-mill cost will be at about the level that would have applied in a non-drought
situation. This will then be an appropriate base point for the 1993 crop. In addition there will be
a program of linited quantities of half price and free yellow maize to be channelled to thu- poor
(mcluding subsistence farmers severely affected by the drought) through local groups supported by
the World Food Program and the NGOs, and additionally a 15% subsidy on yellow maize supplied
to hammermills, to encourage consumption of the more nutritious straight-run mealie meal. These
poverty-focussed subsidies will expire b; mid-1993. Subsidy reduction is a particularly visible
measure of Government resolve for economic reform, and becomes a key indicator of progress.
Price controls and subsidies in the fertiizer sector were eliminted in March 1992.
18.   Government has already announced a shift in expenditure priorities such that more money will
be spent on non-wage recurrent ewpenditures in areas such as equipment and building maintenance.
Further, a realistic Public Investment Program (PIP) for 19924 has been adopted, and expenditure
outside of the PIP wil not be authorized except in exceptional circumstances.
19.   Monetary and Interest Rat Policies. The Bank of Zambia has established a target for
broad money growth of 25 percent for 1992. This is lower than the year on year inflation objective
(45%) since it is anticipated that it will take sometime for inflation to decelerate as monetary policy
is tightened. In addition to monetary restrain, Government has increased the maximum effective
Interest rates charged to borrowers to about 70%, which is equal to the inflation rate targeted for the
end of the first quarter 1992. As inflation falls during the year, interest rates charged to customers
are expected to decline. To encourage savings, efforts wil also contue to be directed at raising
bank deposit rates relative to lending rates, particularly through reducing the proportion of non-
interest bearing deposits placed with the Bank of Zambia. A limited amount of debt-equity swaps
wil be permitted at conversion rates prescribed by the Bank of Zambia.
20.   External Sector Polides.  The centerpiece of the strategy for expanding non-traditional
exports by 10-15% a year over the next decade is an exchange ratepoliy that aligns the value of the
kwacha closely to the parallel market rate, such that the efficient allocation of foreign exchange is
promoted, and to give added incentive to exporters through a liberaized export retention scheme.
To ihat end the kwacha was devalued by 30% on January 31, 1992. The Goverment's plan is to



-6-
-djust the official exchange rate in installments to a level that will permit the OGL system to be
shifted to a negative list system and steadily broaden the coverage of the OGL. Government has
announced complementary reforms to encourage exports through an improved duty drawback scheme
and further development of bonded warehouses. Continued development of the OGL system is a key
test of progress in Zambia's macroeconomic reforms.
B.2 Longer-Term Development Strategy and Issues
21.   The Government's strategy to restore long-term groh calls for the creation of an enabling
enviromnent conducive to the growth of the private sector, so that it can provide most goods and
services, and to limit Government's role in the economy to the provision of essential services;
Governent regards the most important of these to be the development of the basic physical
infrastructure and of Zambia's human resources, the provision of social services (and of a social
safety net) and the implementation of appropriate environmental policies. Government is also aware
that for this strategy to succeed it needs to deal quickly with the overwhelming debt situation.
22.   Private Sector Development and Public Sector Reform: Government is embarking on a
mojorprivadzatlonprogran and seeking to make the public utilities more efficient, and to introduce
fther reforms in incentives and in the legal and regulatory framework, with a view to development
of a strong prwvate sector. Theprivatkationprogram aims to put all new copper developments under
the control of private investors, to reform ZCCM, and to privatize all other commercially-oriented
parastatals, except for the public utilities, (140 companies to be divested out of 155 parastals), over
a period of five years. The parastatal reform program wXl involve a reassessment of the
management, staffing, policies and finances of the public utilities, efficiency measures and
establishment of performance targets, and insttion of an incentive-based regulatory system. Cuil
Service ReJbrm is also an important element in Government's plans for a more efficient but smaller
public sector. The Inentiw program includes improvements to the incentives offered in the 1991
Investment Act, and simplification of procedures. It continues the streamlined import and export
licensing system, now operad quite efficiendy through the commercial banks, and an exchange rate
policy that will move to a small ntegative list system by end-1992; and enhanced competitiveness
through fiurther cutting of impov- tariffs. Government is also starting a comprehensive review of
busess related laws that are out-of-date; a prioritized action plan has been drawn-up to make early
amendments of Acts that affect the privatization process (including laws regulating the banking system
and capital market), and to deal with all other business-related legslative modernization over a five
year period.
23.   Physical InTe.  he Govermment intends to put renewed emphasis on a better road
system to ensure that crops can be brought to market quicldy, on a more reliable freight-rail system,
and on a better quality telecommunications system that is seen as essential for the development of an
outward-oriented and efficient productive sector.
24.   Htuna  Resource Strategy.  The centerpiece of the human resource strategy is the
rehabilitation and susainable expansion of the education and health sectors. These sectors have borne
the brunt of the deterioration in fiscal performance in the past, and the country is faced with a
dilapidated and underfunded social inftructure.
25.   In education h new strategy means a shap  focus on improvements in basic education with
a special emphasis on the provision of much-needed infrastructure, management capacity and learning
materis. TMe Government bas sought, with success, donor support for this. Other activities in



.7
eduation are geared towards ensuring the necay upply of skldled manpower for the development
needs of Zambia, focussing on key skills releva  for private sector development.
26.   In heal the Government i re-emphasizing primary health care and is in the process of
decentralizing health services to ensure community participation and good governance in the sector.
Ihe Government is working with key donor agencies towards developing a fhll health sector strategy
and management set-up to meet the new challenge of a decentraized system of health delivery. A
key area of emphasis is the prevention of AIDS and support for family-based care of AIDS patients.
With prevalenc of HIV as high as 20 percent in urban areas, the treatment of opportunistic infections
and support for home-based care is important to limit the otherwise devastating effects the AIDS
epidenm; could have on the human resource base and the economy. In mntrition the Government is
working towards streamining management of national programs and further encouraging the
development of local initiatives.
27.   The Government is aware of the key role wwen could play in poverty alleviation and growth
of the economy and is focUSSing social service delivery, paricularly education and primary health
care, on women. Govement is also working towards removing obstacles for women's participation
in the labor force, and in their access to credit, and is looking to relieving the all-important time-
constraint on poor women in Z mbia.
28. Social Safety Net. Government is taling steps to alleviate the impact of the drought and of
the economic adjustment program on the poor and disadvantaged. Specifically Government will: (i)
implement a tramsitional subsidy on imported yellow maize to cushion the price impact of the drought.
Some families have lost all means of livelihood as a result of the drought. Government will channel
spei assistance through local groups supported by the World Food Program and NGOs to ensure
that these families can feed themselves and have the seed for next year. Further, Government will
assist poorer families for one year only through a small (15%) subsidy on maize supplied to
hammermills, in an effort to encourage use of straight-run maize because of its greater efficiency and
nutritional value. In addition, Govermment is (U) using some of the savings from subsidy removal
to expand social welfare prora   ilemend through the Ministy of Community Development
and Social Welfare; Oii) increasing funding for small-scale labor intensive public works (supported
by IDA and other donors) and other components of the Social Action Program, and conveing some
of those to paid-work instead of self-help; and (v) increasing the share of the nationra budget
allocated to basic social services, with emphasis on primary education and health care and other
services of partda importance to the low income poulation. Specific inter n targets have been
set for the above. Paticula attention will be paid to ruml inrastructure. Government plans to
heighten public aware  of the social action program so as to ensure that more needy people
benefit. A progm of severance pay and business counselling will be offered to those made
trodundant thgh the retrhment program. For the medium-term the various measures to stmulate
small-scale iustry will provide income   opportunities in both urban and rural areas.
29.   The withdrawal of subsidies on maize meal will have less impact than might be expected on
the poor as most maie meal has bee sold on the parallel market at non-subsidized prices and
because special arrangements are bing introduced for famMies financialy devasaed by the drought.
Ihere appears to be public acceptac of the measres tak. The incoming Government had made
its plans clear during the election campaign, and it Is evident tgat most Zambians were ready to take
he twugh acdons to stop the long-tem economic decline. 'he drought has caused some adaptation
of the maize pricing policy in at, with donor concurrence, Government will set the price of
imported yellow maize at the price at had been expected If the drought had not happened.



-8 -
30.  ' Ea _lrommta Shrteg. Zambia has a keen interest In presving and improving the
physical enironmt, and there is common accpne   in Government of the priority tis deserves.
As an underpopulated coutry, much of the land has not been afeed by man; yet as the most
urbanized country in Africa some problems exist and have to be dealt with. The principal issues are
fist, some deforestation, particulay along the line of rail, caused by land clearanco, overcutting of
fuelwood, overrazn and buring. In these same areas this leads to soil erosion, a problem made
wore by the high natural erodibility of Zambia's soil. Second, there is a local polludon problem
from the mines and facdies, particularly affecting parts of the Copperbelt and areas adjacent to
industrisal operations. Although not widespread or affecting large numbers, such pollution has to be
reduced. More pervasively, the poor control of agricultural chemicals and indequa  treatment of
human and Industria waste has an obvious impact on water supplies and health. Cholera is a serious
issue. And thrd, in relation to wildlife, poaching is rampant, and elepha  and rhino are found in
numbers only in a few locations.
31.   The National Strategy for Consaion dates back to the mid 1980's. It seeks to define and
establish policies, plans, orgaization and action to ensure the sustainability of the natural resource,
to maintain biological diversity and the essential ecological processes and life support systms.
Specific plans and guideines bave been drawn up for all sectors, in conjunction with the International
Union for Conervatio  of Nature and Nntal Resources. There has been progress in some areas,
yet in others, paricularly woodfoel cuing, it has not yet been possible to achieve mearable
success.
32.   Ihe new Govemet has reaffirmed its concem for envronmenl issues both through the
establishment of a Ministry of Environment and Natura Resources and through the explicit interest
Of senior policy makers. A new national environmental action plan is in the early stages of
preparation, but becase of the need for proper quantiflcation of the copper mining and industrial
pollution issues, and the preparation of the natural resources strategy, it is not due for completion
until 1995.
33.   Etea Capital Require          - Tbe Debt Issue  Z ia's external debts ae enormous
In relation to GNP, and cannot be servied from Zambia's own export earnings. The limitod foreign
exchge available in recent years for copper investment has led to decling ouput, and for 1992
(even exuding drou related Imports) the trade balance is expected to be negative. When taken
together wih net -ft  services, and other payments, the cunT account deficit, excluding
iet pamens  and offici transfers, is estimated at US$287 milion; it rises to US$587 million
when the exra cost of the drought are included. Debt seice obligations amount to US$503 million
for nont           and US$260 mllion for multiles, and targeted earws reduction is US$294
milion. Thus, excluding any cage in its official reserves, Zambia fces a gross fiancing
requim of US$1644 million including the drought needs.
34.   While Zambia is putting high pdority on a rapid grwth in exports to move toward a better
extern  balance, for as long as the debt overhang persists the external finacial picture wil be
difficult Ihe main areas for expected improvement are a modest reduction each year in the current
accou defici and steady reductions in debt service obligations.
35.   Donor support for 1992 has been strong. At the end of the CO meeting, the remaning
fiacing gap was about US$330 million. Addition pledges as of May 14 totaled US$199 million,
not including a possible US$100 mfllion in debt servico deferral being considered by the IMP. If
is amount Is Included, the fincins gap would be US$31 millio and withn range of being dosed.



-9-
As a condton of effeciveness for the Credit, Goernment wUi be requdred to confir that it has
obtained comminnentsfrom donors and other sources adequate to complete the 192financing plan.
I. BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. Past Perfnnance and Policy Dialogue
36. Zambia's economy experienced significant decline during the 1970s and 1980s. As low
copper prices persisted, the authorities resorted to deficit-fimancing and external borrowing to finance
consumption. Domestic saving dried up, investment plummeted, the budget deficit exploded, and the
rate of inflation rose sharply. Effective use of existing productive capacity was hampered by
extensive Government involvement in price regulation, subsidies, exchange rate and trade controls,
and production of goods and services through parastatals. Excessive state intervention created serious
distortions and Imbalances in the economy. Attempts at policy refotm and economic restructuring
through diversification (supported by an Industrial Reorientation Credit and an eadier Economic
Recovery Credit) in general failed because of a protracted decline in copper prices, shortfalls in
exteral resource inflows, and poor implementation performance. Output has continued to decline;
real GDP declined by 0.5% in 1990 and by 1.8% in 1991. Ihus, GDP growth targets set in the first
PFP for 1989-93 of 2.2% in 1989, 1.9% in 1990, and 2.8% in 1991 were not achieved.
37.   The Government's policy framework has been updated in the PFPs for 1991-93, and 1992-94
which articulate the policies, objectives, strategy and priorities of the couny for the medium-term.
At the same time, the Government issued its Public Investment Program for the period 1992-95 for
implementing the framework. At the macro-level, priority is given to eliminating imbalances between
demand for and supply of goods and services through structua change. Sectorial priorities have
been established. in agriculture, priority is given to smallholder development by improving the
provision of research and etension services, credit, and marketing and storage facilities. The focus
in the transport sector is on rehabilitation of e   infrastructure and provision for adequate
maintenance. In the socal sectors, priority is accorded to the rehabilitation of inrastructure at the
pfimary-education and primary health-care level so as to improve service delivery. The framework
and priorities are consistent with the country's development needs and prospects.  If fully
implemented, they should foster stability, structural change, and faster economic growth. The
objective is to ahieve real GDP growth rates of 2% in 1992, 3% in 1993, and 4% in.1994. 1
Although achievement of these targets will not result in an increase in GDP per capita until 1994, it
will be an improvement in the performance of the economy in comparison to the negative rates of
growth experienced in the past.
38.   Performance targets established in previous PFPs have not been fuly realized largely because
of lapses in fiscal and monetary control by the then Government. For instance, efforts to reduce
macroeconomic inbalances and to lower the rate of inflation have yielded marginal results. While
inflation fell from 158% in 1989 to about 100% in 1990, it was much higher than the PFP target of
55%. Infiation rose slightly in 1991, and GDP fell. Compared with a target of 3% in GDP growth,
the actual rate was -1.8%. During the second half of 1989 and 1990, some progress was made in
bringing public finances and monetary growth under control. Around the middle of 1990, however,
I/ These targets may have to be revised to take into acowunt the severe impact of the drought
on agricultural ouput in 1992 and to a lesser etnt in 1993.



-10-
signifcant pay awards and Increases in employee allowances and benefits led to a substantial shortfall
in the reduction of the budget deficit. The deficit was still 4.2% of GDP in 1990 compared to the
PFP target of a surphl of 0.4%. Subsies on mealie med rose shaply, and money supply increased
by 100%, gms fuding Infltion. On the positive side, significant liberalization wu achieved through
price decontrol, deuation of the Kwacha, Itruction of the OGL system for most merchandise
Imorts, expansion of the export reuteon scheme, and reuction of the hWer tariff band from 100%
to 50%. Since tuking office in November 1991, the ew Government has increased sharply the price
of maize mea, eliminated most subsidies, adopted a budget whih reduced the deficit from 7% of
GDP in 1991 to 2% In 1992, inaed the refom of the tax structe, embarked on a program of
public service refrm, and adopted a policy of pdvatg parastatals.
39.   Since the resmpon of nom  rations in early 1991, policy dialogue between the Bank and
IF on the one hand, and Zambian authorities on the other, has been effective except for the Issues
of maize subsidies and l fkcal control in the summer of l99l which led to a cessation of donor
support and suspension of Bank di e    . The polic dialogue was maintaned however, and
relatons with the new Gov     were e8tablished quicldy, with the aid of several key officials
retained by the new Economic team; prog     ahieved over the past few months has been very
positive. Ihe 1992-94 PFP was the product of truly odlaboradve effort among the Bank, IMF, and
Govermment. While many of the Govenmens current policie were enunciated in the MMD
Manifesto, the tripartite diogue has conibuted significantly tOD their alaion In the PFP. With
te lifng of the spesion of disbrsements on January 31, 1992, Bank lending and economic and
sector work have  id. Supervbion work has also been stepped up. Ihe new Government is
commited to the adjustm  program and has demonstrated tis by taking tough actons within a few
months of tkig office.
B. Bank Objecives and Assac Strateg
40.   Zambia has to desi, fmace, and implement its adjustment progrm uder particulaly
difficult condio. First and foremost is the very high external debt (including to the Bank and
Fund) wbich woud result in debt serce rtios near 70% In the absence of rescheduling. Even with
extraoray levels of reschedWing and direct suWort from the donors and multilateral Ins"tions
such as the Bank, Import levels are hgy constained and reserve le}vs at bare mini . Dealing
with the debt issue over the medium term is therefe, a key focus of the Zambian authorities and
of the Bank program of assistance. Ihe precario   of the extenal financing situation also takes
up much of the atntion of senior officials in the Govermen and the Bank. This problem is even
more serious this year because of the drougt. Anoth   major difficult i the on agas off again
history of the Zambia program (and hence of the Bank program of sport) which has created
difficulties both in progrm desig and impl bn  Our emphasis in recent years has been on
the extaoriay financial measures necesary to clear te arreas and restt the program (twice) and
to reach an Idlng on some basic mcoonoc   policy issues.    a result we are staig
with a low knowledge base In many areas, and the Govermnt bas not had sustained donor support
in many sectors. This constrains both program desig and impI      it also resuts in an
empasis on tecnical assistaee and a partcular need to focus our support on a relively small
number of high prority areas. In some sectors, we know enough tD get started on pry    issues
while launcing some broader sectoral studies. In odt  areas, direct Bank support woud not be
prudt  until after the proper sector work has been done.
41.   The Bank will conue to play a leadig role in assisting the Govenmen to design and
implement the adjustme  progrm, to place the econmy on a s ble growth path, and to



-11-
mobilize the ncessay fincial resources.  his will be accomplished through continued policy
dialogue, economic and sector work, adjustment and investment lending operations, and effective aid
coordinion. Ihe stregy alms to support structuli adjustment while creating a climate conducive
to povety alleviation through sustable economic growth and the provision of a safety-net to protect
vulnerable groups from the adverse impact of adjustment. The strategy implies substantial balance
of payments support to help Zambia redress macroeconomic imbalances in the economy, and to
reduce its overwheming debt burden to maageable proportions. To this end, the Bank plans to lend
for at least one adjustmt operation for eadh of the net four calendar years. The primary emphasi
of the opeation wll alternate between macroeconomic adjustment and sector adjusutm. Each year,
the Bank will assess achievements under the ongoing adjustmnt operation to determine the priority
meaues to be carried out under the successive operation. Thus, in the earlier years, Bank
assistance will be primarily in the form of balance of payments suppot, supplemented by investment
operations in the priority sectors; as identified by the Government these are agriculture, industry,
transport and social services. In addition, it Is envisaged that IDA would assist Zambia more
directly, including through the Debt Reduction Facility, to reduce its debt burden to a more
manageable level.
42.   Ihe main elements of the Bank's strategy are to support efforts to:
achieve macroeconomic stability and initiate a path of sustainable and equitable
growth through elimination of the budget deficit, atinment of a competitve
exhange rate, and increasing the allocation of resources to economic and social
secors by restructring the composition of public expenditure;
ensure sufficient access to imports, and an adequate reserve cushion, through
maienance of an appropriate exchange rate and other _mures to encourage
exports and to use imports wisey, and tbrough coordination of donor asistance
and efforts to secure needed debt elimination and rescheduling;
improve the climate for private sector development through dereuon, provision
of -ifrastuur and privatization of parastatals;
-       strengthen human resource capacity by rehabilitating the education and health
nfrastructure and improving the quality of education and health services; and
implement an effective environmental straty
43.   la the context of this strateW the Bank is pwviding urgent support to mitigate the effects of
this year's drought. Thus the allocation for the proposed credit has been increased to US$200 million
and existing and new operations are beng reviewed to see if they could provide funding for drough-
related activities. The Bank is also actively soctng donor support for Zambia.
44.   Ihe aleviaton of poVy is central to the Bank's program in Zambia. While the most
powerful weapon against poverty in the long run wil be sustinable and equtable economic growth,
a number of other considerations wil play a vital role in combatting poverty. One is the reorientation
of public spending to meet the vital human resource needs of the poor, particularly in the areas of
primay education, primary health care, and clean water and sanitation. Another is deregulation of
te econMY to reduce the proliferation of rens going to the relatively advantaged and to open up
oppounties for small bulnesse and smalt farmers. The availability of credit to all levels, and



-12 -
without gender dis ion, is a vital part of this straty   of Increasing opportunities. Similarly,
a labor market free of special privileges and barriers to entry will be importat if the new growth is
to be as labor Itnsive as possible. Finally, a social safety net (as described In paragrah 28 above)
will be importan to protect those least able to protect themselves from the disnrptions likely to
accompany this program, particularly the sharp increases in the prices of vital commodities and the
retrencbment of employees in the public and parastatal sectrs.
45.   WOmen are    play a vk  roe In the Zmbkm economy not only as primary caretakers of
the family but also as direct laborers at the farm level and, Increasingly, in formal sector
employme   To reach high levels of equitable and sustinable growth, however, the barriers to ful
participation that stll exist for women will have to be addressed urgently. Many elements of the
Bank's lending and ESW program wil be directed at this issue, most particularly our programs in
education, health, credit, and deregulation. For example, the Education Rehabilitation project
includes a comprehensive gender training and sensitization program, assistance for the design of
educational establis    to take better account of the privacy needs of adolescent girls, and a major
policy study on the nature and causes of gender disparities in education. The Agricultral Marketing
and Processing Infrstucture Project includes specific requirements to ensure that women have equal
access to credit facilities. In fact the majority of beneficiaries of the credit component are expected
to be women.
46.   Ihe donor community is giVing strong sqiport to Goewnm's acons to protect die
environnent (ref. paras. 30 and 32). IDA is providing assisance in particular to industrial pollution
in Kafue, to improved agricultural practices, and (through ESMAP) support for measures to reduce
the impact of fuelwood cutting. The major local company, NCZ (a fertilizer mmubcturer and a
recipient of past IDA funds), has brought all the local factories together to draw-up an integrated
action plua, for ensuring that the industrial waste water is treated before it reaches the river. This
plan is awaiting donor fiance (US$1-2 m). A review of mining pollution issues is included in the
IDA workprogram  Donors are placing special emphasis on watr quality. Support for the wildlife
conservation program is planned in the IDA workprogram, but it is also expected to get renewed
empbasis as Government actively promotes the country's tourism potential.
C. Lending Ptgram and Economic and Sector Work
47.   Zambias withdrawal rights under Bank loans and IDA credits were suspended between May
1, 1987 and March 1991 on account of accmuld  arrears. The Economic Recovery Credit,
approved by the Board in March 1991, marked the resumption of normal Bank .. arations In Zambia.
Relations were interupted again in September 1991 when disb s were suspended because of
rears. The suspension was lifted at the end of Jamny 1992 and normal operaons resumed again.
Ihese interruptions account, in part, for the retively low volume of lending during the period 1985 -
1991. The table below details the Bak's lending program during this period. In March 1991, IDA
provided the second economic recovery credit of US$210 milion to Zambia, which was disbursed
In two tranches. Since 1984, IDA committed a total of US$464 million to Zambia for adjusute
operato  and investment projects. Ihe credits supported the Government's economic recovery and
adjustmen program, agricultural development, reabiitation of Infastructre, strengtening of
Intittona capity, and establishing a social recovery fund.



ii           iI    -=i        -g                     ;         
O~~~~ Ii iI i                                                    a  



-14-
48.   The recent dialogue between Bank staff and Government representatives has culminted in
an agreed approach to priority sectors for Bank assistance. These include agriculture, industry,
mining, transport, and social services. Assistance in these sectors would complement balance of
payments support. The Government's goal is to generate rapid economic growth, with equity,
through increased investment in the productive sectors and human resources and infrastructure
development. A high rate of economic growth is essentia for poverty reduction, and for the
development of human resources and infrastructure as well as for progress in income distnbution.
Investments in productive sectors, and for human resources and infastmcture development, would
be supported by efforts to enhance efficiency and effectiveness in the public sector so as to promote
private sector development.
49.   Over the next four years, the Bank's lending and economic and sector work (ESW) programs
will constitute the main vehicles for implementing the strategy described above. Among the areas
covered by recent ESW are agriculture, industry, financial sector, energy, the social sector and
environment In the next four years, ESW will cover agriculture, mining, public expenditure,
education, public sector management, environment, population, health and nutrition, gender issues,
natural resources, and fertilizer distribution. A poverty assessment Is planned to be completed In
FY4. It will be preceded by an analysis of data gathered under work initiated in FY92 for the
preparation of the Country Economic Memorandum (CEM), to be issued in early 1993, and which
will have the alleviation of poverty as a central focus. These activities will culminate in the
formulation of a strategy for Bank assistance toward poverty reduction in Zambia. lhree major
acivities dealing with the environment are included in the ESW program for the next three years.
(Paragraphs 30-32 above give a brief description of the centra concern in this area.) Within the
agriculture sector program a natural resources study is to be carried out in FY93. It wiU be
supplememed by studies on the envronmental Inpact of mining operadons and an overall
environmental strategy study in FY94. The Bank ESW program also includes a sady on women in
deveopment, scheduled to be completed in FY94, which should broaden our understanding of these
issues and help us develop a more comprehensive picture of the problems women face and the steps
tt must be taken. The results of the study, together with lessons learned from the various other
related studies and operations, wiUl be used in strengthening the Bank's assistance strategy for
enhancing women's participation in development activities in the productive and social sectors.
50.   Economic reform measures were initiated under the earlier Economic Recovery Credit and
coinued under the recent Economic Recovery Credit. The reform program wil be fulrther assisted
by the proposed Privatization and Industrial Reform Adjustment Credit (PMRC) and the parallel
Technical Assistance Credit (PIRCTA). On the basis of an assessment of the achievements in
macroeoonomic and structura reform under the three operations, additional measures wil be
proposed for the Multi-Sector Adjustment operation included in the lending program for PY94 and
subsequent adjustment operations.
51.   Concurrent with the PIRC, the Bank wiUl provide assistance to agriculture, education and
infatructure through the Agricultural Marketing and Processing, Education Rehabilitation, and
InWrastructure Engineering projects in FY92 and FY93. These operations will be followed by others
in FY94 in Petroleum Sector Rebabilitation and Agricultura Diversification with Telecommunications
and Public Sector Management as reserve projects. The FY95 program includes an Industri and
Financi Adjustment Credit, a Health and Nutrition project, and a Power Rehabitaon project, with
financidal  medion and fiuther railways project in reserve status. FinaRy, in FY96, Bank
operations wil include a follow-on Multi-Sector Adjustment Project, and support for Agricultura
Reseach and Extension and Transport Rehabilitation; communty development, small-scale mining,



- 15 -
and natural resource preservation and development are the reserve projects. Details of these elements
of the program are noted in Annex IV. The design of the IDA lending program ;eflects the tiree-
year hiatus In Bank operations and the extraordinary foreign exchange needs of the past two years,
including the clearing of over US$300 million in debt service arrears to the Bank and meeting the
extra demmnds of the current drought which will cost US$300 million in 1992 alone. As a result,
the commitment level was an unusually high US$240 million in FY91 and will be US$210 million
in FY92 with this operation. 'he level of now commitments is expected to fall to an average of
US$120 million per year for the period FY93-96.
52.   IPC and MM: IPC's portfolio in Zambia consists of ten investments for a total gross
commitments of US$106.6 milion; one of IFC's larger in the Southern Africa region. While quite
diversified (mining, agriculture and manufacturing), this portfolio has not performed well in recent
years; the bleak economic situation and heavily regulated policy environment adversely affected most
investments. IFC however, expects that with the recent policy changes and the anticipated large
privatization program, prospects for existing and new investments will improve (particularly in
agriculture and in companies being privatized). IFC is keeping in close touch with the Zambian
uthorities and the Bank on progress on the privatization program. Zambia has been a member of
MIGA since 1988 and has paid up its subscription. MIGA has as yet no outstanding investment
guarantee on Zambia.
D. Aid Coordinfaon and Relations with the EF1
53.   The coordination of donor assistance has been central to the Bank's program in Zambia
becase of the extraordinary efforts needed to clear arrears and restart the program (twice) and
because of the very large externa financing needs of Zambia that are due to falling copper revenues
and the large debt burden. Formal Consultative Group Meedngs have been held in April and July
of 1990, March 1991, and March 1992. In addition infmal donor meens have been held in Paris
several times a year to provide urgent updates and opportunities for donor consultation. Regular
informal briefings of Executive Directors and their staff are also held at both the Bank and the Fund.
A considerable donor consultation process has also been established in Lusaka to coordinate the
amounts of assistance and of donor policies at the sector level, with different donors taking the lead
role in different sectors. Finally, the SPA meetings have provided a usefil forum for the overall
coordination of donor amounts and the discussion of genera donor coordination issues such as the
use of counterpart funds.
54.   All of the major donors and mullter instituions are supporting Zambia's economic reform
program. This support, as expressed at the latest CG and SPA meetings, has been strong and
unanimous. The broad agreement on policy has meant that an increasing amount of donor assistance
is now available as general balanc of payments support, and that the project assistance is increasingly
being coordinated within an overall agreed program of donor support
55.   A Fund-monitored program was endorsed by the IMF Board in June 1990. In April of 1991,
the Fund Board approved the first ever "rights arangementW with Zambia which established
conditions under which Zambia would gradually accumulate rights to withdawa of IMP resources
such thatfter three years, the acmulated rights could be used to wihdraw enough resources to
clear completely Zambia's arrears to the IMF, which were over US$1 billion in mid-1990. Due to
poor fiscal performance, Zambia did not qualify to accimuae rights in 1991. A revised 'dghts
arrangement" program is scheduled to be reviewed by the IMP Board in July.



16.
E. Criteria for Montoring rogre
56.   Despite policy reversals, Zambia has made genealy good progms in economic reoArm since
1989, and remarkable progress since the new Goverment came to power. Yet a great deal remains
to be done. In addition to the major emphais now beig placed on private sector development,
on and parastatal refrm, further stuctral measures are needed on macroeconomic issues,
such as foreig excbang, eal tariffs, taxtion and corolling inflation. The facial setr
needs modernzing, and greater focu has to be placed on ncouraging eports, partcaly in no-
tradiional sectrs. All sectors (agiculte, tasport, local goverment, energy, and socia serices)
need to address Issues that were neglected durig the post-Independence years. Civil Service reform
is an important componeat of the reform program as it addrees the public sector's ability to
formute and implement these reforms. Ite Govermen's PPP and the Bank's county assistance
st       seek to address these needs. However, the magnide of the challenges faced by Zambia is
so great that economic adjustment and achievement of Zambia's full potential will be a lengthy
process. Substanta foreign assistance, Incduding debt relief, will continue to be required to provide
essentia iputs and tose consumer goods that cannot be competitvely produced domestically, to
develop the nstion's human resources, and to strengten the basic inftruct.
s7.   Provges in impkmendng dds long tmm   rategV wWU be eiwuated on the basis of the
folowlng three a   .t The,f is the Government's abiity to implement macroeconomic policies
(moneta, fisc  and exchange rate policies) that can accomplish and sustain financial stabilization,
measured agan the achievement of targets for inflation, the fisa  deficit and credit expansion. lhe
second criterion is the Goverment's success in public sector reform, including progress in divesting
ixf of pbstatds and in ref ing public utilites, (to be judged ant the volume of pridvzatlons
and perormance  ad financi targets for the remaiing public utilities), and also civ service reform
and the Wprodlivery of vita socia services. lhe thd  is future growth and divesficaton of
the eoonomy, measured again  an expected decline in dependence of the economy on copper for
e t eings and government reenues and against more rapid private sector growth. The policy
frmework sould  ecourage private sector investnt and contned rehabilitation and development
of the social and ecommic infrstrcture.
S8.   Successful Implemento of this adjustment program depends on three key factors. First,
is the nee    sustained commitment of the Zambian authorities to program implemenation. Lack
of commitment and policy reversals have contrbmuted to implemI   failure In the past. This risk
is minmized by the new Govnerment's decisive actions toU-ate and the strong mandate it received
on the basis of its unambiguous manifesto detaiing Its economic strategy. Second, is the need for
substandal debt reief and highly concessional exr  assistance to be extended to Zambia, to ensur
adequate finacl resources ae avable for the adjustment program particularly given the effects
of this drougt. ihe Bank is appealing to donors to make extraordinary efforts to increase their
krn_  to support the Zambian program and food import requirements. Third, successXil
impl m n of the adjustment progm  will require restnt and sacrifices on the part ef all
Zambians. Lack of mm support for the program could impede its implemention, and the saiey
net provisions are crtic  as wMI be the Goermet's ability to presen and explain its policSes
clearly. Ihe criteria noted above for  gmot    performance should help ensure that the prograa
emains on trac   I te Goverm     were to abandon the key elements of the reform program the
Bank's leoding  s      would be to reduce the sort almost to zero, as we do not see how
Zambia's economy In such a saion could support meaniu projects.



-17-
ML PROPOD PRIVATIZATION AND INDUSTRIAL REFORM ADJUSTNME  CREDIT
59.   1To proposed Credit will continue and deepen the Iple In of the Governmens
pdivatatlon and parastal and mc  refom progra  Inidated under the recent ERC,
(Credit 2214-ZA), and will be comle      by follow-on operations which will pursue further
reforms in the trade, finacial and Industrial are. In parslel with this Credit we are submiing to
the Board aPrivatization and bIdustra Rerm Tecbnical Asistmce project, to provide the necesary
funding to support ImplemeIon of the policies set out in thi documet. The prposed Credit wll
have hree main objectives: (1) Promoton of competition and efficiency; (  encouagement of the
private sor; and (3) improving the ability of Government to manage the reform program. Ihe
measures to achieve these objectves are: (1) the maceconomic stabilization program, to ensure a
suitable overal framework, (2) development of a policy and Insttutional famework to encourage the
private sector, (3) the privtzadon and prastal reform progm, and (4) contInuAon of civi
service reform.
A. Macrecnomic  Stabilzaton Program
60.   In relation to the stabliabion progam, the Credit would support
(i)  imlw ntadon of whe refmns set out in the 1992 Budget, in particular reduction of the
Government budget deficit (excluding grn) to not more than 2% of GDP and
atoption of meaes to bring down inflation to a targeted level of 45% by end-1992.
Ihe reforms include Increases In interest rates, reduction of company tax and personal
income tax coupled with bwrade     coverage of both throu  closing of loopholes,
simplification and revenue    mn t  hrough  roniion of sales taxes at a
common rate, and phased elimination of maize subsidies. In respect of the later, aU
previous subsidies have been  mated; only the drougt-reated subsidies remaa.
These include a temporary subsidy on imported ydlow maize for this crop year, a
temporary eady production bonus, a tnsport subsidy on domestc production, and
limited poverty focussed subsidies for this crop-year including some free and half price
maize for the poorest cizes. The ntmil price of locally produced whie maize will
be decontrolled within the next two months, as soon as there are ufficient stock of
maize in Zambia. The IB   mission that visited Zambia mid-May focusse particaly
on Govement adherence to the fiscal packge to liit the Govenmt deficit and on
Implementatio of motary contros. Fertilizer subddies bave been eliminated and
prices have been liberalized. Governmen plans to Inoduce further reforms in
business taxion for 1993;
(ii) continued improvement in the foreign exchauge mechanism. Exporters now have the
right to retain, throu  the Bank of Zambia, 100% of export earnings, and to use these
for any of the purposes not excluded by the export retenton negative list, or to sell the
right to another importer, sibject to the sme resic . The price at which th
forei  excag I bought and sold is not reguaed  The export retion negative
list is minimal (about 5% of iem, mainly coverng items such as weapom and
luxuries) and the expor retention market is  enom   source of funds for vehicle
sp  amnd for service payments such as school fees and foreg holidays. Apart from
the export retent  mariet, iporters have acces through the OGL system to freig
dchnge fiuds at the official e ne rate, for item  oan he OGL positiwv lt Ibis
lst coves about 90% of import items. The wang list for access to the OGL is about



-18
four weeks although It varies with the flow of donor fiunds and copper exports. Ibis
dual system creates a number of distordons. The next urgent task therefore is to move
the OGL list to a negative list system, and to broaden its coverage to cover vehicle
spares and other priority items; and
(ill) continued simplification of the external tariffs, and further reduction of the higher tariff
bands. The prevalence of a ummber of tariff bands gives rise to problems of definition
and Customs application. The bigher tariff bands (30% and 50%) in principle give
significant protection to Zambian manufacrers over and above the naural protection
due to Zambia's location. At the same time private sector businesses have been
deprived of foreign exchange for years and their plant has become outdated and run
down. They need time to modernize. Govment will therefore study carefully over
the next few monts the options for furer reduction In the external tariffs, its revenue
implications and impact on business, with a view to announcing a reduction in the 50%
tariff band in the 1993 budget
61.   Monitorable conditions proposed for the above are. as foUows:  Efetiness. Gover
wii Waold& evidence that the fical ackae to lfint the bWet defict is being adhered to. and that
ap      t montav ry controls to reduce  iadton have been IMiAen-ed. Contnued satiactory
oval 7n mae on bWgt  olemalon and Moa controls as well as co=Mlance with
m c flscal tarpets set after reiew and agreement with JMF will be second and th}rd tranche
coniions. In addtion, as a third tranche conditon Gavernment wiI Introduce the net stape in
the pace of collecton. n reSe gf make subidies. bv second tanche the earl sroductlon bonus
gn domesi    roduced maize win haue been removed, and the into mIl Sde of Mpord veAffm
make wil have readed its target level of USS16.20bag. Sy thid tgnche. meaUe meal subsldes
will have been c2ompetl elmiatd. The monitorable coditon fo the fort   ecang steam
WV_  tb  eon   wh         =       shodd_"_ a__-     A -for ti OGL. =dg norWM
timetable for fugther tarif reduction, and have made a reductio In those tad& ftr nwin the M0l
range to not moemha 40%.
B. Public Sector Maaent
62.   The Governmet of Zambia faces a formidable dcallenge to attain macroeconomic stability
whout puting the economy deeper into recssion, andlor stifling the productive responses needed
for strur  dcange and growth to occur. Yet, its capacity to manage the economy has been eroded
in recent years by the loss of qualified personnel to the private and parastatal sectors where the
rewards are higher. In addion, morale among those that have remained in public service is low,
due largely to the sharp decline in their real wages in recent years. The issue of economic
management is part of the larger problem of an osized and Ineffectve cvil servie. This issue
must be addresed if the Government's capcty for manging the economy is to be adequate and the
provision of public services efficient.
63.   With respect to the civil service budget, Govment intends to limit emoluments to 4.2%
of GDP in 1992 and beyond, excluding the cost of severance paages. Goverment plans a major
cutback through r  ent, removig employees disciplined through formal procedures, reducig
certified daily employees (drivers, leanrs, household staf, and through contracting out functions



-19 -
that the private seuor would be bette equpped to perform (such as road repair and maintenance).
Several un    ay Goveram    agencies (e.g. the Prices and Incomes Commission and the Price
Department at the Mintry of Commerce) have already been abolished, and ghost workers idendfied
through the recent colSUltancy exercise have been removed from the payroll. Savings reaized from
personnel reductions will be used to improve the conditions of service, especially for skled and
professional persomnel. This is a reversal of past policies, under which senior public serva  were
badly paid and the large number of less-skilled staf -ovetpaidW by Zambian stards.
64. The Credit would support continuation of reforms supported by thfe ERC in public sector
management, through (J) strengthening the coordination mechanism of the Economic Analysis
Reports Unit, to enable It to analyze, monitor, coorinate and integrate the implementation of the
adjustme  program, and to coordinate the steeing committees working on economic issues; Oi)
enhancig the effectiveness of the Ciil service by improving remuneration for key persomnel; Ciii)
sliming down the civil service from its present complement of 140,000, by 10,000 in early 1993
and a further 10,000 by end 1993. An action plan to cushion the impact of retrenchment will be
ready before sigificant mnubers are to be dismissed, and (iv) ensuring public investment is in line
wih the agreed public invest-aft program. The proposed monitorable actions are: Bv d
gHmem  wHihave reue_____e ad                 M411.&MUhv  gro     U
a deeper      dk rerncm nt  ram. and hav  Incuded meaure  to sote  the hardshb ArM
C. Private Sector Development
65.   Zambia's Government has made it clear that henceforth private entrepreneurs, local and
foreign, are to be the engine of growth and are welcome in all sectors. Government has also
discontnued the practice of seekdng a state role in new foreign investment, and plans to demonstrate
tis resolve by retuwning most businesses nationalized in recent years to the former owners. The 1991
nvNesmt Act provided competitive inentves and a full range of guarantees against interference
and expropr   , together with the right to international arbitration. Provisions of the 1991
Iment Act are now being put into effect, the Investment Center has been established and
recritme  has started, subject to clarfication of fianci resources. Investment applications are
now bein handled in accordance with the provisions of the new Act.
66. The Investment Center will operate as a one-stop shop in the issue of investment licenses,
which have to be Isued within 30 days for all applications meeting the guidelines. The Center will
not challege investors' decisions. Also, Government will review, during 1992, al formal and
inoma r4 et faced by business in their decisions,, in order to streailine the process. The
Netherlands Trust Fund has financed consultancy services to assist in drawing up investment
guidelines to aompay the Investment Act, to clarify Government policy ad objectves and to guide
the investor to apprpriat contacts. Once the Investment Cetr is fully operational it is intended
to broaden its acdvity to other objectives in the Investmewt Act, such as investment promodon,
recognIzIng tat     i foreign investment is essential to Zambia's future.
67.   Eco ement of non-Iradoa epors  also a prioriy for Zambia. The necessary
macrWoeonomic frmework i in place through a reaisdc echange rate, a simplified import and
eport licing system through the commercial banks and a detmined effort to bring   tion under
cotrol. In the 1992 budget, th Govermen announced an expansion of the bonded warehos
scheme and Impovm    in the duty drawback system for exports. In addition, Goverm   bas
readhed ag    t with he BC on a scheme to promote acdvely the development of eWxport in five



"20-
by areas, horticulture, coffe, oton, texties and tobaco. Ihis effort b sparate from the Export
Boar which as  pnibily for more geral port pwmotin. he Ext  Board has not been
notably succesl  d I glenerly not utized by the bigger exr        The   r Goverment has
teavdy agred to finae a rview of the Export Board to soe wheter It shoud contine, and If
so, with  ia Improve s.
68.   ZmbIa has a rdevey wel dvloped and compeiive bankg ysym  with twelve
commercia ban  (of which only on Is  jsority sw nd) and a number of leasing cmpani
d spcial financial institutions. Most lding k short-tem however and the money market lacks
depth Th  main reasos for hs have bee the heavy Govement borrowing that crowded out the
private seor, the conseqent Inflation, ad, until rcently, ngative rea  itrest rates tbat
Redressing these Issues is one of die main objects of the Governmens
stabilizn program and th  prreqise to enable the central bank to promote actively the
development of finacal marke  by shifting  fom Is prent  lance on stringent liquidity and
reservo reuir      and credit celIupt, to         of idmonetary control. In the
Immedia_t ftur, t  priority in the bakg sector is to amend the banking legiation to streng
the caaciy, and authority, of the ceral bank In the ares of baking suevision and pruden
regulation. Whilhere Is no evidence of pervasive finandal disr   in the banking system, the
centrl bank is concerned to itoduce quiddy nw eporti   irements nd comreh e capit
adequay and Ioan e        guidelines to safeguard the soudness of the banking sstem     also
wnts to bring nonak lending hitiods under its reg_ulo  and supervisory auhority. The
central bank has already prpared in draft the new banking islati, on dtse and ote issues. The
enactm  of this leslaon is considered a priorty by the Governwm  of Zambia.
69.   AnoDte urgen issu in the rearm of the financial mas, is to include in thfe revised
banking law  ovibion for mmeal banks and odte financial institutions to buy and sel shares.
This wil be cditical in the iial phase of the pdvstzaion program, unti a simpe stoc exhnge
can develop, to allow   ta public offeing to take place and ordiary citizens across the country
to be able to purchae shares. The Govermet has also prepard with donor assi ce (emak
and IDA) a umber of studis oan ie s   _     of a sto  exchage ad a review of excages
In nighborn countries has bee caried out receny. Governme  i   to modify also the Stock
Excag Actto permit he developme of an htim stockexchange dtat is appri  to Zambia's
needs, by ealy 1993, and to put in place the necessary pru al supervision and saeards
parculaly regadig diclosur  prohion of Iside trading nd pro n of minority riht.
Govem t Is solicitg donor suppott to prepar draft laws in this area and also to review and
ptw  atrtie mehaism, such as privc n  fut  nds, dW wudpve  adei
vehcles to enaMle ihe odiny Zabin to pacpate In the privatiza    process.
70.   Government wil enurag greatercin the prvision ofnAnals esvlcn, such
as pesi  and building scety heds, tha a  presny dominated by stae monopoles. Isune
is also domitd by the stae company because It has a monopoly on r-nrance, which dicourg
the entry of foreg isrn  companis. Leisadon to remov  he fianci monoplies was
am  unc   the 1992 Budget and will be enacted during 1992 and 1993. A regu   system wil
be reqre withn two years to supevs tee sectors in a newly cometivo system
71.   Apat fm dthe finania monopoles re arealso m     cW *a mopoies Inber, cemen,
COoi,g Oi, S , maz mMin  seeds. and othr are. Apart from sugar, whch is a single
fc1ty, the priat  progrm wi brek up thee monoles, and kaport wmpeio wi reduce
the opportuny fw abuses. To gurd agai    e gemegenc of fite monopoly practies within hie



-21 -
private secor Govment Intends to adopt competition and ai-monopoly legiadon, based on
Danish-finnced consultancy studies, late in 1992 or eazy 1993.
72.   Other areas of law rfo*m, to update Zambia's busines famework, include as priority the
modenization of company law, customs and excise law and foreign exchange law, as well as the
bankug and stok exchange laws sIteady referred to. These priority law refotrs will be encted in
1992 and 1993. Land law is also priority but the issues are complex. Following this, Goverment
innds to review contrct and bankruptcy law, address the whole area of mining laws and incantives,
and Intduce regulatory systems such as for public utilities and financial services.
73.   The major constait to expansion of the smaUl scate enterrise (SSE) sector include
excessive regulaons for entepreneurs wanting to operate in the formal sector, lack of coordination
among the main support and financing organizations, lack of finance, difficulty in producing
colatera, and lack of ineives to the banks to lend to SSEs. The efficiency of Small Industries
Development Organization (SIDO) operations will also be reviewed by Governent, with a view to
Improvement. If this can be achieved (a major task, requrn  at least 2 years) it may then be
apopriate for SIDO to opera as a one-sp investment center for SSEs. Government is planing
to address further the support needed by the small-scale sector and to propose a suitable action plan
for inclusion in the 1993 budget satement.
74.   The Credit alMs to stngthen the legal and comnercial iftrutur whin which the
private sector operates by (i) esuing satisfiaory imple tionof the 1991 Invesment Act through
proper staffing and equipment of the Investment Center, and issue of Investment Guidelines; (ii)
enablng the review of the operation of the Export Board, with a view to encourang strongly
Zambia's exports; OiM) strengthening the Bank of Zambia's regulatoq powers and its ability to dea
with emerg  problems, and introduction of reguatory systems for financial services; (iv)
modering the bankiAg laws to permit sare trading, issue of guidelines for capital markes, and
for bringing into opation an inteim stock exchange; design of a full exchange relevant to Zambia's
needs; (v) overhuing Zanbia's business-related laws in acordance with the timetable agreed with
Government    uding adoAton of antmonopoly legislation and a monopolies commission; and (vi)
reducing licensing and reglatin affcting small scale entr    (as agreed for ERC) and provision
of tecimcal support. The prposed monhorable actions are:    d*d   eParlamentcIs
Also by     t       C Gowvtwhhave achiev  e sarO    stramloped
Investment Center's licenSint role. hNve Itroduced rennh to mrengthen hkpo f g(the centrol
bankto ree=and         s egd  dwbag setor and odier kMt nding. and wJUhave Sse
tuddelD am for  maret amWm and die gzprado *wth tock Ekd=ange
D. Prva lPam
75.   Zambias industrial sector iS dominated by pataa, most of which are poorly run and
Infficient. The Zambia Industri and Mining Coporation (ZIMCO), the state holding company,
manages the Gov et's ownerhip in some 150 p         , ranging in size 1im Sim miin
company, ZCC, to small bakerdes and breweies. There are a number of patals outide
ZIMCO of which five have been idenified so far as potentialy privatable. Most parstatals, the
main exceptions bing the public udlities, the companies subject to price conols (milling, ferilizer),
Zambia ways and Kae Textiles, became fianly solvent folowing the decontrol of prices in
mid-1989. Until the recent chages, the p a  continued to receive benefits, such as prefnce
in foreign exhage allocations, relief from tadffs on imports, tax rebates, and protction from



- 22 -
foreign, and often domestic, competition. Many are overstaffed and poorly managed, and would not
be able to survive in a competitive environment. In the interest of efficiency, the parastat setor
should be limited to a core group of public utilities or n-itural monopolies.
76. Ihe aim of privatization is to enhance competition and stimulate growth, as well as to reduce
budgetuy and managerial strains. Government has decided to privatize as much as possible of the
parastatal sector, through a publicly transparent system designed to ensure the confidence of the
public. A Privatization Board is to be formed, with private sector representation, and strong rules
are to be drawn up for its members on the question of conflict of interest. Privatzatons will be
publicized in some detail to minimize the opportunity for abuse. Separately, the parastatal holding
company, ZIMCO will be restructed so that it will act as an investment holding company and its
primary focus will be to prepare the subsidiaries for privatization.
77.   The privatization program to be supported by this credit covers ail parastatals except ZCCM
(Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines), the public utilities and a few non-ZIMCO companies. ZCCM
in itself represents about 50% of the ZIMCO Group tunover and the Government is addressing the
role of the private sector in copper in the context of the IDA supported Mining Technical Assistance
project. Public utilities (representing about 10% of the ZIMCO Group tumover) are being addressed
through the parastaeat reform component of this credit. Essentialy all other companies, i.e. about
135 of 150 companies listed by Zimco, will be privafized. (These numbers of ZIMCO's parastatals
for privatization include ZCCM's non-copper companies). Apart from the utilities, the oil
monopolies and the copper companies (seven companies in all, excluding the copper subsidiaries),
all companies are for sale and there will be no restrictions on ownership, other than as needed to
prevent monopolies. It is expected that during the five-year privazation program about ten
companies wll be sold through public flotations in Zambia and a further fifteen will be sold with the
requirement to float a portion of the shares locally. Most other divestitures are expected to be direct
sales to domestic and foreign purchasers, in some cases to existng management. Several companies
wil be liquidated rather than sold, and some will be contracted out to private management. A
nmlmber of local businesses have already indicated interest in acquiring some of the companies and
85 expressions of Inrest (mainldy from local investors) have been received for the first group of
sales. So far, the foreign companies have focussed on debt/equity and equity/equity swaps, and
discussions have started with a number of multinational investors on rationalizing their holdings.
78.   The privaizaton program has already started with the offer of ten small companies in July
1991, selected as a result of a preliminary screening of all ZIMCO companies. After a six-month
delay to allow time for passage of new legislation, foMowed by re-advertisment (including possibly
of additonal compaies) an iitia group of ten companies is expected to be privatized by September
1992. Ihe second group, bringfng the offerings to the equivalent of 10% of turnover, will be
advertized as soon as the first group is divested, aiming to achieve their privatizaion early in 1993.
Offerings of additional companies will be made at six-monthly intervas with a view to completing
the program by 1996, as originalyplanned. A summary of the divestitureprogram is at Annex VI.
The German Govemet has agreed to finance consultancy studies of 15 companies in depth,
scheduled for the second and third offerings, with a view to getting them ready for privatzaton.
79.   The divestitue program is controlled by the Ministry of Commerce and managed by the
Privatization Technical Committee. For the first group of companies the Technical Committee is
using local prie sector valuers for land and buildings, ZAL Holdings (a ZCCM subsidiary) for
mobile equipment and other assets, and local professional staff for 'going concern' valuations.
Emphasis is being placed on transparency, and for the evaluation of bids an explicit methodology has



.23 -
been drawn up. Danish-fn ted consltants have recenty completed a review of the rest of the
ZIMCO and ZCCM portfolio to identify the Issues to be addressed and the approximate tming for
offetig the companies.
80.   A number of strategic decisions are indluded in the privatization stratey and action plan.
These include first, the reaffirmation that a pdmary objective of the plan is to achieve compeion,
and that wheever appropriate multi-location companies will be sold as units rather than as a whole.
Second, that except for fast pay-back investments and emergency problems, Government will not
allow new capital investmens in companies to be divested. Tird, that specW schemes will be
developed to encourage Zambian participation In the privatization offerings. And four*t, Government
wil amend the Stock Exchange Act so that a suitable small interim stock exchange can be brought
into operation. Local finaci Institutions have already expressed strong interest in making a stock
exdhange work. A fifth key decision, to allow loss-making companies to close, was announced in
the budget. Government has also re-affirmed at It will create new parastals only as necessary to
assist the prvtizato process, (e.g., when breaking up a company into a number of competing
businesses) or as a means of 'corporatizing' some present Governmental activities. Staff reduction
exercises are underway in most large parastatals so as to minimize the privatization problems.
81.   The project will support the first 1 to 2 years of the privatization program, which will involve
(I) enactm  of privaiation law, and atoption of privatization strategy, policies and sequencing plan
with appropriate policies on tr aency, and early slming down of staff; Oi) privatization of 90%
of ZIMCo subsidiaries together with a number of other pastat  (about 140 enterprises) over about
dive years, including a frther ten substantia parastals to be made available for sale in CY92; (Qii)
ensuing that the privtzati  process makes a positive contribution to domestic competition (e.g.,
minimizing concentratio of ownership, breaking up of companies, etc.); (Iv) enurement of local
participation; (v) restricting new capital investment in companies to be privatized to the inimum
possible level, and (vi) if not saleable as going concerns, closing down of companies and selling off
the assets. The proposed monitorable acions are: at  efdirdveness. Pariament is expected to have
enacte the Privatzadlon Law. By sec nd buch Gowerment wUll hawe taken all stp ncss
on its pao to have nrlvrlze a mi*nimu  gften busnese out of the agred pmorw. and to have
oJu~rd brsale the nest a=m  of coMdanes includbij seweral lae?ad  #ekicn compaies-
tA. and at necessarg *te t m  tongtotatnwill be ajusted. B e dh  trnche Government
wul sho  seQ/aory )opre  on im0uado    et the Pdw&aWnrgA ms             hklmnp aU step
mscsarw on its-00artfRm9aft ga fitherten bushesses as a mbdaun. and bringing ft totail
rtch It has       such measures to a lel a lto aboutlO%  fturn          fcogmaes to
be nrl ed. Gowrm           wi also have   M   d an ageed aconlan to assist redundant
staf   Governme  and IDA wil Joindv reiew nroeress to date. wih a view amending the
ln   straten inecessary.  nnual targets wll be set and reviewd with a Wew to further
E  Part    Reform
82.     he pastal reform program covers two main issues, namely the transitional arrangements
for the companies to be divested, ad the long-term system for the utilities likely to be retained in
public ownership. in relatio to the former, the Govenm  Is now considering the consultant's final
report on the psatal holding companies, but has already said that it intends to abolish ZIMCO and
INDECO. The opton to be recomme  to ZIMCO Board and Cabinet is to transfer al compnies



-24-
to be divood to an invoetent holding compAy whose objecte would be to sell all oompnies
withn five yars. lho invesmn holding compa  wold provie a chairman for each subsidiay,
wod receive financial reprts, and would ensure t  any necessay retucturn Is caried out.
Subject to is, the companies would ave fil autonomry. On estblshmt of th Investmtholding
company the mb-holding compai  would be abolIshed, and ZCCM would no longer have a
reporting r       to ZIMCO. This new system is planned for I    mn  lat in 1992 and
earl 1993.
83.   Polcy for opation of the usdlal to be divested is as foDlows: Mmagemt of the
partaa compoaes has fil athoit concenig opetns, employment isand pridcg.
Management bas th right to borrow but Govermet and ZIMCO guarate on borrowings will not
be avabe. Mangem   has th right tD invest in accdance wth  e Public lnvestment Program,
which in prctce meaus only fr routie rewas, for emergeny rebaliaion or for Inv_m
where pay-back can be achieved before planned divestie. Management does not have the right to
diversify I   other lines of business.  Manaeent wil be held accounable for company
performanc, and Governmen  wl provide no more subsidies to thes companes except for
exceptiona trmasional cases such as Zambia Airways. The companies are required to pay a 10%
dividend to Governm  as prior  before considerig other needs such as ivestme
84.   May of te same polcies apply to the long-term pawaB, but in addition Government will
play an Important roh in dedin  the overall lnvestmnt program, in initiat   perfDormance
and In ingng instuonDl refor   Government has already Introduced cmpetion
Ino sectors domintd by publicly-owned compa ies, e.g. prvate secor buses and air char/air
carp, and prvae rsect celar phones, and the requiremen for ZCCM to enter o joint ventures
far Its eW min. Sevea utit  have stated to cona out non-core activities (e.g. coutructing
power dstbutin sysm).
85.  Iho public utis and long-teem           In principle bave most of the same right and
obiaton as the companies to be divested, i.e., fil autrity concenng opeations, employment
msues and pring, the rht to borrow wihou guarantees ad the right to invest in acordanc  with
the Public Invesmnt Program. Ib  managent of the public utWes bave the same containts,
Ie. the non-availab iit of subsides, ths obliton to earn enough to pay a 10% dividend, the
resticdom     di           However, becae of the monopoly nature of these   _n   the
picng feedom Is teporay to pemi the companies toretur to prftablt. Bece of the
amounts involved the ist programs of the utilities will have to be financed largely by donors
and thes will requi Govrment gu te, with                 Governm   policy supeision.
86.   C      at h    reviewed the Ises as part of the review of parasa holing companis,
and have  fthe estalishmt of a publc utLies secrtait th  wold be th regulator
for th pbic utilites.   would also apprv amual pric adjustmen and          of pricing
sedules. I       :nt diat price adu  would be tggered by a price adjustment fomla lnke
to the conur proe Index and the eage ra, with a separate fomua for each public udlity.
In addiion to ths 4s4egt approach to pricing, Govenmen would contiu to manage the
o         ic Investmen nees foi e utlis in the context of the Public Ivestm   Progr
87.   Bocause they we th main receives of ubsidies, and becau  of their strategic mporace,
do ERC roo          a sot_cy revis of the main public util  such as PFC (Post and
IT d  ), ZR        a Ralways), ZESCO (Zambia Electricity Supply), and ZA (Zambia
Aiwas).  hese reviws will identify Iiutiona, mnaeril and poliy chges neeary to



-25-
improve de companes' efficiency and profitability. lb. work Is due to start in 1992. Further, the
companes will dortly begin an In-house progm of prformae twgs and stadards, as a means
of measring and (in tme) guarnteeing performance, but with the advantage of the management and
staff buying Into' the pre. Managemen  and staff in a number of smaller partatals (Zimol,
Tanzania Zambia Pipelin, deni Refinery which are being retaied in the public sector, and Nadonal
Airports, which b to be pivatzed very we in the program) have reviewed their own operatons and
pred busins plans. These busines plas defie the goals of the companies, and expliciy se
out the key policies, and wM be updated anually.
88.   Ihe Govenmment has not compiled cmph      nr on o the non-ZIMCO patals,
although in aggregate they we not blieved to play a major economic role. Companies in ti group
include Taa  Railway, the Dsvelom    Bank of Zambia and the Nationa Lint Company, but also
a nmber of non-tradig paratas. Five companies have already been placed in the divestiture
program. To provide the necesy overll informaon the proposed TA Credit would finace the
preparion of an oveview and plan of action for non-ZIMCO parastas. Completion of this sdy
and action plan for non-ZIMCO parastats will be importan for the longer-term reorm process, and
to ncorport approprlate compmaies into the divestire progrm.
89.   lhe Credit will support the refom  of the parastatal sector In order to enhance economic
eciency and financal performance through: (i) restruerg the ZIMCO group leading to a major
simming down and abolition of most holding companies, and establshment of an investment holding
company to control finces of the pa as they are prepared for sale; (I) managerial autonomy
for all psincludig (for companies to be divested) pricing; (Iii) development of a reguatory
system and automatic price adjustment mecaism for public utiles, revaluation of public utility
assets; (iv) de d reviews of subsidized companies especially he large public utilities such as
ZESCO, ZR, and PrC, (as well as ZA) and development of business plans for remaining public
monopoli such as Zimoil, Tanzai Zambi CFAZAMA) Pipeline, ln  Refinery, and National
Airports; (v) abolidon of patastatal privileges such as monopoly status of comanies to be divested;
and (vi) epartion of overal action plan for parastats not under tie control of ZIMCO. The
proposed monhorble actions are: B  smend ftnoee. the ZImC   oad will have adod a
oard wl have abolLshed th mb-holding compan   and ranubed Z2MCO Into an Iestn
hoing coEn.    ti  adneh  Goemrn is eaedd to have adred an automaic nie
#am=               f or pgiiki lSes and to hawe esmUlshed a Mzil  digft  r edg    aitmv
QM ME dils ra=UC ndge o g&fd a r nd acdon do for non-27CO para=tdls
F. SKW Safety Net
90.   A crica factor for the success of the mc  refom, public SCbt reductio,
slimming down of pautatds and privatization programs is to emure ut reasonable protection is in
place for vulerable groups. A stengened sfety net ad socal acon plan is in place and wil
spport ose most afcted by the drought and the reform program;   e made redundat from the
civil service and th pa als wil also receiv redundancy befts and be offered coueling. Full
details are in Aex VIL The proposed monitorable acdons are that fad(&ctamtJrIn
ftpleMMftn the socadl afit netplans wfl be eeond md th*dt &onduks



-26-
G. Technical Asistance
91,   I is proposed that a parallel credi would finance advisory consultancy services to help the
Governmet implement the main components. Much of this would be through local firms. An
ongoing credit for Miing Technical Autance will support ZCCM's needs for technical assistance,
and the ongoing Technical Assistn  U Credit sorts the civil service reform measures.
Disbursements under both have been severely affeted by the 1987 and 1991 suspension of
disbursements, but TA needs, requiring the total funds stil available, have been identified.
IV. FEATURES OF THE PROPOSED CRED1T
A. Borrower and Credit Amount
92.   An amount of US$200 million equivalent is proposed for the Credit from Zambia's IDA 9
allocation, and recognizes the extra efforts of all parties at the CG (March 23-24) to meet the
additional fincing requements resulttng from the droughL Severa donors have indicated their
willingness to co-finance the credit. The overall level of financial support will coninue to depend
on Zambia's perlfmance under the program. Ihe Borrower would be the Republic of Zambia.
B. Disbursement and Procurement
93.   An important objective of this Credit would be to assist Zambia with its extanal financing
requirements during CY92 and CY93. The Credit would be disbutsed throu the Bank of Zambia.
A Special Account would be established in a commercial bank into which US$30 million of the Credit
proceeds would be deposited. The Credit needs to be front loaded in order to assist the drought relief
and the overall CY92 financing gap. As an exception to Bank policy, the retroactive financing of
up to 35 percent of the edit would be permitted subject to procmen meeting the principles
required by IDA, and to payments not more than four months prior to loan signature. Ibis higher
level of rtroactvity i to recognize the urgency of importig large quanties of foodsffs, and the
need to support the balance of payments in time to assist with the shorl envisaged for June and
July. Disburement would be in three tranches; the first, at efectiveness, amounting to about
US$100 milion, the second, after about three months, of about US$50 million and the third would
be available nine to twelve months after effectiveness, i.e. early to mid 1993. It is esimated tat the
entire Credit would be disbursed by Septmb  1993. Disbursement of the second and third trahes
would be contngent upon fulfllment of the monitorable conditions listed in the attached matix.
94. Ihe Credit would reimburse 100% of the foreign exchange cost of general imports,
excluding those on the usual negative list. Ihe suggested limit for petroleum, foodstuffs, etc., as
a group is 50%, recognizing the demands to counter the effects of the drought and the importance
of these funds being available quickly. This would be an exeption to Bank policy. Counterpart
fimds for these would be used for the safety net plans. Except for proprietary spares, which will be
subject to direct negotiation, contracts eeding US$1 million would be subject to simplified
intenatonal competitive bidding and will be fully docunmed, and as far as practical the project wiU
use standardized simplified ICB documents cleared by the Bank. AU ICB contracts will be subject
to the Bank's ex post fac  review, and aU suporting docments wil be submitted along with the
disbursen  hdocmen.  For amounts below this, the purdcases own prm ent procedures
would be deemed sufficient. The public sector procurement proedu   have been reviewed by the
Bank and found amceptable. Discussions with the Chamber of Commerce conim that the private



-27-
sector normally seeks competitive bids from more than one country; this also would be acceptable
fbr conats below the ICB threshold. Procedures for procurement of commodities (especially maize,
petoleum and fertilizer) will be in accordance with IDA requirement.  These procedures are
described in side leters to the legal documenu. Statements of expenditures would be used for
contracts valued under US$0.5 million. Procurement would be coordinated by the Bank of Zambia
under aTrangemens satisfactory to IDA. The Bank of Zambia would provide quarterly progress
report on procurement activities to IDA. Ihe Bank of Zambia would indicate on the statements of
expenditure the ntre and origin of the goods, as well as the payable date. For contracts below the
ICB threshold all relevant documents will be retained by Bank of Zambia for selective inspection by
Bank supervision missions. Ihe Government uses pre-shipment import verification services and all
imports financed under the Credit would be inspected and items purcbased under International
Competitive Bidding will not be subject to price verification. Ihe project account, special account
and statements of expenditure will be independentiy audited, and the audit report wil be submitted
to IDA within six months of the end of the fiscal year.
C. Phgram Managemt and Monitoring
95.   The reform program would be managed by the Economic Analysis and Reports Unit which
is chaired by the Minister of Finance and composed of members from the Miistry of Finance and
the National Comnission for Development Planning, Cabinet Office, Bank of Zambia, ZCCM,
Central Statiscs Office, and other Government ministries and agencies. The management of the
program would be assisted by a coordinator appointed specially for this.
96. The operation would support reforms and actions across a broad range of issues connected
with pvate sector development, privatization and parastatal reform; they are listed in the policy
matrix. Actions completed befbre Board Presentation are as follows:
Q1)  In relation to eliminaion of subsdies, Government has eliminated the general subsidies
on breakfast meal and roller meal, and on fertilizer. Fertilizer prices have been
liberalized.
Cu) Govermnent has drawn up a prioritized list of business-related laws, and has identified
those that will be enacted/updated over the next year.
Ciii) Government has adopted aprlvatzatlon saegy acceptable to IDA. This strategy sets
out the timetable for sales and five-year action plan, and identifies the six companies
not included in the five-year sale program.
(iv) On parastal rform, Government has issued instructions clearly setting out the
operational autonomy of all parastatals, coupled with the elimination of subsidies.
ZIMCO management has agreed to recommend to its Board a comprehensive
restuct8ing of Z1CO, and formal decisions are expected within a month.
Satisfactory businessp1w have been prepared for NCZ, ZIMOIL, Tanzania Pipeline,
Indeni Refinery and National Airports.
(v)  Governnt has commenced stoff reduion through abolition of a mber of
unnecesary Government departments, such as the Prices and Incomes Commison and
te Price Control Departmt Government has also removed from the payroll all
ghost uorkers identified in recent exercises.



-28-
(vi) Ths soc  acton pln has been strengthened (see Annex V]ID.
Spec monitorahle acus for effectvenes and second and third trache releas are set out below.
D. M@uiteable Acions: By Effec0ven
Enactmt of Prvatzadon Act
Confirmation that Govenment has obtained commitmens from donors and other
sowurces equate to complete the 1992 finacIng plan
Mhe maocnmic policy f*amework to be constent with the objectives of the
program supported by the Cedit.
Montwable Aciofns: By Second Tranche Rlease
(I) Macro-economic reforms
Continued satisfctory overall performance on the macro-econmic program as well as
compliance with specific fiscal targels to be set after renew and agreeme  with IM.
Adoption of negative list for OGL coveing not more ta 10% of import items.
Removal of trsitiona  early producton bonus on domesticaly produced maize, and
icease of no mDl price of imported yelow maize to US$16.20/bag.
(I)  Prvatzaton
AR step necessary by Government for privatization of a minimum of ten businesses
out of the agreed program. IDA and Government to review progress nd adjust
approah as needed.
Offer for sale of next group of companies, including several larger and significant
compas, briging totad offered to date to rougly 10% of total tumover of
compaes to be privatized.
(H PRua AC
ZIMCO Board will have adopted a resolution stsctory to IDA for the restuctring
of ZIUCO.
(lv) Socal Safety Net
Satsfcoy  peforma    on agreed plans to cushion impact of reform progam on the
mos vunerable.



29-
Monitwable Actions: By TIbrd Trancde Reaem
OI)  MaCrO-ecomic reOfOms
Continued sadsfator overall performance on the macro economic program as well as
compliance with specific fiscl tgets to be set after review and agreement with IM.
Final elimination of meaUe meal subsidies.
Completon of study on extenad tariffs, decision on strategy and timetable for further
tariff reduction, reduction in those tariffs now in the 50% band to not more than 40%.
Inoduction of next stage in reform of businew taxaon, covering broadening the tax
base, lowering the tax rate and speeding up the pace of collecton.
Qi)  Private Sector Development
Successfil opeation of Investment Center in streamlined investment licensing.
Enwtment by Parliament of anti-monopoly legislation and updated laws relathg to
banking, company law, business licensing, insurance and stock exdhange issues.
Implementation of measures relating to stegthening cenral bank powers to regulate
and supervise the banking sectr and non-ak lending instiions.
Issue guidelines for capital market transacions and operation of Stock Edchamge.
(dii) Priatization:
Saifcty progress on implementation of privaization program, including al steps
necessay by Govenmen for privatization of a further ten busine    as a minimuml,
bringing the tal to a level equivalet to about 10% of turnover of companies to be
privatized. IDA and Govenmn to review jointly the rsut with a view to adjusig
the approac if necessay.
Implementation of action plan to assist redundant staff.
(lv) Parastatal Reform:
ZIMCO to have abolished its subholding companies and transformed ZIMCO int an
investment holding company.
Completion of overview and plan of action for non-ZIMCO parastatls.
Adoption of automatic price adjustmnt mechanism  for public utilWies and
establishment of a public utilites regulatory system



-30w
(v)  Public Sector Management/Social Safety Net
Reduction in members of civil service staff by about 10,000, developing plans for a
deeper redundancy program to Include measures to soften the hadsi  from
implementation of the plan.
Satisfactory performance on agreed plans to cushion Impact of reorm program on the
most vulnerale.
V. JUSIlFCATION AND RISKS
97.   Ihe Credit is needed to underpin Zambias current economic rerm program and thms to
enhanc the proset of success of critical new iniatives for paratat reform and privatizaton.
Adjustment in Zambia is risky, given Zambia's long history of weakness in program implementation,
the strains of the many years of falling per capita incomes, the perceived low pace of realization of
the benefits of adjustment as a whole, and the difficult chalenge of assuring adequate eteal
resources consistent with the needs of the 1992 finai  plan
98.   Ihe Govenment Is strengtening its cetal coordnaion, monitodng and implementation
revew process through regular coordiaton meedngs and the strengthening of techical and other
steering cmmie. The Government is also mobilizing technical aistace and suport for program
plementation including a four person macoecnmic team. The process of donor coordibnan in
has also Impwved, and the exchange of information between the Government and donors has
been enbanced. Wih regad to extnal resource mobilizaton, the Governit is building on the
experience gained for the clearance of arrears. In additon, the iteratonal community has tesolved
to coninue support of Zmbia's adjustment progrm through an intensive use of the CO proes, and
donor spport is much stronger than previoy.
99.   Zmbia's Governm    is new and its ability to sustain a tough enmic progrm over the
medium term has yet to be demonsated. However, the elecdon mifesto was explicit on the need
for major reforms, budget prudence, and the role of the private sector, and the acos over the frst
few months have been timely and courageus. Ihere is a strong m   demonsrated by the
new Government. Equaly mortant, the public gave the Govenment a very large electord maority,
and is evidently willing to give it time. Successful implementation of te program wiUl call for
frequant supervision and review by the Bank as well as concerted acdons by the Governmnet and the
donor community. Further, the advisory support of privataton, ptal reform and baking
reform is being devolved to the implemting agncies, with the process deigned to creat ownership
within the institons.



-31-
VI. RECOMMENATION
100.  I am sated hat the proposed I)A Credi would comply w}lh the Aricles of Agm ent
of the Associaton and neommend that the Executive Dictor approve the Credit.
Lewis T. Preston
Predden
Washington, D.C.
June 3, 1992



- 32 -
ZAMBIA
PRIVATIATION AND INDUSIRIAL REFORM ADJUSTIEN CREDIT (PIRC)
ANNEXES



33                         OFFICE OF THE MINISTER
- 33 -  S i  X X                 fMINISTRY OF FINANCE
P.O. BOX 50062
LUSAKA
28th May, 1992        ANNEXI(a)
Mr-Edward V. R. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
International Development Association
1818 O" Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. Jaycox:
muA:  PRIVATIZATION mD INDUSTRIAL REVORK ADJUST !)   CREDTT
Letter oi Development Policy
1.       On October 31st 1991, the people of Zambia voted into power a new
Government committed to an open political system, Ln which human rights would be
Protected, and to a free market economy in which private initiative would be
encouraged and rewarded. These principles, and the conviction that Government
should not undertake what the private sector can do at least as well, constitute
the basis of our strateoy for the future; this is described in detail in the
Policy Framework Paper recently agreed with the IMP. In this letter I would like
to elaborate on those aspects that relate in particular to activities and
policies supported under the Economic Recovery Credit (ZRC) and/or those that
form the object of the proposed Privatization and Industrial Reform Adjustment
Credit (PIRC) and to outline the specific measures that we intend to take, over
t*hp next year, in that regard.   The Government of Zambia attaches great
importance to the programme of privatization and parastatal reform being
supported by the PSRC nd is thus committed to the full implementation of all
activities to be suppox d by that Credit.
2.       The Government of ZambLa has already made a determined start to turn
around the economy. As outlined in the 1992 budget, we have reduced sharply
subsidies on maize and removed those on fertilizer.  We have also adjusted
petroleum prices so that they now cover full cost. Zn January 1992 we cleared
outstanding arrears to the World Bank, permitting the resumption of normal
relationships. Since then we have agreed with the IM on the PFP which describes
the strategy and specific courses of action the MMD Government intends to follow
over the 1992-1994 period to stabilize and restructure the economy. This PFP was
endorsed by the IDA Committee of the Whole on March 17 and the IMF Board on
March 19, 1992. In addition, a financing plan to enable Zambia to meet her
import requirements and resume normal relations with the international financial
community was substantLally agreed upon at the meetings of the Consultatlve Group
on Zambia in March thls year. This plan is now being reviewed to take into
account the unprecedented, catastrophic drought that hit Zambia this year wiping



-34 -
on Sambla in March this year. This plan in now beLng reviewed to take into
account the unprecedented, catastrophic drought that hit Zambia this year wiping
out most of the maize crop; we have solicited and been assured of, significant
donor support to close the additional financial gap of about USS300 million
arising from the drought. The proposed IDA credit constitutes a most essential
part of the overall financing plan for Zambia.
3.       We are also elaborating a strategy for restructuring Zambia's external
debt.    In this regard, we hope to reach agreement on a comprehensive
restructuring of Zambia's bilateral debt at a Paris Club meeting for Zambia now
scheduled for July 1992. We have already approached IDA for access to the Debt
Reduction Facility, which we deem critical for helping us mobilize the resources
necessary to resolve the problems of Zambia's medium and long-term commercial
debt.
4.       The Government's strategy to reverse Zambia's economic decline and
restore growth, in the face of the expected decline in copper output and of lower
prices, calls for creation of a private sector framework conducive to investment
and limiting Government's role to the provision of basic infrastructure and
social services, stabilizing financial and fiscal conditions, and encouraging the
provision of most goods and services by the private sector. Key to this strategy
will be the adoption of open markets and of market determined prices as a means
of allocating resources, the privatization of state-owned enterprises which
presently dominate most productive sectors, and the encouragement of foreign
investments and non-traditional exports. With the resulting shift in relative
prices, these measures are expected also to promote growth in more labor-
intensive activities, in particular in agriculture and small-scale enterprises,
so that employment expands relative to GDP.
S.       Our macro-economic targets for the period 1992-1994 are* to (i) achieve
real GDP growth rates of two percent in 1992, three percent in 1993 and four
percent in 1994; thus implying positive real per capita growth by the end of the
period, (i$) bring the (December to December) inflation rate down from about 100
percent in 1991 to 45 percent in 1992, 15 percent in 1993 and five percent in
1994, (iii) move to a balanced budget by 1993, and (iv) expand non-traditional
exports by at least 10-15 percent a year.
6.       A  prerequisite  for  attaining these  objectives  is  to  establish
macro-economic stability. A first priority is to curb inflation and for this
purpose Government is committed to maintain strict monetary and fiscal
discipline. The Bank of Zambia has set targets for broad money (M2) growth in
1992 at 25 percent, well below projected inflation levels. The Government will
use monetary policy instruments, such as changes in liquid asset requirements and
strict limits on Kwacha created through debt swaps, to limit monetary growth.
strict fiscal discipline by Government will ensure increased availability of
credit for the private sector. In addition, Government remains committed to
achieve positive real rates of interest. Recently the interest rate structure
was increased five percentage points; the maximum bank lending rate,- including
upfront fees now corresponds to the rate of inflation targeted for the first
quarter of 1992. Further adjustments may be necessary should inflation exceed
projected levels. To encourage savings, bank deposit rates will also be raised
relative to lending rates; thus in the second half of 1991, reductlons in
(non-interest bearing) reserve requirements were matched by increases in
(interest bearing) liquid asset requirements. rurther such moves will be made
later this year.



-35-
7.       The Government is committed to end recourse to inflationary domestic
borrowing to finance public spending. Thus the primary budget balance (excluding
grants) is targeted to show a deficit of no more than two percent of GDP in 1992
and to move into balance as of 1993. To achieve this, Government will rely on
enhanced revenues generated through (i) a reform of the indirect tax system,
* Details may change after the IMF mission, to reflect the impact of the
drought.
which is expected to raise revenue by about one half-percent of GDP in 1992,
particularly by measures (already taken) to harmonize and unify import and
domestic sales taxation; (ii) a reform of business taxes; we have reduced the
basic company tax rate from 4S percent to 40 percent beginning April 1, 1992 and
offset this by ceasing to allow non-cash fringe benefits as deductible expenses.
In the next budget we intend to reduce the tax rate further, and to compensate
for the loss of revenue by broadening the tax base and speeding up the pace of
collection. Following this, we plan to undertake a detailed examination of the
structure of company tax with a view to implementing further reform; the
objective is to remove distortions in the system by enhancing incentives for
efficiency and increased production, but at the same time maintaining tax
revenues; (iii) adjustment of the level of fees and charges; we aim to raise 0.4
percent of GDP from this source in 1992; and (iv) a concerted effort to boost
revenue from the mining sector, through improved management and rapid divestiture
of loss-making operations, and from parastatals through improvements in operating
efficiency and the application of a strict dividend payout policy.  On the
expenditure side, our target is to cut current non-interest expenditure, as a
percent of GDP, from 16 percent in 1991 to 14 percent in 1994. This fiscal plan
calls for major changes, including the reform of public and parastatal sectors,
devolution of authority to local governments, strict control of expenditures and,
above all, the phased elimination of subsidies. For the first time since 1969,
military expenditures has now come under close scrutiny by Parliament, and we
intend to extend the programme of civil service reform also to the military.
Overall, it is expected that military expenditures should decline in real terms.
Finally, public capital expenditures will be contained to 3.9 per cent of GDP in
1992, with resources concentrated on a core programme of rehabilitating
infrastructure and completion of ongoing projects, set out in the public
investment program. We will not permit public investments outside that core
program.
8.       The new Government moved quickly to liberalize maize and fertilizer
prices so as to improve the structure of incentives to both farmers and
consumers.   We expect that the resulting Improvement in the geographical
dispersion of production and the increased efficiency Ln the growing,
transporting and processing of agricultural crops will boost food security, help
offset the impact on consumers of the phasing out of subsidies and enhance the
efficiency of the agricultural sector. Thus, subsidies on breakfast meal have
already been completely eliminated. On roller meal, Government in late 1991 cut
subsidies by 50 percent; in March 1992, these were further reduced to 30 percent
and completely eliminated in early May. However, because of the impact of this
year's unprecedented drought, Government is introducing two sets of short-term
subsidies. The first, to expire by September this year, consists of measures to
phase in the *into-milln price of imported yellow maize to about the level that
would have prevailed without the drought, and of production bonuses on locally'



- 36 -
produced maize; this will have the effect of meeting promises to farmers, but at
the same time keeping the hinto-millw price of local maize in line with that for
imported maize. It is anticipated that the transport subsidies will have largely
expired by end September. The second set of measures, to expire by May 1993,
consists of poverty-focussed actions to support those hardest hit by the drought
through distribution of half-price and free maize through non-governmental
channels, and through a 15 percent subsidy on maize supplied to hammermills.
The Government has also eliminated all fertilizer subsidies. The distribution
and marketing of maize and fertilizers are now fully open to private traders and
Government is promoting more widespread use of hammermills to increase
competition in the milling industry. Ulcimately, the combined effect of these
measures should be increased competition and efficiency in the sector and
enhanced food security.
9.       The most vital aspect of the Government's macro economic strategy is the
expansion of non-traditional exports by at least 10-15 percent per year over the
next decade. To attain this objective we plan to continue liberalization of the
exchange and trade regimes to provide the necessary profit incentives for
exporters, rationalize the demand for imports, promote the efficient allocation
of scarce foreign exchange and improve incentives for private foreign and local
Investment in Zambia. Thus, on January 31st 1992, the kwacha was devalued by 30
percent. The Government's objective is to shift the open general license system
(-OL) to a negative list system as soon as possible, and to widen coverage of the
OGL, from about 90 percent to at least 95 percent of base-period imports. Our
aim is to achieve a common negative list at about 95 percent coverage for the OGL
and export retention scheme by late 1992, when we should have overcome the
current extreme pressure on our foreign exchange reserves. The Government will
manage the exchange rate in order to maintain a balance between supply and demand
for foreign exchange. With the realignment of the exchange rate we can now make
further progress on tariff reforml we have thus started an indepth study with the
object of formulating a strategy and timetable for phasing in tariff reductions
particularly for those items presently at the 30 and 50 percent levels. Our aim
is to reduce the level of protection offered by these tariff levels; however the
speed of doing so will depend on the revenue implications and the short term
impact on the companies affected. We expect the tariff study to be completed by
late 1992.  We anticipate that by mid 1993 all tariffs presently at the 50
percent level would be reduced to not more than 40 percent. The loss of revenues
would if necessary be made up by excise duties. The resulting strengthening of
the competitiveness of our business environment will be supported by specific
measures to promote exports including, elimination of barriers to exports,
improving the present duty drawback system and the establishment of a
bonded-warehouse scheme.  Government also intends to take steps to improve
infrastructure for tourism and to promote foreign investment. The normalization
of relations with external creditors should also help to improve the investment
climate and restore access to trade credit.
10.      Besides establishing a stable macroeconomic environment, the Government
believes that restoring long term growth requires raising the savings and
investment rates, improving efficiency and fundamentally restructuring the
economy to reduce the heavy dependence on copper.   In the view of the
Government, the engine of growth must be private initiative, guided by market
lncentives. Thus our pollcy will be directed towards creating an environment in
which initiative, entrepreneurship and effort can thrive. Considerable progress



- 37 -
has already been achieved in liberalizing the economy and improving incentives
for growth and restructuring; but many barriers to free enterprise still remain
in the regulatory and administrative framework governing the conduct of business
in Zabia. The Government is determined to create an enabling environment within
which the private sector can prosper. Already an Investment Act (1991) offering
improved incentives to both domestic and foreign investora is being implemented.
The Investment Center, and the Investment Board to implement the Act, have
already been established and are functioning satisfactorily. The process of
approvals for new investments has also been improved to cut red tape. Guidelines
to help investors to understand Zambia's regulations will be published shortly.
A review of business-related laws has already been initiated, and the reforms
have been prioritized. Government intends to bring such revised legislation
before Parliament in the course of 1992 and early 1993. First priority will be
those laws deemed essential for the success of the privatization program. These
include the quick enactment of key parts of a modernized company law to provide
the basis for a modern business sector together with amendments to the banking
laws and Stock Exchange Act.  The revised company law will provide for a
simplified procedure for selling shares to the public. Other priorities include
competition laws to forestall the emergence of private monopolies as the
extensive network of public monopolies is dismantled through the privatization
process.
11.     The main element of the Government's private sector development
initiative is the broad programme of privatization that is now under way and
which will lead to a more competitive business climate.  Our privatization
strategy L in place and we plan to present to Parliament for approval in June
1992, a privatization bill to give legal effect to the Government's programme of
privatization. We have taken steps to strengthen our privatization team to
ensure that the programme can be implemented on schedule. With assistance from
Germany, we are working intensively to get 15 companies ready for privatization
in the early rounds. Once the Privatization Bill is enacted, we expect other
donor support in this area, In particular the United States has offered
assistance with the first 18 companies. Assistance is also expected from Norad,
ODA and UNDP.  Company managers will help to prepare their companies for sale;
special emphasis will be given to making the companies profitable, and in this
respect all companies on the privatization list have been granted managerial
autonomy (covering pricing, staffing, operations, borrowing and other areas)
subject to overriding Government policy directions on dividend policy,
prohibition of diversification and of new investment. Government's intention is
to move as quickly as possible to complete the sale of a first batch of ten
companies. Our target is to achieve this by the end of this year. rurther
actions to prepare an additional 10 companies, for offer for sale in the fourth
quarter of 1992, are also progressing well. This would bring the total turnover
of companies offered for sale to roughly 10 percent of that for the total
privatization program.  Our objective is to privatize as many of these as
possible by the end of June 1993.
12.      The Government expects that most parastatals (except for public
utilities) will be privatized in the course of the next five years, with priority
being given to maize mills expropriated in 1986. This major programme has been
thoroughly prepared. Our strategy is well articulated, our emphasis will clearly
be on using the privatization process to foster competition, and to encourage a,
high level of Zambian participation. The companies have all been subject to'



- 38 -
initial review. we are also preparing an action plan, including redeployment and
retraining, to mitigate the effect of the redundancies that are expected to
result from the program.  To ensure smooth operation of the program, the
institutional machinery and capacity of the government to implement the programme
is being strengthened. The Government places utmost importance on ensuring that
the privatization process is conducted in a fair and transparent manner ir all
its aspects.   For this purpose, responsibility for privatization has been
transferred to the Ministry of Commerce, Trade and Industry from the main
parastatal holding company, LTXCO. The new Privatization Bill spells out in more
detail the machinery and procedures for the privatization program.
13.      Acknowledging the fact that the copper industry will for a long time
continue to remain the mainstay of Zambia's economy, the new government has
already embarked on a restructuring programme of ZCCM. So far the position of
Chairman has been delinked from that of Chief Executive.   All non-mining
activities are being hived-off. To increase profitability, ZCCM is continuously
reducing spending on personnel and has put in place improved procurement and
inventory procedures. The Government is currently looking at the privatization
of ZCCZ. The approach to privatization established for the parastatal sector
will in principle apply to ZCCM, however, the issues faced are far more complex
than for other privatizations because of the size and importance of ZCCM and the
impact of ZCC)  on employment in particular areas.   In this regard, the
exploitation of new ore bodies at Ronkola, Nkana and Chambeshi will be undertaken
in conjunction with private investors, foreign as well as local. Future strategy
for the copper sector will continue to emphasize the development of new ores
through joint ventures and encouragement of new private sector investment.
14.      Government, with the assistance of IDA, has conducted a review of the
future role and organization of ZIMCO which resulted in recommendations for major
structural changes in the institution. Government intends to implement these
during 1992 and early 1993; thus ZIMCO and its sub-holding companies will be
consolidated into a single and much smaller (in size of employees and supervisory
functions) investment/holding company, responsible for the trusteeship of the
government's equity in those companies which cannot be privatized immediately.
The NIEC and National Hotel holding companies will be wound down by the end of
this year. The INDECO sub-holding company will be dismantled early in 1993. The
new Z)CO will play a much reduced role in the day-to-day management of
subsidiary companies in contrast to previous practices.   A separate new
secretariat will be responsible for regulating the public utilities that will
stay in public hands. ZCCM's metal mining activities will be spun-off from ZIZCO
and made into a separate business.
1S.      Government will ensure that public utilities (such as Sesco, Zambia
Railways and PTC) are free of political interference in their management and that
they will not receive any governmental subventions.   To ensure that these
companies become financially viable under the liberalized framework, we have
instructed them to undertake an immediate review of their financial condition
and, if need be they will increase prices. All of the public utilities will
undertake a formal asset revaluation to ensure that their depreciation provisions
are realistic. Concurrently, we plan to develop an automatic price adjustment
mechanism and to instltute a regulatory framework to review annually the
appropriate level of prices on the basis of agreed criterLa. We expect the major.
enterprises (such as Zesco, ZR and PTC, plus ZA) to embark, during 1992, on major



- 39 -
institutional studies, and in parall.l to develop performance taxgets to measure
the quality of their services.   Sce of the smaller public utilities,
particularly Zimoil, Tazama and Indeni, have prepared business plans that map out
a strategy, objectives and performance targets for the next five years. These
plans, which will be updated at least annually, will guide these businesses'
future operations to ensure gustained profitability. Government has already
introduced competition in segments of the public utilities where private
competition is feasible e.g. private sector buses, air charters, air cargo
services, and private "ctor cellular phones. This process will continue. We
also plan to remove the present Simoil monopoly on the import of petroleum, and
to permit the private sector to export petroloum derived from feedstock that they
have imported. ZSimoll will be incorporated as a limited liabilIty company.
16.      It is Government policy that, for most of the parastatals to be
privatized, rehabilitation investments should be left to future owners.
Consequently, other than for critical rehabilitation and routine renewals, no new
investments in parastatals will be made unless pay-back can be achieved prior to
sale. No new parastatals will be created, except as necessary to facilitate
privatization. Also, Government has suspended guarantees on loans to companies
to be privatized and envisages divestiture (or closure where necessary) of
loss-making parastatals. Government will hold managment fully responsible for
performance of their companies and expect them to operate profitably both through
improved operations and necessary price increases. Finally, the Government
intends to extend its review of parastatals to the non-Zimco public enterprises
to ensure that they too are brought under the same policies and regulatory
framework (including privatization), and meet the same performance standard.,
as other commercialised public enterprises.
17.     The Government recognizes the need for a sound banking system and a
deeper and more vibrant domestic capital market to support the privatization
program. Thus, 'we intend to revise shortly the Bank of Zambia Act to give the
Central Bank greater powers of prudential control and supervision over all
lending institutions.   At the same time, we have secured outside technical
assistance to help the Bank of 2ambia strengthen its capacity to accomplish the
increased responsibility in this area and improve its tools for indirect monetary
management and control. This will be essential not only for better economic
management, but also for the development of an interbank money market that is the
prerequisite for term transformation to take place, and consequently of the
future ability of the banking system to meet the investment term needs of the
private sector, including of newly privatized companles. With regard to the
development of the capital market, the new privatisation law provides for wider
trading in shares to facilitate the privatization program. The Stock Exchange
Act and the Banking Laws are being revised so that a simple stock exchange can
start operations by early 1993 and a broad range of financial institutions,
including comcrciaL banks, can sell shares to the public. This measure will
make it easier to reach small lavestors throughout the country. In the meantime,
the Government is encouraging greater competition in the provision of financial
services and is in the process of abolishing the state monopolies in insurance,
reinsurance, pension funds and building societies.   This process will be
completed in 1993.
18.      The Government acknowledges that the public service has too many.
unskilled employees at the bottom and too few professional staff at the top, and



- 40 -
that this lopsided public service has become too large, beyond the means
available for it to operate effectively and efficiently. The Government has
therefore embarked on a programme of civil service reform (as part of the
previous ERC) designed to motivate and retain key personnel in managerial and
technical fields, while reducing the size of the service.   An exercise to
Ldentify areas for retrenchment has been completed. We now have underway the
formulation of appropriate compensation, early retirement and retrenchment
procedures. We have started reduclag identified surplus staff, and have removed
known ghost workers from the public payroll. our strategy is to begin staff
retrenchment with the low priority sectors and functions of the Government. Our
target is to reduce the number of the Government employees by 10,000 by early
1993, and by a further 10,000 by end-1993. Further, the Government intends to
abolish or restructure those departments whose mandates are not consistent with
the private sector orientation of this Government. In line with this policy, the
Government has already abolished the Prices and Incomes Commission, the Price
Control Department of the Ministry of Commerce, Trade and Industry, and the
UNESCO Commission. Government plans to contract out the provision of services
(and encourage it at the local government level) to the private sector wherever
appropriate.
19.     The Government is aware that this exercise will cause hardships to the
affected staff in the short term and has therefore agreed on a package of
measures to ease the transition from public employment to self or private
employment.   In addition to termination benefits, the Government, with the
assistance of donors, has made arrangements for retraining of affected staff.
We will enhance the capacity of institutions to provide seed capital and loans
funds to those staff who want to start new small scale enterprises. We have also
strengthened the social safety net through the maize subsidies to shield the poor
from the full impact of the drought (already referred to). In addition, we have
allocated Xl billion to provide income support to the absolute poor, and have
invited NGO's to be represented on the District Welfare Committees that will be
administering these funds. We also have a KSOO million programme of labor-
intensive public works that will at the same time provide increased purchasing
power to low-income households. We are putting renewed emphasis on strengthening
the delivery of service in the fields of primary education and primary health
care, which have a strong impact on the standard of living of the poorest
households. And we have set up a poverty monitoring system to help design
poverty reduction measures with the assistance of the donor community. These
measures will be in addition to the Government's ongoing Social Action Programme
initiated under the previous Economic Recovery Credit.
20.     The Government views the development of small-scale enterprises (SSE)
as key to the creation of sustainable employment opportunities. However, the SSE
sector suffers from excessive regulation, lack of access to credit and weak
institutional support arrangements. To address these problems, the Government
has already moved to reduce the bureaucratic bottlenecks facing SSEs.  The
requirement to advertise proposed establishment of new businesses has now been
dropped.. A review of the support measures for SSEs will be undertaken in the
course of 1992, and a plan of action to respond to the identified needs for
support to SSJ will be finalized before the end of the year. The aim is to put
into place a viable sot of policies, in the 1993 budget, and a technical
assistance programme to ensure a thriving SSE sector.



- 41 -
21.      The new liberalized exchange regime and open trade policies provide the
necessary incentives for the development of non-traditional exports. However,
the weak institutional framework for export promotion, quality control and prompt
marketing--so essential in this highly competitive field--continues to hamper
export growth. Government is therefore conducting a review of the Export Board
of Zambia to determine what institutional changes are necessary to render it more
effective. The results of this review will be discussed and agreed with IDA and
appropriate follow-up measures would be taken promptly. Other measures, related
to the development of the institutional framework to support export growth, such
as strengthening the system of quality control, are also under active
consideration.
22.      Government is taking a number of steps to improve its capacity to
implement the economic adjustment program.  We have set up a coordinating
interministerial committee for reviewing the various, different but related, laws
that need to be revised to create a better enabling environment for the private
sector and that are necessary for the privatization programme to succeed. We
also plan to strengthen the Economic Analysis and Reports Unit to enable it to
analyze, monitor, coordinate and integrate the implementation of the adjustment
programme (including of all activities related to the PIRC) and to coordinate the
steering committees working on economic issues. However Government is aware that
it needs considerable support in all these areas and we are calling therefore on
the international donor community for assistance.  Consultancy and Advisory
Services will be required in four main areas, (i) Macroeconomic Management; (ii)
Privatization; (iii) Parastatal Reform; and (iv) Private Sector Development
(including law reform). We deem IDA's assistance particularly important; the
extensive support of IDA in elaborating the comprehensive programme of economic
adjustment, and especially of the privatization and parastatal reform elements,
makes it critical that it retains its leading role In assisting us in programme
implementation.   Thus we look to IDA to fund, out of a TA Credit we have
requested, not only the detailed assistance that is not the subject of grant
donor funding, but more importantly the expertise needed to strengthen the
Economic Analysis and Reports Unit to perform its coordinating task regarding the
overall programme and especially to ensure that there is no duplication or
overlap (of function or donor assistance), and no gaps.



- 42 -
23.     Finally, let - reiterate that we ars confident the lmplmentation of
the measures and actions we have outlined above will sere us well Ln our efforts
to turn around the SambLan economy. This Government is comittsd to ensuring
that the targets we have net ourselves are net oan a timly basis; and
particularly with the cooperation of donors,  I a  certain that wv  shall
accomplih our goals. The proposed IDA Credit will go a long way in not only
meeting our financial needs in this exceptionally dLfficult year of drought, but
even more importantly, advancing our prograsue of structural seform. We look
forward to continued support from IDA in tho months ahead.
Yours sincerely,
Emmanuel 0. Rasa      P.
Minister of Finance



OFFIC.  OF THE MINISTER
-43 -MrNTRY OF FINANCE
43 -                          P.O. BOX S2
LUSAKA
ANNEX I )
26th May, 1992
Mr. Edward V. K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
WASHINGTON D.C. 20433
re:  ZAMBIA:  PRIVATIZATION AND INDUSTRIAL REFORM ADJUSTMENT
CREDIT
Dear Mr. Jacox
With reference to Schedules 3 and 4 to the Development Credit
Agreement of even date herewith the Republic of Zambia and the
International Development Association (the Association) for
the above referenced Project, we would like to confirm herein
the undertakings. of the Republic of Zambia to the privatiza-
tion programme as outlined in the Letter of Development Policy
dated 26th May, 1992 (the Programme). While efforts will be
made by the Government of the Republic of Zambia (the Government)
to maximize the price it can secure for each company offered for
sale, the Government's primary objective is to proceed as rapidly
as possible with the privatization programme so as to reduce the
Government's role in the economy as corrsistent with our overall
economic policies as spelled out in the Programme. Specifically,
we hereby affirm as follows:-
(1)   Steps for Privatization
With reference to paragraph 3 of Schedule 3 and paragraph
8 of Schedule 4 to tne Development credlt Agreement, tne
Government w`il, as a condition for release of second and
third tranche respectively, comolete all steps-within its
control to achieve the ob .1ect-ive of' p rivati: noL about
twenty  overnment-ownea companies (ten companies for each
tranche). This means that the Government will furnish to
the Association evidence showing that the following
measures have been completed:
(a)   Sale by Competitive Bidding
(i)   valuation of the companies has been completed,
(ii)   company dossieres have been prepared,
(iii)   advertisement for sale has been made in the
media.



- 44 -
(iv)   offers for sale for these companies
have been made,
(v)   depending on response to the offers,
a short list of bidders has been
compiled,
(vi)   an evaluation of the bids completed,  and
(vii)   the successful bidders have been invited
to negotiate,   and
(viii)   good faith negotiations for best or most
qualified evaluated bidders responding
promptly to the invitation to negotiate
have begun.
(b)        Negotiated Sales
For companies in which shareholders have
preemptive rights, the Government will invite
such shareholders to exercise their rights in
accordance with the Articles of Association
and the Privatization Act.
(c)      Public Flotation
For companies subject to public flotation, the
Government will produce evidence that it has
completed a valuation of the companies, prle-
pared and issued the prospectuses and through
newspapers and other announcements have invited
individuals and companies to apply for an allo-
cation of shares.
2.          Offer for Sale
With reference to paragraph 4 of the Schedule 3 to the
Development Credit Agreement, the 5overnment will, as
a condition for the release of the second tranche,
offer for sale the next group of companies (including
larger and significant companies) whose turnover, when
combined with the ten companies offered for privatiza-
tion under the first tranche as specified in paragraph
(a) above, willroughly be equivalent to 10% of the total
turnover of companies to be privatized under the Pro-
gramme. The following criteria will be applied in ful-
filling this requirement:
(a)    The Government's Privatization Agency shall
ensure that to the extent possible, all prepa-
ratory steps for privatization have been comp-
leted for each company and that such company
is ready for sale.
3/ :



- 45 -
(b)        Sale by Competitive Bidding
Offers for sale will be made by advertisement
in appropriate newspapers. For highly specia-
lized enterprises where sector-specific
investors and/or foreign investors are targe-
ted, advertisement will also be made in inter-
national financial and technical Journals. In
addition, announcements will be made to foreign
embassies. The advertisement will contain,
inter-alia, an invitation for individuals and
companies to express their interest, and an
invitation to apply for the Letter of Confide-
ntiality and an Information Memorandum.
(c)       The documents to be provided to individuals
and companies responding to the offers for
sale will provide clear instructions to pote-
ntial investors on how and whom they should
contact for submitting proposals and will
allow adequate time for investors to prepare
their proposals and provide opportunity for
them to visit the enterprise.
(d)       Direct Sales
For companies in which shareholders have
preemptive rights, offer for sale will take
place when the Government has invited such
shareholders to exercise their rights in
accordance with the Articles of Association
and the Privatization Act.
(e)      Public Flotation
For companies subject to public flotation,
offer for sale will take place when the Govern-
ment, after valuation and preparation of pros-
pectuses has, through newspapers and other
means, informed individuals and companies of
the date on which they can apply for an allo-
cation of shares.
(f)      Non-viable Enterprises
Sale of assets, liquidation or closing down
of non-viable and potentiallu non-viable enter-
prises will also constitute offer for sale for
companies.
Yours Sincer
Emmanuel 6. Kasonde
MINISTER 0  FINANCE
/fjk



OFFICE OF THE MINISTER
- 46 -                      MINiSTRY OF FNANCE
P.O. BOX 502
LUSAKA
ANNEX  (c)
26th May, 1992
Mr. Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional President
Africa
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
WASHINGTON D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. Jaycox,
re: ZAMBIA: PRIVATIZATION AND INDUSTRIAL REFORM ADJUSTMENT
CREDIT
With reference to Schedules 3 and 4 to the Development Credit
Agreement of even date herewith between the Republic of Zambia
and the International Development Association (the Association)
requiring the Government of the Republic of Zambia (the Govern-
ment) to implement measures to protect the vulnerable groups,
we would like to explain the measures that the Government will
undertake in fulfillment of the provisions of the Development
Credit Agreement (including those temporary measures to deal
with the drought) as follows:
1.    Drought Relief
To assist very poor households to obtain their basic food
supplies given the current drought, up to 75,000 tonnes
of maize will be distributed to severely drought affected
households free of charge. Another 75,000 tonnes will be
provided at half price, whilst about 180,000 tonnes will
be provided at 15 per cent subsidy for milling at a 100 per cen
extraction rate for low income urban households. The cri-
teria for receiving these benefits will be clearly speci-
fic and agreed with the Association.
2.    Social Welfare
The Government has allocated K1.0 billion of its own
resources in the 1992 budget to provide income support
of the Indigent (absolute poor) either in cash or in kind.
These funds will be administered by District Welfare
Committees, which include representatives of NGOs active
2/. *



_                        ..47                          ,
in the field of social welfare in the district
concerned. The Government will disburse, according
to the agreed criteria, not less than K500 million
by September 30, 1992 and not less than Kl.0 billion
cumulative by December 31, 1992 on this programme.
3.        Labour Intensive Public Works
In order to provide increased purchasing power to low
income households and at the same time improve the
much needed social and economic infrastructure, the
Government has initiated a Labour Intensive Public
Works Programme with a budget allocation from its own
resources of KSOO million for 1992.  The Government
will disburse in a responsible manner (targeted on
high priority social and economic infrastructure emplo-
ying low income labour) not less than K250 million by
September 30, 1992 and not less than K500 million cumu-
lative by December 31, 1992 on this programme. The
Government will also do everything in its power to
accelerate disbursements under the donor-funded Social
Recovery Project and related projects.
4.        Assistance to Retrenched Employees
In addition to the severance packages to be provided
to retrenched employees in both the civil service and
parastatals under the Civil Service Reform and Priva-
tization elements of the reform programme respectively,
the Government will establish retrenchment guidance
centres at the Cabinet Office and ZIMCO. These centres
will:
(i)   coordinate the training of retrenched staff by
existing  institutions such as SIO and VIS,
(ii)   make arrangements for the provision of assis-
tance to such staff in obtaining access/title
to land, business permits, and provide infor-
mation for the establishment and operation of
of business and agricultural enterprises, and
(iii)   provide counselling to such staff in new oppor-
tunities and challenges following retrenchment.
To finalize the establishment of these units, a task
force will be established under the Cabinet Office
whose recommendations (acceptable to IDA) will be put
into effect no later than July 15, 1992.
3/ ..........



_  48 -
5.      Strengthening of Social Sector Service Delivery
The Government will continue its programmes to streng-
then service delivery in the fields of primary educa-
tion and primary health care, which have a strong
impact on the real standard of living of the poorest
households. The shares of these sectors in the 1993
budget will grow significantly, as savings are made
in other areas, e.g. military spending and parastatal
subsidies. Moreover, the Government will embark upon
comprehensive reforms in both health and education for
which it will be seeking the support of the donor commu-
nity.
6.      Poverty Monitoring
The Government has already set up a poverty monitoring
system and programme of studies to help design poverty
reduction measures with the assistance of the donor
community. The Priority Survey and five other studies
will be completed by December 31, 1992.
With the full and expeditious implementation of the measures,
the Government intends to mitigate most of any negative effects
on vulnerable and low income households arising from the econo-
mic reform programme and the current drought.
Yours Sincerely,
Emmanuel G.   sonde
MINISTER OF FINANCE
/fjk



ZAMBIA
PtIvtIrto  and lndusrial Rorm Adjusent Credit
Fdoy Matri
OBIECTlV                   BACKGROUND,    IRC PROGRAM                                 PiRC PROGRAM                  TIMING
TARGKII + PRMRMANCH
Remove iapprite                      prcig          Rm    maze related subsidies      Elimination of maize meal   May 1992
controls on pr       and     es have disod          ascording to time table and align    subsidies bae been excep
Wm         Inente In    Ienivesu          and      producer an coumer pries of   for transitgonal drugh-
aiu lu  to prov         prdcto ptns. esp.           mize and fertiizer to border      reated and povertycussed
food soeity ad          subsidies o maie and        prc. Decontrol consumer           subsidies.
pmote an                fert8i .                    pies of maize meal, lberalize
I_ternationally                                     producer prices of maize and
mp"t     agri Ad frtlizers and allow private seor
sector.                                             trading in maze. (Actio  already   Implementon of             March 1992
iniialed).                       lberalizon of   ilizer
pices to de imte all
Remov  of eady podtio    2nd. Transbe
bown on loca maie, ad
increase in prce of Impt
ydow maize to $16.W2Oa.
Final eliminaidon of maize  3rd. Tral ke
mad subskle.
4sI- :'mzu



ZAMBIA
Prlvaao and  Indamtrl lRoa Adjstmet Credit
Poliy Matrix
OBRECMVI                 BACKGROUND              IRC PROGRAM                     PIRC PMOGRAM                  TIMING
TARGETS + PEIRFORMANCE _
Forelpa xaP                Provideforeign exchange for      Trafer of OUL to negative   2nd. Tranche
Is dls i tortlona    impots through OGL at market    list.
a a rsult of op Drto of    exchange rae by 12/91.
se l freig echnge          (xchange rate ot ldose to
sdime.                     mar*et lyd).                     Reduction In dtose tariffs  3rd. Tranche
now i the 50% band.
Aiteugh mai tariff issh    Maximum duty lowered from        Strategy/timetable for tariff
ae been addresed, there    100% to 50%, except luxuries.    reduction, following
ar  eral ares for          Tariffs cmressed. Minimum        competion of study.
smpilfcado and aoidace   duty of 15%. Ext  bans                                                                o
of           peonts.       roducead to 4.
Harmonization of sales tax.    1992 Budget
Itest  ts ae negatve i   RatIonaize intee re stre.
rea tn.                                                     Ineras in nominal ineest   1992 Budget
rates coupJed wih lowring
of i0nfKla
Iuct1   o of next stage in   3rd. Tranche
refom of busiess tuation,
coveing broadening the tax
base, lowweig te   rate
and speding up tbe pace of
511192



ZAMBIA
Prlvatizatlio and Industrial Reform Adjsant Credt
IIkcy Matri
OBIEVflVU               BACKGROUND               EiC PROGRAM                     PIRC PROGRAM                  TIMING
TARGKM  + PERFDRMANCIE
11. Privae Seeer
Prvis  of an           Zambias laws are out-dated   Adopt invesm    laws. Publish    Timeale for refom of      May 1992
ambing aronme          and nio conducive for a     policy statnt on role of private  businessrated laws.
for pivate sect"r        m     economy.            secto. (Investment law adopted
development.                                       7191).                           Adoption of anti-ust laws.   3rd. Trance
Parimenay enactent of    3rd. Traoche
business-related laws.
Issue stamt on policy
towad prvat sector and
Ime hivestmet gWidei.   Ead 1992
Satisfactory streamined
operation of Invse
Center.                    3rd. Trancke
Isiultiond measus for
deveopment of Stock
Exdhnge.                   End 1992
c:\wp51WdocUxnmO9mX2-l1.t1b
4/28192



ZAMBIA
Pbvatlatkn and Industa Rerm Adcedit
PoIc Matrix
ORIECflVB                 BACKGROUND               IRC PROGRAM                       PIRC PROGRAM                  TIUING
TARGI  + PECRMANC _
Reform for legal fmework   3rd. Trench
for effective Can"l  ank
Review performance of       Commence in 19
Epr Board.
Issue guidelines for trading    3rd. Tranche
of equiy shar and money
market/captal maet Fk
Devedlpent of small    Sector sffrom                 Reduc   i   licensIng rguati.  Address support needs of        End 1992
scale sector as means of   xessive ruation, lack of  CMSg requment to adve            small scae sector and
mawilg _dupen           acess to cit, m    sill   proposed esta hmen  of nw           propose action plan.
of _UM1101610           d_ ^                         bmhess (edmdking re -keme
01%doYment                                           amw dropped).
., _



ZAMBIA
Plvtatlon and Industrial Rdorm Adjustment Credit
PoiyMatrix
-~~r 
OBIBCfIVVS               BACKGROUND              ERC PROGRAM                      PIRC PROGRAM                  TIMING
TARGE18 + PERFORMANCE
m. NlvoUtim
Afte 25 yas of puing    Offer at leg six fifs for sale by   Adopt oveall privtization    May 1992
Enhan  compeion        dam   gh pub                June 30;1991. (Actiom already    pln and stategy, shWing
and efficey.                                                                        sale candidat, timetable
Waft  le ammo to                                            and core public copanies.
.mgh do pivde 980K.                                          Enactmen of Pvazadon        Effecdveness
To  l end it band to                                        law.
-pvt sz state owned
enterprises.                                                All steps neessr by          2nd. Trawhe
Govemnt for p        *azton
GRZ intnds to star                                          of first ten cmpies.
privatilon in mid-199l.                                      Review of progres in
bn _ati  Sfor ale of a      2nd. Trach
frder te cgompanies a
mbinmm, epresentng on
cuuultlv bank about 10%
of .muve.
I_~~~Of                 3rt. T1dk
hdodig ag op8 _oy
by OnuMfor
divesttur of fiurdi
compns rpreseting
cunwae baos about 10%
of umer of ecompaies to
be sold. Review of
progsestnacturing of
*C:1 Ip5 lEdoc_Y! .lbl -                                                                 p4IgUIY



ZAMBiA
Privatiaton and IndLstial Rethm  Adjustment Credit
Polic Matrix
-Bjecrwn Ii*BACKGROUND                           ERC PROGRAM                     PIRC ROGRAM                   TIMING
TARGKIS + PERFORMANCE                                _
Have in place agreed action    3rd. Tranche
plan fot assting redundant
staff.
Stategic decisions on:     May Im
(i) emphasis on competition;
(ii) pre-divestiture capital
expendi re;
(.ii) amendme  to Stock                         U
Excbsge Law;
(lv) closure of loss-makers;
(v) no new
Training progm  for        Mid 1992
prfatk*inm staff.
c:Awp51doczm89%mtx3-2.tbl
4128192



ZAMBIA
Ptivatatlon and Indusral Reorm Adjutment Credt
ftk Mdt
3BJUCTI BSACKGROUND                               ERC PROGRAM                      PIRC PROGRAM                   TOMNG
TARGKIS + PERFORMANCE
IV. F1aat
rve efficecy and   For ths Introes         did hease pata  autonomy and    Establish managa                       May 1992
reduce drai on budge    wI remain hI di public      reduce subsidies. (Decisio       autonomy of key pubik        (managel
by adoptn bter          sector, dhe GRZ wi adopt    anunced).                        utilities, indluding rewmova  autonomy/subsIdI)
maagement technIu       maemenit tchoniq   tht                                       of roudne subsidies and      3rd. Trancde (Pr
for puc enepis,          il ensure hat dtey operate   Begnstudy on rdatiohip         isiutin of price             mehansm)
ddicshady and for the public  bke  ZIMCO and hts             adjusent me im.m
go                          sbsidiarie (Phs  1).
completed).          Prepa  businm plan  r       May 9m
four core public entepise.
Be Sies onk Post 9nd
.  ctriciy,   GrM autonomy to              May 1992
Nways, ad  _gncopW.    Pastal.
(Planeod for CY92).
invite proposals for tdy of 14   Establishmet of regulatory    3rd. Trae
Immerew parastatals.             system for utibties.
(A J aee    to iiate dee
actionbshave largely bee         Study of 15 commercial      Star mid 1992
comleted).                 ,     parastatals.
c:%wpSlWoczamO9%mtx4-1 .tbl
4128/92



ZAMIA
r~lvadiam and I _dW   bRkm A4usbmu  Croft
PfT Mat&
OSecTIv               UICICGROIIU          RERC PROGRAM                   PRC PRORAM                 TIMIN
TARGES + PUtfOAMC
ZIMCO to aopt mob"       2nd. Tranche
an reulrmct.d.g
ZIO to hae abOld         3rd. Trafth.
Ito hveshnfued balIn
Z_S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Blslwumof                Mid 1993 
prvleg. inancil sector.  for hi_name
Odaentob
EhIbYd in 1992.
f.ean aPoa plan for nr..  3rd. Tandl
c:%wpSlSdoc_zm89Wa4-2.Ib
4/28/2 8M



1~~~~1 Illx,l|}0ta
j rtglg1111!  1
|I ..
lI i            U    FlE}     
g  14X| W3 t {  lI
....!         ;   
I            . 1



ZAMBIA
Privatli    and Indurial Rderm AdjU _tm   Credit
Pokry Matrix
ORIBcTIVI BACKGROUND                             MIC PROGRAM                     PIRC PROGRAM                  TIWING
TARGW' + PERFORMANCE
Enudha public          b pr1_u yas the             Mak au public inestme            Adoptbo of policy on       Mid 1992
hwes n noare           puma  sough to inwst   cosistent wh Pubc Istment   resrcti  ivestment to dta
n la.,ih            Qin unecesay pojec           P     m (enerally complied).    included in Public
t    GouveAmt out   .PDlhca  rao.                                                   Inv.emn Prgrm.
of doprovisionOf
progra  I well
Measue to aCst the    MoalI meOl coupon sme   Cou    sceme aod Social Action   Dev          e  of mWproved     May 1992               c
poor durig dth ref     had to be wtdra   becu     Progm.                            scia action pan.
PogmU.                 of mIsdn of benofit.                                         S            m          In  2ad. Tw
plandma    Inl_          3vd. Tr=he
c:42 pS1oM2.1bl
4J2U9Q2



59 -                                AEX It
Page 1 of 5
S3. 1. 3ast  le  bilases  196-
199  1t~~~~11          1"       Is
.   .     ~     ~      ' .
(Th mu.t ohm.)
Ut                                       -1.0      -0.5     -1.6      3.0      3.0       4.0
4a. WMl*1t6 lUt                           -1.7      -0.7     -0.7      31.      3.1       4.1
ReaL pet       ofptta Ut                  -4.4      -3.9     -5.1     -1.4     -0.5       0.5
R*%j     * o p       p0                             -3.0     -3.6     -4.9      -5.6      0.3
7sms QC Sraud I/9.                                  -1.1     -7.3     -6.6      -69#    -3.6
Cinema      ss Cmi )d                              I OS      9A.0    45.0      3 ss.5     .
&*MM VOlI                                  3.1      6.6    *17.4       7.6      4.0       3.5
Coeea                                      .4      3.0    -14.      '.1        3.2      3.3
Nened"es,                               _14.9     V.9    -27.1      39.3      S2.S      * 
Isom VOUIDS v                              *.4      15.9    -1.5      11.3      -3.1      1.S
ReL *ueaw  gte (dspae"ata                  32.3    -16.4     -9.9      ...
MM" s317 (aS)                             4S.3      45.6     96.1     2s.0      1.0       5.o
Oase dowest. saata                        13.7      16.6    12.0      32.6      14.0     14.5
ftoss Ustleal eew8s 3/                     6.0      13.6     15.3     1.2       15.9     15.3
Caseal _eams                             -4.9     -1.8      1.2      5.3       3.1      3. 
an"                                      1.       154.    14.1       3.0    13.9       11.4
1uqttd tsmaa nd Oa"
fees". memo 3/                          -7.7      -3.6      6.        .6       2.9      0.7
4uee dmewlea Setoemst                      9.9      17.3     U.5      19.5      20.0     0.S
CGRIn5a  GwesomS                          4.7      5.4      7.3      4.9       4.5      4.?
Smegememe m l5.3                                  1.*       6.2      14.6     1.5      15.6
CMSWttm                                    66".3    9.4      6.6      69.4       6.      65.S
C  sl0smein                              14.1     U.1      0.        38.5     18.      10.9
New                                      72.2     72.3     77.?      7.6      n.7      74.7
_saL maint asamt IV              y4.0               - .3.     1.      -1.3      -3.1     -5.3
l" egeteg                               18.6      16.9    U3.7      1.6       9.       9. 1
_emet  ue~                              -..0    -.2 -6 .      0 1.  -3.1    .15.       1
Gefveanmt dswemeleuwe                      17.1     17.6     17.6     37.5      17.7     18.6
Gwen"   $nta 3                             2.1       3.6      6.6      6.3       3.3      3.3
devemt adlsmt                             29.5      21.1     30.9     3.7       3.4      31.4
ftesos"dctitas
.  ease  hbes                            -10.3      -7.7     -7.1     -3.0.    -2.3      -1.I
A        emlus, gamst   SE AMaa          -.6      -        -.       -1          -       0.5
sesta g       si amea Os
eev.amss defisit (asa)                    6.4      3.6      6.2      3.5       o.3      1.
Debt  ete         a                        56.0     0.3      65.       6.3      61.7     51.5
ggs.ma ASSeSSe (C mL)                       6.9     26.3     30.6     3A.1      29.3     26.2
Caesatel b1 
tdi *C pea)                              3S.0     44.6     ".6        ...      ...
Seugassi Z _in ian4  tts2m  M6 Stan essIs_MS.
v  Copp" vatoe  CV3&)3                   1."      1.31      1.06     0.96     0.       6.
zI lpse vouaw ghmsw  in 199 to haltedV by on"""e OiSs Iasome aed s.550*186 et 9CU
mdP.a..lm  Ibse e astum cam  to do""ee iwn geet A $en o&au ts 1993.
,V  Assma. s %Mt h  ulk ci ms& C a _ s swe IS  giLl  with gmnti.
5/ heldespesas     amss



*.,1  _s,             p 0  _ " to
:91 tO    t 'D      :    5U' 3      519       39       119 tt-t  "-t       9                           t)V)  *vad *odd**
StI-        .                                                                           0-1-- 1  n g 
19      @15      1301    -         -.        -        -        -        -                                     433 ,~1tJ
IL?.     014-     1.1-    at-    0"PC49                Ot                 Tw                        .
*--      g. tn t    i             t-t        n-       -         -                                    it i       w
e- ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ 1 0t'                 SI-                              'I4 Wt-l;  . U-
*-.. sn.   .      .-        -..      u- .  ... I
01-  SI-  It-  -.      51-      -.       31~~~~i-  St-      -W9 W51@
* , , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~t.   U S-
or.     oat-      91-    Ugg                 101-   tn                                            (3)et.C.
et- m11.          0?       w-: In             9W       u:                                     mn
C*-      9        4o-       St       9        W        9        Ot-                      .             .
DC-      1t-                a        S-  t :-  S.     3. 93             95                                   (_ 9)_
*tY 9             9       3-0at  tt 559  399  301  0-    91  5, 05                                           _
Ci:    4S-        M.               on.- 51  9O-      U  3O-                              _
tot     Att      tt        on       ttC       M                  S      t      
4-    69-       9?       391-     Ut-      11       9:-    3-  *19 5 n- 
M s    M Mt M w    M   MtW 
a        n it               It,     og9,    *91       .9       .91ts
W5-    Ott-       M-      s"-          -    st       tO-        o-  t"-t
St1     ot1        t       935      113      159      Mt       'ML                                         I IN8. gm ,
011-    4t-       9?      9       05-      411-    49-       991        91-                                 1)         U
11?   tt-        3:       15        w'   t!'        3                0                                       131S
t?       G.       39-      39-       91 M. 1t-           .      II-                            No-r- PM  
1t.    0t5-        &z-.     m?.     -so -t.           -        1-        5.                                   3-1 .eq9
*t   nt   Ctt   "  tS   m    o    n    n~~~~~~~~ats TOON
t9.    Ott       lit        u- 5-t   UC-    s055              9.           -()t
ott- stt-    f31-     91-                                                                                        PIU
101-    I..  , a                    K. .4-             a-               et ..
19t-    *97       M~         -       5        9-M.    ta- UT.                                                  a.3g'58.4
n1-    ot.        ct.      e-.                                                                                       gem
OIL  p       t09,      5        is       got      13t-    354.    195
3'  0       3-      6?9-55                       9        91      9 -.   Pl
r~~~~~T1   smT                        944?      04t     33        til
gel.  U.(5I                    U~1Wui'iw.
9"-1t  * toU    t                       g @1 '
5 3D Z *2'd
la  n-s'sR ~   ~      ~       M'
- 09 -



-61-  F. EX tt
- 61 -                                     Page 3 of 3
t!n aiilim1 at LI2. _a 11j4
1. CaGesro  ....a&. .a1.dI   1a .st
*d attloA&L tzt.sst                                      -140        -92      '27         -37        -379
@.bs a.~~~i.. baetse..              -419        120      -742 ~~~~-707         -416
:. Odffi **e o - Z*u                          ~~~ ~~~-$d   s$         304t      -?0"       .30
I  .I_ diAL   ubUgame                                   26         594   0413           -341       *3t
Peale CLub milgg                                     -361       "301       .234       '224       -166
ae        i.bL                                       -          -10        -917       -1         -u4
loomt as"o"   *Wsmes 4
seeamA        3 sA"a                               -SO        ->0         ft        .-?         .0.
Peatl Club esedibh9                                              .83         10        -33        -32
OUz                                                   ju-        -31        -41        -40        -53
mAti1z.t a                                               -329       -322       -234      -.2         -335
MWU   .It                                                .6                  - .0        .07        -78
-162      -172       -1         -14          -9
Oth. MlUl40.,.                                          '40        -46         47        -72        -4,
3. ?aa*Zel         "  of unrer                               -.0.53     -1.050        2
3in4Ulat.al                                            -1.41        '77         -4         ...        ..
SkJ,t11.tem.L.                                           -425        2         -230         '-         .
sV.ld 8mb                                              -31        -3          .40        ..;
f                                                       .-2        ...       'U           --
oti;k   mI t1at4o, -51                                                                    ..*
4*. C*  l Sgg   *gg*L ggmmvea na  *  )                          -25        ...        -31        -30 -6
G. _" tSalas s.e                (. 1. o                      -3.LY      -1.570     -1.274    -1.004        -913
o. _,uuaa   sc ram                              --                         143
V.ald 3m                                                ...         40        .......
fl                                                      ...         20        ...        ...        ...
Ote  m     la sese                                      ...         1         ...        ...
-. a"    nuL     ' v                                          2.03       1.11          --
8 FUS Club ,als                                           soa .m                ...        ...        ...
a..anmati    A  dot ce"et (a 5447)                     -1,095        453     -1.376     -1.04        '913
o.  4smUte  posie          1on5 ln "a                                                            394        Vs
V"W  5                                                    414    ...            ...         ...
Aftem Ooun    ft0                              n                                ...         ...        ...
o__n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3                                   VA                     ...        .....
AbOi 0selOr  1mb                                           70         5 s 
Othee pmj..t mtst                                155.  3   -u4         2921                  196
W.a.  Fal.. an               s        _   ana                       -142          4         20 
10. rIm.a  a.qwa..6,lSS                                                             -1.06        -116       -4
Some#s9:?    at smote: ;ed Pd Stan esUse  -.
~/ oanew" te"jaaa   ftuath   e.wammmm  at ""aS"6   otlaal  paioa  mausluam at fbSmhdelAM
lux""a de OL.     "              "   s            e  "         ta       &            d
AV   Im     to soav USLtieta" et"  to fW.



ANNEX II
Sodala torkas OtDvopent. 1           - 62 -                          Page 4 of 5
Zambia
inwv~ ~  ~ qe q      ew)    A          -     N_
2140   ls~x     w         -
Pew rw   v .  nom                                  4iq     ?.4 
TSl p7W&o t la 1p I  -           ,..
Pgus                _*           2       o430     B       B       i.6~.  37.
14 a0 uwnddw                 ,1..p        4        -x
PAd S dps.my mi.9                                  0
pgp htb  i                   o:tOO -            36.              SM     37.
?*RAW pu 100 OWNm
U,bsuIma1gmu dlffm,n1                      49.1    49u    4          2S7    29.8    ii
Fusiliay                                              4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  &i6.7  3.87
u   ftft :.m-                                    -       :       _       _
=immww                                                         I        LI~~~~ I 
ToW labw fam                                                       244~~~~~~~~~W  5.
284e      q   194    1.33n  344
P=UWOMMQVA                                         J442t  A        n
3.3~ ~ ~~~~~~5
Faaapt lOOis.- 
Paapam  zm                   *d _vfm                        if      30 S4   35.    22
NATURAL RE_UR
ArM
2Z-Tamuani                   !i'ae          72
A.m tou o  9W                  .O                                                   77
At" * g S                     - 7a4 4
bS                              1                            U 2
*                         *   0               .0  
.gn~-                               a~ --                           * 



ANNME II
- 63 -                             Page 5 of S
SodaImii.usD.v..p.. 19W
Zambia
*S. 2$40      r0 _cm   -                   AS
COMANDAPOVE
GPpaia(mm'a19N)                   us           20       S                320     3t0    1
Sbft ut"lg                                                      . g_,
Slzo20 d_s               '                      4       _        ..               _
AbuIm.ebawuem                  USSpmr_m          _       _        -,      _.
Sbo to"__   
d_u(_                                 -v ..            .       - 
$ ~~~~~~~*                                     i  a7s   _AQ 
g                             XL|t             4S      11 4    10       <      275 
ffwd _tdm                                          2 t i    : s3
B S                    Z-S;           25        2 l5794MW  igq
SiGDF    _      ~~~s     asu
PIanivubmi_                   SdGIIP          -      4                    
kdetoBoqbi~m    466.    521.    37A       tali    33.8     84.
Trawo,tindammumImm              d                      3 1.9    45 
pu~uw                        U        _. _             __.
IVWrTMNDTWRIMACAPITAL
m.d.I.                           ofD                    3.5.
omlpruboia                        pa                     -      4          __              1
SUm0 UT  d    _1          *                            M _
,_ w :~~                   ~     ~~~~~~ 4S13       145                 t 
afthn                     q&of                           7d-  -    4
| Sd _ 4    mm-i4   Ai
OmIRaby"w7bmvw*mftS)    oqf                             as1 1.   5        214     273*
= d       Si_P4w4           4        u         |       S      S~~~~~~~~~~~~~74  7.
S _,~~ ~~                              ~ ~~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ A      46
ph    _ sdmw                 Sd_A _                                                       7LW"   
SWr=, _.|g4 



i10  '         |   ii      |   |   'I [  '
~~ t]}lIX         I          8I   I   iii



- 65 -
- Copletion of study on external trff, infoming the Bank of stay and tmetable
for firther tariff reduction, and reduction in hose tariffs now in the 50% band to
not  ore than 40%.
- bntroduction of next stage in reform of business taxation, covering broadeing the tax
base, lowering the tax rate and speeding up the pace of collecton.
2.    In respect of private sector development, by ird tranche Padiamen should have enacted
anti-monopoly law and updated five priority laws (banking, company law, busine  licensing,
insurance and stock exchange), Government should have issued guidelines for capital marks and
operation of a Stock Exchange, the Investment Cent should be succlly achievig its
licensing role, and Government should hve implemented measres relaftng to strengthening
central bank powers to regulate and supervise the banking sesor and non.bank, lending
3.     The privaion ptogram  conditions are, dth  by  tanch Government will have
taken all steps necary on its part for divestre of an initl ten companies, and have offered
for sale a next group of companies, including seral sizeable companies (such hat td tanche
condios can be met. IMA will review progress with Governm   to make adju3m_t to the  t
approach to pnvatzatio as necessary.); and that by IhkikA2 Gov et will have achieved
satisfactory progress on implementation of the privaion program, including tig all ste
necessary on  part for privatization of a further 10 busine, brfngng the tol to a level
equivaent to about 10% of turover of companie to be prhtized, and including implementatio
of an action plan to assist redundat staff. Govenmen and IDA wil review progrs before
thibi tranche release to adjust the aproach to privadzaton as ncesay. Furhr, umual targ
will be establsed and reviewed each year with IDA.
4.     In connecdon with paastal reform by second tranche the ZIMCO Board wil have
adopted a resolution satsfactory to IDA A r the restrucing of ZIMCO, and by hird tache
ZIMCO should have aboised th subholding compnies ad he tasformed itself into an
investmren holding compay, als by third tranche Govemet shoud bave completod an
overview and plan of acdon for non-ZIMCO      ; should have adopted an auomatic pdce
adjustmenmechanism  r publc utlities and haw estalblishe a public utilty elatoy systm.
5.     The progess In pubilc service reform wil be mesred agint d  plan to reduce the
nmbers of civi srvice staff by about 10,000 prior to tid tuache raleae, coupled with
deveopmen of a dep  redundancy pgm and meaws  to soften the hudship resulting from
ementadoo of ho pan
6.     Perfoma    on agred plans to cushion the impa of the reform program on the mst
vuleale ha to be sasfcty for both second and td  tranie rede
SecotI IV: Import 1t  for FThandng Unde PIRC
7.     The procees of the credt are to be used for to  sonable co  of ay nd all goods
requid dwing the exe ution of the eoonomic recovery pgm supportd by PIRC with the
followg exceptions:



- 66 -
(a)   expendtur  for goods inluded In the following STC goup or subgroups, or
any succesr groups or ub-grou  under future revisions to the SITC, as
desdgna4 by the Association by notice to the Borrower.
Group        Sub-Group    Deciption of Items
112          -             Alcoholic beverages
121          -             Tobacco, unm       d, tobacco refuse
122          -             Tobacco, manuactured (whether or not conining
tobaco subsintt)
M2S          -             Radactive and assoated materals
667          -             Peals, precous and semi-precius stones, unworked or
worked
718          718.7         Nuclear reacts, and paru theroof, fuel elemens
(cartridges), nofn-diated for nuclear reactors
728          728.43        Tobacco proesing machinery
897          897.3         Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group metals (except
waths and watch cases) and goldsmiths' or silversmits'
war  (Wudig set gems)
971          -             Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores and
concetat)
(b)                 u in te curec of the borrower or for goods or services
supplied fom the triory of the Borowe,
(c)          Paymet made for epet            pdor to the da  of the Agreemet,
except ti withwals in an aggr        amount ot ecedig te
equialn of SDR 51 mMion may be made on accou  of paymes made
for aud expenditures boe d  dat but after Mach 1, 1992.
(d)          e itur  of goods proed uer contracts costIng less than $5,000
(e)          expndir  for goods supplied under a contact whih any naton  or
Itnationa fianSinstiuon or agcy oter ta the Asodation
dull bave fian    or agd to fnac
(t)                     for goods Itnded for a miitay or pam-ilitary puose or
&r bWmy  ;mmd    and
(g)          expendi@tu  In exce of an aggregat amount equivalent to SDR 73
mUlion for petoleum products or foodst.



- 67 -
ANNEX IV
LENING PROGRAM AND ECONOMIC AND SECTOR WORK
The following lists te IDA lending program and economic and sector work planned for
1992-96.
1. LENDING
FY 192
Privatizatbo and Industrial Reorm Adjustment Credit (US$200 milion) (Lending:
Privarzatbon and Industrial Reform Technial Assistance (US$10 milon) (Leding)
1.    These operations would advance policy reform by providing balance of payments support
and the technical assistance to support the related reforms. It would focus on the Governmeat's
parastatal reform and privatization program, as weU as reforms to improve the regulatory
environment, maize market liberization, rationalization of tariffs and civi service refom
T-hese refom  are designed to create an environment conducive to private sector development
FY 1993
Agriculturd Markeing and Pr1e        In  u       Project (S3  don) (Sadby):
2.    Ihe objectives of the project would be to: (a) improve the efficiency of the marketing
systm through implemenation of policies that foster compettion; (b) increase the efficiency of
delivering nrur  services (credit, transport, marketing and Input distibon) to smallholder
frmers; (c) eannce the role of the private setr in markeig, mral transportaton, and small-
scae processing; (d) develop rural infrast   (storage facilities, market, roads ad tansport
fcHilities and services; (e) create rural employment and income opportunities; and (f) improve
acess to credit by smaholders and privatpe   in rur areas. Componen ofthe project
would include: support to the private sector; rehabilitation and of feeder roads;
improvement of agricultural mareting iftrucu  and services; and implementaton of policy
refnm  designed to for  mmecalizadon and improvement of the performance of parasta
mills, provincial copve unions, and private entrpries.
Education   habitidon Rroje ct (US32 mllon) (lAndi4n:
3.    To help ratize and rabilitate a  ndown educatonal system, this project's objectives
would be to: (a) stregte community involvement in educatona development; (b) povide a
fiamework faatr acting, codiating, and utilizing donor support for the sector; and (c) hitiate
reform of the educaiona system. Toward to achievmt of these objectives, the project
would: (i) rehabilitat  lasooms in eiLsting primary schools and construct new ones where
eceary; (H) rialize the quality of primary education by developing, supplying, and
distrbuingtrucdonal maials; improving examinaon processes; ain  edtcatn mangers
and school inpo, had teahs, etC.; and (lI) iniate a dialogue on longerm policy refrm
at primary and secondary sool levels designed to raise effiency of resource use.



- 68 -
Infrstructur lAgieing (US$14 mdiion) (Reserve):
4.    The credit would enable the Government to carry out studies that would assist in
(a) restruct    the transport sector to provide a regulatory eavironment and institutional
structure more conducive to cost recovery and private sector participation in the sector, and (O)
addressing key public sector management issues, with pardtcular emphasis otL the establim
of an efective institutional and financial framework for operating a sustainable ura
infrastructure investment and maienance progam.
FY 1994
Multi-sector AdJustment I Credit (USS100 milion) (Lending):
S.    Ibis credit would be the third structural adjustment credit since the Bank resumed lending
to Zambia in March 1991. It would provide balance of payments support for COntinUing policy
reforms in several sectors, including the refotms inated under the Pdvatzaton and Industil
Reform Credit. It would also support policy reforms in mining, export, and agricult   sectors.
Agrcultural Diversilcation (USSSO millon) (Standby):
6.    This credit would support Zambia's effbrt to divernify domesti produion and increase
non-tradiional exports. The project would assist tie Govement to implement incentive
packges designed to achieve this objecdve. To this end, the project would (a) provide crodit to
faers for diversification of their crop mix, devdopmet of Irigation and other i cre,
procumen  of farm equipment and vehicles, establishment of prcen and packaging faiities,
d setting up export-import enterprises; and (b) developing and s tening Instiutions for
promotig the growing of high-value crops and suoti  private secr export-oriented
enterrs. Amoig the crops to be promoted are: tacco, cotton, oi-seed, sunflower, fruit,
vegetables and cashew nuts.
Pem   Se          bi          (US$20 million) (Leadin:
7.    lhe objectves of ths project would be to improve the reliability and reduce the cost of
petroleum supply. t would consist of. (a) rehabiation of the rmining secdom of the Tazama
pipeline tht need repai; (b) Impoveme  of oil storag  and hadling facilities; and
(c) nstiuonl strentening of he ognizato  respIblo for petroleum prcement, bulk
tran   and proesg.
P_ _ ject (US10 mion) (1eeve):
S.    Th  project would:  (a) strengen  the          al   mework to facitt
commeraizato of the Pots and Telecom     icatio  Corportion IYT); (b) Improe the
quality of serve and efciey of ext  facilities; (c) mprv PTC's finnal peforn;
(d) expand available faciities so as to stsfy the most urgent demand and (e) stgte the
policy framewor.  Support under the project would covr  (I) consultcy services for
developing approprate polices, strategies and regu   famework for sctor rsuct,
iu       stablihmt of a regulaty body; (IQ Implementonaof    am   Improvemnts
to pm fita commeralzation of the PTC; (Il) rehabi     nd expansio of exchang,
enal cable and long disce network in u       d ural areas; and (tv) pron of sp
pam ad equent to nprove the quality ad optmize the udizaton of eisft  equpmen



II~~~ t
0~ X        I'   1101    9                         ii1!  t
>~~ 5~    ,                    o 0     ,,5tt     l  ,l
2~  ~ ~ "            1!4 t    |EJ-8{}"    |i$    tE   IE



- 7U -
Agriculural Research and tesion I (US$27 million) (Standby):
16.   This would be a follow-up project to the first Agricultural Research and Extension
Project. It would be directed at reforms required to address the technology, research, and
extension needs of small-scale farmers.
Transport Rehabiltation (US$25 millon) (Lending):
17.   The project would focus on road rehabilitation and maintenance requirements. It would
help restore selected major and secondary roads, expand and upgrade district roads, improve
maitence systems, Improve transport facilities in rura areas, and enhance cost recovery in the
sector.
Community Development (US$25 milllon) (Reserve):
18.   Credit provided under this project would support community and non-governmetal
organization activities in health, nutrition, food security, water, santation, population and
education.
Small-Scale Mrning (US$20 milUlon) (Reserve):
19.   This project would be a follow-up operation to the Mining Sector Technical Assist
Project. Its objectives would be to: (a) provide technical, financial and training  sistace to
small-scale miners of gemstones to improve producdvity and recovery rates; and (b) help
establish a fimctioning marketing system for small-scale mining.
Natural Resoures Magm t (US$0 million) (Reseve):
20.   Ihe major objective of this project would be to implement key invesutm  and policy
proposals for improving management and utilization of natural resour  Identifiod in the Natural
Resources Planning and Conservation Study (FY93). Ihe project would focus on improvig the
contribuon of natural resourses to economic growth thrugb  increased investments,
impovements in policy and  itutions while conwerving the natural resource bas of the country.
2. Economie and Sector Wrk
Agricultr Sor Memorandu  (tart FY91; Compl FYM2):
21.   ThIs rpotouses on analysis of key strategic issues, such as: (i) sources of agriculra
growth (diveson); () effciency of agriultural production; (ill) the tole and form of
producer inceives (price and non-price factors); (v) the eneviroml  m    of agricultural
development- (v) tie hifluence of human capital (i.e., quality and quantity of farm labor) on farm
producdvity; (iv) women's role and constan  in agriculture; and (vii) land tmre systems. On
the basis of these analyses, the report recommends smaegic choices regaig poli  changes,
institutional reform, and public invesm   priorities for optim g the secors growth and
contrbution to GDP.



a
I                11
lit'
 U        P11'!
II         I.
b          It
ha
io       U
A         1.  41
1111 Ij
I1  I     ii    I.              II
ji             ill
I tIt
 18
S @0
I 

j 4  J Iu    liii
j ,              '!'2
I Nh24iJAIJiZiI IdIl



72 -
Assess_e  of Gaade Issu        t F Y   1992; Complte FY 19):
30.  Ihe a_mm   would review  ender issues as a basis for developing components of
Inetmt pouect designed to enhan  womens partdction in developm     acvities.
Meures fo Increasing women's productivity would also emerge from th study.
AMS Study (Start F! 1994 Complee FY 1994):
31.   Mis study would eam             sodlo-enomoc and povrty Impact of AIDS and
recommend a packge of mees for mitigating the negative impact while prmot  prvenon.
Natwal Rmueus Pra_ig and cti                 t  FY 199; CompleW F    94):
32.   Ihe study would analyze stratgic issues and opo  in foesy, fshries, wildlHf,
itrigaion, land temur nd land-use policy, and rcmmen      -- in policy, Istiuto
andllnvestmees in orde to enhance the peom    of thes subecrs. Th study would be
financed out of a Japan   grt
Ptoposd Fer er Market   ad Distribution Study Sa FT 19; C_npIte  1 5 1995):
33.  .Me prposed stdy would build on successful Bak opeaton wh  ar finacig to
restructuing of Nitogen Fertizes of Zambia (NCZ) and stdy   te developme  of the
ftiz  iduty in dhe SADCCiSoiut Afia region  Th  study would produce scfic
to    un treading: the    sse roe of farilhr and other modem input to
arming in Zbia; the liberlization and   pomt of thir supystum to reduce thei
costs; and, the fure role of NCZ as th ky pian th suppy syms ncli_   possie
priviaon and joint venre with forig  vestoms.



ZAMMAt
PRIVATZATION & INDUSTRIAL REFORM ADJUSTMENT PROJECT
Parastatal Sector
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
tw^80V EmooRi1FOFECEtf
~amMc
.31s_ t4USTNas                            "aN$
- ~ ~ ~ ~~O Cu  =   -



- 74 -
ANNEX I
ZAMDIA'S PIUVATIZATION PROGRAM
1.           ZambIas privatization policies have been set out frmally and were confkmed at
negotions. In large part these policies were prepaed during the dme of the previous Govermet, the
main new developmet ar in the establishmen of a Privatzalon Board, in clarifyn policy towards
encouraging local participation, and in more explicity addresing is    of conflict of intres  and
transparency of the process.
2.           In accordance with the overall policies set out in the privazaton stategy, and excluding
ZCCMs copper interests which are being addressed tugh paralld actions, efiv fie year divestiture plan
covers all of ZCCM's non-copper subsidiaries, aU other ZIMCO subsidiaries excluding six core utilities,
and a number of non-ZIMCO commercily-oriented pastat, a total for sale of 140 companies, based
on present information.
3.           The following table summnris the progam:
IN AGGRWATE THE ZIMCO GROUP IS AS FOLLOWS:
ANALYSIS OF ZIMCO GROUP COMPA   MARCH 19
TOM-         Capia
over         Employed
Number        $ -m          $ mm          Staff
ZIMCO companies to be sold or
liqudated
Tranzche                   10             14              6           1,400
Tranche 2                  10             85             96          11,700
Odter Tranches            63             868            434         46500
Holdn companies            J               -            _l             200
Ss            967           57           59,800
ZCCM group
(progressively ger  private
secor role for mhit,
divestiture for other
activities)                     59           1,431          1,046         68,700
Public utlities and
oil import compauiu              6             328            35S         21,000
Non ZIMCO Compais                S              _              _
TOTAL                     15S          2,726          1,958         149,500
We have no quanttative Ifrmalon on th ZCCM subsdiarie to be pdvatied as courent
paiainay I io   are realn  now cmpnies so up in te dying wfts of the old
Govermet Prlamet  had  dt bee ifrme of th ezistc of thee ompanI.



- 75 -
4.          ITh Privadzation Board wiUl move companies from tncho to tranche as necessary to
accommodate investor interest and as needed to substitute divestiture candidas if during preparion for
privatization it is apparent that more dme is needed for specific cases.
5.           The ten initidal offerings of July 1991 were for AFE, Mwinilunga Cannery, Zambezi Saw
Mills, Zambia Clay, Lublend, Eagle Travel, Consolidated Tyre, Cmshed Stone Sales, Nkwazi
Manufacturing and Poultry Processing. 'Mese wUI be reoffered after pasage of the Privaization Act,
together with a number of additional small companies, with a view to achieving about 10 actual
divesdties in 1992.
6.           The second group to be offered will consist maly of mulng companies that were
nationalized in recent years, together with a number of other agro-industial companies, two construction
industry companies, two retail chains, and (provisionally) one financal sector company. l.h third group
will include furthr milling companies, mote agro-idusies such a bwing and textils, tourism and
hotel companies and additional retail outlet. Both goups include a nmber of sizable opeat ; major
companies planed for early offen  include the lagest milling company, the breweies, dte sur
company, the cement manufcurer, many of the major retail outlets, and the large ban   Diestiu
of this second group of ten companies, including sevel sizeable companies, is to be aheved by mid
1993.
7.           ExcludIn ZCCM the  are only 10 compnes on dt  disure list baving more ta
US$20 million in capital employed. Four a  in the finac secto, one in oil mating, one fertiizer,
two agro-idustries ad two   o a     companies. Four coud prest some difficult, and three have
been scheduled for late in the de  proce  to give tm  to resuctuas ncessary. Tee four are
as follows: (i) Nitogen Chemicals of Zambia (NCZ) whh suffe  from outdated tecnology, excesve
Govermnt interence and non-pyme  by th coopav, who are to maor consums. NCZ is
in dissions with Sasol of South Africa on        and iestme  opton; (i) Zambia Airines,
the natonal airline, that has  fferd firom a combinato of bad m, excoe  Govenmnt
ineferen, price restio  and to  many non-pay    officW pasenge. ODA wil finace an
emergency study on shost-term rerms and EC a nmdium-tm  restructrng study; (ill) Natona
Airpors. Ap  from the main cities of Lusakm and Ndola, the odhpo  aeunlily to be viable.
Govemen regults the nding chgs. The compay i prparn a buie pla, which wi include
a plan of action or each a;po  owe te compay   pftble it kwil be sold, t  to the aiie, or
through floaon. Mm fourth lare company, Zambia Nation  Commercial 98Wks i eAy in dt
priaizaon schedue, prvsoal to be included in t  neat grmupto be offrd for sa. ZNCQ ha
a good profit reor4  but ha not yet been examined by the Prdvizadn Tem   Until die qualt of its
loan portfolio  a been  amined ad its oquit bae jug   aain  ks needs, dtee ho to be
revaions on do speed at wh    It can be sold.
8.           In the as fncia yea about 30% of the ZIMCO cmpmat e losses. In sever
of thes caes the loses wets a reslt of price controls, or in t  ce of NCZ becas of the bad debt
provions. We expec that abou 70 of the comp       wUIl be sld au is a going concern, 15 will be
sold as goins concerns a*r bran ino operational un, (Includ    some dt wil be rstuc1td
mmageraLay), 10 will be s old as  gn conce   aer _ dmnag     r tui  (t involving braking
up into unis) and 10 wil be ludte and the assets sold.



uMM"       PMg m  e   pp  o *iNbo   i Mp mob PM" eA MM &OM PM S3UM3 '"WPIS __L
1S5094 PO MMS          soI.fu.p"I (8)
0    t   l"Pu  ~~A1lno _@    Z
** ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~................ ......
~iWs p~   s1 M3W5  . P~m pp3mwiN uS1" bPgm    p.o UUl  isal e
991 _a  1 1         3m
win      aw                                      M 9 *no AR ppq  u           i
"~~~~..   ........
00W    ~ ~ ~     ~ ~       W       p5wuB opip A
MW             P1     P "   * .u _ 
Sl>ko  ~       0      LW9                                  VOl"  1 flm nAR 91" Wno
ffXsnz st ;  so *    *  ra~~~~~~~~~ .w assi apw R|soa
9Dtf  :                                 glt                         ",             AWN iW&
Aotvzo o                                A uto  Tamn    mu    Cal
(lt a 31X1 1    WII                                                                 RwJ  JUP  W
W"oU &toz    w&t                            WI uu_1IN                    warn    t    wvgigit
26/I1Im  SC1    0.                            III tm                     worn   iSt Zi
wOvaO SOft   w0- 9W                            3r WVSrflt  161   WMI9LI3
Gsiam  so 1    t 01  lvi                                                 VIS)Z   061      *-913
(3) W0V90 J111     **St                          AI6SI                     noSw    061         Mt
(Ul) WI$JZ  orl    Ott,                        Wu3iSi                      VIUZ       1    W051
CU) WoE/O jr  WU                        III AUISNW                    VIUNZ   Mt6   WMADW)1
W199 "Sno                                                       P     (')"i064 61
PmPS'Jl    Vol                           "OdomS~                  APJO""   AM      *q 41PS4
b&W13 *SIP                                      ld       Jo well
t 3 l 8e1 a u1 ,1 "O   ...................... ......
W5~~~~ 13             soUnO uNj SS U            PMIN
'IJvipma WIn ael aim5,d   *0  lvUwo
IIA XRR
_ 9L _



- 77 -
ANNEB VIM
Page 2 of 2
ZL4i
PRIVA7,1ZATION AND INDUSrRIAL REJORM ADJUSTMfNE CRl)T
STATEMbUT OF IFC l4VE5r1ENTS
a of March 3t, 199
Investment                                                             Loau Equity Total
Number      FY               Obligor                 Businass          -USS million-
216-ZA      1972
250-ZA      1973   Zambia Data Shoe                   Shoes               2.1   V.2    2.3
307-ZA      1975
394-ZA      1978   Cury Product LAd.                  Plac  Wtap          0.9   0.2    1.1
324-ZA      1976   Dev't Bank of Zambia               Dov't Faco                 0.5    0.5
632-ZA       98    Ehaol Co. of Zambia                Chem/Putrocm        3.7   0.6    4.3
1001-ZA     1988   Gwemb Valley Dov't                 Food/Food Proc       3.7   0.8    4.5
1132-ZA     1989   Mastock ZAmbia)                    Food/Food Pro        8.$2          8.2
527-ZA      1980
721-ZA      198    Ka&o. T ails                       Tele                10.7         10.7
743-ZA      1985    owwo Dev't Co.                    FoodAFood Pro       1.8   0.3    2.1
709-ZA      1984   Zamba Eotd Prop.                   Toudm              22.4          22.4
483-ZA      1980
600-ZA      1982   ZCCM                               MInU               53.1          S3.1
Totl Gio s                                           106.6   2.6  109.2
Wd* dk     yud cateseWu                         63.6   1.6   65.2
TOWl _MUMh        hdt by IFC                          43.0   1.0   44.0
TOWl ulsbusu                                           6.5   0.0    6.S
TOW uDd _sd                                           36.5   1.0   37.5
AF6E
4/28M92



- 78 -
ANNEX Vm
SOCIAL SAETEY
1.    The Government will undertake measures to protect most vulnerable (including
temp-irary measures to deal with the drought) as below. With the full and expeditious
implementation of the measures, the Government intends to mitigate most of any negative
effects on vulnerable and low-income tvni- holds arising from the economic reform program
and the current drought.
2.     &ajgk Relief, To assist very poor households to obtain their basic food supplies
given the current drought, up to 75,000 tons maize will be distributed to severely drought
affected households free of charge. Another 75,000 tons will be provided at half price, while
about 180,000 tons will be provided at a 15 percent subsidy for milling at a 100 percent
extraction rate for low-income urban households. The criteria for receiving these benefits will
be clearly specified and agreed with the Associaton.
3.    SociaL Welfare. The Government has allocated K 1.0 billion of its own resources in
the 1992 budget to provide income support of the indigent (absolute poor) either in cash or in
kind. These funds will be administered by District Welfare Committees, which include
representatives of NGOs active in the field of social welfare in the district concerned. The
Government wiUl disburse, according to tho agreed criteria, not less than K 500 milion by
September 30, 1992, and not less than K 1.0 billion cumlative by December 31, 1992, on
this program.
4.    Labor Intensive Public Works. In order to provide increased purchasing power to
low-income households and at the same time improve the much needd social and economic
infrastructure, the Goverament has initiated a Labor Intensive Public Works Program with a
budget allocation from its own resources of K 500 million for 1992. The Government will
disburse in a responsible manner (targeted on high priority social and economic infrastructure
employing low income labor) not less than K 250 million by Sepember 30, 1992, and not
less than K SO0 million cumulative by December 31, 1992, on this program. The
Government will also do everything in its power to accelerate disbursements under the donor-
funded Social Recovery Project and rdated project.
S.    Assistance to Reocie EDM. In addition to the sevence packages to be
provided to retreched employees in both the civil service and par_, under the Civil
Service Reform and Privatzation elements of the reform program respectively, the
Government wil esablish retrenchment guidance cnters at the Cabinet office and ZIMCO.
These centers will: (i) coordinate the trdning of rerenched staff by exising  stitutions such
as SlDO and VIS; (i) make arangements for the provision of assistce to such staff in
obtaining accessltide to land, business permits, and provide information for the establishment
and operation of business and agricultural enterprises; and (iii) provide counselling to such
staff in new opportunites and challenges following retrenchment. To finalize the
establishment of these units, a task-force will be established under the Cabinet office whose
recommendations (acceptable to IDA) will be put into effect no later than July 15, 1992.



- 79 -
6.    Strepheninpg of Social Sector Service Delivery. The Government will continue its
programs to strengthen service delivery in the fields of primary education and pimary health
care, which have a strong impact on the real standard of living of the poorest households.
The shares of these sectors in the 1993 budget will grow significantly, as savings are made in
other areas, e.g. military spending and parastatal subsidies. Moreover, the Govemnmen will
embark upon comprehensive reforms in both health and education for which it will be sedkng
the support of the donor community.
7.     3e=  nMoitoring. The Govrnment has already set-up a poverty moni8t system
and program of studies to help design poverty reduction measures with the assistance of the
donor community. The Priority Survey and five other studies will completed by December
31, 1992.



