CREDIT NUMBER 2405 ZA
(Second Amendment)
Second Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Privatization and Industrial Reform Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                        , 1994


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2405 ZA
(Second Amendment)
SECOND AGREEMENT AMENDING
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     /    ' Zg           , 1994, between the
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered
into a Development Credit Agreement (Privatization and Industrial
Reform Adjustment Credit), dated July 13, 1992, (the Development
Credit Agreement) for the purpose of assisting in the financing of
the program referred to in Recital (A) of the Preamble to the
Development Credit Agreement (the Program);
(B)   the Borrower and the Association have entered into an
agreement dated March 23, 1993 (the First Amending Agreement)
amending the Development Credit Agreement for the purpose of
providing the Borrower with additional assistance in the financing
of the Program;
(C)   the Borrower has requested the Association to provide
further additional assistance towards the financing of the Program
by increasing the amount made available under the Development Credit
Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent to twelve
million one hundred and ten thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 12,110,000); and
(D)   the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments to the Development
Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement
is amended by the deletion of the word "and" at the end of Sub-
section (e); the deletion of the punctuation mark "." at the end of
Subsection (f); and the substitution therefor of the word and
punctuation mark 'I; and", and by the addition of a new Subsection
(g) as follows:


﻿- 2 -
"(g) "Second Amending Agreement" means the Second
Agreement   Amending  the   Developr-ent  Credit  Agreement
(Privatization and Industrial Reform Adjustment Credit)
between the Borrower and the Association, dated
Section 1.02. Section 2.01. of the Develcpment Credit Agreement
is amended to read as follows:
"Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to one hundred and seventy-three million one hundred and
eighty thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 173,180,000) (the
Credit), which includes an original amount in various currencies
equivalent to one hundred forty-six million Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 146,000,000), an additional amount in various currencies
equivalent to fifteen million seventy thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 15,070,000) (the Additional Financing) and a further
additional amount in various currencies equivalent to twelve million
one hundred and ten thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 12,110,000)
(the Second Additional Financing)."
Section 1.03. An additional proviso is added at the end of
Section 2.04 (a) of the Development Credit Agreement reading as
follows:
"; provided, however, that any commitment charge on the
Second Additional Financing shall accrue from a date sixty
(60) days after the date of the Second Amending Agreement."
Section 1.04. Paragraph 2 (g) of Schedule 1 to the Development
Credit Agreement is amended to read as follows:
"(g) expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount
equivalent to SDR 85,590,000 for petroleum products and
foodstuffs."
Section 1.05. The following paragraph is added at the end of
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement:
"7. After a date twelve months from the date of the
Second Amending Agreement, no withdrawals shall be made and no
commitment shall be entered into to pay amounts to, or on the
order of, the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be


﻿- 3 -
financed out of the proceeds of the Second Additional
Financing. At any time after such date, the Association may,
by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of
the Second Additional Financing from the Credit Account or any
part thereof."
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Agreement shall not become effective until
evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished
to the Association that the execution and delivery of this Agreement
on behalf of the Borrower have been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant
to Section 2.01 of this Agreement, there shall be furnished to the
Association an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Association
of counsel acceptable to the Association showing, on behalf of the
Borrower, that this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is
legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Association shall dispatch to the
Borrower notice of its acceptance of the evidence required by
Section 2.01 of this Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Agreement shall not have come into force
and effect by a date sixty (60) days after the date of this
Agreement, this Agreement and all obligations of the parties
hereunder shall terminate unless the Association establishes a later
date for the purposes of this Section. If this Agreement shall
terninate under the provisions of this Section, the Development
Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect as if this
Agreement had not been executed.


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
By 1/<  d?4Q,td1c
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regi al7ice-President
Africa


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the
International Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


