CREDIT NUMBER 2405 ZA
Development Credit Agreement
(Privatization and Industrial Reform Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                    , 1992


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2405 ZA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                   /3        , 1992, between
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter date May
28, 1992, from the Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of
the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the Program), declaring
the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Association in the financing of
urgently needed imports required during such execution; and
(B)   on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the
Association has decided in support of the Program to provide such
assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in three tranches as
hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section  1.01.   The  "General   Conditions  Applicable  to
Development   Credit  Agreements"   of  the   Association,  dated
January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof set forth below (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that
may be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit pursuant to
the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement.";
(b)   Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and
furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the
execution of the Program referred to in the Preamble to the


﻿- 2 -
Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the Borrower
and the Association of their respective obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit."; and
(c)   the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)    "Bank of Zambia" means the Central Bank of Zambia
established under the Bank of Zambia Act;
(b)   "Public Utilitites" means Posts and Telecommunications
Corporation Limited, Zambia Railways Limited, Zambia Electricity
Supply Corporation Limited, Zimoil, Tazama Pipelines Limited, Indeni
Petroleum Refinery Company Limited, and other public utility
corporations;
(c)   "SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classi-
fication, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations
in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 343 (1986);
(d)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(e)   "ZIMCO"  means  the  Zambia   Industrial  and  Mining
Corporation Limited, a holding company established under the laws of
the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred
forty six million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 146,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.


﻿-3-
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Program,
open and maintain in United States dollars a special deposit account
in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactcry to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994, or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.


﻿-4-
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each January 1 and July 1 commencing
July 1, 2002, and ending January 1, 2032. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on January 1, 2012, shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due con-
sideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. (a) The Governor of the Bank of Zambia is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.


﻿- 5 -
(b)   Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby entrusts the Bank of Zambia with responsibility for
the preparation of withdrawal applications under the Credit and for
the collection of the documents and other evidence to be furnished
to the Association in support of such applications; such withdrawal
applications shall, to the extent practicable, be consolidated so as
to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not less than
$3,000,000 equivalent.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from
time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions
specified in Schedules 3 and 4 to this Agreement.
(b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association for its review and comment a report on
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a)   at the beginning of each year with effect from 1993
until 1997 submit to the Association for review its updated annual
privatization plan satisfactory to the Association; and
(b)   implement the said privatization plan taking into
account the views of the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿-6-
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in   accordance   with   appropriate   auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of
the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at   least one year    after the
Association has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account was made, all records (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable   the  Association's  representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure   that  such  records  and  accounts  are
included in the annual audits referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,


﻿- 7 -
together  with   the  procedures  and   internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the macro-economic policy framework of the Borrower is
consistent with the objectives of the Program;
(b)   the Borrower has submitted evidence satisfactory to the
Association that it has obtained commitments from donors and other
sources adequate to complete the financing plan for Fiscal Year
1992; and
(c)   the  Borrower  has  enacted   the  Privatization  Act
acceptable to the Association.
Section 5.02. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 (a) of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.


﻿- 8 -
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 50362
Lusaka, Zambia
Cable address:               Telex:
MINFIN                    42221
Lusaka
For the Association:
International Development
Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INDEVAS                  248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
By I-sl  la
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /    J/
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
required during the execution of the Program and to be financed out
of such proceeds.
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or subgroups, or any successor groups or subgroups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by
notice to the Borrower:
Group           Subqroup      Description of Items
112                --         Alcoholic beverages
121                --         Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122                --         Tobacco, manufactured (whether
or not containing tobacco
substitutes)
525                           Radioactive and
associated materials
667                --         Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones, unworked or
worked
718             718.1         Nuclear reactors, and
parts thereof, fuel elements
(cartridges), nonirradiated for
nuclear reactors


﻿- 11 -
Group           Subqroup       Description of Items
728             728.43         Tobacco processing machinery
897             897.3          Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch cases)
and goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971                --          Gold, nonmonetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
(b)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of SDR 51,000,000 may be made on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
March 1, 1992;
(d)   expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $5,000 equivalent;
(e)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency other
than the Association shall have financed or agreed to finance;
(f) expenditures for goods intended for a military or
paramilitary purpose or for luxury consumption; and
(g)   expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent
to SDR 73,000,000 for petroleum products and foodstuffs.
3.    Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the procure-
ment of goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent may be
required by the Association upon the basis of statements of expen-
diture under such terms and conditions as the Association shall
specify.
4.    No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered
into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit after
the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the


﻿- 12 -
Credit Account and the total amount of such co-mitments shall have
reached the equivalent of SDR 73,000,000, unless the Association
shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in
Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the
Association: (a) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Program; (b) that the actions described in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been taken; and (c) the macro-
economic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent with the
objectives of the Program.
5.    No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered
into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit after
the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the
Credit Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have
reached the equivalent of SDR 109,000,000, unless the Association
shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in
Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the
Association: (a) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Program; (b) that the actions described in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been taken; and (c) the macro-
economic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent with the
objectives of the Program.
6.    If, after the exchange of views described in paragraphs 4 and
5 above, the Association shall have given notice to the Borrower
that the progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory
and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have
achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Association,
then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
1.    Except as provided in paragraph 4 below, contracts for the
procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000
or more each shall be awarded through international competitive
bidding in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the
Guidelines), subject to the following modifications:
(a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder's
invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper
of general circulation in the Borrower's country and, in
addition, in at least one of the following forms:
(i)    a notice in the United Nations publication,
Development Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii)    an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical   journal   of   wide   international
circulation; or
(iii)    a notice to local representatives of countries
and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
that are potential suppliers of the goods
required."
(b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
used in international trade and specified in the bidding
documents."


﻿- 14 -
(c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
(d)   Goods procured under international competitive pro-
cedures shall be exempted from pre-shipment price inspection by a
third party inspection firm.
2.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $1,000,000 shall be awarded:
(a)   by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public
procurement procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of
such procedures, provided that such procedures shall have been found
acceptable by the Association; and
(b)   by other purchasers, in accordance with established
commercial practice, provided that such contracts shall be awarded
on the basis of evaluation comparison of quotations obtained from
suppliers from at least two countries, except that direct con-
tracting procedures acceptable to the Association may be used where
considered appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.
3.    Subject to the prior approval of the Association, commonly
traded commodities maybe procured through organized international
commodity markets or other channels of competitive procurement
acceptable to the Association, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
4.    Spare parts and other proprietory items may be procured
directly from suppliers in accordance with procedures satisfactory
to the Association.
5.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior
to the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for award, a
description of the advertising and tendering procedures followed and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
Where payments under a contract are to be made out of the proceeds
of the Special Account, such copies together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to
this paragraph shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence required under paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿- 15 -
6.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2 and
3 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
prior to the submission to the Association of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect thereof,
such documentation and information as the Association may reasonably
request to support withdrawal applications in respect of such
contract. Where payments under a contract are to be made out of the
proceeds of the Special Account, the documentation and the
information to be furnished to the Association pursuant to the
provisions of this paragraph shall be furnished to the Association
as part of the evidence required under paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement..
7.    The provisions of the preceding paragraph 6 of this Schedule
shall not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from
the Credit Acccunt are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (b)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
The Borrower has:
1.    established the negative list of imports under the Open
General License system including no more than 10% of base-period
imports;
2.    removed the import substitution bonus on domestically produced
maize, and has increased into-mill price of imported yellow maize to
the equivalent of $16.20 per bag;
3.    completed all steps within its control to achieve the objec-
tive of privatizing about ten government-owned companies as set out
in the privatization action plan satisfactory to the Association;
4.    offered for sale a group of companies (including several
larger and significant companies) whose turnover, when combined with
the companies referred to in paragraph 3 above, will roughly be
equivalent to 10% of the total turnover of companies to be pri-
vatized under the Program;
5.    implemented measures, satisfactory to the Association to
protect the vulnerable groups; and
6.    submitted to the Association a resolution satisfactory to the
Association, adopted by the ZIMCO Board of Directors for the
restructuring of ZIMCO.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 5 (b)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
The Borrower has:
1.    completely eliminated subsidies on mealie-meal;
2.    (a)   completed a study of external tariffs under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Association;
(b)   submitted to the Association a timetable for tariff
reform; and
(c)   reduced tariffs in the 50% band to not more than 40%;
3.    implemented measures, satisfactory to the Association for the
operation of the Investment Center in streamlining investment
licenses.
4.    (a)   Enacted amendments to the following legislation with the
aim of facilitating private sector participation in the economy (i)
banking law, (ii) companies laws, (iii) business licensing laws,
(iv) insurance laws, and (v) stock exchange laws; and
(b)   enacted the anti-monopoly legislation;
5.    issued guidelines for capital market transactions and the
operation of the Stock Exchange;
6.    implemented measures, satisfactory to the Association, to
strengthen the powers of the Bank of Zambia to regulate and
supervise the commercial banks and other lending institutions;
7.    introduced  reforms, satisfactory to the Association on
business taxation including the broadening of the tax base, lowering
the tax rate, and speeding up the pace of tax collection;
8.    in addition to the companies privatized as provided in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement, completed all measures within its
control to achieve the objective of privatizing at least ten
additional government-owned companies bringing the total privatized
to a level equivalent to about 10% of the turnover of companies to
be privatized under the Program;


﻿- 18 -
9.    completed a review and submitted to the Association a plan of
action for the non-ZIMCO parastatals;
10.   adopted an automatic price adjustment mechanism for public
utilities and has established a public utilities regulatory system;
11.   (a)   reduced the number of government employees by 10,000,
and (b) developed a program for further reducing the number of
government employees, including measures to assist such employees
made redundant;
12.   as part of the restructuring of ZIMCO referred to in paragraph
6 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, has (i) abolished the sub-holding
companies, and (ii) transformed ZIMCO into an investment holding
company; and
3.    implemented measures, satisfactory to the Association to
protect the vulnerable groups, including those made redundant by the
government service and the parastatals.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the
execution of the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
(b)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an    amount
equivalent to $30,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Association shall
specify.
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which


﻿- 20 -
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
such request, the Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
and as shall have been shown by said documents
and other evidence to have been paid out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the   provisions of paragraph    3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit, less
the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with
respect to the Program, shall equal the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit follow such procedures as
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that
the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice  will   be  utilized  in   making  payments  for   eligible
expenditures.


﻿- 21 -
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request, or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
tR SECRETARY


