rocument Of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
LA). Z 3Y7- 3R
3PUt  N*  P-3646-BR
REPORT AND REC     TION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTEn1IONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPENT
TO TE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$352 NMIION
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR AN
EXPORT DEVELOPrM PROJECT
September 15, 198-
d-rM dd    b  uot=ys  _6i be Awled-te  W  i th afk w*                     db



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:  Cruzeiro (CRS)
US$1 - Cr$ 529.5 (June 30, 1983)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACRONYMS
ASPEX     Assessoria de Planejamento e Organizacao (Advisory Office for
Planing and Orgzatioin CACEX)
BEFIlEK    Comissao para Coucessao de Beneficios Fiscas a Programas Especials
de Exportacao (Special Progrm of Fiscal Incentives for Exporters)
BDEIS     Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimto Economico e Social (National
Development Back)
CACKI    Carteira de Comerco Exterior (Foreign Trade Department of Bauco do
Brasil)
CDI       Conselho de Desenvwolviento In(dustrial Developmnt
Council)
CONCEX    Conselho Nacional de Comarcio Exterior (National Council of
External Trade)
CONSIDER  Consewho de Nao-Ferrosos e de Siderurgia (Commission for
Non-ferrous Metals and Steel)
CPA       Comissao de Politica Aduaneira (Council of Customs Policy)
DPR       Departamento de Prosocao Comercial (Department of Trade Promotion
in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs)
FINET     Fundo de Financiuamento a Exportacao (Export Financing Fund)
FUNCEX    Fundacao Centro de Estudos do Comercio Exterior (Center of
International Trade Studies)
IOF      IMposto Sobre Operacoes Financeiras (Tax on Financial Operations)
-PESA     Instituto de Planejamento Economico e Social (Institute for
Economic and Social Planning)
IPI       lIwposto de Productos- Iudustrializados (Industrial Product Tax)
NWK       Ncmenclatura Brasileira de Mercadorias (Brazilian External Trade
Classification)
PROEX     Progama de ApoLo ao Increrento das Exportacoes (Export Financing
Program of BEDES)
SEPLAN    Secretaria de Planejamento (Ministry of Planning)
SRF       Secretaria da Receita Federal (Federal Internal Revenue
Secretariat)
SUDAN     Superint dencia do Desenvolvinento da Amazonia (Development Agency
of the  Rmazon Region)
SUDENE-   Superintendencia do Desenvolvinento do Nordeste (Development Agency
of the Nortbeast)
SUNANA1(  Superintendencia da Marinba Mercante (Committee for the Merchant
Marine)



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
EXPORT DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Loan and Project Sumary
PART I- THE ECONOIY                                                    1
Recent Economic Performance                                  2
1983 and Prospects for the Future                            4
External Assistance and Creditworthiness                     6
Poverty Alleviation Progrrm                                  7
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL                                    7
Lending StraLegy                                             8
PART III - FOREIGN TRADE AND INDUSTRY: DEVELOPMENT AND
INSTITUTIONS                                               10
The Industrial Policy Environment and the Trade Strategy   10
The Government's Strategy                                   11
Export Performance                                          12
Development and Structure of Imports                        13
Foreign Trade Projections for 1983-1988                     14
Policies Affecting Trade                                    14
Export Financing                                            16
Institutional Framework for Trade Policies                  18
Non-Financial Assistance to Exporters                       18
PART rV - THE DUTY DRhNBACK SYSTEM                                    19
Role of Duty Drawback Imports in Brazil's irade Regime      19
Administration of the Duty Drawback System                  21
Provision of Foreign Exchange for Drawback Imports          23
This documnt has a restrited distnbution and may be usd by reipients ocJy in the perrfonmc of
thik offiid dus. Its Contents may not oterwi be discod without Wodd Bak aufhrizadto



Page No.
PART V - THE PROJECT AND THE PROPOSED LOAN                             24
Project Objectives                                           24
Loan Components                                              25
The Restructured Duty Drawback System                        25
Financing of Studies on Industrial and Trade Policies        29
The Borrower and Implementing Agencies                       30
Procurement                                                  32
Disbursement                                                 32
Auditing, Reporting Requirements and Operational
Reviews                                                    34
Co-Financing                                                 34
Project Benefits                                             34
Project Risks                                                35
PART VI - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS ANND AUTHORITY                             36
PART VII- RECOMMENDATIONS                                              36
ANNEX 2   : Social Indicators Data Sheet and Economic Indicators
ANNEX II  : The Status of Bank Group Operations in Brazil
ANNEX III : Supplementary Project Data Sbeet
ANNEX IV  : Statistical Tables on Imports and Exports
ANL4EX V   : Comunicados 52 and 55 of CACEX to Exporting
Enterprises
ANNEX VI  : Work Program of the Brazilian Government's
Group on Industrial and Trade Policies
ANNEX VII : Estimated Disbursement Schedule



- 1 -
BRAZIL
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower             Federative Republic of Brazil
Executing Agency:    The Foreign Trade Department of the Banco do Brasil
(CACEX)
Beneficiary:         Export Nanufacturers and the Government of Brazil
Amount:              US$352.0 million equivalent including the capitalized
front-end fee
Terms:               Fifteen years, including 3 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate
Project Description: The proposed loan has been developed as part of a
Special Action Program for Brazil. It will provide for
accelerated loan disbursements in support of economic
adjustment policies. The project would support
expansion of Brazil's manufactured exports by
liberalizing imports and increasing the availability of
foreign exchange under the duty drawback system.
Eligible exporters would be given automatic access to
Imports of raw materials, intermediate products and
components, to be used in the production of their
exports. As such, the purpose of the project is to
establish a de facto free trade regime for export
production. Foreign exchange would be made available
for drawback imports in equivalent annual amounts of at
least US$1.4 billion during October-December 1983, and
the same annual amount increased each subsequent year
until 1988 by the expected percentage increase in
manufactured exports plus an additional 5x. Drawback
imports within the allocations of foreign exchange would
be made according to previously established criteria
agreed upon with the Bank and made public in the
country. The Government wiuld coumit itself to allocate
the agreed upon minimum amounts of foreign exchange for
imports under the drawback system in each year, and
CALCEX would ensure automatic issuance of Import licenses
to eligible exporters. The loan would include an amount
of about
US$1.1 million to help finance studies of industrial and
trade policies, including the existing export financing



-ii-
system, with a view to design policy measures for
implementation of the Government's trade and industrial
development strategy.
Project Risks:        Liberalization and expansion of the duty drawback system
could lead to a rise of imports, while the increase of
exports may not materialize to the extent currently
projected during the initial period of operation of the
reformed drawback system. The stipulation of annual
drawback import levels, together with the close
monitoring procedures included under the project, will
keep this risk within acceptable limits. In the
medium-term, the increase of drawback related exports is
expected to substantially outweigh the initial
balance-of-payments effect of rising imports. Rising
protection, limiting access of Brazilian exports to
foreign markets, could also impair the expected benefits
of the project.
Disbursements:        Bank disbursements would be made on a monthly basis
against a percentage of payments for eligible imports
under the drawback system. Initial disbursements would
reimburse 65% of eligible import expenditures up to a
maximum of one-half of the loan amount, or US$175.0
million, using a percentage of eligible physical imports
as a proxy (para. 89). The loan would include
retroactive financing of import payments since the
initiation of the revised drawback operations up to a
maximum of US$100 million. Disbursement of the second
half of the loan amount would reimburse 50% of eligible
import expenditures and would be conditioned upon
favorable Bank assessment of the system's operation.
Disbursements under the policy studies component would
finance OOZ of expenditures for consultants, including
overhead, and related services incurred after loan
signature.
Estimated
Disbursements:                       Bank FY1984          Bank FY85  Bank FY86
Second    Third   Fourth
Quarter Quarter Quarter
-US$million
Quarter         176.0    175.1       0.2         0.5       0.2
Cumulative      176.0    351.1    351.3        351.8     352.0
Rate of Return:       Not applicable.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOHMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN OF US$352.0 MILLION
TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL FOR AN
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendations of a proposed
loan to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$352.0
million, including a capitalized front-end fee of 0.25Z on the Bank loan, to
help finance the expansion of Brazil's manufactured exports. The loan would
have a term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with interest at the
Bank's standard variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report entitled "Economic Memorandum on Brazil" (Report
No. 4474-BR dated August 22, 1983) was distributed to the Executive Directors
on August 22, 1983. The following paragraphs summarize some of the principal
findings of that report.
3.        The present Government, headed by President Figueiredo, took office
on March 15, 1979, for a six-year term. While the process of political
redemocratization has been its prime concern, much of the Government's
attention has necessarily been devoted to grappling with inflation and a
difficult balance-of-payments situation. Major economic priorities of the
Government include the growth of egriculture, reduced dependence on imported
petroleum, expansion of mnufactured exports, and increasing domestic
savings, while at the same time improving the situation of Brazil's
economically most disadvantaged population. Success on these fronts is
crucial to the solution of the inflation and balance-of-payments problems, as
well as to the sustained improvement of living standards and better income
distribution. In mid-November of 1982, Brazil held its first major elections
since the mid-1960s. Opposition candidates captured the governorships of
several key states, including Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, and Ninas Gerais. A
presidential election is scheduled for November 1984.
1/ Part I and II of this report are substantially the same as in the
President's Report on the Parana Market Towns Project (Report No.
P-3560a-BR dated August 4, 1983). It is identical to the corresponding
section of the President's Report for the Agricultural Sector Project
being distributed at the same time as this report.



-2-
Recent Economic Performance
4.        Prior to the sharp worsening of its terms of trade in 1973,
occasioned by the quadrupling of the price of imported oil, Brazil had
enjoyed a period of rapid economic growth in the context of declining
domestic inflation and a significant liberalization of both foreign and
domestic trade.  After 1973 successive Brazilian governments attempted to
cope with the constraints placed on the economy by the worsened
terms-of-trade, while maintaining a high rate of growth of output and
employment. Although aggregate demand management was somewhat erratic, the
general policy tendency through 1980 was characterized by large credit and
tax incentives to industry and agriculture, particularly for export expansion
and import substitution; growing direct state economic activity; intermittent
controls on prices and interest rates; rising import barriers; heavy foreign.
borrowing; and an intensifying effort to reduce the growth in energy
consumption and substitute domestic energy resources for imported petroleum.
5.        Although reduced from the 11% annual growth of the 1967-73 period,
GDP grew at a still remarkable 7% average annual rate from 1974 through
1980.  The merchandise trade deficit, which had ballooned to US$4.7 billion
in 1974, was eliminated by 1977 as a consequence of a 52% nominal increase in
exports and an absolute reduction in imports. Over the entire 1974-80
period, nominal exports rose 153% as compared to an 82% increase of Imports.
Non-oil imports rose only 32%. However, the rapid accumulation of external
debt, which rose more than 3-1/2 times, the compression of real imports, and
the intensification of inflationary pressures increased the economy's
vulnerability to the further sharp increase in petroleum prices and the rise
in interest rates which occurred in 1379 and 1980.  Thus, over those two
years, the current account deficit more than doubled to reach US$12.4
billion, and international reserves fell by US$5 billion. Domestic inflation
accelerated to 110%.
6.        In response to the deteriorating balance-of-payments and rising
doomestic inflation, the primary immediate objective shifted from growth to
stabilization. Monetary correction and exchange rate adjustment, which had
lagged behind inflation in 1980, were brought back into line with inflation.
Interest rate controls were removed from commercial bank lending, and the
rate of credit expansion was severely limited. The intention was both to
dampen aggregate demand and to encourage external capital inflows. Although
still highly subsidized, the interest rates charged on official loans were
also increased. The previously eliminated tax incentive to exports was
temporarily restored, and the financial transactions tax applied to foreign
exchange operations for imports was raised from 15% to 25%.
7.        As a consequence of these measures, GDP declined by 2% in 1981,
with the industrial sector in and around Sao Paulo being particularly hard
hit by high interest rates and declines in capital goods and consumer
durables purchases. But the trade balance improved from a negative US$2.8
billion in both 1979 and 1980 to a positive US$1.2 billion, and the current
account deficit was reduced, despite a US$3 billion increase (to US$9.2
billion) in net interest payments abroad. Contributing to the trade surplus
was a 33% increase in manufactured exports and the further contraction of
petroleum imports. International reserves rose US$687 million, to the



-3-
equivalent of 4 months of goods imports (compared to 3.6 months coverage at
the end of 1980). Domestic inflation fell to 95%. The policy measures
introduced and the ensuing balance of payments improvement served to sustain
the confidence of the international banks, and no problems were experienced
in raising the -'S$10 billion in required net borrowing during 1981.
8.        The slowdown of international trade caught up with Brazil in 1982,
with declining commodity prices and severe difficulties in several of the
theretofore fastest growing markets for its manufactures. As a result,
nominal exports declined by 13% in 1982 relative to 1981. Imports were also
down, resulting in a US$767 million trade surplus, which, however, was
significantly below earlier expectations. At the same time, the
international financial community reduced its lending to Brazil following
first the war in the South Atlantic and, later, the Mexican liquidity crisis,
and Brazil was forced to increase its short term borrowing and draw down its
reserves in the last quarter of 1982. The current account deficit for 1982
totaled US$14.5 billion, the highest in the country's history, mostly
reflecting record high interest payments. These interest payments (US$8.5
billion) plus amortization of existing medium and long term (MELT) loans
(US$8.7 billion) exceeded net disbursements of new M&LT loans (US$15.2
billion), constituting a negative net MELT resource transfer.
9.        The 1981-82 stabilization effort in Brazil have placed heavy
reliance on monetary policy. The money supply in real terms fell and the
Government has relied on the sale of indexed bonds to finance its large
fiscal deficits. Restrictive monetary and credit policies, alongside the
large public sector deficit and coupled with the channeling of available
financial resources into certain priority areas, have resulted in very high
real interest rates in the relatively free portions of Brazil's segmented
financial market.  Real interest rates of 40-50% have become common. As a
result private investment has fallen dramatically, contributing in a major
way to the continuing recession, now in its third year. Reflecting the
depressed domestic economic conditions, manufacturing employment in the State
of Sao Paulo fell by over 20Z between November 1980 and April 1983. For
1982, GDP fell by about 1%, while inflation continued at just below 100X.
10.       In late 1982 the rundown of Brazil's international reserves, the
reluctance of international commercial banks to roll over existing loans and
to extend further credits, and deteriorating international market conditions
led Brazil to seek assistance from the International Monetary Fund in support
of its adjustment program. Adverse external circumstances have considerably
complicated Brazil's economic situation and have rendered short-term
adjustment both more compelling and more arduous. To support the
Government's 1983 austerity program, in February 1983 the IMF pledged
financial assistance on the order of US$5.4 billion (including both
compensatory financing and the Extended Fund Facility) over 1983-85. Coupled
with this financing package were commitments on the part of the international
commercial banks for 1983.
1983 and Prospects for the Future
11.       The country faces a difficult period of adjustment in 1983-84.  A
major objective for 1983 is to generate an unprecedented trade surplus of



-4-
US$6 billion, thereby reducing its current account balance-of-payments
deficit and its external borrowing requirements. In order to Increase the
chances of attaining the ambitious US$6 billion trade surplus target, the
cruzeiro was devalued by 30X in February 1983. The cruzelro will continue to
be devalued in line with domestic inflation, implying some further real
depreciation as external prices rise. Simultaneously, the Government has
temporarily imposed stricter, emergency oriented, import restrictions.
Despite a slow start and continuing adverse international market conditons,
Brazil appears to be on target in attaining the US$6 billion trade surplus
for 1983. By the end of June the cumulative trade surplus for the first half
of the year had reached US$3 billion. While much of the surplus is
attributed to reductions in imports, export performance in the past few
months has improved considerably. June 1983's exports exceeded those of June
1982 by 19%, pushing up the cumulative growth in relation to the first six
months of 1982 to 6Z. Reaching the US$6 billion trade surplus will mean that
Brazil's current account deficit will be about US$8 billion or some 3Z of
GDP.
12.       Less success has been achieved in attaining the 1983 internal
stabilization targets. In the beginning of 1983 measures were announced to
(a) reduce the consolidated federal public deficit tbrough both expenditure
cuts and revenue increases, (b) restrain monetary and credit expansion, (c)
decrease credit sad comodity subsidies, and (d) reduce overall wage
indexation to less than 10OZ of cost-of-living increases. According to the
Government estimates of the consolidated federal deficit, the progran
announced in early 1983 and embodied in the internal credit and financing
ceilings in Brazil's agreement with the IMF, if fully complied with, would
have brought about the reduction of the deficit as a percentage of GDP from
62 in 1982 to a surplus of 1S in 1983.2/ By May 1983 it had become apparent
that this ambitious target, involving a 7Z change in the deficit as a
percentage of GDP, was not being met. Because of the failure to comply with
the associated public sector financing requirements in the Fund's agreement
with Brazil, the IMF suspended the second disbursement of its EFF
of US$411 million scheduled for May. Negotiations between the Brazilian
Government and the IMF are currently underway to revise the stabilization
program and the ceilings in the Fund agreement with Brazil.
13.       In June the Government announced a new package of stabilization
measures directed toward strengthening the stabilization measures announced
earlier. The at-bilization program during the first half of 1983 had been
21   The IMF computes the public sector's borrowing requirements, which are
much higher than the operating deficit. The discrepancy derives from
definitional or conceptual differences rather than from statistical
ones. The Brazilian Government estimates of the consolidated public
sector deficit relate to current expenditures and do not incorporate the
accured monetary correction of the federal internal debt as current
expenditure. The IMF, on the other hand, for this purpose, prefers to
treat the monetary correction on the debt as a current expenditure and
to express the public sector's financing requirements in nominal
values. Thus, the respective concepts can be translated into each
other, once the rate of inflati-i is given.



complicated by a reacceleration of the inflation, in part attributed to the
February devaluation, and a growing climate of economic uncertainty. Renewed
efforts have been directed at reducing the consolidated public sector
deficit. A more rapid phase-out of agricultural credit subsidies was
announced. Prices of goods and services produced or marketed by .he public
sector, such as petroleum derivatives ar. wheat, were substantially
increased, reducing implicit consumer subsidies and the accompanying public
enterprise deficits. The control agency for the federal public enterprises
has been strengthened, and a new public enterprise budget has been
implemented, involving a further 20% cut in the investments of such firms.
At the same time, wage policy has been modified to provide less than full
cost-of-living indexing to wages and salaries.
14.       Continued support of the international financial community, and
particularly the commercial banks, is necessary for Brazil to achieve the
objectives of the IMF-sanctioned austerity program for 1983 and beyond. To
this end, the Government completed negotiations for a four-point financial
assistance plan with foreign commercial banks at the end of February. The
banks agreed to (a) extend new loans in the aggregate of USS4.5 billion, (b)
roll over for an additional 8 years US$4.6 billion of medium- and long-term
loans falling due in 1983, (c) make available up to US$9.4 billion in
short-term commercial credits, and (d) restore to approximately US$7.5
billion the level of deposits held by foreign banks ia overseas branches of
Brazilian banks (falling short of the original US$10 billion target for
interbank credits). Once these arrangements had been made, IMF assistance
was approved on February 28, 1983. Particular problems have been experienced
with the interbank lending component. The smaller banks have been especially
anxious to reduce their Brazilian exposure, and, as a result, by July 1983
interbank credits to Brazil amounted to only about US$5.8 billion. Because
of this shortfall, a reduction of expected foreign direct investment, higher
than anticipated interest payments, and other contingencies, it is expected
that Brazil will require an additional US$3-4 billion for 1983. Despite
acute short-term liquidity difficulties during the last year, Brazil, unlike
several other countries, has not resorted to commercial bank interest payment
suspensions or unilateral bank debt rescheduling measures. A new external
financing package from the commercial banks for the remainder of 1983 and
1984 is expected as a subsequent part of a renegotiated agreement between the
Brazilian Government and the International Monetary Fund.
15.       Brazil's balance of payments would benefit from a continuing fall
in the LIBOR and in world petroleum prices. Because about 70% of the
country's medium- and long-term debt bears variable interest rates, each 1X
drop in LIBOR would mean a savings of about US$500 million. For each dollar
reduction in the price of a barrel of oil, the imported oil bill, which
accounted for about 50% of total imports for 1982, would fall by US$300
million at current consumption levels.
16.       Savings on imported oil could be even greater as domestic oil
production increases and energy conservation continues.  Since 1973 Brazil
has made major efforts to reduce petroleum imports. Investments in oil
exploration have been accelerated, with additional steps taken to develop the
nation's hydroelectric potential and to substitute alcohol for gasoline.
Efforts are also being made to induce energy conservation. particularly



- 6 -
through pricing policies. As a result of thenc and other policies, domestic
gasoline consumption was reducod by more than 10% between 1979 and 1982, and
domestic petroleum production Increased by about 50% from over the some
period. Petroleum and petroleum derivative imports, which totaled US$10
billion in 1982, have been reduced to an annual level of US$7-8 billion in
the first half of 1983.
17.       In view of the balance of payments constraint, Brazil must continue
to experience a period of careful demand management. Maintenance of
international competitiveness through the exchange rate, and realistic prices
and interest rates should help to promote more efficient rcsource allocatlon
favorable to both export growth and efficient import substitution. Public
investments will continue to be constrained by reduced resources
availabilities over the next several years, and foreign lenders, including
the Bank, should be prepared to finance a higher proportion of project costs,
including, when necessary, a part of local costs. The development of
domestic energy sources, export promotion, agriculture, and the stimulation
of domestic savings will continue to require priority attention.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
18.       With reduced but reasonably satisfactory access to external
capital, Brazil may aim for some growth in 1983-87, with an expected GDP
decrease in 1983 of about 3.5% followed by recovery in 1984 and gradually
increasing growth to about 5% by and beyond 1986. Such a scenario is
compatible with a falling current account deficit through 1987.
19.       The Government expects gross M&LT commercial bank borrowings to be
limited to US$10 billion in 1983, a reduction of 20% relative to 1982. Such
borrowings imply projected net M&LT borrowings of US$6.5 billion,
constituting a 9% increase in Brazil's gross MELT external debt. In the
event of greater external resource availability, some build-up of reserve
levels and/or relaxation of import restrictions is expected. By 1985,
projected net M&LT borrowings fall below the 1983 level, and the net M&LT
debt service ratio is expected to decline from 82% in 1982 to approximately
69% in 1986.
20.       The sensitivity of Brazil's balance-of-- rments to exogenous
factors such as petroleum prices, international i.Lerest rates, and world
market conditions makes projections subject to a wide margin of error. Also,
the present scenario depends on Brazil's ability to reduce the consolidated
public sector deficit, expand manufactured exports in a weak world economy,
and attain continued access to international commercial bank lending. These
objectives will not be easily achieved. Moreover, tangible results of the
austerity program are not likely to be seen until the latter part of 1983.
Instances of short-term cash flow problems, therefore, cannot be ruled out.
However, the Brazilian economy remains dynamic, diversified, and relatively
resilient, and policy-makers have repeatedly demonstrated their ability to
adjust to changing circumstances. With the Government's commitment to the
austerity program in 1983 and with IMF support, Brazil should be able to make
the adjustments needed to cope with adverse international circumstances and
to reorient the economy toward a more efficient development path for the
remainder of the decade. Thus, Brazil remains creditworthy for new Bank
borrowing on conventional terms in the magnitudes described above.



-7-
Poverty Alleviation Programs
21.       Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe iucome
inequality, the %rovernment has made substantial efforts to relieve poverty.
The educational system has been rapidly expanded, giving rise to increase
enrollment rates and reduced illiteracy. Social security health programs
have been strengthened and extended to rural areas, and upgrading and
expanding previous health services for the poor have received much Government
attention. Increased Government sfforts have also been directed to low-cost
housing programs for thlie poor and the improved provision of water and
sewerage services.3/ In part as a reflection of these and other programs,
there are some indications, based upon preliminary estimates from the 1980
demographic census, of substantial living standard and welfare improvements
during the 1970s. Considerable absolute real income gains were realized by
all income decile groups. Unlike the 1960's, the poor do not seen to have
been left behind by the rapid economic growth experienced during the 1970s.
Non-income gains, as reflected by improved access to public services,
declining infant mortality, and increased durable consumer goods possession
by households, also attest to significant poverty reduction during the
decade.  Given the impact of the stabilization program on the economy and the
necessity to increase the nuuber of jobs 8i as to absorb new entrants into
the labor market, it is likely that the austerity measures currently pursued
by the Governmet impose a disproportionate burden on the poor, particularly
in urban areas.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
22.       By March 31, 1983 the Bank had made 119 loans to Brazil, amounting
to US$7,672.9 million (net of cancellations), of which 65 were not yet fully
disbursed. During FY7O-75, disbursements averaged US$150 million per year,
reaching US$202 million in FY76, US$472 million in FY82, and US$764 million
in FY83. The undisbursed amount as of March 31, 1983 was US$3,773.8
million. Annex II contains a sursmary statement of Bank loans.
*23.      Over the FY77-81 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from US$425
million to over US$800 million per year. In FY81, eight loans totaling
US$844 million were approved. In FY82, eight loans totaling US$722.1
million were approved.  In FY83 seven loans totaling US$1,457.5 sillion were
approved. They included US$8.9 million for a project to help finance the
preparation of future investment project in the metropolitian region of
Fortaleza and Salvador in Northeast Brazil, US$304.5 million for an iron ore
mining project in the Serra dos Carajas, US$154.0 million for a third
secondary and feeder roads project, US$220.0 million for a second development
31   For a more detailed account of these efforts, see  The Distribution of
Income in Brazil' (Staff Working Paper No. 356, dated September 1979)
and 'Brazil - Human Resources Special Report- (Report No. 2604-BR, dated
July 13, 1979).



- 8 -
banking project, US$302.3 million for a water and sewerage sector project,
US$67.8 million for a second rural development project in the State of Bahia,
and US$400.0 -l3lion for a tbird Agro-Industries credit project. So far in
FY84, a US$52.7 million loan for a market town development project in the
Scate of Parana has been approved. The documents for a US$303 million
agricultural sector loan are being distrlbuted at the same time as the
proposed industrial sector project. Work is advanced on the third phase
project of the Northwest region development program, a r=ral electrification
project, a power distribution project, suppleuental financing for on-going
agricultural and rural development projects, and a primary health care
project for the state of Sao Paulo.
24.       Brazil's external medium and long-term public and private debt
outstanding and disbursed is estimated to have been US$68 billion at the end
of 1982. The Bank's share in thi5 total is estimated at 9Z while its share
in total debt service is estimated at 4x.
25.       As of Narch 31, 1983, IFC comuitments to Brazil totalled US$921.09
million, of which US$602.62 uillion had been sold, repaid or cancelled. Of
the balance of US$318.47 million, US$248.89 mllUion represent loans and
US$69.58 million equity. A summary of IFC's investments as of Narch 31, 1982
is given in Annex II.
-ending Strategy
26.       Brazil is now undergoing a difficult adjustment period, in large
part due to external events. At the same time, it faces the challenge of
developing a longer-term development strategy compatible with lower average
economic growth rates and reduced availability of external resources, while
satisfying the country's vast unmet social needs. These present and
prospective adjustments are being accompanied by complementary changes in the
Bank lending strategy for Brazil.
27.       In the short-run, the Bank will assist in easing Brazill's current
external financing constraint through accelerated resource transfers coupled
with support for the major policy changes required by the austerity program
and necessary for longer-term growth and lower inflation. In support of
these efforts, several modalities of the Bank's Special Action Program,
approved by the Executive Directort on February 22, 1983 are being reflected
in our operations. These include working capital financing under the
recently approved Third Agro-Industries Project, financing of a higher share
of project costs during the initial implementation years for the Second Rural
Development in the State of Bahia, and greater use and streamLining of the
operation of Project Special Accounts into which Bank funds are deposited in
advance in order to reduce the need for the Government to prefinance Bank's
share of project costs, and vhich allow disbursements of Bank funds to be
made at tbe exchange rate prevailing on the date of expenditure. A
supplemental financing loan for ongoing agricultural and rural development
projects is also under discussion with the Government. The proposed
industrial sector project presented in this report is consistent with the
Guidelines established under the Special Action Program and has been
developed as part of that program.



- 9 -
28.       The Bank's longer-run lending strategy is directed toward helping
Brazil resume efficient and sustainable growth. One focus of the lending
program is on structural tranformation and efficient resource use. Expanding
export capacity in industry and agriculture will ease the foreign exchange
constraint on development while promoting efficiency through exIvo6dre to
international competition. Several loans to BNDES to strengthen industrial
development along these lines have already been made, and much of
Bank-assisted investment in the transport sector-railways, ports and
highways-is designed to facilitate the economic flow of exports. Sector
loans to industry and agriculture, envisaging a restructuring of incentive
and trade policies in support of Government initiatives, are now being
considered. The proposed project which will support expansion of Brazil's
manufactured exports, contributes directly to this adjustment process through
the liberalization of trade policies for export production, as reflected in
the Brazilian import drawback system. In addition, building upon the ongoing
dialogue between the Bank and the Government on industrial and trade
policies, a work group is being established to prepare policy studies and
make recommendations for changes in such existing policies.
29.       Another lending priority is the development of domestic energy
resources on a cost-effective basis and energy conservation. Lending for the
electric power sector, which encouraged the development and use of
hydroelectric energy, and the alcohol and biomass energy development project
have addressed the need to reduce petroleum imports. Future lending wlll be
based on appropriate pricing of energy, so as to provide incentives to
producers and encourage conservation by consumers while reducing government
subsidies to the energy sector.
30a       A third lending objective in Brazil is to help intensify the
efforts of the Government to increase the productivity of the lowest income
segments of the population, to broaden the opportunities open to those
groups, and to improve their living conditions. Previous loans for
nutrition, primary education, vocational training, agricultural research,
agricultural extension, polder construction in the lower Sao Francisco river
basin, and integrated rural development were designed to assist low-income
groups in rural areas, especially those in the northeast and the northwest.
Loans for water supply and severage projects in the state of Minas Gerais, in
greater Sao Paulo, in the Northeast and in the South, loans for urban
transport in several major cities, a loan for sites and services and low-cost
housing, and a loan for urban development in medium-sized cities are
assisting the improvement of the living conditions of the urban population,
particularly of the urban poor.
31.       Institution-building and improving the operations of the public
sector remain inportant components of the Bank strategy for Brazil. The Bank
also serves as a catalyst in stimmlating the inflow of resources.  Continued
lending by the Bank in Brazil is regarded by the international financial
community as a sign of confidence in Brazil's development prospects. In some
sectors, especially in electric power and industry, Bank participation has
helped Brazil obtain additional resources in greater amounts from bilateral
credit agencies and private financial institutions than may otherwise have
been provided. Since 1976 through June 30, 1982, ten co-financing
operations, for about US$560 million, have been arranged and signed with



- 10 -
private financial institutions.  Cofinancing opportunities are rather limited
in Brazil for the time beinF as the volume and terms of commercial bank
financing available to Brazil are determined within the framework of the debt
rescheduling package. Cofinancing could become more important in future
years, however, and the new cofinancing investments developed by the Bank
could play a role in encouraging commercial banks to provide Brazil with
additional lending on appropriate terms.
PA4R III - FOREIGN TRADE AND INDUSTRY: DEVELOPMENT AND INSTITUTIONS
The Industrial Policy Environment and Trade Strategy
32.       On the basis of a large domestic market and ample domestic
resources, Brasil has since before World War II followed a development
strategy oriented primarily toward expansion of production for the domestic
market. Until the early 1960's, the principal objective of Government
development policy was the establishment of a broad and diversified
industrial base. High import protection was provided along with fiscal and
financial incentives for domestic market production and, as a result,
manufactured exports were extremely small during this period. In addition to
discrimination against exports such policies implied low labor absorption and
resource misallocation in some industries, and discrimination against the
agricultural sector. The significant changes in the --conomic development
strategy of the mid-1960's included a cautious trade policy liberalization.
The Brazilian economy was gradually opened to foreign trade opportunities
through removing import restrictions, more realistic exchange rates and
strengthened export incentives. The latter included introduction of the duty
drawback mechanism, permitting the duty free importation of iuputs for export
production. The results of these policy reforms, which were supported by
favorable international economic conditions, were rapid export expansion and
high rates of economic growth above Brasil's long-term trend.  At the time of
the first increase of petroleum prices in 1973, Brazil had established a
broad-based economy capable of producing a wide variety of industrial and
agricultural goods efficiently and competitively for both the domestic and
the export market.
33.       As noted above, after the first petroleum price increase in
1973-74, the Brazilian Government chose to pursue the high growth strategy
initiated in the late 1960s managing the now more constrained
balance-of-payments situation through a combination of renewed import
substitution, export subsidies for selected sectors, and foreign borrowing.
This stragegy largely suceeded in achieving its primary objectives through
the rest of the decade, but at the cost of leaving the economy more
vulnerable to any further external shocks through substantially enlarged
external indebtedness. Also, the establishment of large projects in basic
industries under strengthened protection from import competition created
major areas of inefficiencies in the Brazilian economy, which were not
competitive on export markets and required continued and excessive
protection. The 1979 oil price increase and the 1980 interest rate shock
induced a further tightening of protection measures, in order to reduce
foreign exchange expenditures for imports and to reserve the declining



- ii -
domestic market for Brazilian producers. Among the restrictive easures
taken were the introduction of discretionary controls of the duty drawback
system for export production.
34.       At present, the Brazilian economy is relatively closed, and major
benefits could be derived from a liberalization of foreign trade. This would
provide the required impulse for a revival of domestic economic activity and
generate needed foreign exchange earnings from exports. Despite rapid export
growth between 1965 and 1980 the shares of merchandise imports and exports in
GDP are currently less than 7X, suggesting that even for a country of
Brazil's size, there exists considerable room for long term foreign trade
expansionu., However, the current structure of Brazilian industry does not
permit the implementation of a revised economic policy within a short period
of time, since the cost of adjustment could be excessive during a short
period of transition. In addition, under prevailing Brazilian balance of
payments conditions, needed economic policy changes can be effectively
initiated only if they help to reduce the critical foreign exchange
constraint currently facing the Brazilian economy. Liberalization and
expansion of the duty drawback system represent, therefore, a first step in a
gradual program of feasible policy measures, as they would generate a net
foreign exchange inflow within a short period of time, while increasing
import competition for domestic industry to a limited extent.
The Government's Strategy
35.       The Brazilian Government has recognized that the opening of the
economy as well as the -chievement of a bigh medium-term trade surplus
require basic policy changes towards increased export orientation and import
liberalization. The overall policy direction of a long-term trade
liberalization has been defined during the ongoing economic policy dialogue
between the Government of Brazil and the Bank. Major components of this
strategy include (a) reduction of import barriers to strengthen industrial
efficiency; (b) gradual rationalization of incentives, including those in the
area of foreign trade; and (c) improvement of specific industrial policy
measures by simplifying procedures and administration. As a part of these
general measures, a reform of the tariff system is being envisaged, with the
intention to reduce quantitative import restrictions and tariff levels, and
restructure the tariff system with a view to restoring a greater role to
tariffs in industrial policies. Accordingly, incentives operating more
explicitly through the price system are to be emphasized. The Brazilian
Government Is aware that the above policy measures require detailed
elaboration and planning for their implementation, as part of a comprehensive
strategy for industrial and trade development. Hence a technical assistance
component of the proposed loan supports the Government's efforts to define
and prepare the necessary components of such strategy and work out the
details for their early implementation. For this purpose, a study group has
been formed which will initiate its work in October. The results of the
4/   Out of more than 100 countries listed in the World Development Report,
including less developed, middle-income countries, and industrialized
countries, only 4 (China, India, Uganda and Turkey) had total export
ratios with respect to GDP below the 7 percent of Brazil in 1979.



- 12 -
first studies are expected to be available by mid-1984. The results and
recommendations of these, and subsequent studies will be discussed with the
Bank. It is intended that such recommendations will lead to further policy
action, consistent with the Government's overall objective to initiate
reforms establishing a wore open economy and an efficient incentive system.
Annex VI provides furtber information on the study program.
36.       A number of important policy measures which were recently
undertaken, essentially for short-term macro-economic stabilization purposes,
are consistent with the overall strategy of strengthened export orientation;
the 30 percent devaluation of February 1983; the reduction of interest
subsidies in export financing and other Government credit schemes; and the
reduction of price controls can be expected to have a substantial positive
impact on industrial efficiency and export growth. Liberalization and
expansion of the duty drawback system, which is supported by the proposed
loan, represent another important step towards revised long-term industrial
and trade policies which would strengthen the competitiveness of both the
domestic market and export industry. The provision of needed production
inputs at international prices to export manufacturers under the drawback
system would lead to increased exports and, therefore, form an essential
component of the Government's long-term industrial and trade strategy.
Export Performance /
37.       Since 1965 Brazilian exports have experienced substantial growth.
Average annual export growth during the period 1965-1982 was high at about
18% in current US dollars. While this growth also reflected dollar
inflation, export growth In constant prices was considerable - about 10Z per
year on average. Annual export growth rates varied strongly during this
period, largely as a result of economic policy changes. The economic
stabilization program implemented during 1965-1967 prepared the basis for the
subsequent boom of 1968-1973. While the stabilization period was
characterized by low growth rates of GDP and exports, the economy grew at an
average annual rate of 11.5% during the period of 1968-1973 with exports
increasing more than tbree times to US$6.2 billion in 1973. Between 1964 and
1974 the ratio of manufactured exports to total industrial output rose from 2
percent to 7 percent. After the oil price increase of 1973, which resulted
in a drastic deterioration of Brazilian terms of trade, total exports
continued to increase at high rates to US$20.1 billion in 1980, which was
largely due to growth of industrial exports. About 10% of domestic
industrial production in 1980 was directed toward export rarkets.
Manufactured exports in 1980 accounted for more than balf of total exports,
as compared to only one-third in 1973.
38.       The second oil price increase in 1979/80, the sharp jump of
international interest rates in 1980, world recession and concomitantly
depressed comodity prices terminated the long period of high economic growth
5/  A detailed analysis of manufactured export policies and performance is
presented in Brazil: Industrial Policies and Manufactured Exports.
Report No. 3766-BR, July 2, 1982.



- 13 -
and export performance. While the Brazilian economy entered in 1981 into a
period of stagnation, export growth continued for another year as Brazilian
industrial products proved highly successful in the expanding markets of oil
producing countries in Africa and the Middle East. Total exports reached a
peak of US$23.3 billion in 1981. The increase of US$3.1 billion 15Z) over
exports of 1980 was largely due to industrial products' exports to these new
markets. Export performance during 1981 was also supported by improved
profitability after the devaluation of the Cruzeiro in November of 1979. The
world economic recession of 1982 had a severe impact on Brazilian exports,
which declined in US dollar terms for the first time since 1967 by 13% to
US$20.2 billion. Industrial exports suffered from the weakening of markets
in the oil producing countries and from reduced price competitiveness.
Exports of primary products also declined, except coffee and tobacco, as
world market prices for major Brazilian products - sugar, soya and meat -
deteriorated. During the first quarter of 1983 the export performance of
both primary and industrial products weakened further. Information on the
second quarter indicates, that the devaluation of February 1983 effectively
improved export competitiveness of Brazilian manufacturers, thus restoring a
necessary condition for a return to export growth. Provided real exchange
rate levels are maintained and the exporters' access to imported inputs, and
financing, are Improved, the Government's export target of US$23 billion for
1983 may well be achieved. The liberalization and expansion of the import
duty draw-back system for production inputs needed by exporters would reduce
an important and immediate constraint to meeting the 1983 export target.
Development and Structure of I_ports
39.       Brazilian imports have in the past developed in line with export
growth, increasing from US$2.5 billion in 1970 to US$19.4 billion in 1982.
Import growth was largely determined by the two oil price increases of the
1970s. Imports nearly doubled after both 1973 and 1979. As a result, non-
petroleum products represent currently about one-half of Brazilian imports
compared to more than 90% in 1972, the year before the first oil price
increase.  After experiencing substantial growth until 1974 non-petroleum
import volumes stagnated between 1974 and 1980.  Since 1980 they bave been
falling as a consequence of the domestic economic recession and additional
import restricting policy measures.  In 1982, non-petroleum imports of US$8.9
billion were about 30Z below the peak of 1980. The decline of both petroleum
and non-petroleum imports continued during the first mcuths of 1983. Imports
during January to April 1983 were US$5.3 billion, which is 26% below the
already depressed level of the corresponding period in 1982.
40.       The structure of Brazilian imports is largely determined by the
long-term import substitution policies and the requirements of complementing
insufficient domestic energy production. Import substitution policies
affected particilarly the imports of capital goods and production inputs,
which declined from 75% of imports in 1973 to 40% in 1982. Import levels of
capital goods and production inputs are particularly depressed since the
beginning of the current economic recession in Brazil. Between 1980 and 1982
imports of these product categories declined by 40% in current US dollars and
by an additional 37Z in the first quarter of 1983. As the possibilities are
limited for further substituting imported products, several sub-sectors may
be currently reducing production for lack of inputs. *C.>rrent imports of



- 14 -
production inputs are probably substantially below the volumes required for a
sustained recovery of economic -ctivity.  The proposed loan would support a
largely unrestricted access to imported production inputs, spare parts and
components for export produ:tion, which is particularly affected by the
current severe import restrictions.
Foreign Trade Projections for 1983-1988
41.       With the improved competitiveness of Brazilian products after the
currency adjustment of February 1983 and the proposed changes of the duty
drawback system, future export growth should be strong as foreign markets
recover from the current recession. Brazil may be able to eliminate its
current account deficit by 1988, if exports expressed in current US dollars
increase by about 15% p.a. to US$44 billion during the five-year period
1983-1988, which covers the liberalization and expansion process of the
drawback system under the proposed loan. This export growth should be
feasible, given the broad range of Brazilian export products, the ample spare
capacity and the proven capability of Brazilian industry and agriculture to
produce exportable products, but will depend heavily on recovery of world
markets. Exports of manufactured products would play the leading role in
achieving the above export target with increasing real growth rates of 5% in
1984, 8% in 1985-1987, and 10% in 1988. Primary products' exports should
increase at somewhat lower rates, due to world market price and domestic
production constraints.
42.       After an expected decline to US$17 billion in 1983, imports are
projected to resume growth by 1984. However, the projected increase of total
imports until 1988 would be modest at 8-9% p.a. in current US dollars under
the assumption of stable oil prices and falling oil import volumes. Imports
of production inputs and machinery, on the other hand, would rise at a
substantially higher rate, taking into account the increased import
requirements of the recovering economy and the limited remaining potential
for import substitution. Imports for production inpuLs under the duty
drawback system would have a particularly high growth rate, but their share
of total imports would remain small at less than 14% in 1988.
Policies Affecting Trade
43.       Overall Brazilian commercial policies are currently highly
restrictive and suppress foreign trade opportunities. Protection from import
competition is high, with legal tariffs which are subject to numerous
reductions and exonerations, averaging 99% for matr factured products,
supplemented by a complex system of non-tariff barriers. In addition,
products are placed temporarily on a list of prohibited impoirts, while
permitted products are imported under tightly controlled inn.rt licensing
procedures.  Since much of Brazil's industrial production i -  -ld
domestically at prices not badly out of line with those in - -i markets, at
least part of this protection is redundant although it can  -          create
substantial inefficiencies, especially the licensing system.    -Y, the
trade control agency, issues import licenses on the basis of       -t programs
presented and negotiated annually by importing enterprises on       "asis of
overall import targets established by Government.  Since the h-  i.ng of the
Brazilian debt crisis, these targets have been severely curtai-ti .indd,



- 15 -
consequently, CACEX has successively imposed additional obstacles for
obtaining import licenses. Sharply falling imports in 1982 and 1983 resulted
from these measures. On the export side, export taxes exist for most
agricultural products, and several exports are subject to quantitative
restrictions, g-ving priority to the domestic market. All of these policy
measures, coupled with some market imperfections and exchange rate
uncertainty, have contributed effectively to reduce Import and export volumes
of traded products, thus contributing to Brazil's recent economic stagnation
and balance-of-payments problems. The Government is aware of these
difficulties and intends to address them with future policy changes. To this
end, recommendations will be made based upon work carried out under the
studies component of the proposed project (e.g., the export promotion
policies analysis).
44.       The current commercial policy environment in Brazil provides widely
disparate rates of effective domestic market protection across different
sectors and industries tbus imposing substantial social welfare losses on
the Brazilian economy.f/ Estimated at prevailing official exchange rates,
the average rate of effective protection for manufacturing in 1980-81 was
44X. Capital goods received the most generous protection at effective rates,
exceedinag OOZ in several cases. The structure of protection across
Brazilian industries appears to favor capital-intensive activities,thus
reducing the demand for unskilled labor and exacerbating Brazil's uneven
distribution of income. Also, it may be difficult in the future to stimulate
economic growth through protective measures, since Brazilian industries
receiving the highest protection frequently are those where worldwide
technology is growing the fastest (e.g. electronics industry). Finally,
long-term Brazilian export -erformance has suffered from the diversity of
protection levels, as economic resources were drawn into the more heavily
protected activities which tend to produce for the domestic market.
45.       Until the adoption of a crawling peg exchange rate system in 1968,
there were substantial oscillations in Brazil's real exchange rate, which
were prejudicial for developing exports, since export profitability was
highly uncertain. Under the policy of mini-devaluations during 1968 and 1979
fluctuation of Brazil's real exchange rate was modest and export growth was
considerable.  The December 1979 maxi-devaluation of 30% and the subsequent
pre-fixation of the exchange rate depreciation in 1980 significantly changed
the prevailing trade policy environment and reintroduced a degree of
uncertainty in the conduct of exchange rate policy. By mid-1980 the effect
of the devaluation on export competitiviness bad been completely eroded. The
deficiencies of the revised exchange rate management practice soon became
apparent, and in November 1980 the previous procedure of frequent
mini-devaluation in line with relative domestic inflation was resumed. The
restoration of the previous crawling peg policies stabilized the real
exchange rate between December 1980 and January 1983, as measured by the
differential between Brazilian and U.S. dollar inflation. However, the
strengthening of the U.S. dollar in relation to European currencies and the
6/   A detailed analysis of manufactured export policies and performance is
presented in Brazil: Industrial Policies and Manufactured Exports.
Report No. 3766-BR, July 2, 1982.



- 16 -
yen has meant a decline of competitiveness of Brazilian exports on third
country markets. The trade weighted purchasing power parity exchange rate
declined by 14Z between December 1980 and January 1983, with mst of the
deterioration occurring during 1982. This reduction in export
competitiveness was more than offset by the devaluation of 3OZ 'n February
1983. The Government has correctly indicated that the real exchange rate
level reached in February 1983 will be maintained, and somewhat improved,
within a policy of mini-devaluations, which would considerably improve the
prospects for future export growth.
46.       Fiscal incentives for Brazilian exports have been offered with the
purpose to compensate for the discrimination imposed by domestic market
protection and the overvaluation of the exchange rate. But incentives have
been inadequate to offset the anti-export bias created by other policy
measures. There are currently in force several different fiscal incentive
instruments designed to stimulate exports. First, there are a number of tax
exemptions for exports, including exemptions from indirect taxes, such as the
industrial product tax and the state sales tax, and exemption from that
portion of a firm's corporate income earned from exports. Second, there is a
fiscal credit currently set at 11% of the value of qualified manufactured
exports and redeemable in cash through the banking system. This fiscal
incentive, originally granted at a rate of 15Z in April 1981 to offset the
adverse 1980 exchange rate movement, was subsequently reduced to 11% and is
scheduled for removal by 1985. Third, there exists since 1968 a duty
drawback system, designed to provide duty free importation of inputs for
export production. In recent years, however, the drawback system has lost
its effectiveness as an export promotion program, due to the substantial
amount of controls and discretionary administrative decisions. Under the
proposed loan the drawback system will be thoroughly revised and expanded, in
order to turn it into an effective export promotion instrument. Finally, the
BEFIEX/CIEX program7/ is a system of enterprise-specifi. export incentive
packages provided i return for a commitment to reach agreed export targets
over a period of generally ten years. The main incentive of BEFICEX/CIEX are
duty and tax reduction or exemption on imports of production inputs and
machinery. The major advantages for the producers of this program over the
drawback system are the permission to use imports for both export and
domestic market production and the access to imported machinery. By April
1983 over 400 enterprises were operating under BEFIEX/CIEX programs involving
export commitments of US$72 billion. In 1982 over 12% tUS$2.5 billion) of
manufactured exports and about 16Z of non-oil imports (US$1.4 billion) were
performed under BEFIEX/CIEX programs.
Export Financing
47.       Before the emergence of the Brazilian debt crisis by mid-1982,
exporters seem to have faced few problems in obtaining adequate volumes of
financing. The most important export financing was provided by the Central
Bank under the heavily subsidised Resolution 674 program, which improved the
profitability of export production. Financing requirements not satisfied by
this subsidised scheme would be directed toward the export financing programs
71   Detaills of the BEFLEX/CIEX program are described in para. 55.



- 17 -
of the state-owned Banco do Brasil and domestic commercial bank f inancing.
Until 1982 Brazilian manufacturers also seem to have benefitted from ample
foreign suppliers' credit for imports of production inputs and machinery.
During 1980 to 1982, the Central Bank and Banco do Brasil provided about US$5
billion per year of export credit under different financing schemcs.  About
one third of this amount originated from the Fund for Export Financing
(FINEX) which is operated by CACEX. Under this program, CACEX finances
manufactured exports in the preshipment and postshipment stages. FINEX
credit is in US dollars at interest rates somewhat below market rates and at
maturities of three to eight years. The Central Bank's Resolution 674 scheme
covered in 1982 about one half of export fiwincing provided by government
institutions. The program is also administered by CACEX and is aimed at
supplying both working capital and a subsidy, in the form of reduced interest
rates, to export manufacturing enterprises.
48.       The foreign exchange crisis affected both volume and condition of
financing available to exporters. The volume of export financing from FINEX
and the Resolution 674 program to be provided during 1983 were reduced by
about 40Z in current US dollar terms as compared to 1982. Since a number of
other smaller export financing programs of the Government were also sharply
cut, total export financing provided from official sources may fall below
US$3 billion in 1983. In June 1983 the Government announced a sharp increase
of the interest rate on the reduced volume of Resolution 674 financing, which
would further limit the incentive to exports provided by the financing
scheme. The sharp reduction of foreign supplier's credit since mid-1982
could also have serious effects on export growth. The Government is
currently negotiating with international commercial banks to reestablish
previous levels of suppliers' credit lines for Brazilian importers. On the
other hand, demand for trade financing in US dollars seems to have declined,
since many Brazilian importers are unwilling to carry the high exchange rate
risk involved. A recently created export credit scheme (PROEX), which will
be operated by the development banking system (BNDES), does not represent an
adequate replacement of reduced domestic and overseas sources of export
financing. PROEX provides medium-term financing at close to market
conditions ma-inly for imports of capital goods.
49.       As Brazil's possibilities for domestic credit expansion will remain
severely restricted and prospects for an early reestablishment of adequate
foreign supplier's credit lines are uncertain, the current outlook is for
continued limitations on credit for exporters.  In addition, the efficient
use of limited financial resources is made difficult by the segmentation of
the existing export financing system in a large number of different programs
with varying interest rates and subsidy content. Complex and discretionary
administrative procedures for allocating scarce funds under the programs also
may not permit the efficient distribution of the limited volume of export
financing. An effective export financing system represents an essential
condition for achieving the required medium-term export growth. The study
group established for the analysis of industrial and trade policies, which
will be supported under the proposed loan, would carry-out as the first
specific task an analysis of the existing export financing system, with a
view to identify its deficiencies and to make proposals to the Government on
required changes and future policy action (para 80).



- 18 -
Institutional Framework for Trade Policies
50.       Since 1979 the National Council of External Trade (CONCEX) headed
by the Minister of Finance, is in charge of formulating foreign trade
policies and coordinating the action of the different institutions executing
these policies. However, the decisions of CONCEX must be compatible with the
resolutions of the Monetary Council which establishes the guidelines for
overall economic policies. The policy directions of CONCEX are executed at
the national level by CACEX and at international level by the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs. Also reporting to CONCEX, the Commission of Customs Policy
(CPA) is in charge of establishing and removing surcharges on import tariffs
and making recommendations to CONCEX of tariff levels and structure. The
Council of Industrial Development (CDI), which reports to the Ministry of
Industry and Commerce, has the function to promote industrial activities by
establishing incentives in coordination with CONCEX.
51.       Special trade programs are operated by regional development
institutions (SUDENE and SUDAM). The export promoting program BEFIEX/CIEX is
administered by an executive committee reporting to the Minister of
Industry. In turn, the president of the BEFIEX Committee is the Executive
Secretary of CDI. There are several sectorial committees in charge of
executing policies in their fields subordinated to their respective
ministries, which are members of CONCEX.  The principal sectorial committees
are for non-ferrous metal products and steel (CONSIDER) and for the merchant
marine (SUNAMAM). The Brazilian Petroleum Company PETROBRAS, and commodity
boards for coffee and cocoa are performing trade policy functions in practice
outside of the structure described above under the direct guidance of the
economic policy authorities. In general terms, the overall institutional
apparatus has functioned reasonably well despite its complexity.
Nevertheless, the Government realizes that improvements can be made, and such
possibilities will be addressed in the studies component of the proposed
loan. This is especially relevant in view of the expected policy changes
consistent with a more liberal trade strategy.
Non-Financial Assistance to Exporters
52.       The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, through its Department of Trade
Promotion (DPR), is the principal governmental institution providing
non-financial assistance to exporters. About 130 overseas offices of DPR in
90 countries provide market information and field assistance to Brazilian
exporters covering, among other, foreign market studies, information on large
projects, description of trade regulations and product quality requirements,
and training opportunities in export marketing. For this purpose, DPR
maintains computerized information on some 60,000 importing foreign firms and
a register of all Brazilian exporters. Since June 1982, DPR is coordinating
its export promotion activities with Banco do Brasil, which gave exporters
access to additional information on overseas markets prepared by the foreign
branches of Banco do Brasil. The market information provided by Banco do
Brasil and DPR are complemented by technical assistance offered to exporters
by specialized departments in several ministries. The technical assistance
provided covers, among other, the areas of product quality improvement and
packaging. Banco do Brazil and DPR have recently launched a major effort to
promote the participation of Brazilian firms in the export of services,
particularly by providing Brazilian consulting firms with information on



- 19 -
.ajor overseas projects. The Government expects that the export of services,
particularly for pre-feasibillty and feasibility studies of major projects,
will become an important source of foreign exchange. In addition, the direct
involvement of Brazilian consulting firms in projects is expected to support
the project related export of goodo. Overall, non-financial assistance to
exporters is well organized and effective, and would not require changes in
the short-term. Nevertheless, the study group on industrial and trade
policy, which is being supported by this loan, would also analyse technical
support requirements of exports and make proposals for improvements as
appropriate.
PART IV - THE DUTY DRAWBACK SYSTEM
Role of Duty Drawback Imports in Brazil's Trade Regime
53.       The duty drawback systeu was established in Brazil in 1966 and
became operative in 1969. It consists of the exoneration or restitution of
domestic taxes and import duties on import inputs used in the production of
exports. Elegible exports are processed products with an FOB value of at
least 140% of the imported production input (corresponding to a maximum
import content of about 70%). Three different duty drawback procedures are
in operation:
Ca)  Restitution of duties and taxes paid by exporters on imported
production inputs. This system of reimbursing duties and
taxes is administered by the Federal Internal Revenue
Secretariat (SRF). It is seldom used because the
reimbursement procedures are time-consuming and the reimbursed
taxes not subject to monetary correction.
(b)  Exemption of duties and taxes on imports to exporters who had
previously imported dutiable inputs. This procedure permits
exporting firms to re-establish duty-free stocks of imported
production inputs. Imports under this procedure are
administered by CACEX.
(c)  Suspension of duties and taxes on imported inputs for export
production. This procedure is also administered by CACEX and
is the most frequently used duty drawback mechanism (covering
about 90% of drawback imports in 1982).
54.       The drawback system provides considerable incentives to exports.
In 1982, duty drawback imports of US$1.2 billion benefited from about US$1.0
billion of duty and tax exemptions. The bulk of the total incentives were
due to duty exemption, amounting to about US$600 million in 1982 (i.e., the
average tariff rate of products imported under the duty drawback system was
50%). Exemption from the 25% tax on financial operations (IOF) was the
second most valuable incentive. Finally, duty drawback importers were
exempted from US$90 million of other domestic taxes (mainly the industrial
products' tax (IPI)). On the other hand, exports benefiting from duty
drawback imports obtained the fiscal credit incentive (credito premio) of 15%
in 1982 only on their domestic value added.



- 20 -
55.       The drawback system Is one of several import system. in Brazil
providing duty free import. to export manufacturers. The BEFIEX system is
particularly important to exporters, since it permits the importation of
machinery in addition to other production inputs.8/ Manufacturers registered
under the BEFIEX system are also free of controls with respect to the use of
their imports for either domestic or export market production. However, as
the volume of BEFIEX imports Is limited by export performance and is subject
to the IOF tax, BEFIEX manufacturers prefer to import a maximum of Inputs for
export production through the drawback system. In 1982, about one quarter of
drawback imports were performed by manufacturers operating under BEFIEX
programs. In addition to the drawback and the BEFIEX systems, there exist
two other means of providing export manufacturers with duty free production
inputs. Two customs entrepot system are in operation (entreposto aduaneiro
and entreposto industrial) for imports of about US$140 million of production
inputs in 1982. Enterprises assembling electronic equipment with high import
content are the main users of the entrepot import systems. The Government
has recently taken steps to strengthen the competitiveness of domestically
produced inputs to export production. Exoneration from domestic taxes of
sales made to export manufacturers of textile products was introduced in
March 1983.9/
56.       After moderate growth during the early years of the system's
operation, drawback imports have increased substantially since 1978. In
1982, drawback imports reached US$1.2 billion, compared to only US$350
million in 1978. Since other imports rose at a much smaller rate during this
period, the share of drawback imports in total non-oil imports increased from
4X in 1978 to about 14Z in 1982. At an estimated import content of 25%, the
export volume benefiting from drawback imports was US$4.8 billion in 1982
(404" of industrial exports), compared to US$1.4 billion in 1978 (20Z of
industrial exports)   While past industrial export growth cannot directly be
linked to growth of drawback imports, the recently implemented restrictions
on drawback imports may have contributed substantially to the poor
performance of industrial exports during 1982 and 1983.
57.       Although the drawback system was applied without major restrictions
until 1979, the existence of more than 25 other preferential import regimes
reduced its relative attractiveness. Exporters could import production
inputs free of duties and taxes under these other systems without following
the complex duty drawback procedures   As the balance-of-payments
deteriorated in late 1980, quantitative restrictions on imports were
strengthened. Drawback imports were included by CACEX as part of the
enterprises' annual import programs which frequently induced the firms to
reduce imports for export production in favor of imports for the more
profitable production for the domestic market. Application of the extensive
8/   In addition the CIEX system grants import duty reductions for capital
goods.
9/   This tax exoneration was introduced under the so-called 'drawback
verde-amarelo" and replaces tax rebates, which implied a financial
cost. This exoneration is expected to cover eventually all domestic
inputs to export production.



- 21 -
list of prohibited or suspended products to drawback imports presented an
even stronger restriction on the system. The list covers practically all
production inputs, which may only be imported, when no similar product can be
supplied by a domestic manufacturer. In addition to imposing protection
criteria for the granting of import licenses for drawback operat-ans, this
national similarity test performed by CACEX raised substantially the
complexity and time of administrative processing of drawback imports.
Nevertheless, requests for duty drawback imports continued to increase in
1981 and 1982, as the relative attractiveness of the scheme improved with the
introdution of a 15% IOF tax in January 1980 (raised to 25Z in January
1981). In difference to other import schemes the drawback system is exempted
from the IOF.
58.       Currently, three major product categories are being imported under
the drawback scheme. About US$ 250 million of total drawback imports in 1982
were soybeans and rice, which were imported by the Government institutions
for the sole purpose of supplying the domestic market. A second, smaller
category are imports by domestic market producers who comt.ete with foreign
suppliers for major projects in Brazil. The third, most important category
of imports were production inputs for exports amounting to about US$930
million in 1982. In addition to soybeans and rice, the main product groups
imported under the drawback scheme were chemicals, metal products and parts
for machinery and transport equipment. The principal sectors benefiting from
drawback imports were the chemical industry, metal working and machinery and
the automotive industry. In spite of the considerable increase in recent
year, the share of drawback imports in total domestic supply of industrial
products is less than one percent. This would indicate that the substantial
increase of drawback imports planned under the proposed project is not likely
to have a major adverse effect on domestic production. While precise
statistics are unavailable, recent estimates indicats, that the past ratio of
drawback imports to exports was about 25Z . This ratio appears to have
fallen to about 15% during the restrictions imposed in 1982 and 1983, as
CACEX prevented export products with high import content from benefiting
under the drawback system. As more exports will have access to imported
inputs under the expanded drawback system, exporters will again utilize the
system for products with higher import content. In the long-run, one dollar
spent on imports under the drawback system can be expected to support exports
of about five dollars, based ca an average import content of 20%.
Administration of the Duty Drawback System
59.       Prior to 1979, CACEX, SRF and CPA administered the drawback
system jointly. In January 1979, all administrative functions for the system
were transferred to CACEX, with the exception of the hardly used procedures
of duty restitution which is operated by the SRF of the Ministry of Finance.
However, exporters did not benefit from the possible administrative
simplifications which could have resulted from centralizing responsibility
for the drawback system in CACEX, as execution of the Government's import
restriction policies required CACEX to introduce a number of cumbersome and
lengthy procedures into the process of import license approval. The
principal policy measures introduced since 1980 requiring the change of
administrative procedures by CACEX with respect to the drawback system are as
follows:



- 22 -
(a) Introduction of annual enterprise-specific import programs to
be negotiated with CACEX (December 1980). Duty drawback
imports form part of these programs;
(b)  establishment of a restricted list of prohibited or
temporarily suspended products (March 1982). The broad
product categories registered on the restricted list cover
practically all domestically produced goods. Only products
which are not domestically produced at comparable prices and
quality may be imported under the drawback system. As the
function of identifying similar domestically available
products is largely performed by protection oriented
producers' associations, the effect of the restricted list on
drawback imports is particularly severe;
(c)  introduction of minimum external financing requirements for
imports (February 1983). Imports under the drawback system
are related to the financing obtained and usually require the
provision of foreign supplier's credit and/or the export sale
on a cash basis.
60.       Implementation of the above administrative measures have made the
already complex drawback procedures still more cumbersome. Currently, the
process of issuing an import license under the drawback system is initiated
with the exporter's request for a drawback license ('ato concessorio-) made
to a regional office of CACEX. The detailed documentation accompanying the
request includes, in the case of imports under duty suspension, a calculation
of the import content of the goods to be exported, a technical analysis of
the exported product (-laudo tecnico-) and the agreement to use the imported
product only for export production (Ctermo de responsibilidade'). A request
for imports under duty exemption includes the export license (-guia de
exportacao-) and the import declaration C(declaracao de importacao-) issued
by the Federal Internal Revenue Secretariat (SRF). These documents are
required for duty exemption, in order to demonstrate that imports of the same
goods have been performed earlier with duties and taxes paid. Information on
financial arrangements for imports and exports is requested by CACEX in
specific cases of large imports or high import content.
61.       Verification of the documentation and the application of the
different criteria on national product similarity, conformity with firm
specific import budgets, availability of financing, adequacy of import and
export prices, and the import content of export products allow for ample
discretionary decis.on making by the staff in CACEX's headquarters and
regional offices. Discretionary procedures of issuing import licenses by
CACEX are benefitting large enterprises with speciali ed staff capable of
conducting effective negotiations with CACEX in order to obtain the most
favorable conditions for drawback imports. Long delays in issuing licenses
for drawback imports is another effect of the complex procedures. Currently,
the complete process from application to issuance of the license may take up
to 130 days. The maximum time is required particularly for requests of large
import activities which are processed in both regional offices and
headquarters of CACEX. The lack of standardized procedures for granting



- 23-
licenses to drawback imports and,,-tte excessive processing time complicate
planning of production, reducing substantially the incentives to exports
provided by the system. Under the proposed project, the duty drawback
administration has been simplified and the processing time required for
licensiog has been substantially reduced.
62.       SRP deals with exporters, who are not complying with the export
commitment, on the basis of information provided by CACEX. Exporters who are
in non-compliance due to factors outside of their responsiblity may pay all
duties and txxes due on the imported inputs, adjusted for monetary correction
and interes-, and use the imports for domestic market production. If the
non-compltance is within the exporters responsibility, an additional penalty
of up to 100% of the due taxes and duties is being charged by SRF. CACEX
requires from exporters, who have not complied with past export comitments,
detailed demonstration of export feasibility, before new duty drawback
licenses are issued. These procedures of dealing with non-complying
exporters have worked satisfactorily and would be maintained for the reformed
duty drawback system.
Provision of Foreign Exchange for Drawback Imports
63.       Under import procedures, importers with import licenses establish a
foreign exchange contract (contrato de cambio) with an authorized commercial
bank for payment to the importer's foreign supplier. Authorized commercial
banks obtain the necessary foreign exchange for import payments from their
own foreign currency holdings, from purchases made from exporters, foreign
financing or from the Central Bank. Depending on registered capital,
commercial banks are allowed a foreign currency bought position of up to
US$1.5 million and a sold position of up to US$7.5 aillion for each
authorized branch office. Within these limits, banks are permitted to sell
foreign exchange in spot transactions or forward transactions of up to 180
days. The Central Bank supplies foreign exchange to authorized banks in
amounts not exceeding those needed to eliminate an oversold position, with a
limit of up to 90% of the foreign exchange sole during the previous day. The
above described arrangements for providing foreign exchange to licensed
importers has proven to be satisfactory in the past. All licensed importers
obtained without delay the foreign exchange required for import transactions,
although during brief periods of speculation on major currency adjustments
importers had to pay a premium of up to 5% over the official exchange rate.
The volume of import licences issued by CACEX is also determined by the
expected amount of foreign exchange available in the inter-bank market. This
would not substantially change under a liberalization of duty drawback
imports within pre-established limits. The current arrangements of providing
foreign exchange to importers, including importers operating under the duty
drawback system, are therefore suitable for the liberalized and expanded duty
drawback import system.
64.       A recent acute scarcity of foreign exchange, however, required the
Central Bank to temporarily establish stronger control over foreign exchange
transactions. This measure, put into effect in August, 1983, requires that
commercial banks deposit in the Central Bank the foreign exchange bought by
importers. The Central Bank, in turn, makes the payments directly to foreign
suppliers on a schedule determined by the Central Bank. This direct
participation of the Central Bank in the foreign exchange market is not
delaying the provision of foreign exchange for drawback imports as they bave



- 24 -
been assigaed high priority. Although this control measure is expected to be
discontinued before the end of 1983, the Government agreed during
negotiations to take all necessary actions during project implementation to
ensure the timely availability of the foreign exchange required to meet the
agreed upon minimum values of eligible imports under the revised drawback
system (Section 3.02(b) of the Loan Agreement).
PART V - THE PROJECT AND THE PROPOSED LOAN
Project Objectives
65.       The purpose of the proposed project is to support the Government's
objective of moving, as soon as practicable, toward a more open and efficient
trade policy (para. 35). As such, the project focusses on the duty drawback
system which is in urgent need of reform. While the study group for
industrial and trade policy analysis, whose work is supported under the loan,
would help to develop the details of the long-term strategy for implementing
a revised external trade policy, the Government selected the reform of the
drawback system as the first major step toward overall trade liberalization.
Considering Brazil's need to return to growth of industrial production and to
achieve witbin a short period of time a substantial increase of exports, a
reform and expansion of the drawback system would be most effective for these
purposes. The introduction of a de facto free trade regime for export
production which provides export manufacturers with automatic and duty-free
access to imported production inputs would stimulate depressed industrial
production without introducing any elements of subsidization and would remove
the discrimination imposed on exporters through current commercial policies.
This will enable Brazilian manufacturers to compete more effectively on
international markets and increase export production.
66.       Under the current situation of depressed industrial production
levels and severe balance of payments liquidity problems, the liberalization
and expansion of the drawback import system constitutes a bold step.
Domestic enterprises supplying production inputs to exporters would face some
increased pressure from import competition under the liberalized drawback
system, which would in some cases lead to reduction of sales. On the balance
of payments side, the immediate effect of the reform could be a short-term
bulge in foreign exchange expenditures for increased imports. Both the
possible reduction in domestic industrial production of tradeable inputs and
the balance of payments effect of increased imports would represent
short-term results of the drawback liberalization, which would be more than
compensated for through subsequent increased export production and
strengthened foreign exchange earnings from rising exports. The proposed
loan would help to reduce the possible negative impact of drawback
liberalization on the short-term flow of foreign exchange, since disbursement
of the loan proceeds would be made pari passu with rising expenditures for
imports (para. 88).
67.       The technical assistance component of the proposed loan would
support additional reforms of industrial and trade policies beyond the
revision of the drawback import system. Before further steps toward
achieving a basic and permanent redirection of industrial and trade policies



- 25 -
can be taken, substantial preparatory work is required. This is necessary in
order to (a) increase the understanding in Brazil of the deficiencies of
present policies; (b) develop well prepared proposals for policy changes; and
(c) help build consensus on the new policy direction among decision makers in
Brazil. To support these purposes, proceeds from the loan would .elp finance
the work of an industrial and trade policy working group (para. 78) which has
been agreed upon in conjunction with the Bank's Second Development Banking
Project.10/
Loan Components
68.       A Bank loan of US$352.0 million is proposed which would be
allocated to the different project components as follows:
(a)  US$350.0 million would be used to support the reform of the
duty drawback import system. The proceeds from this loan
component would provide part of the foreign exchange required
during 1983 and 1964 for imports of raw materials, parts and
components for export production;
(b) about US$1,122,000 would be allocated to support the work of
the study group for a period of two years;
Cc) the capitalized front-end fee of 0.25% would amount to about
US$8783000.
The Restructured Duty Drawback System
69.       Under the restructured duty drawback system, CACEX will issue
import licenses to exporters with a maximun degree of automaticity. In
particular, CACEX wil:
(a) grant licences automatically for eligible imports;
(b) disassociate duty drawback imports from a firm's total annual
import program;
(c) eliminate the examination of national similarity for duty
drawback imports;
(d) simplify and shorten the administrative procedures for
licensing of drawback imports made possible by the elimination
of national similarity examination. Licences would be issued
in a maximum of 15 working days from the presentation of the
request; and
Ce) verify import and export prices of drawback operations only to
prevent abuses and illegal trade practices.
Exclusion of drawback imports from the import budgets eliminated
firm-specific quantitative restrictions on imports for export production.
10/ This project was approved by the Board on December 22, 1982.



- 26 -
Protectionist considerations no longer serve as a criterion for granting an
import license under the drawback system, since all production inputs,
including those domestically available, may be imported. Exporters would
gain access to production inputs at world market prices and quality. CACEX
has established a limited list of products, which include mainly domestically
produced agricultural products, which are subject to Government regulations
and would not be suitable for the drawback system. Finally, the
simplification of administrative procedures for licensing of drawback imports
practically eliminates queuing as a rationing criterion. Particularly, small
enterprises which were discouraged in the past by length and complexity of
the licensing process would increasingly make use of the drawback system and
enter into export production.
70.       The Government has expressed concern that under liberalized
procedures for the drawback system, imports of production inputs could expand
at excessive rates which would damage domestic industry and would present an
unacceptable burden on the country's balance of payments. These concerns are
justified, and a program of limiting drawback imports to pre-determined
annual amounts over a five-year period has been agreed upon by the Government
(Schedule 2 of the draft Loan Agreement). Under the program, the minimum
volume of imports under the drawback system for the last quarter of 1983 has
been set at an equivalent annual amount of US$1.4 billion to be sustained
upon introduction of the reformed drawback system. Over time the floor
amounts for drawback imports would increase in accordance with the expected
growth of manufactured exports plus an additional 5% per year in order to
broaden the coverage of the drawback system during the program period. The
expected growth of exports, and therefore the actual increase of the floor
level, as well as the measures to be taken to reach the new levels would be
agreed upon in semi-annual review meetings of CACEX and the Bank (Section
3.05(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). The US$1.4 billion floor level of
drawback imports for 1983 has been established on the basis of import levels
for 1981 and 1982 (about US$930 million in each year, excluding imports made
by the Government under the drawback system for reasons unrelated to
exports), the targeted increase of exports for 1983, and the amount of the
proposed Bank loan.  The resulting minimum amount of drawback imports in 1983
represents a 50% increase over the 1982 level. Thus, during 1983 the
drawback system would satisfy the import requirements of an annual export
equivalent of US$7 billion.  On the basis of the currently projected growth
rate of eligible exports of 15% annually, in addition to the 5% increase of
the coverage, drawback imports and the supported estimated export volume
during the five-year program period would develop as follows (US$ billion):
Year                Imports                      Exports
1982               0.93 (actual)                   4.65
1983                1.4 (annual equivalent)        7.0
1984               1.7                             8.5
1985               2.0                            10.0
1986               2.4                            12.0
1987               2.9                            14.5
1988               3.5 (annual equivalent)        17.5



- 27 -
71.       The establishment of minimum import levels under the duty drawback
system is consistent with current Brazili'n procedures of foreign exchange
budgeting, which was instituted in conjunction with the IMF-supported annual
external financing programs. -As imports under this budgetary planning
process are disaggregated by product and import regime, changes can be made
easily for achieving consistency between the established minimum import
levels under the drawback system and other import programs within overall
balance of payments budgeting. Other import categories would have to be
adjusted to permit achievement of the minimum levels of duty dra.back
imports. The Government will prepare detailed foreign exchange budgets to
explicitly provide for the planned expenditures for duty drawback imports.
(Drawback imports have been lumped together with other import categories in
the 1983 foreign exchange budget).
72.       The Government has establisbed allocation criteria to ensure that
(a) duty drawback imports can be performed with a maximum degree of
automaticity, minimizing the latitude for discretionary action by CACEX; and
(b) achievement of minimum levels of drawback imports stipulated by the
Government will be permitted. The allocation criteria will be maintained as
long as the minimum import levels are lower than the potential total demand
for imports used as inputs in export production. The allocation criteria
will be relaxed in stages, so as to permit actual drawback import volumes to
reach the stipulated rising minimum levels. The allocation criteria selected
by the Government are (a) the period of physical presence of the imported
inputs in Brazil, and (b) the import content of the final exported products.
The following specific rules for automatic approval of import licenses would
be consistent with the duty drawback import target of 1983:
(a) Production inputs imported under the duty suspension system
would remain no longer than 120 days in the country until the
final products are exported;
(b)  the value of production inputs imported under the suspension
system does not exceed 30Z of the product to be exported;
(c) imports meeting the 120-day criterion of physical permanency
in the country under (a) above but having an import content of
between 30Z and 70Z of final product value would also qualify
for automatic license approval, if external import financing
of at least 180 days is being provided and the resulting
exports are not benefitting from FINEX financing for a period
greater than one year;
(d)  the value of production inputs Imported under the duty
exemption system does not exceed 30X of the product to be
exported.
These criteria will be applied during the initial period of operating the
reformed duty drawback system during 1983 and will be adjusted as required to
permit meeting the stipulated import floor. The reformed drawback system
applying the above criteria was initiated in July, 1983 and an internal
regulation and notification to exporters were issued. Satisfactory operation



- 28 -
of the system and further relaxing of the rules for automatic approval of
import llcenses to permit meeting the increasing import floors would be a
condition for disbursement of the second half of the proposed loan (Section
2.02(c) of the draft Loan-Agreement).
73.       The preliminary studies performed by the Government indicate that
about 80% of the 1983 target for drawback imports would comply with the above
listed criteria for automatic eligibility. Goods which require a longer
production cycle (particularly capital goods) would have access to drawback
imports based upon the discretionary application of financing criteria, while
no national similarity test would be used. Taking Brazil's
balance-of-payments problem into account, it is acceptable to apply a
financing criterion for exports with a long production cycle, provided that
at least 80% of drawback imports obtain licenses under fully automatic
procedures.
74.       All processed goods are eligible exports for the drawback system.
Unprocessed agricultural export products would not be eligible. The volume
of these products amount to about 40Z of total exports, but their import
content is extremely small. On the import side, a 'negative list' of
ineligible products includes oil in addition to unprocessed agricultural
products produced in Brazil. The special condition prevailing on export and
domestic markets for agricultural products and oil provide the justification
for the exclusion of these products. The restricted import list is in Annex
V. The reformed duty drawback system will therefore not be used as an
instrument of protection for domestic industry, although the Government has
indicated that special attention will be given to dumping and illegal trade
practices within the framework of existing Brazilian legislation.
75.       All enterprises producing and exporting eligible products may
import their inputs under the restructured drawback system, including
enterprises importing or exporting through trading houses and export firms.
This provision would give small enterprises which conduct their overseas
trade through commercial enterprises access to the drawback system's
benefits. Linkage enterprises which supply production inputs to export
manufacturers would not be able to satisfy their import requirements under
the drawback scheme. As foreign exchange resources are limited and the
complex mechanism for monitoring duty drawback imports by linkage firms does
not exist in CACEX, the Government has decided to maintain the priority given
to direct export manufacturers. However, the Government will keep the
situation of linkage enterprises under review. The recent initiation of the
-drawback verde-amarelo" indicates, that the Government is aware of the
competitive disadvantage faced by domestic producers of export production
inputs vis-a-vis duty free imports.
76.       While the basic principles of duty drawback operations remain
unchanged under the reformed system, CACEX would introduce important
procedural simplifications within the main drawback system of duty
suspension. Procedures for the less important systems of duty exemption
and restitution (which is administered by the SFR) would be largely
unchanged. The principal administrative simplifications arise from the
elimination of national similarity comparison which, by itself, reduces the
processing time for issuing an import license by about 30 days. Time will be
saved which is currently being spent in CACEX's regional offices and in



- 29 -
manufacturers' associations on the national similarity test as well as on
verifying whether or not the importer's import application is consistent with
his import program. Additional important time savings arise from
decentralization of authority from CACEX's headquarters to the regional
offices, which is made possible due to the automaticity of admin.'-trative
processing of drawback import licenses. Overall, licenses for imports under
the reformed drawback system would be issued within 10-15 working days,
compared to up to 130 days required in the past. The simplified procedures
were reflected in the circulars, issued by CACEX's headquarters to the
regional offices, and in the information sent to exporters and their
associations (Annex V).
77.       The currently manually maintained information on the drawback
system does not permit adequate control and effective decision-making. CACEX
is aware of these deficiencies and its statistical department (DEPEC) is
currently establishing a complete statistical information system on drawback
imports and exports with the support of Banco do Brasil's data processing
center. By the fourth quarter of 1983, the information system would be
operational and provide all statistics and information required for (a)
monitoring imports and foreign exchange expenditures under the drawback
system; (b) timely adjustment of rationing criteria to permit meeting annual
import targets; (c) preparing documentation for disbursements under the
proposed loan; and (d) preparing the quarterly progress reports for Bank
information.
Financing of Studies on Industrial and Trade Policies
78.       The Brazilian Government has initiated a multi-phase work program
to assess industrial and commercial policies. The Bank expects to support
this work program. US$1,122,000 of the loan proceeds would finance up to
100% of the cost of technical assistance and consultancies, foreign and
local, associated with the initial two years of the work program's effort,
involving a longer, four-year period. Depending upon progress made by the
working group during the first two years of operation and Government action
on the studies' recommendations, the Bank would consider in a later operation
extending its financial support for the subsequent two-year period. An
outline of the group's work program is presented in Annex VI. A more
detailed program of studies to be performed during the two years will be
prepared in cooperation with the Bank. The studies would form the basis for
reforms in trade, export financing and industrial policies.
79.       The loan proceeds for financing the studies would be handled by the
Secretariat of Planning of the Presidency (SEPLAN) with direct responsiblity
for the coordination of the work group assigned to SEPLAN's Institute for
Economic and Social Planning (IPEA/INPES). IPEA is organized as a separate
and distinct component of SEPLAN, whose Secretary General (i.e., Vice
Minister) serves nominally as IPEA's president. IPEA was originally
established to provide independent, long term analyses of economic questions
and over the years has produced some of Brazil's best economic research.
IPEA's research institute (INPES) currently employs about 25 highly trained
professional economists, most of whom hold Ph.D. degrees. While IPEAJINPES
is administered under the auspices of SEPLAN, its organization and high
professional reputation protect its autonomy, independence of judgement and



- 30 -
distance from short-term policy considerations. Through SEPLAN and
IPEA/INFES the Government will provide the work group with suitable
professional staff, support staff, adequate office facilities, and other
related support. The cost of staff salaries, offices and other facilities,
to be borne by the Government during the initial two-year program period, is
estimated at about US$1.2 million, corresponding to about one half of the
total program cost. The wo--k group's coordinator has been recently appointed
in consultation with the Bank. A steering group, consisting of
representatives from different government agencies, and with Bank
participation, will serve in an advisory capacity.
80.       The studies to be carried out by the work group with the support of
the loan proceeds cover the following main areas:
(a)  trade financing;
(b) export incentives and promotion systems;
Cc) tariff and non-tariff protection;
Cd) regional and sub-sector industrial policies;
Ce) institutional aspects of trade and industrial policies.
All of the studies would be undertaken with a view toward developing concrete
policy implications and recommendations. The terms of reference for the
studies would be reviewed and approved by the Bank prior to their initiation
(Section 3.02(e) of the draft Loan Agreement). Terms of reference for the
study on the export financing system, constituting a fist effort under the
work program, was agreed upon by the Bank and the Government during loan
negotiating. The Bank will provide close collaboration in the undertaking of
some of the envisaged studies.
81.       The allocation for this component of the loan is based on an
estimated man-month cost of US$12,500 for foreign consultant assistance and
US$3,500 for local consultants, and a contingency allowance of 15%. Small
equipment, data processing and similar services, consultant support, and
travel expenses consistent with the agreed work program and its budget would
be eligible for financing under this component. The adequacy of the
allocation for this component of the proposed loan, as well as progress in
implementing the agreed program, would be reviewed periodically, and adjusted
as may be mutually agreed upon.
The Borrower and Implementing Agencies
82.       The Government of Brazil would be the Borrower of the proposed
loan. The proceeds of the loan component supporting the duty drawback system
would reimburse the Central Bank of Brazil for part of the foreign exchange
expenditures for drawback imports within existing foreign exchange
arrangements. The Central Bank has established a special registry account
which would help to monitor foreign exchange expenditures for duty drawback
imports. The account would also facilitate the implementation of the
Government's commitment under the proposed loan to provide at all times
during the period 1983 to 1988 adequate amounts of foreign exchange for
drawback imports.



- 31 -
83.       Banco do Brasil would implement the liberalization and expansion of
the duty drawback system through its foreign trade department, CACEX.
Founded in 1854, Banco do Brasil conducted the Government's monetary policy
until the creation of the Central Bank within the reform of the country's
banking system in 1964. Banco do Brasil which is 75% Government-owned
continues, jointly with the Central Bank, to form the monetary autho:ity of
Brazil. This function includes the role of financial agent of the
Government, the holding of foreign reserves of the commercial banking system
and the execution of foreign trade policies through CACEX. The Government
has expressed the intention to realign in the long-run the functions of the
Central Bank and Banco do Brasil. In particular, Banco do Brasil would
transfer its remaining monetary policy functions to the Central Bank. This
process would, however, not affect the implementation of the revised duty
drawback system under the proposed loan, since the responsibility of CACEX
for executing foreign trade policies would remain unchanged.
84.       The Carteira de Comercio Exterior (CACEX) of Banco do Brasil was
established in 1953 as a semi-autonomous agency for executing foreign trade
policies. Over the years, CACEX acquired full operational autonomy and is
now subordinated to Banco do Brasil only in administrative and budgetary
matters. The director of CACEX is appointed directly by the President of
Brazil and he is a member of the key Government committees determining
monetary and trade policies, the Monetary Council and the Trade Council
(CONCEX). Senior staff of CACEX is represented in the Tariff P3licy
Commision (CPA) with policy guidance obtained from the Ministry of Finance.
Within its overall operational independence CACEX performs, in addition to
administering the duty drawback system, the following main functions:  (a)
control of imports and exports and the issuance of import and export
licenses, with the main exceptions of oil and grain imports, and coffee
exports; (b) control of prices, quantities and quality of imports, and
exports which are under its responsibility; (c) operation of export financing
systems for industrial products, in particular the FINEX and the Resolution
674 financing schemes; (d) purchase and financing of imports required for
balancing domestic product markets and for creation of market stabilizing
buffer stocks; and (e) elaboration of trade statistics iu cooperation with
the Ministry of Finance. More recently, CACEX has also been instrumental in
establishing bilateral trade agreements with a number of countries.  Given
the above listed broad functions, CACEX has developed over time close
cooperation on matters of trade administration both with exporters and
commercial banks in the private sector and with other government institutions
involved in external trade. Under the proposed loan, this cooperation would
be strengthened and, in some cases, formalized, particularly with respect to
the exchange of statistical information for the duty drawback monitoring
system.
85.       CACEX's competent and experienced staff of about 2500 is assigned
to headquarters in Rio de Janeiro and over 100 regional offices in Brazil.
At headquarters, CACEX' director supervises the work of six line departments
organized according to traded products (food products, raw materials and
basic products, machinery and equipment) and technical support activities
(promotion and marketing, trade statistics, and trade financing). The
director is advised on matters of planning and organization by a staff unit,



- 32 -
ASPEX. The above organizational set-up of CACEX headquarters has proven to
be effective under Brazil's foreign trade system, but may require some
adjustments in the course of implementing changes of foreign trade policies.
CACEX can be expected to respond flexibly and without undue delay to revised
trade policies, as it has demonstrated in the recent administrative changes
affecting the operations of the regional offices. The administrative
autonomy of the regional offices in issuing import licenses without
headquarters approval was severely restricted in November 1982, but is
currently being re-established and extended in preparation of introducing the
liberalized duty drawback system under the proposed loan. CACEX is removing
the maximum value limits of import licenses for most of its regional offices,
requiring only about 30 small offices to consult with headquarters on
licenses for large import amounts. The savings of processing time for import
licenses will be considerable under the revised procedures (para. 76).
86.       CACEX has put ASPEX, the advisory unit on organizational and
planning matters, in charge of supervising the introduction of the
liberalized and enlarged duty drawback system. Within its revised terms of
reference, ASPEX will centralize the overall administration, monitoring and
promotion of the drawback system, as well as maintain liaison with the
Central Bank, the Federal Revenue Secretariat (SRF) of the Ministry of
Finance and the Commission of Customs Policy (CPA) which are involved in
monitoring of drawback imports. Specifically, ASPEX will have the
responsibility to (a) supervise the uniform application of criteria and
procedure of the revised duty drawback system in CACEX's regional offices;
(b) prepare the monitoring indicators for the duty drawback system as agreed
upon under the proposed loan (para. 92); (c) prepare quarterly monitoring
reports for CACEX's management and for the Bank, which would form the basis
for revising the criteria of duty drawback operation when necessary, so as to
permit meeting of the agreed import targets (para. 92 and Section 2.02 of the
draft Operating Agreement); and (d) promote the duty drawback system among
exporters. ASPEX has currently a professional staff of 30 which is being
strengthened by a small number of professionals with experience in the
administration of the drawback system, who are being transferred from CACEX's
operational departments. Its experienced staff and its location within the
administrative structure of CACEX make ASPEX highly suitable for performing
the above functions under the revised duty drawback system.
Procurement
87.       Export firms would follow normal commercial practice for
procurement of raw materials and other inputs from countries and territories
referred to in the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. CACEX, following its
current practice, which was found satisfactory by the Bank, would verify, at
the time of issuing the import license, that prices of the imported goods are
reasonable and in line with international price quotations and past
experience. Bank financing of consultants assistance for the industrial and
trade policy studies under the technical assistance component of the project
would be in accordance with the Bank guidelines for the use of consultants.
Disbursement
88.       Bank disbursements would be made monthly against a percentage of
payments for eligible imports and would be based on statements of expenditure



- 33 -
to be submitted to the Bank by the Central Bank. The detailed documentation
evidencing expenditures would be retained by the Central Bank and commercial
banks and would be available for inspection by the Bank. Initial
disbursements would reimburse 65% of import expenditures up to a maximum of
one-half of the loan amount, or US$175.0 million, and would inclu"s
retroactive financing of expenditures made since the initiation of the
revised drawback operation up to a maximum of US$100 million.  Further
monthly disbursements of the loan would reimburse 50% of import expenditures
and would take place after verification by the Bank that the revised drawback
system is operating satisfactorily and that appropriate measures have been
taken to permit reaching the agreed minimum import levels. Substantial
retroactivity in this loan is justified by the aim of the loan of a rapid
resource transfer consistent with both the objectives of the Special Action
Program and the policy reform nature of the project, and the foreign exchange
required as a direct result of the policy reforms introduced by the
Government and supported by the loan. The liberalized drawback system became
operational on July 1, 1983 and a significant increase in imports is expected
under the new procedures. The Bank's resources would help finance the
expected increase in imports, and failure to provide a large initial
disbursement at a time when Brazil is facing severe liquidity problems, might
reduce the possibilities of success of the corresponding policy reforms.
Bank disbursements would be made for duty drawback imports of raw materials
and other inputs for eligible exports, except those imports used in the
manufacture of military and paramilitary exports as well as imports of
petroleum and of those items registered on the "negative import list'.
Disbursements for expenditures under the technical assistance component of
the project would be made against evidence of pavment and would reimburse
100% of eligible expenditures incurred by IPEA in carrying out the project
component of policy studies. Terms of reference for the studies and
consulting services would be submitted for Bank approval. (Section 3.02(f)
of draft Loan Agreement)
89.       Since the information system to record payments for drawback
imports just started to be implemented in the Central Bank, initial
disbursements would use 50% of eligible physical imports as a proxy for 65%
of import payments during the period July 1st to December 31, 1983. During
the review of the system, scheduled for January 1984, the Government will
present evidence to the Bank of payments made for eligible imports during
that period. Any overdisbursement that could have been made by the Bank on
the basis of the proxy would be deducted from the first disbursement to be
made from the second-half of the loan (Section 2.02 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
90.       Based on estimated import requirements for exports, disbursements
for duty drawback imports would be completed about 6 months after loan
effectiveness, and disbursement for technical assistance about 30 months
after loan effectiveness. As the proposed loan is expected to be made
effective during the second quarter of FY84, the closing date for
disbursements will be March 31, 1986. Annex VII shows the schedule of
estimated disbursements. The relatively short disbursement period of the
project component supporting the reform of the drawback system is considered
realistic in view of the agreements reached on minimum drawback import
levels, which were used for projecting disbursements, rather than the Bank's
standard IDF disbursement profile.



- 34 -
Auditing, Reporting Requirements and Operational Reviews
91.       Statement of expenditures submitted to the Bank by the Central Bank
would be audited by the Secretaria Central de Controle Interno (CECIN).
CECIN, which is independent from the Central Bank and subordinated to SEPLAN
would submit to the Bank annual audit reports on the statements of
expenditures. (Section 4.02(c) of the draft Loan Agreement) CACEX's
operation of the drawback system would be audited internally by the
Department of Auditing of Banco do Brasil, Independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank would perform the external auditing of drawback operations and
Banco do Brasil would submit to the Bank annual reports of the external
auditors. (Section 2.02 of the draft Operating Agreement)
92.       CACEX would submit to the Bank quarterly progress reports during
the first twelve months of operation of th^ revised drawback system and
semi-annual reports thereafter until completion of the program in 1988,
including monitoring indicators of imports, import payments, and related
exports under the drawback system. (Section 2.02 of the draft Operating
Agreement) The reports would also include an evaluation of prospects to meet
the set minimum levels of liberalized and total imports under the drawback
system, and a description of actions taken to permit meeting the targets.
93.       The Government and the Bank will review every six months until
project completion, the operation of the drawback system to assess
performance under the eligibility criteria for automatic access to imports
and determine the adjustments required to permit achieving the stipulated
annual import levels. These reviews will also include an assessment of
progress made by the policy analysis group. The first review meeting would
take place in January 1984, or about six months after the initiation of the
revised drawback system.
Co-Financing
94.       The possibility of a co-financing arrangement with the
international commercial banks in the fo; ~ of a 'B Loan" has been discussed
with the Government. In view of the present international financial
situation for Brazil it is unlikely that such an arrangement at present for
the loan, while desirable, would result in additional commercial bank lending
to Brazil. Consequently, no co-financing arrangements are being undertaken
for the proposed loan at this time. HowE er, should the international
financial situation improve the matter will be pursued. It is clear that the
present project would not only serve as a convenient vehicle to channel
commercial bank resources to Brazil but would also benefit from additional
resources, permitting a further liberalization of trade policies.
Project Benefits
95.       The proposed loan would assist Brazil to resume and accelerate
export growth. The project would support during a five-year period
increasing import volumes of production inputs needed by manufacturers. The
expanded and liberalized drawback system implemented under the project has a
crucial role in achieving the projected manufactured exports growth of 15%
p.a. during 1983 to 1988. Exports performed under the duty drawback scheme
would reach 40% of projected total Brazilian exports in 1988 (compared to 23%



- 35 -
in 1982) and would therefore make an imnortant contribution to the f-reign
trade surplus required for improved balance-of-payments. The proposed
project would also help to establish an esseotially free trade regime for
export manufacturers, representing an important measure of revising Brazil's
long-term development strategy toward higher export orientation. The
analyses and studies to be performed under the technical assistance component
of the proposed loan would elaborate the details of specific policy measures
of this long-term strategy. The proposed project would also help to
strengthen operations of CACEX as Brazil's executing agency of trade
policies. Export manufacturers would benefit from improved trade
administration of CACEX through cost savings, reduced requirements for
maintaining stocks of production inputs and simplified production planning.
The technical assistance component of the proposed project would enhance the
policy role of TPEA as an influential economic research institute.
Project Risks
96.       Liberalization and expansion of the duty drawback system would be
initiated under the proposed loan at a time of serious balance-of-payments
problems and recessionary developments in important Brazilian export
markets. Under these circumstances, the reform of the duty drawback system
may lead to a rise of imports, while the increase of exports may not
materialize to the extent currently projected during the initial period of
operation of a liberalized duty drawback system. The stipulation of annual
import levels under the drawback system would limit the risk of excessive
foreign exchange expenditures for this category of imports. The monitoring
system for trade related foreign exchange expenditures and revenues,
implemented under the proposed project, should also help to keep the risk of
short-term deterioration of balance-of-payments due to increased imports
under the drawback system within acceptable limits. During the initial
period of operating the liberalized drawback system, the Government can be
expected to face strong pressures to reestablish protection to affected
domestic manufacturers and to restrict imports as a means of achieving the
trade surplus target. The measures taken so far by the Government to cope
with the internal economic problems and the balance-of-payments difficulties
indicate a strong commitment to economic adjustment policies, and the above
adverse developments may only occur under a substantial further deterioration
of Brazil's economic and social situation. Given the recent understandings
reached with the IMF and international banking groups, this risk appears to
be within acceptable limits. The risk of a later policy reversal by a
subsequent Government will be mitigated by the expected success of the
drawback's liberalization and reform in expanding Brazil's exports. The
policy reform supported by this loan will itself strengthen interests in
favor of export expansion who would stand to lose from a subsequent policy
reversal returning to more protectionist policies. Finally, the success of
the project could be endangered by additional protectionist measures of
Brazil's trading partners which would reduce projected export growth.



- 36 -
PART VI - LEGAL INSTRUMEN  AND AUThORXTI
97.       The draft Loan Agreement betwee  tihe Federrive Republlic of Brazil
and the Bank, the draft operating Agreement between Jauco do Brasil S.A. and
the Bank, and the Report of the Comittee provided for ln Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement we being dLatributed to the
Executive Directors separately.  Special conditions of the project are listed
in Section II of Annex III. Special conditions for initiating disbursement
of the second half of the loan component supporting the revised drawback
system would be (a) operation of the revised drawback system In accordance
with agreed upon criteria (para. 88); (b) adjustment of the criteria applied
to the drawback system to permit reaching the agreed upon minimau Import
levels (para. 88); and (c) disbursements under the first half of the loan
have been substantiated by eligible import payments (para 89).
98.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would coply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII -
99.       I recomend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clause"
Psaident
Attacbments
September 15, 1983



- 37-                                           ANNEX I
Page I of 5
BRAZ-LSOCcig. INOVCATS DMU 53Kr
UAZML                             RwEEN         S (WcXGIUD AVERAGES) re
Pi=                     (MUST RCltr KSTUAT  l/b
REGENT         Nmemm  Zc               ,NOME TISIEm
sM 1       197S-  ES.             L.   MM S cA EEtKOQE
TOrUL                           us.o        asu.       ssx2.0
AGRICULTURAL                    1621.3     1981.2     2209.5               _                       _
PE C1c1( cmSS)                      330.0      610.0     z220.0           208.2                   2453.6
Elr inmawrum "a irn
(KILOSAS (P CAL ENoVALEN         38.0        m7_0     lm.              1407.6                  S10.8
YGM.AKION AM Vr. SMUUU
e.opATIau.m-UAR TInNsARs)  72591.0    9587.0   120507.0
0334 IOYULKAT    (2: OF ODTL)   * 6.1        55.9       68.2             65.9                    47.8
PMA120 13TEARt 20w0 DqL)                              176.7
STA41033 IGIULATIOK ClnLmL)                           299.0
TErM SDTIORIA  PUW. RKAClo                            2110
70101A210 DESUM
IKR SQ. ML                       8.5       tt.3       13.9             35.6 S2.0
MM SQ. KR. ACKT. LAW U.6                   48.4       53.6             93.2                   157.2
1010LATIt0 AG STREcIURE CE)
0-14 TUS                       43.6       *2.?        41.1            40.1                     31.9
LS-" U                          53.S       31.3       55.4             55.8                    60.9
65 AID AR0                       Z.6        3.1        3.5              4.1                      7..
POPMA210 CAWI RATE C-)
Tom.                             3.1        2.8        2.1              2.3                      t.6
0351                             5.5        4.7        3.9              3.7                      3.4
1E sMU  RM (P  a 2U)              42.7       35.0       30.5             31.5                    25M0
CRCO DOWN RATE CiMt TODIS)        12.9       10.3         .2              8.1                     9.1
CROSS 1      UOgcrrau 5A76         3.0        2.4        1.9              2.0                     I.7
Fa-TE. 7LAlNUII
ACCIP?WS*. A*'AL (TM=)                    111.0      203.6/e
CA   Cz:  rm        ,.            ..         ..
X30 Of TOW MM. lVt CAPrTA
C1969F7L-100)                     89.0      102.0      1200             113.0                   108.1
PEt CAPrrA sir Or
CALORS  (2: Ur RB2ZrDES)       106.0      101.0       109.0            111.3                   129.6
PR0EZUS (GRAMS PER DAY)         64.0       62.0        61.0            67.9                     92_3
Or URIC A3(3 AND PULSE         35.0       34.0        36.0/d          34.1                     34.6
ORLD (CAMS 1-4) DEATH MM          19.4       12.3        69               5.3                    10.4
LtM EEC. AT tIRT (YEARS)          51.7       58.9       63.6             64.6                     67.2
-WANT ItO. aRTE (AIM 230)        118.2       98.6       75.4             62.6                    71.4
ACCIES TO SAMVE AXER (2101)
-vTAL                             ..       55.0       77.1             64.8                       -
tlRIA                             ._       78-0 zaoS7;                 77.8
RUIAL                             ..       28.0        56"             ".3
ACESS TO EXA  DISPOSAL
(0 OF PopLATI)
TOTM.                             _         5ae        64.S/            54.6
A                                 ..       85.0        83.7T7          69.3
IROA.                             ..       24.0       31.17w           29.8
PO0LAT1O PME 132512r8          2670.0     2130.0     17.0t1           1776.0                  10"4s
PC. KR NRIN PERSON3             231.0      1120.4      820.07F         101z.2                   76z.5
pOY. PIE UosnTAL No
TOrAL                          310.0       270.0      250.0/.          477.0                   334.0
UllAt                          260.0       320.0           -           667.5                   216.0
LRum                              ..         ..         .-            192L.6
A45103 PIt DWSPITL MD                        I1.4         ..             27.2                    20.0
AVERAGE SIZE Or 3053
TOTAL                            5.1        4.3         4.9/              ..
U3SAV                             ..        4.6        4.77;
liRU.                             ..        5.2         S.37.
IEAGE 30. OPERSONS/20M
TO.AL                                                 .. 1.1
UR3BAN..                                    1.0
RL                                ..        1.Z
ACCESS TO ELC? CE OF UWULICS)
TOTEff.                         38.7       47.6        67.4
0334W                            .,         75.6       38.s
RURAL,                                      8.4        20.6



ANNEX I
- 38 -                                          Page 2 of 5
5t-ZIL                 - SUCLIL .uICAtlUds DATA sa=En
5.LIELL                              iEFE*iIEE CA  EULt4 IELOCW  AV-EiAALSJ Is
sisr                       WST tCCStr StMLIUT`) /b
lb          /     b               4AL, lbt :O:Si         3LWULE
l9b-        L      s970/- ESTL&-    EAT. .EAtLCa & Cafib         EURtPE
anJEsTrc  Eawlli:cr a1.Its
PKLna2Y:  Tor.L                   95.0        84.0        91't)LE          ;05-0                     10Z.2
IL,-,                  9-,.u         ~          Fj/97.  S       tOb_3                     107.2
FCflAhJ.               93_u        54.2        9L.t             lu3_.'                     97.9
SWIc wiEy: t.trAL                  lL.u       2o.U         :.lc.hE         4;O.U                      56.b
ri                      Lt.[Lu     Zb.U         29.0o41          3u.4                      63.4
mrES!ALr                W.u        27..,       35 AIIh :1.2                                %5.9
V6C&TIIAL (_ VF SjCNLlTt)            1M.o       lb67         59-2LIh          34.u                      22.4
PuPr-reaOts ..arlu
P-taiY                            33.u        Z8.U        2b.V              3U.7                      24.7
SECOSalaitY                        13.u        13.U        L4.tlh           10.7                      22.1
ADULT UTCAV KATE CZ)                61.U    u    o.2        7b_U              7S_5                      69.7
!ASSr-cCE CAUsncsaa pop              7.6        Lb6b        5.1.1             45.e                      5Z.9
dAU10O ftCEIVErsl7auLSaM eo?        oS_4        l08.4       169.3            ZZ2_Z                     165.5
TV RECWEKS/TUOUSASO Par              16.5       44.3       l"_J               10.3                     124.2
SEWrpas C-OAUL  SEL
StaLEsr) CIKaUflauflv
ErM  mOsaSO roPULAnCo              39.1        35.b        44.ebh            64.1                      96.3
CXxft  A.Z .L arrnm/AsE APITTA       C 4_4       2           1_91h             2.9                       2.9
TOTAL LABOR FORMCE (1HOU5)        23326.0    30411.0    35254.0
FMt   (rrEaRC                     17.2        20.1        26.5              24.6                      345.
ACRIalLTURtE (PERCEST)             51.9       45.6         29.9             31.3                      40.7
ISDUCSrY (PERCENr)                1458        18.3        24.4              23.9                      23.t
eAianrCEPAtos aATE mzmsr
TorAL                              32.1        31.7        29.3              31.3                     4Z.0
;1X1                               52.7        50.3       50.9              49.6                      55.2
MIM.,LE                           11.2        1Z.8.       14.1              14.3                      29.1
EOr-a;C OEPErarsCr RArou             1.4         1.4         1Ij               1.4                       0.9
uNs DIStRlU3fO
PErCEST Or flIVAMS IJeOSC
RECEIVE,) ST
tGicasr 5S OF dausa:                 . LDS
dicSESG  2O uF oSEOiwS           .0.0        63.5        6Z.O/c
LatESr Z  OF HOrUSo LDS            3.b         3. 2        2.1i                _,
LOEST 401L OF HOiUSEHOLDS         10.4         9.U         9.Cc*
ESI1gArW ABSOLUTE roveK   ZIcCE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
tiX                                 ..          ..           .             289.8
RURAL                               ..          ..       150.0/c           1oC.5,
STL'&TED RELATIEVE POVEMT [SOI
LEVEL (05 PrEA CAPITA)
OmBAS                                .                   465.01d           519.8
RURAL                               ..           .       332.d7T           37Z.1                     409.0
ESTMLATEl PoP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVEan LSCOH  LseL (Z)
URDS                                .           .
RURAL                               ''           '-
.OT AVAIL ADL
.iOT APPLICASLE
N O T E S
/a  The groOP averages for each indicator are population-weLghted arLthaetic mans. Coverage of countries rmu  thi
Lidlcators depends on avatlability of data and is not uwaforu.
lb Unless otherwlse noted. -data for 1960- refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; fta for 1970- betumen 1969 and
1971; ant data for -most iecent Estinate between 1979 ad 1981.
/c  1975; 1d 1977; /e 1976; /f 1974; / BeLninnaLg 1973 primary and secondary educatlon cover age groups 7-14 and 15-17
lnsteazof 7-10 da    i 11-Inn earlier years; therefore cot recent estimates are oot comparable vth earlier data;
/h 1976.
Hay 1983



39                                                         ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
Irnrer.S at Writ. Lc'*c
Se-tCt.tare.4  cr  ts - m.cerirgdrtitam   a   cfli   ...C by dirttsee  butr.    'it_citite-et.~    at  p,autec.  ac
lb.rearar  grams at I) the             _ ar. gum  .1 the amj ..  -entr  as  Cl). tnie  stap cub a ..incca hig1br crCg.trmttu   h  tatt   gruu  at a
abutrmry(-.t. tar au        -lurer -MX Lartr       ftram   tr -4lSie tr.-  !m-rt Afric        nat  diCC  i-ar La si-sa   bataar  -tsrcpt alamta
.2t-It    nLb. refren  grum  dat the.rea.  r pasalatm              e   artttete ura.ta  -a% L.2k-ts  .5 si-  elyr a*e  aajnry .1 the caail                   a
"empbeeas tcrusetMae   M    Lb. c-arSIa at t-mat.-   Ig  the L..aur  dtd  -  lb. as*tlnhLlt. at daI   W 1. -t .ut.t. out.. mus he
Uritta=a  - BaLast at  Pkitlttl   aeettuart                         tmatpiae-tmL  graTmeeacua                                      U-aam  maam.PrCicl  fu.a
tapsee. rtata..maret-.  Ilire  gazr.. it1. tail.-: llua.                              -rL..g amtLaLam.-
C lW   g CAsM iCa    -  W Pmri.L                                                                        fter   rtbtat ac -p Latat st- . m5 prct.  -1 raputitm   i
-Fttsaby    ;mceml5-s-  -  StyLe Xuk Ml.. cttn.-at heat.):                              rahbi"'t.t te  eaea   taaPltal -   maalaica            Lem.mayaa fftad
ieee. gem,. as tntl eaa._                                                                    hy atlesta   cyars   ftubtcCtata     prentIc  priutpalty utd
Laca -t etam.;     -lat hcsrstct. h--., -t.4t. healt .5
ctDw             PENznru  car. - tamt   rt -  zee,L-        ml.Ft   er   lalsak.9riie.-   ruamutly aidg". byl a phyatti  (be hiy  aadisi
as  matrrel aeraiciylLa hllagraf sgm                  P-tsatr   "eI-;:                 PeeL- a liIt. r-K. at ecdi-ca  tuStitiam.  Pee etdiitira  e,pum
t4t. I. ga  as-   a  aa                                                                      arhc  -ccpu-L. sLi   ma rccspt)a c  tcspitata  as" a-at
hepata. ea  uZ  a-t i-annie as as..t as  Mrta         r -muer-
parstrtaa  nrc. s~~~ra-n                                               Srmttslircd. bameItat  .-a 1-lad aay -"-e tata-
ft- h  atpty i; tn   trn a   iSCI                                                       ftmalost  Adacptta .-L ae-T-  embr at atsma     tm dc iahr
4~~~~~~~~~                                                           2-~~~~~~~~~~~r  bcptraLa dIL.1ct ty the a-b-. a ft a.
cae  mm  L-.       ars.  a  e_r.atuticapajc -b.-. i-cad amimt                       mdthtema. .              aIcarece a  laue  c   re            h   .dti
-W                  as f- . f-     theI  m.riA-tt- LIS fertlit                       th   amht  treaitta   mp
inet a.aeta   It. cu-Ltame  at birth lattL-l  et1a ta-crs  r-at                        mihrrsptesi   l  re~a                     a   ap.  nMaclaat
0-  e-- t..i-  ...-   L-               raasim   s    is mat. CtW%...th9a
bla.     Irt  uss  L equal- the dnd   rLt..      ate tw-                                  -Ls (mItts.."- 
.zmzt   c.). zata    -hi  is~ cba1..E 0..  altard tgriity rasa                    Aure   tsrmteme   mau..M`;-ayIId     %U                          
Sttiar-  the PJImps-nc  It.   1mi ma  crdt.  el,C.                                         rm ch.aat?  tmat..ate rf-   I-&.h. - Cuc  taet, maea    -mt
en-  ccrut im  apt  aepat   iUesl.b    tcaar                                                ma  ez-.iae LLb. per..  least -Y resatma.d                     tsrts
1apatttca  ims       catlateg-d i- 'ea.  at the ptjerC  hrate-p                         r      P-Piata.   actaria-n;  talell letic. .btieraae.hI
lea  attiaarsimegazca m rnba  -      ac chum_ aLimasate-                                          -It. a .r     -L i-ea    nici- afga   tetae
r.iEMtIf7aae,tl  -70  tacmmg.-                                                             ictasat  -117a-I - t       N'~ male.  Iral v-; Ccrtdaaes ue
Aapclci-a 9-malt                                                                      a.Itmet  -L.-   cc = r.tam -erM           tapac  piayliala
tee  a. -              (air 3tta  lam-    W myst.dI" sha  a   gr    -aa  ac                    aaal scea5c.             -. y
pauttar  Lb. tate. as L-istdL Cat.                                                 P     -iaa-eri. - r -art at  -ccnday - Test -a.-s  amelt.d Ia
Pipaci. Casb tae(cra)-ea.    aclgatra.  liitad-yicya    c-ry    ls                                                          is4d" by  .cea al ugarer  La le ms
tsar   mp.lits;titt   leu,m  iICl.oiacraumc
Wej     -i-      re   arlC-tL.Me 7 atsc   ru    ec p-spctittac  ussr  (er thI sa    Imam.    MtAl type. S rctlt  tar raig
fertILity rat.. emLLy ttts.jm.r .eea-m eatin   -Mglu  Ityta  me                       macssa   eac   atsprLuttc   c.ai;eraa 
S  Clps-caarat csit..asee   -rIte  ~  -ai-.L fly   laule                        tmraaahttta  Ilceaift.
La#           V       ;Lr        a-l-                        1.~~~~~~I  asier   p. ru.adpemcia    T  ta-Tsa.  tat hr..C iL
c-  W tialPaata   ptCrt rmaimm Al.                d-c ..r   - caria                      rclcragc.   crt.d  ppc-im     -   r_.rardtc.c_ra  -m-   ti tmis
see  -aWtum.  ni tat          azia-   eaeta  rutlal.. ceed astL  h                              "daf at It appc.  aL I-mati fameitma aImcit
tate   asLa -   aarlcdC).  sggcepruaeti- at mac eaa    sablrmtim -..
-Cc m   mlaaa cecsapaCt p"       prieaiataa  ICt-hi. 1plj, cad 19gm
"aY.  actat   met.'I  teerrim  emntcr predrit.-. impart tea                                 rrmtaala  ml all na-Ltata. im .ura- zasaImsar
eacaitia. u.  La tas paiaasg.            taac    &Ia  gttnbgam                              PcmcIa CF"".zl-Pl   aba  tart               ... We.rag  S  .eat tbr tar..
mnuti.mac   ..eaeath  g   -seaaitartiC a  mru                                                rrtaeM  peea    lnbc  tast  La tamia, arnty. t._mg as
nativity as heaLth% slCta amrttina  ap.raIr.  l.y.i-t.                                          L.,t   -  peea-nag  aF tata  iate tCeat i9. ice0 me Let C.t..
am  rC-   taithtic  at Puptaftiemu  asd a%Lmte 1) P-r,u tar                          X.se  utar  (pcra) . Lahr tart. LaeetI    cnrtia.              trt.
at    I 1aheClaa;  i-C). 1970 as ia  Ca.,-                                             as elataii.mae aS                -  p-teradg  S  --atLautr.:Id,
perraae  Mert.:u   rci   Zaa   c  tat) - Pec!fct-         se  e   art                        lSa   lust  a.
c   Lt  FCtSprer   -tapl at las La deltaS - abat.                                Psltatimtr         1(raa  - tea,mae1         a   amI    fotmIlpatla  a
eel- ..  uam  .at  Atch to 0ta  ac-Iad he actac  Pr-rIm.  iea                              tIVe. tare, as il& data   Thesa a- hama -  zW.~ paealit.Lica acre
ctacd   e  ta-  the  tha- a  70 grs at atal ptrtrh  as 23 graa                        eel lettin   rt    ca -tart at the pepalati. as1- tutuia tea.  A
-I.aa   P-". peii  a. aa-arg  tar the erI. pWpaatby PAD im ih                               . mai1-t. ap  ire matm  a-usr
Thir  he1W Fad tart.; ni-GS, tWO  -a  n0 eat-                                            2~~I_.-                a  - ltati  at pcpatattm  .5v i)s   C)4 as ama La
par atm   recnt.cursy te aial       mat.. Frate  cmp$ at tatr  aat.ttfla  tar..
darcas teeatiala at  al..  a tn     Cay: flit-C.u           as- u?t
Ca.                                                                          liccyti OlSThIucf-2StPt5V                                          &
eat's                                                                              pawn~~U ,  "'- Tact tart- 
fi7 srttce  a  tre    art. -here   ~e   tpslmatlia t)tae                           A-1T1~t, P-"m   a-tr   ppagca   aac  .   ua   teseis, 
traa  l Stelaer   rrct" ateereia)- ean.mh.   se-                 -                    eteitVW iamatlp adguat   s  pi  em-Ita  -am          -Ic raursAa I.ma
maer..pi  (Pets.  tract-C cutara cate. a  mre teb                                        LatImais it-lainPateLs. rarerb tea   rus artI  L.rta .-an           5 -l-
uthe sen apelt  tuaraa n  Lgap--   -ata    -    tera Li--LZI ea.                   tar   nu   Sjertm   Pcr.ithe  tseac  titgL  ue   rn
hut..  Xe tucusi       d  -  atn  esee -l aitnm ac...  s 41 Wthu -the i-eraI                             ers   tppits   en    ecet  i   r    itt
maihet at .  t,e 'Sactai fda   i.-.  - ae  d       urptiaiepr 
th   a  tM   relr   i MWmatl Z Fa tiie tare..=
arenae e  tar- j tnpeut_ (retrat1    rar.taria) ~- it!  rhia  as
ratt  a-ICrC at eae. (.t   erma. nut% rural)S-rrued by1emara1a
hams reti  a  ant-ta  by ,aatr-helm  a                   tultar . ana  r Lt                                               Uaa-  tantymt as rtjaim              aIMeD t
rriesa  as a.taii  iettita.                                                                                                                 b  illo



-  4cj  -                                                     4 x i
Panr  ;..t 
EfOIIC INICArTORS
Popeltton    :  119.0  illton (19O50
CIP Per Capita: Uss2.0sa (1950)
Indicaor                                 nAmount                      Avr^ae Anha_l tncrese t)                   Share  f COW t Mrket rrne.  ti
CII1.. LIss Current)                 (at Constant 1970 Prices)                        (at current Prices)
1982 Di              1965-f    1970-15    1975-S0   1*81-8h                 2n I7n
N&.ional Accounts
Gross Domestic Product Ia                         29.0a0                   J-'      141.6        b.9        :.n            3nK1.I     11 .4i      1953.40
Agrtculture                                       35.333                1.9         S7         4.7        1.S             31 .2      1'0.9      116.1
Industry                                         75.391                 9.2        11.6        7.6         .n             35.8       *;.2        3.I
S.rvve.                                         13l.106                 1.0        10.7        6.8        4.1             54.1       S3.9        ii.n
Consumption                                       215.940                 7.7        9.8         5.7        3.3             17.5-  1..9           1n.r
Cr-us Invesneatc                                   60.Ts                  9.-        15.6        S.2        3.6             22.7       Zl.3l       21..
Exports or Goods and SFS                           22.1U0                 8.Z        11.Z        7.1        S.S              6.7        7.5         7.7
tports of Goods  nd %FS                              4.613               14.5       17.2         2.5        4.4              7.Z       11.4        4.%
Gross Domestic S-IIg.                           5.317                  7.4        12.9        6.1        -               ZZ.2       l1.5       -ta.
Amnt                    Avera,t Annual Increase CZ)             COqWisitton of XerChandiqe Trade (II
(Mlil-   5ss Cvrreat)           (Cr Cntant 1970 Prie )                         (st Corrtst Pris)
1982          -     1970-75         1975-8U     1981-56                 197U        1975        198W
March-Adise ?rade
Mer-chndise Eports                                20. 164              11.1             7.7            2.4                  llO.0        110.0      3.
Primary vi                                       8.914                8.3             1.1            1.5                   76.7        62.7       38.3
lxmufactcres dI                                  10,9E3              28.2            18.2            5J6                   22.5        34.8       S7.
Merchandise Iqirta                                 19.397              14.8            -1.3            1.2                  105.0       100.)       100.64
Food (cereals)                                   I.000 a7                            17.5            6.8                    4.5         3.0         4.3
Petroleum                                       10.126                7.6            4.3           -31.0                   13.2        25.4       53.1
4achInery and Equipmeoc et                        3.272              15.2            -7.5            2.0                   36.2        32.Z        18.2
Other                                            4,999               28.4            -1.9            4.3                   48.1        39.4        25.7
1975          1976          1977           1978          1979           190            193            19e2
Prices and Terms of Trade
GOP Deflator (1970 - 100)                 305.1          444.3    o     32.7   *     892.5        1.199.4       2.724.6         5.69h4 J    i1.1(5.l8
Exzche Rate (CrS/SS)                        8.1           10.6          14.1           18.3          25.9           S2.7           93.1           180.0
Export Pri.e Tudex (1970- 100)            176.0          192.0         226.0          228.0         26&.0         290.0           252             220.n
Isqort Priee Index (1970   100)           242.0         255.0          286.0         317.0          389.0         431.0           474            522.0
Term of Trade Index [1970 - 1003           72.0           75.0          79.0           7z.0          69.0           67.0           53              42.0
As= Z of GDP
fat Currant Crseirv  Pries.)
3970           1975             1979           1910 It     j9" {    I' A!Al
Pubtli  P Finan   (Central Coernment)
Crtou  Rewnu.                                                                 1h.h            19.8            2U.8             20.1         34.9      21.2
CGrrent Expenditure                                                           14.4            15.3            17.6             19.8         20.2      25.4
Surplus C() or deftl (it-)                                                     2.2             ;.0             3.Z              0.1         -1.4      -4.2
Capitxl Expenditure                                                            2.6             3.8             3.7              4.1          3.5       1.4
FSnancing (Net)                                                                0.4            -0.2             0.5              3.9          4.9       7.6
1965-70          1970-J75           975-793
Other Indicators
CGP Gruthb Rxte CZ)                                                            7.7            l1.7                S.#                 2.1
GNl per CapIt Grouch Rxte (C)                                                  4.6              7.7               3.0                 O.S
Energy Co-nsuption Grouth Rate (Z)                                             7.2              7.3               4.5
ICOR fl                                                                       2.9               3.0               3.9                 3.2
ilrginal Savings Rate fI                                                      W0.5             25.7              22.7                24.0
Import Elasticiry  f1                                                         2.2               3.6              0.3                 -0.6
:t/  at arket prices; cop .o..ts  re net domestct products expressed at factor cost snd  Ill rot add due tc exclu-ton of dpreclxtt.n and indirect
at.es less subsidies.
bi   Estloste.
ct   Includes: coffee (bens and slule)  other  griculture and  inerals
dI   Includes: nufactured and seal-processed
;i   Includes:  transportation sterials
T/   the 1951-86 prjecrtions are average arithettc mean of the six-year
j/   1980  nd 1981 include governent expeodttures effected through the nonet ry budget and some Sour goeernment funds. as t,   transil-r         s to. the
federal enterprises.
Ang".t 3. 1963
Source: CoGojuoura Ecuoxica fJV Banco Cntral do Brazil. I razil Standrd Model (World kntk)



(Ul * )~.9   (9m 1190)  -IL hta-) .3411 919 9915139  1                                        - P -m    .a-!
t_ 51a-        1  tHt l1      I 9_t :tt-_M A W- Z Btit
*Atse ar 
-(99   250  PI-  "30-a S.M.. i
n       it -  1_*11   I Aim *0a-    t 1 *1
a                                                    .I.m  mu lttmllW _-        DO
Mat  tN9                                                               S Iu-
wa ~  ~     ~    ~    ,N t's  CIDI  t  * *
rr3           rrt       r1 rrt   n               t        Vte        rc                                    (          1t WI 1    -n"-  O
rs9     er **                           A rs       at        VTe         alz                at}                          A- S _
9.3       ol.3        V 91      a           Me .        rl        .                                go P           J-1   111P9t9  -
-       ,-t        a*i        itl        S-1         ril       rn,        L%                                                      t
1                't      an        tvw       1*r         u-ar       c-i,      e-at                         _      _    _
a..           ra         we         t'n       ra:         rat        s-It       r*ln-aa-t.-.|   5 3s5In't NMI- "
W -i r        l  &.a     1.1  z     t3 1.      1.3 l      l.a        tal e      Va_ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ __ _
*-a             'a t      11          in r      .           Zs1        E n srt   rt                                 -           .-5 S           9
YlW Stl                             "W ta                   I       upu          at                             amI- Kt  r  It
au-gm         aga',t     ,at        ag   n      t "ru     1..        am's       talLT mI    u-
-              a-*.      zatt        me         Mr        twoI       otz, ra  Sin.in5 -   P.-M."_
*n SI           l t      S_ e       at-lX       tI SI tW             ecit        tre
set      s      ll       tat   no              Cava       at          L eO s       tt e* 
(     .W.r) -                       laS0        _u tK1    25,C, tW99 tA,t                                         aa IasMIIpuqlda*
a* mt         cua%      (MIS)    ca,,)         at_wt        110ell   n2`1 n       t                                  t1          9
lrD,          ngrt        ttIK      uwiaat     ta           S.It     eua',I     au-a                                                 _t
INVO  tovs  gult     K           a- MI        OWLs       CIO's        wst      sngto      s  'tr     919         -tle                                _        -- 4 - m-        n
eR 1  rl  t    log-   n St',         Staec      t ,        or91*-t   Ct)  __t                           _                      _
uau1            tV        9,',        mt        ttt        1,         Wi,^  L'                                               el   ...  , *te
o"        atilt      Coe.,-1     n-        liu.          a-',, *at             uan        a ru      tasu        ON         o1                               --IuMI  At,u         -  --
ato 1-    6KIl-     IKIt-                   Wl           119.1       tWt       Ziu-et    teCl,       Ltot       fl91       012 mt-                              Omp   Pf-M  10    "T.j_
Il a       t91 , crclt-  t-     tsNs tEI-2   e2VI- eM&-  CD_           s-3    cstelv-     t911-    (CAP-    Coll-)    nat-                                                   40 t1_6 .- 2 
aSir-    owl'  i t-l-                                                            tneta-   l-  Q JD-I-  &tKl-  et_ Cit-  e   t-   t                       _t-nt
Lto       gt2       Ai          gal        ltu             Al        t"         ati9 ti,            Z fL             t )    t-n                                1t_P  _
119b'o    ill',     suct',        t-       s 0t9i        OCt-1 OL    Cu'.s    aSt-a        lath      ifi',      991*9 Ul'SSi ttn                                       .a   --a
S19-    n g n- c.,-            ma'-       un',           iw-        uztt        it-       tar-       mc,-       tart-      atl s-                                                   IX tJ (l11ls   essfo   _  3
as,       aau-t      ram'3    mIu-l        tnS-t        0. e1 tnt tWi          t39            t      e 119-  9t-3   (wl-       t)l V   _ t                                        t  
ntu-    eat',-        alutl-    tat',-     lu-    u           n-    wa         et-a-      tat-       rSt1 -       la-                                            IIISt--    a-. " 
,t1-t-9    Meets    ctt-t)   gaa'1-t        ,et't-ti                                       erlt,  (113    iutL',tl)-t   ctt-a   (1-n1)   (Ma,C-  01  _19111
urn-    ulVa         it,.-s     "WU        ct, t       j tla      m-It >       tt         aural      ml,',                 ta-1'   a9                                         a- -t   1
ala',lttb  t tag,     tea',     (au-tit    lag',         an ttj  attt           ua,cl'   tattZtt     tietX  nl *Ita         Mas  t/ I a-lt  n1.1 _
110's-    Om WL Ca',-            Kl-S-     tiI'-          L-Vl-    nIc--        etla-    nOe-        1We9-       niet-     At-9-                                              - 5Im   5 5-1  51 -
St~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(111 duz itJ4a
Lrt". ecI Li  I  11i     1
.u*z-    at,',-      uz.-       art-       i,-                      a -        11__-         t-     aL_',-         ,-        u-
IutOt)  1,1211)   (taa',)    (ttr.      (mu-a          (at.1-)  _ttt9)    (Sal'-) i_a ) *_et',-)  S              t-)   (ala',-)                    9/ (11111194
121',t-_ 91Ct  .i*t  aa'l  1.1       K-        tg         z*-        u--      ht,          r-       rV-mt   11 



- 42-                          ANNE-I
Page 1 of 3
THE STAUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUM*=  STATSI        OF LOANS
(As of Narch 31, 1983)
Amount less  Uldis-
Loan #  Year            Borrower                   _rpose          _ ions bursed
(US$ HIllions)
Fifty-four loans fully disbursed                                   1,950.1
923     1973  Furnas Centrais Eletricas -     Power                 125.0        1.2
Itumnbiara
1008     1974  Cia. Bidro Eletrica do          Pwer                   81.0       12.4
Sao Francisco -ESF
1067     1974  Brazil                          Education              21.2        1.1
1075     1975 Brazil                           Roads                 110.0        9.4
1151     1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional Iodustry                95.0        5.5
1152     1975  Comnanhia Sideruigica Paulista  Industry               60.0       15.3
1153     1975  Brazil                          Agriculture            23.0        0.3
1171     1975 FEPASA. - Ferrovia Paulista      Ranlways               75.0        6.5
1195     1976 Brazil                           Rural Development      12.0        5.4
1207     1976 Brazil                           Feeder Roads           55.0       18.9
1249     1976  Brazil                          Agriculture            40O0        0.3
1300     1976 ELETROBRAS                       Power                  50.0        0.2
1302     1976 Brazil                           Nutrition              19.0        0.2
1317     1976 Brazil                           Agro-Industry          83.0       42.5
1343     1977  ELEtROSUL                       Power                  82.0       11.8
1362     1977  State of Ninas Gerais           Rural Development      42.0        6.2
1406     1917  Petrobras Fertilizantes         Fertilizer             52.0        1.7
1411     1977 Fertilizantes Vale do Rio        Fertilizer             55.0        1.6
Grande SA. - VALEFEIL
1452     1977 Brazil                           Education              32.0       19.8
1488     1977  Brazil                          Rural Development      17.0       10.8
1525     1978 Bano Nacional da Nabitacao       Sewerage              110.0       62.3
1537     1978 Brazil                           Rural Development      24.0       18.3
1538     1978 ELETROBRAS                       Power                 130.0       40.5
1557     1978  Brazil                          Roads                 114.0       79.1
1562     1978  COPESUL                         Petrochemicals         85.0        4.9
1563     1978  Brazil                          Urban Transport        88.0       17.1
1568     1978  Brazil                          Agric. Extension      100.0       60.6
1589     1978  Brazil                          Rural Development      37.0       25.1
1654     1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao     Sites and Services     93.0       42.8
1656     1979  Banco Nacional da Babitacao     Water and Sewerage    100.0       58.7
1660     1979 Valesul Aluminio S.A.            Aluminum               78.8        0.1
1714     1979 Brazil                           Rural Development      26.0       21.5
1720     1979 Brazil                           Urban Development      70.0       48.3
1721     1979  COPEL                           Power                 109.0       57.9
1728     1979 Brazil                           Rural Development      40.0       31.5
1729     1979  Brazil                          Irrigation             28.0       13.7
1730     1979 Brazil                           Roads                 110.0       77.9



- 43 -
ANNEXTII
Page 2 of 3
A. SUMMARY STATEHEST OF IOANS (Continued)
(As of March 31, 1983)
Amount less  Undis-
Loan n   Year           Borrower                    Purpose      Cancellations  bursed
(US$ KiLlons)
1822     1980  Brazil/BNDE                     Pbllution Control       58.0       57.4
1823     1980  Banco Nacional da Eabitacao    Water Supply            130.0       82.3
1824     1980  CEEE                            Pbwer                  114.0      105.8
1839     1980  Brazil                          Urban Transport        159.0      153.0
1850     1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao     Water Supply           139.0       84.9
1867     1980 Brazil                           FAucation              32.0        29.2
1877     1980  State of Minas Gerais           Rural Development       63.0       58.6
1895     1980  ELETR3SUL                       Power                  125.0      120.3
1924     1981  Brazil                          Rural Development      56.0        45.4
1939     1981  ELETROBRAS                      Power                  54.0        50.0
1965     1981  EBrU                            Urban Transport         90.0       82.4
1970     1981  Banco Nacional da Habitacao     Water Supply           180.0      142.4
1989     1981  Brazil                          Alcobol Development   250.0       244.8
2015     1981  Brazil                          Agriculture             29.0       24.1
2016     1981  Brazil                          Agriculture             60.0       51.8
2060     1982  Brazil                          Agriculture             67.0       54.6
2061     1982  Brazil                          Health                  13.0       10.1
2062     1982  Brazil                          HLghways               240.0      198.8
2116     1982 Brazil                           Agriculture             26.4       23.9
2138     1982  ELETRDBRAS                      Power                  182.7      180.0
2163     1982  Brazil                          Agriculture             26.4       23.7
2170     1982  Brazil                          Urban Development      123.9      114.1
2177 /1  1982 Brazil                           Rural Development       42.7       42.7
2193     1982 Brazil                           Urban Development        8.9        8.2
2196     1982  CVRD                            Iron Ore               304.5      280.3
2224 /1  1982  Brazil                          Feeder Roads           154.0      154.0
2225     1982  BNDES                           Development Banding   220.0       216.8
2249 /1  1983  Banco Nacional da Habitacao     Water Supply           302.3      302.3
Total                                               7,672.9 /2
Of ubich has been repaid to the Bank                1,120.0
Total nor outstanding                               6,552.9
Amount sold                             45.8
Of ihich has been repaid              45.8            0.0
Total now held by Bank                              6,552.9
Total undisbursed                                               3,773.8
/1 Not yet effective.
/2 No IDA credits bave been made to Brazil.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
3. S      l 2IF W IFC    3 D33   (m of Irh  31, 19.3)
Flcal                                                                                                                       Aimt in us n       uli
Year                                     O b I l g    r                                                                 5mm e    1fq lowalty    Tbtal
1957                 Stamm d Brasl CU. de Elactriddmt                               Eleccrial iquict                       2.z0       -       2.Ll
1958                 OLUdEaft. S. A. Odnulse e PwI                                  RLMp ad lrmr                           1.20       -       1.20
1958                 D. L1 R. Plticm do Brail. S. A.                               Auaw   FATts                           0.45       -        0.45
1958                 WilyOverlrd do Bkadl* S. A. - LahLtiA e  emtrdO                HtLr Vdeicls                          2.45       -        2.45
1959                 Oripa Mtnei  de Camete  Rtlad. S. A.                           Xemt                                   1.0      -        1.Z0
1959                 Quqdnn Oulme. S. A.                                           %Ilp                                   4.00       _        4.00
1966/s9ww1972        Am  Villares. S. A.                                           Skel                                    .Am       1.93     9.93
1966/1969            PWIel  O ulome Cae,minme. S. A.                                Iblp ad Ifer                          3.78       3b.1     7.19
1967/1972            MtrafertiL. S. A. - Xnhstda e mrco de Fbrtillt                Fketillim                              8.22       3.03    11.25
1969                 petooquin  tId,, S. A.                                        Petroduuicas                           5.50      28        8.38
1970                 Bltolefinas, S. A. lulautria e eMrda                          8i   1d;s                              5.50      2.38      83
1971                 Odtem, S. *. bubaix  e emO dle                                BlodI rals                             4.60       1.44     6.04
1971                 Rio Clen& - Coqudda de Cam do Sil                            MBlp                                    4.90       -        4.90
1972/1975/1981      Qapaijs de C bo taunal dc Minns                                 G                                   169.14     6.70   175.84
L973/1974/1977/1596  Coapwda S&dezwgim da GQmuma - C- I Uteel-                                                           76.97      11.22    88.19
1973                 Cipital Maret Develpet  Fad - FIMCAP                          CItal MIiat neiwlogNeat                5.00       -        5.00
1973/19781198        HVria de DesmolvlIen    de Rb on 1ww*-s - a0 mI. S. A.   MIdmI Hilnaig ad tbfinlIg                  85.00      8.74    93.74
1974                 Inlhutria Viflarl . S. A.                                     1Ebaoam ad TuBa1iid  Fpont             6.00       -        6.00
1974                 Fai. de TEddo TanFe. S. A.                    bI2m                                                  31.O0       -       31.00
197531979            OqMa Carbm  IrAtri  LL Cdbon Blak                                                                    6.1U       1.19     737
1975                 ,dtmo Ntladte. S. A.                                         BPuodin5mls                            10.00       -       10.00
1976                 Saffca Rdwtria - Tltitl dD MIbst, S. A.                       Ihictles               6.45                       1.00     7.45
197i/198D            Teca   S. A. - Tmcd  Cwta_n  do NZasdine                      TIm                                   16.2D       -       16.Z0
t,77                 RIB S. A. Pmrhucte  kttiluzgu                                  hm ad AJiu     Citiw                 20.00       -       20.00
1977                 MIzeraco Rio do Morte S. A.                                     Indi                u        m        5.00      -       Is5m
1978                 CWetal Sidonzgia S. A.                                        Ira ad Sted                            7.00      3.00    10.00
1979                 VOiLm do Brasll MHatm e VdWLm . S. A.                         I* r  Vdalmi                          60m        5.27    65.27
198D                 H:si  zd Nmdee S. A. -                                          Pa bAYade  ca s                      2C00       -        2.00
198D                 lerde do Hwx S/A- IDina -  Agd-Lurn. rAhita
e Cr_{dA de 01eqiwm                                         Ha1l1                                3.50       I.00     4.50
198                  Vialass ITdhustdia de BDe S. A. - vnM                          Irm  ad Sted                          5.OD       -        5.00
1981                 YRI - ddzIa   B bnutrial do 1ollpcop4iemo                     Ohfm.ls aid R il  dd   1 1s           15.00      2.00    17.00
198D                 DtiLia (Laiozte S. A.                                       QCdcls ad letrodmdmsb                    -        0.25      025
198D                 Socave haia Qda e thieil S/A                                  FelCne                                16.00      4.00    20.00
198D                ItaJislBlt=umio                                                 hmicals  ad Ettodxals                43.00      5C0  48.0
1981                 B    CIr                                                      tby ard cwpdll Naict                    -         1.50     1.50
1981                 GR=Ma kesileiza de Ago,mama - 03W1                            Fbxd and Vaid Pucmsag                  5.50      3.00      8.50
1981                 7ujfo                                                          hdtals ad Petrod ead1s              46.00      4.00    50.00
198                  CI:wro C AE                                                    tt ad 0,stxucclon Mterials           40.m0       5m      45.00
1982                  li  Ae gro  adcustral, S.A.                                  lbwy ait. 1bIE                        30.00      0.45    30145
1983                 CLa RLOgmudaue de Phrtidcoes (ClP)                             bW  Caprial Maket                      -        036       0.36
1983                 AFriEA  FtaDico                                               Food ad Fod Pro_mis                   13.00      -        13.00
1983                 (oagtda do do Am   (OaDO                                      Fj OL                                  6.10      -         6.10
1983                  1- Pl do Ipema S.A.                                           R4lp G Aer Ptodrt                    47.50       3.50    51.00
Total Crm    stmets                                                                       838.34     82.75   921149
Is Canellatioe, Thndzutiu * Iqmyms ad Spln                                                589.45     13.17   GM.62
Ttal Cadtents Nw HeId by IR: 248.89                                                                  69.58   318.47
Tal UiIEsbaiud                                                                            190.88      15.24   206.12
Apri 15. 1983



- 45 -
ANNEX III
BRAZIL
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by Country to prepare project: about five months
(b) Project prepared by: Secretaria de Planejamento (SEPLAN)
Cc) First Bank mission: January, 1983
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:  March, 1983
(e) Negotiations completed: September 8, 1983
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: October 1983
Section II - Special Conditions
Ca) The following would be conditions for initiating disbursement of the
second hAlf of the drawback imports component:
Ci)  that in the Bank's opinion the revised drawbaek system Is operating
satisfactorily and according to the agreed upon criteria
(para. 88);
Cii)  that adjustment of the criteria are introduced when required to
permit reaching the agreed upon minimum import levels (para. 88);
and
(iii)  that disbursements made for the first half of the loan on account
of eligible Imports have been substantiated by payments for
eligible imports (paragraph 89).
(b) The Government and the Bank will review once every six months until
project completion the operation of the drawback system to assess
performance under the eligibility criteria for automatic access to
imports and to determine the adjustments required to permit achieving
the increasing annual import targets (para. 93). These reviews will
also include an assessment of progress made by the policy analysis
group.



BRAZIL
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Exports. 1973 - 1982
(US$ MllIn
1973   1974    1975    1976       1977      1978     1979      1980      1981     1982
Unprocessed Products      4,030  4,577   5,027   6,129    6,959    5,978    6,553    8,470    8,920    8,139               m
Semi-manufactured
Products                  574    917      849      842    1,044    1,421    1,887    2,349    2,116    1,421
Manufactured Products    1,434  2,263   2,584   2,776    3,840    5,083    6,645    9,028   11,884   10,352
Other                         61    200      210     381       277       177       159      285       373      263
Total Exports           6,199  7,957   8,670  10,128   12,120   12,659   15,244   20,132   23,293   20,175
Source:  FUNCEX:  Desempenho do Comerclo Exterior, 1982.
'II
w



BRAZIL
EXPORT DE3VELOPMENT PROJECT
Impaorts. 1973 - 1982
(US$ Million)
1973    1974    1975    1976       1977      1978     1979      1980      1981     1982
Consumer Products          649      875      822     862       930    1,113    1,580    1,313        987    1,002
Raw Materials            2,563   5,593   4,354   4,060    3,911    4,535    5,956    7,061    5,741    4,669
Capital Goods            2,109   3,107   3,934   3,556    3,074    3,553    3,775    4,381    4,023    3,267
Petroleun                  769   2,962   3,100   3,842    4,081    4,482    6,773   10,200   11,340   10,459
Other                       102     104      -        63        27      -         -         -       -          -
Total Imports          6,192  12,641  12,210  12,383   12,023   13,683   18,084   22,955   22,091   19,397
(Drawback Imports)      (n.a.)  (n.a.)  (n.a.)  (n.a.)   (n.a.)         (351)    (556)    (819)  (1,145)  (1,206)
Source: FUNCEX: Desempenho do Comercio Exterior, 1982
Ministry of Flnance/CIEF
o x



- 48 -
ANNEX IV
Pane 3 of 3
BRAZIL
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Structure of-Industrial Exports 1978-1982
(US$ Million)
1978     1979       1980       1981      1982
Semi-Manufactured Products        1,421    1,887      2,349      2,116      1,421
Steel                            236      300        301        312       256
Cacao Products                   277      390        377        310        220
Soy Ol                          283      326        411        545       222
Wood Pulp                         57       181       363        363        275
Leather                           99       166       102        105        114
Other                            469      524        795        481        334
Manufactured Products             5,083    6,654      9.028    11,884    10,352
Refined Sugar                    121       94        346        396        232
Rubber Products                   53       82        129        119        117
Processed Coffee                 348      409        287        244       276
Processed Meat                    97      129        232        293       250
orange Juice                     333      281        339        659       552
Footwear                         281      351        408        586       524
Textiles                         251      366        403        428        342
Garments                          61       74         88         84         69
Wood Products                     83       142       168        195        140
Paper                             88      129        156        220        174
Chemicals                        105      167        236        500       414
Plastic Products                  26       61        117        195        181
Petroleum Products                46       57        195        366        557
Metal Products                   214      446        625        801        791
Mechanical Machinery             767      971      1,382      1,546      1,210
Electrical Machinery             315      344        459        560        444
Transport Equipment              828    1,094      1,512      2,076      1,760
Other                          1,066    1,457      1,945      2,616     2,319
Total Industrial Products         6,504    8,532    11,376    14,000    11,773
Source:  FUNCEX:  Desempenho do Comercio Exterior, 1982.



- 49 -
ANNE V
Page 1 of 4
BANCO DO BRASIL S.A.
Foreign Trade Department
Notice No. 52
Given the need to make the drawback system a more effective export
incentive instrument, the Foreign Trade Department (CACEX) of Banco do Brasil
S.A., exercising the authority vested in it, hereby issues the folloving to
supplement the rules contained in CACEX Notice No. 7 of March 4, 1982:
1.        Imports covered by the -drawback7 system, in both its forms, are
hereby removed from the Import Programs and from the list of products with
suspension of the issuance of import permits (Annex C of CACEX Notice No.
7/82), and are not subject to verification of alternative domestic
availability and shall be given priority In processing.
1.1       The pertinent restrictions stipulated in Item 9 of CACEX Notice
No. 35 of December 3, 1982 paragraph (a) of CACEX Notice No. 26 of September
24, 1982 are therefore no longer valid.
1.2       To ensure the overall planning and monitoring of imports, however,
the amounts of imports under the drawback system must be included by firms in
their Import Programs, which must be revised as necessary to reflect any
changes in those amounts. Such revisions may be uade a posteriori.
2.        The following operations shall -be eligible for special treatment by
CACEX:
(i)  Exemption:  operations in which the FOB value of Imports does
not exceed 30% of the FOB value of exports.
(ii) Suspension:
(a) operations in which imports are made without foreign
exchange coverage, provided that the FOB value of imports
does not exceed 50% of the FO' value of anticipated
exports, such concessionary arrangements being valid for
up to one year;
(b) operations In which the FOB value of imports does not
exceed 30% of the FOB value of anticipated exports;
(c) operations in which the FOB value of imports is between
30 and 70Z of the FOB value of anticipated exports,
subject to:



50                 ~~~~ANEEZV
Page 2 of 4
(1) payment for the imports being made over a period of
at least 180 days;
(2) the exports being financed for a period not
exceeding one year.
2.1       In the case of the operations referred to in paragraphs (b) and (c)
above, the 120-day limit for retention of the produces covered by these
concessions in Brazil shall apply.
2.2       The terms of payment referred in paragraph (c) above shall be
stated in the respective orders.
3,        The products listed in the Annex to this Notice shall not be
covered by these rulings.
3.1       This exclusion shall not, however, apply to operations involving
products covered by tariff codes 38.19.25.00, 73.11.00.00 and those following
in the Annex when the value of the import does not exceed US$10,000 or its
equivalent in another currency, per product.
Rio de Janeiro, RJ, June 27, 1983
Carlos Viacava
Director



- 51 -
AMX V
Page 3 of 4
CACEX Notice No. 55, August 2, 1983
The foreign Trade Department (CACEX) of Banco do Brasil. S.A.
announces the following changes to CACEK Notice No. 52 dated June 27, 1983:
(A) Neu text of paragraph 3:
'3. The products listed in Annex I to this Notice are not
covered by these instructions.'
(B)  Subparagraph 3.1 is deleted.
(C) Paragraph 4 (new) is added, reading as follows:
-4. With regard to the products listed in Annex II to this
notice, compliance with these instructions may be made subject
to specific review by CACEX when our partners are found to be
engaging in injurious commercial practices In relation to
those products.-
(D) The Annex is replaced by Annexes I and II, as follows:
-ANNEX I
NBMWTAB       Product
01.02.01.03   Cattle for slaughter (consumption)
02.01.01.00   Beef
04.01.01.00   Fresh milk, pasteurized and unpasteurized, or
sterilized
04.02.01.00   Partially dehydrated milk
04.02.02.00   Fully dehydrated milk, in powdered or dry form but
not in tablet form
04.02.03.00   Dried milk in tablet form
04.03.00.00   Butter
09.01.00.00   Coffee, including roasted and decaffeinated coffee,
coffee pods and beans; coffee substitutes containing
coffee in any amount
10.05.00.00   Corn
10.06.00.00   Rice
12.01.01.00   Peanuts -  seeds and oll-bearing nuts, Including
crushed
12.01.04.00   Soybeans -  seeds and oil-bearing beans, including
crushed
12.01.07.00   Castor beans -  seeds and oil-bearing beans including
crushed
17.00.00.00   Sugar and confectionery products
18.00.00.00   Cacao and its preparation
57.03.01.01   Unprocessed jute



- 52 -
ANNE V
Page 4 of 4
-ANEX IlE
NBl(TAB       Product
38.19.25.00   Electrode paste (Soderberg paste)
55.05.00.00   Cotton thread
55.09.00.00   Cotton fabrics
73.11.00.00   Iron and steel shapes
73.15.00.00   Alloy steel and carbon steel
Except: 73.15.15.02 Stainless alloy steel
73.18.00.00   Iron and steel pipe, seamed and seamless
Rio de Janerio, RJ, August 2, 1983
Carlos Viacava, Director



- 53 -
ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 2
WORK PROGRAM OF THE BRAZILIAN
GOVERNMENT'S GROUP ON INDUSTRIAL AND
TRADE POLICIES
1.        The Measurement, Structure, and Effects of the Brazilian Incentive
System. The existing incentive system vill be quantitatively assessed and
analysed with the use of techniques involving the estimation of effective
protection rates and domestic resource costs at differing levels of
aggregation. In addition, general equilibrium modeling techniques will be
employed to more thoroughly assess the effects of changes in incentive
policies oa growth, employment, exports, and the distribution of income. The
relationship between aggregate growth and trade policies wlll be the subject
of separate, but related, inquiry.
2.        Export Financing Policies. An analysis of the existing system of
export financing in Brazil w$il be undertaken, focusing on questions of its
functioning, comprehensiveness, and differential impact across sectors. This
examination will include, among other things, a quantitative assessment of
the credit incentives for export production (e.g., Resolution 674), the
effects of export financing on export perfozzance, the use and role of
suppliers credit, and the effectiveness of the existing institutional
arrangements for the provision of export financing in Brazil. The analysis
will be undertaken in the context of the experience of other countries.
3.        Analysis of the Drawback System. The liberalization of the
drawback mechanism should be closely monitored and analysed. The experience
of other countries using policies similar to the Brazilian drawback should be
examined with a view towards improving the system and extending its benefits
towards indirect supplying industries through the sequence of backward
linkages, the existing 'green and yellow" drawback system, the consolidated
drawback, and a generalized drawback system wlll be analyzed, along with the
existing Korean system linking export firancing with the right to Import
inputs.
4.        Export Promotion Policies.  In addition to specific analyses of
export-financing and the drawback system, work will also be undertaken on
other policies affecting export behavior, including fiscal mechanisms,
exchange rate policy, domestic market protection, and export marketing
efforts. Econometric modeling of the effects of such policies is envisaged.
Separate efforts will be undertaken to analyze the administration of trade
policies and to assess the effectiveness of export marketing policies,
including those related to the export of services. Specific attention will
be devoted to the experience of other countries. Analyses of external market
prospects will also be carried out.



- 54 -
ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 2
5.        Analysis of the System of Import Restrictions.  The out-dated
Brazilian tariff system, and the accompanying system of nontariff barriers
and tariff exemptions, will be analysed with a view towards developing
recommendations for simplifying the existing overall system, Improving
efficiency, and restoring a central role to the tariff as a means of
restricting imports. Detailed scenarios for reform will be developed.
6.        Analysis of Industrial Efficiency and Technological Progress.
Attention will be devoted to the measurement aud analysis of efficiency,
X-efficiency, and technological progress. Behavior at the firm and more
aggregated levels of research and development activity and the transfer of
technology will also be analyzed. The effects of policies on such behavior
will receive special attention. In addition, existing institutional
arrangements such as INPI and SEI will be analyzed.
7.        Industry Case Studies.  A major effort of the work group will be
devoted to the in-depth analysis of individual industries. The focus will be
on the ways in which differing incentive and other economic policies affect
the behavior of individual industries. Efforts will be directed to the
modeling of the economic performance of different industries including their
export performance, profitability, labor absorption, economic rates of
return, investment, and growth. Price determination and market structure
will be separately analyzed, as will be the possible effects of any trade
policy liberalization. In the case of any such adverse effects, policy
options will be designed involving a possible restructuring of the industries
in a more competitive environment conducive with more rapid aggregate
economic growth. Industry case studies for the textile, petrochemical,
steel, heavy machinery, food products, and data processing equipment
industries are envisaged.
8.        Analysis of the Effects of Regional Industrial Incentives. The
effects of both implicit nonspacial and explicit spacial industrial
policy incentives will be analysed with a view towards developing estimates
of net interregional resource transfers imposed by differing incentive
policies.  The Northeast will provide a special focus for the empirical
dimension of this work.
9.        Work on Inter-Industry Relations.  A separate component of the work
group's effort will provide support for the development, extension,
up-dating, and application of Brazil's input-output accounts, as developed by
IBGE.



BRAZIL
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
Disbursements In Quarter                   Cummulative Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year and Quarter              Drawback    Technical                       Drawback      TechnLcal
(EndLng Date)                      Imports      Aaslstance       Total         Imgorts       Assistance      Total b
FY 1984
December 31, 1983                           175.0a/       0.1            176.Ob         175.Oa/        0.1          176.0
March 31, 1984                              175.0          0.1           175.1          350.0          0.2          351.1
June 30, 1984                                  -           0.2             0.2          350.0          0.4          351.3
FY 1985
September 30, 1984                             -          0.2.             0.2          350.0          0.6          351,5
December 31, 1985                              -           0.1             0.1          350.0          0.7          351.6
March 31, 1985                                 -           0.1             0.1          350.0           0.8          351,7
June 30, 1985                                  -           0.1             0.1          350.0           0.9          351.8
FY 1986
September 30, 1985                             -           0.1             0.1          350.0           1.0         351.9
December 31, 1985                              -           0.1             0.1          350.0           1.1          352.0
a/  Includes an estimated US$100.0 million retroactive financing.
b/  Includes capLtalLzed front-end-fee an Bank loan. *
IH



- i    tVENZELA                -.,
C O L O M B I Ac               B o ? ,veist- 
'~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~4 oX ,   ;J'                      - Bar -',g2
tI ''1;A   RAI  A
JSfffi, - KR                  A OSARA
f o r  /-  | -.N,^Di,,'t X  | NzeR-   4  /  f1     Dskid'h-
i  ?                       t i"&          /  ~~~~~~~~~~BRSIASi4
\  (    BO L IVYIA-   -         I-,_                Iim   
|   \       - r        {>) ~~MATO GR050OSSOM    AS
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIO
O CEAN                             *\J l.fJ w - ouPARAG AY -
TERPiTo~~~~~~~~~~~KLAEER   00~  0
P.~~~C IE R U                                   T --   - cPa 
g              >     :   PARAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BASi_ 
OCEAN~ ~~~~ ~ ~ ~        --e --:-t  w  .N.- h-...i  Cjmibs
e           0 L- -IA V I 
P 6  A C  F: I CT                                       mp G d
>   v  @ I  t             : etr ~-  {7 ;0G2ANDEO SUL
0 CEA .V        rr      d                 <--k 



I BRD-1568S
/   -        (                                                         d0 <                     APRIL 1981
t  SRINAM
->TERRITORY;p
/           i ~?~.--   .rB.I6m t
I  ,EV                    _            A r Z A N T C
-- i ?A   R  A               ARANHAO1                           \.  OcEAN
1)\/eresinalCHARA' /RIO  RANDEDO NORTE
PARA `A  .JoEoN , Asso
Pt I A U  IPE
i~~~~~ ~ -* *-\\_>S/O             !    2          .                    Sovc
/ ~ ~~~~ f~   (                       Pe2J ~         /
_4    j                      eRRAiUcifev                              .
B~~A    H            IS-7ERGI1PE
&;~~~~               ) .^^G>SO  J/-   G  0E   s A                            r  ER    ES  
/a G  e*/ J         FSAeder
ff l  \>,/                                                            I*r*   AS   
>   c,,.29 SAO  PAUto s   -'''~~~~~~~~~~~~ 'I
- -- CuiobR
t ~  ~~     ~~                   Disric Cuitba 
BRASiLIA                           BAI
(  Goiania'       ) 
NI)                          r :>-iS
~~~~~SSD ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ASI" GE RAIS4EP~TOA
CarnpoGroncle 1-_M
S                             e~~~~~~~oBelo  /EP!RTSA O
CSul                                      Horizoniem-    .
j        1 .      \   A              ,,  /W6r            AT  ANTIC
.. /SADO PAULO2
.AGU AYIO DE JAITEIRO0CAN
.Or   /                                    @    National capitC cl    A  
Sao Paulo    ~ &.--  -
*  ~~~    Rlio de Janeiro
osak'as
~~            P~ARANA 1--Z
Curitiba O
.0 |                 --;zL5                    d    d    d           -eheainlbudre
-   SANTGA CATARINA
o rionnpohs                            , BRAZIL
GRANDE DO SUL /*                                            Ntonlcpt
L               ~~~~Porto Alegre.-.p              L                       Natinal cpterltr cptl
Lv~~~     d-                                                Stt/n1tf ty aioi
~'..  KILOMETERS 0W200 300 dOO 500    ---..State and territory boundaries
2C                            MI~~~~~~~FLES or  2do  30            Itemational boundaries
URUGUA         '                                                ---RVew
W,           4cr                              3V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0






