FFICAIA
DOCU MEN TS     LOAN NUMBER        .BR
Loan Agreement
(Export Development Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                                , 1983


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     e                 5t    , 1983, between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (here-
inafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) As part of the arrangements for the carrying out of
the Project, Banco do Brasil S.A. shall enter into an Operating
Agreement with the Bank regarding the operation of the Libera-
lized Drawback System; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said  General  Conditions  Applicable  to Loan   and  Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and tiv following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Liberalized Drawback System" means the system to
provide incentives to exporters under the form of suspension of,
or exemption from, the duties, taxes and other charges applicable
to imports in Brazil, as set forth in the Drawback System
Regulations and the Drawback Circular.


﻿-2-
(b) "Drawback System Regulations" means: (i) Decreto Lei
No. 37 of November 18, 1966, as amended from time to time; and
(ii) Decreto No. 68.904 of June 12, 1971, as amended from time to
time.
(c) "Drawback Circular" means Comunicado Cacex No. 52
dated June 26, 1983, as amended by Comunicado Cacex No. 55 dated
August 2, 1983.
(d) "Cacex" means the Carteira de Comercio Exterior, a
department of Banco do Brasil S.A, the entity in charge of
administration of the Liberalized Drawback System under the
Borrower's legislation.
(e) "Cacex Statute" means Lei Nc. 2145 dated December 29,
1953, as amended from time to time.
(f) ."Export Enterprise" means an enterprise engaged in the
manufacturing or processing of products and which is eligible to
import items under the Liberalized Drawback System.
(g) "Eligible Imports" means imports required for the
manufacturing or processing of products to be exported except
for (A) machinery and equipment; (B) petroleum and petroleum
derivative combustibles; and (C) the gods listed in Annex I of
Comunicado Cacex No. 55 dated August    1983.
(h) "Operating Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and Banco do Brasil S.A. of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time.
(i) "Central Bank" means Banco Central do Brasil.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-
ment,an amount in various currencies equivalent to three hundred
and fifty-two million dollars ($352,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account: (i) until December 31, 1983, on account
of Eligible Imports made by an Export Enterprise under the


﻿-3-
Liberalized Drawback System which have been duly imported into
the Brazilian territory to meet 50% of the reasonable foreign
exchange cost of the Eligible Imports in respect of which the
withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested (such percen'age
estimated to be 65% of payments made for Eligible Imports under
the Liberalized Drawback System), provided, however, that the
amount withdrawn pursuant to this sub-paragraph shall not exceed,
in the aggregate, $175,000,000 equivalent; (ii) in respect of the
amount of the Loan assigned to Part A of the Project remaining
undisbursed pursuant to sub-paragraph (i) above and without
limitation to the conditions set forth in paragraph (c) (ii)
Lolow, for amounts paid, or caused to be paid, by the Central
Bank on account of Eligible Imports made by an Export Enterprise
under the Liberalized Drawback System, to meet 50% of the reason-
able foreign exchange cost of such Eligible Imports in respect of
which a withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; (iii) 100%
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required- for the
carrying out of Part B of the Project; and (iv) payment due
pursuant to Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
(b) The proceeds of the Loan shall be allocated as follows:
Category (1)   $350,000,000     equivalent for Eligible
Imports under Part A of the
Project.
Category (2)     $1,122,195     equivalent for consultants'
services, equipment, com-
puting services and travel
expenditures under Part B
of the Project.
Category (3)       $877,805     equivalent for amount due
on account of fee referred
to in Section 2.04 (a) of
this Agreement.
(c) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, no with-
drawals shall be made on account of (i) Eligible Imports
before the date of this Agreement, provided, however, that
withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $100,000,000 may be made on account of Eligible Imports made
under Part A of the Project before that date but after July 1,
1983; (ii) expenditures under Part A of the Project whenever the
withdrawals from the Loan Account for such Part shall have


﻿-4-
reached the equivalent of $175,000,000 unless: (A) the Borrower
and the Bank shall have carried out the initial exchange of views
pursuant to Section 3.05 of this Agreement; (B) the Bank shall be
satisfied as to the performance by the Borrower and Banco do
Brasil S.A. of their obligations under the Loan Agreement and the
Operating Agreement, respectively, or, in case the Bank would not
be satisfied with such performance, the Bank, the Borrower and
Banco do Brasil S.A., shall have reached agreement on the
remedial action to be taken to enable the Borrower and Banco do
Brasil S.A. to comply with the minimum levels of Eligible Imports
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (C) the Bank shall
have been provided evidence, satisfactory to the Bank that the
amount assigned to Part A of the Project disbursed pursuant to
sub-paragraph (a) (i) above shall have been utilized to meet at
least 65% of payments made, or caused to be made, by the Central
Bank for the reasonable foreign exchange cost of Eligible Imports
under the Liberalized Drawback System; and (iii) Eligible Imports
for the manufacturing of products to be utilized for military or
para-military purposes.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1986 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to -the Bank a fee
equivalent to eight hundred seventy-seven thousand eight hundred
and five dollars ($877,805).
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.


﻿-5-
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i)  "Interest  Period" means    the  six-month  period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.07
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii) "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B)
hereunder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
per annum.
(iii) "Qualified   Borrowings"   means   (A)  outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1983, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. The Central Bank is designated as representive
of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Description of the Project
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The purposes of the Project are: (i) to
assist the Borrower in the development of exports of processed


﻿-6-
goods by means of the operation of its Liberalized Drawback
System; and (ii) to assist the Borrower in the assessment of its
existing industrial and trade policy and in -the formulation of
new policies in those fields.
(b) The Project consists of the following:
Part A:
Operation of the Liberalized Drawback- System and the
provision of the foreign exchange therefor, in order to enable
Export Enterprises to acquire Eligible Imports for the carrying
out of their export operations at the minimum levels set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Part B:
A program of studies to assess the impact of the Borrower's
existing industrial and trade policies and to provide a basis
for further policy measures in such fields, such studies to be
carried out in the fields of trade financing, export incentives
and promotion systems, tariff and non-tariff protection, regional
and sub-sector industrial policies and institutional aspects of
trade and industrial policies.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall carry out and cause
Banco do Brasil S.A. and all other agencies responsible for the
operation of the Liberalized Drawback System to carry out Part A
of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with sound industrial and administrative practices and
policies, and in accordance with the Drawback System Regulations
and the Drawback Circular.
(b) For purposes of carrying out Part A of the Project, the
Borrower shall make available or cause to be made available, in a
timely manner, the foreign exchange required to meet the minimum
levels of Eligible Imports under the Liberalized Drawback System
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The provision of
foreign exchange shall be made in a currency freely useable by
the Export Enterprises to acquire the necessary Eligible Imports.
(c) Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall take or
cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate to enable
Banco do Brasil S.A., through its Cacex, to perform in accordance


﻿-7-
with the provisions of the Operating Agreement all of Banco do
Brasil S.A.'s obligations therein set forth and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(d) The Borrower shall, through its Secretaria de Plane-
jamento da Presidencia da Republica, carry out Part B of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
sound administrati , economic and technical practices.
(e) For purposes of Part B of the Project:
(i) the Borrower shall: (A) establish, and thereafter
maintain at least until December 31, 1987, a
working group within the Borrower's Instituto de
Planejamento Economico e Social, in accordance
with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank;
(B) staff such group with qualified and experi-
enced professionals and in adequate numbers; and
(C.) provide the said group with the resources
necessary for the carrying out of their functions
in an efficient and diligent manner.
(ii) The Borrower shall: (A) carry out the studies
described in Part B of the Project in accordance
with terms of reference, including a schedule of
execution, satisfactory to the Bank; and (B)
promptly upon the completion of each of such
studies, exchange views with the Bank on their
conclusions and the recommendations arising there-
from.
(iii) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank in each
calendar year, for its prior review and approval,
an annual program for the travel required for the
carrying out of Part B of the Project.
(f) In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out
of Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, such consultants to
be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satis-
factory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿-8-
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause all goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively for the
purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower: (i) shall cause to be
maintained records and procedures adequate to record and monitor
the progress of Part B of the Project and the fulfillment of the
obligation set forth in paragraph (b) of Section 3.02 of this
Agreement and to identify the goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) shall cause to be furnished to the Bank at regular
intervals all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds; and (iii) shall fully cooperate with Banco do Brasil
S.A. in the preparation of the quarterly and semi-anr-ial reports
referred to in paragraph (b) of Section 2.02 of the Operating
Agreement.
(b) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than December 31, 1988 or such later date as may
be agreed for this purpose between t.a Borrower and the Bank, the
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on
the execution of the Project, the performance by. the Borrower,
Banco do Brasil S.A. and the Bank of their respective obligations
under the Loan Agreement and the Operating Agreement, respec-
tively, and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall, every six months,
starting not earlier than January 1, 1984, until the completion
of the Project, exchange views with the Bank and Banco do Brasil
S.A. regarding: (i) the progress made by the Borrower and Banco
do Brasil S.A. in the execution of Part A of the Project,
particularly, the attainment of the minimum levels of Eligible
Imports under the Liberalized Drawback System set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement; (ii) the provision of foreign
exchange by the Borrower pursuant to paragraph (b) of Section
3.02 of this Agreement, and (iii) the progress made by the
Borrower in the carrying out of Part B of the Project.
(b) Upon failure to attain the minimum levels of Eligible
Imports set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and pursuant to
the exchange of views referred to in paragraph (a) above, the
Borrower, the Bank and Banco do Brasil S.A. shall make every


﻿-9-
effort to agree on specific remedial action in furtherance of the
purposes of the Loan which will enable Export Enterprises to
achieve such minimum levels.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)  The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property
or as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose
of financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien
arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or


﻿- 10 -
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Central Bank
to maintain a separate account and records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting prac-
tices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of
the Project.
(b) Without limitation on the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) cause the Central Bank to maintain separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures; (ii) cause to retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account
on the basis of statements of expenditures; and (iii) enable the
Bank's representatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall cause the Central Bank to: (i) have
the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after the end of each
such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested, including, without limitation to the fore-
going, a sz:parate opinion by said auditors in respect of the
expenditures and records referred to in paragraph (b) of this
Section as to whether the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the
Loan Account on the basis of statements of expenditures have been
used for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iii) fur-
nish to the Bank such other information concerning said separate
accounts, records and expenditures and the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:


﻿- 11 -
(a) Banco do Brasil S.A. shall have failed to perform any
of its obligations under the Operating Agreement;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that the Banco do Brasil S.A. will be
able to perform its obligations under the Operating Agreement;
(c) the Cacex Statutes or the Drawback Regulations shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as
to affect materially and adversely, in the Bank's reasonable
opinion, the execution of the Project;
(d) Banco do Brasil S.A., through its Cacex, shall have
amended, suspended, abrogated, waived or failed to enforce the
provisions of th   Drawback Circular so as to materially and
adversely affect, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, the execution
of the Project; and
(e) the Borrower, the Bank and Banco do Brasil S.A. shall
have failed to reach the agreement referred to in paragraph (b)
of Section 3.05 of this Agreement after a period of 30 days from
the initiation of the respective semi-annual exchange of views
referred to in paragraph (a) of such Section, or the Borrower or
Banco do Brasil S.A. shall have amended, suspended, abrogated,
waived or failed to enforce the specific remedial action agreed
with the Bank pursuant to said paragraph (b) of Section 3.05.
Section 5.02. For purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions,   the  following  additional   events  are  specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any events specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (d)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b) any events specified in paragraph (b) or paragraph (c)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement


﻿within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Loan Agreement has been registered
by the Central Bank.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Operating Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of Banco do
Brasil S.A., and is legally binding upon Banco do Brasil S.A. in
accordance with its terms;
(b) that; the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the
Central Bank; and
(c) that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be
performed or given by the Borrower, its political subdivisions
or agencies or by any agency of any political subdivision or
otherwise to be performed or given in order to authorize the
carrying out of the Project and to enable the Borrower and Banco
do Brasil S.A., respectively, to perform all of the covenants,
agreements and obligations of the Borrower in the Loan Agreement,
and of Banco do Brasil S.A. in the Operating Agreement contained,
together with all necessary powers and rights in connection
therewith, have been performed or given.
Section 6.03. The date4A4444J 13 1        , is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 13 -
For the Borrower:
Ministerio da Fazenda
Edificio Ministerio da Fazenda
Esplanada dos Ministerios
70048 Brasilia, D.F., Brasil
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINIFAZ                           611506 MFAZBR
Brasilia, Brasil
With Copies to:
Banco Central do Brasil
SBS, Projeqao 33-A, 40 Andar
70074 Brasilia, D.F., Brasil
Cable address:                     Telex:
BANCENTRAL                        611869
Brasilia, Brasil
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Brasilia,


﻿- 14-
Federative Republic of Brazil, as of the day and year first above
written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /SI                   Ala-4-4
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Priniipal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning May 1, 1987
through   May 1, 1998                      14,665,000
On November 1, 1998                              14,705,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 16 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                          0.20
before maturity
More than three years but                           0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                             0.73
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but                          0.87
not more than thirteen years
before maturity
More than thirteen years                            1.00
before maturity


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Minimum Level of Eligible Imports
under the Liberalized Drawback System
(expressed in dollars)
Period of Time
1.   from October 1, 1983 to          $350,000,000
December 31, 1983
2.   from January 1, 1984 to          $1,470 million plus Ex-
December 31, 1984           pected Export Growth Rate
for the period calculated
over $1,400 million.
3.   from January 1, 1985 to          the minimum level of Eli-
December 31, 1985           gible Imports under 2
above, plus an aggregate
amount equivalent to: (i)
5% of such minimum level;
plus (ii) the Expected
Export Growth Rate calcu-
lated over such minimum
level.
4.   from January 1, 1986 to          the minimum level of Eli-
December 31, 1986           gible Imports under 3
above, plus an aggregate
amount equivalent to: (i)
5% of such minimum level;
and (ii) the Expected
Export Growth Rate calcu-
lated over such minimum
level.
5.   from January 1, 1987 to          the minimum level of Eli-
December 31, 1987           gible Imports under 4
above, plus an aggregate
amount in dollars equi-
valent to: (i) 5% of such
minimum level; and (ii) the
Expected Export Growth Rate
calculated over such mini-
mum level.


﻿- 18 -
6.   from January 1, 1988 to          50% of the minimum level of
June 30, 1988               Eligible Imports under   5
above, plus an aggregate
amount in dollars equiva-
lent to: (1) 2.5% of such
minimum level; and (ii)
50% of the Expected Export
Growth Rate calculated over
such minimum level.
For purposes of this Schedule: (a) "Expected Export Growth
Rate" means the expected increase in industrial exports during
each period of time referred to above, expressed in percentage
terms, as agreed between the Borrower and the Bank not later than
February 1 in each period. In the event the Borrower and the Bank
shall fail to reach agreement on the expected increase in indust-
rial exports by the date specified above, such increase shall be
the percentage of increase in industrial exports during the
calendar year immediately preceding the respective period as
compared to the next preceding calendar year, as reasonably
determined by the Bank; and (b) if in any period of time referred
to above, the Expected Export Growth Rate would not coincide with
the actual increase in industrial exports during such period, the
Bank and the Borrower may adjust such level accordingly for
purposes of calculating the minimum level of Eligible Imports for
the following period of time.
For the purpose of making the calculation of the minimum
levels of Eligible Imports: (i) the amount of Eligible Imports
imported through the discretionary issuance of import licenses as
provided in the Drawback Circular shall not exceed in any case
20% of such Minimum Levels; and (ii) the value of the Eligible
Imports shall be calculated on a free-on-board (FOB) basis.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day ofD198 3
FOR SECRETARY


